EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN (RMP) 
for 
HyQvia (Human Normal Immunoglobulin) 
RMP Version number: 14.3 
Date: 20-November-2023 
European Union Risk Management Plan (RMP) for HyQvia (Human Normal 
Immunoglobulin) 
Administrative Information 
RMP version to be assessed as part of this application: 
RMP Version number: 14.3 
Data lock point (DLP) for this RMP: 02-September-2022 
Date of final sign off: 20-November-2023 
Rationale for submitting an updated RMP: The below updates are being made to the RMP: 
•  Based  on  feedback  received  from  the  PRAC  during  procedure  EMEA/H/C/002491/II/0087, 
study 161406 has been updated from completed to on-going since the final CSR will not be 
submitted until Q4 2023. 
Summary of significant changes in this RMP: 
RMP Module: 
Significant Changes:  
Part I Product Overview 
Not applicable. 
Part II Safety Specification 
•  Module SI Epidemiology of the 
Not applicable. 
indication(s) and target population(s) 
•  Module SII Non-clinical part of the 
Not applicable. 
safety specification 
•  Module SIII Clinical trial exposure 
Not applicable. 
•  Module SIV Populations not studied in 
Not applicable. 
clinical trials 
•  Module SV Post-authorisation 
Not applicable. 
experience 
•  Module SVI Additional European Union 
Not applicable. 
(EU) requirements for the safety 
specification 
•  Module SVII Identified and potential 
Not applicable. 
risks 
•  Module SVIII Summary of the safety 
Not applicable. 
concerns 
Part III Pharmacovigilance plan 
Part IV Plans for post-authorisation 
efficacy studies 
Part V Risk minimisation measures 
Included study 161406 in additional 
pharmacovigilance activities since the final CSR 
will not be submitted until Q4 2023. 
Not applicable. 
Included study 161406 from summary of risk 
minimisation measures since the completed 
final CSR will not be submitted until Q4 2023. 
Part VI Summary of the risk management 
plan 
Updated as per Part III and Part V. 
Part VII Annexes 
Moved study 161406 from completed to 
ongoing in Annex 2. 
 
 
 
 
Other RMP versions under evaluation:  
RMP Version number:  
14.2 
Submitted on:  
13-October-2023 
Procedure number:    
EMEA/H/C/002491/II/0087 
Details of the currently approved RMP: 
Version number: 
13.1 
Approved with procedure: 
EMEA/H/C/002491/II/0078 
Date of approval (opinion date): 
27-October-2022 
QPPV name: Stéphane Brouckaert, MPharm 
Please note that e-signature may also be performed by Deputy EU QPPV on behalf of the EU and UK 
QPPV (i.e., ‘per procurationem’). 
QPPV signature: RMP signatures are kept on file. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
PART I: PRODUCT(S) OVERVIEW ............................................................................................ 9 
PART II: SAFETY SPECIFICATION ......................................................................................... 14 
PART II: MODULE SI - EPIDEMIOLOGY OF THE INDICATION(S) AND TARGET POPULATION(S) ...... 14 
PART II: MODULE SII - NON-CLINICAL PART OF THE SAFETY SPECIFICATION ............................ 23 
PART II: MODULE SIII - CLINICAL TRIAL EXPOSURE ............................................................... 31 
PART II: MODULE SIV - POPULATIONS NOT STUDIED IN CLINICAL TRIALS ................................ 34 
SIV.1. EXCLUSION CRITERIA IN PIVOTAL CLINICAL STUDIES WITHIN THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME ..................... 34 
SIV.2. LIMITATIONS TO DETECT ADVERSE REACTIONS IN CLINICAL TRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES ................... 39 
SIV.3. LIMITATIONS IN RESPECT TO POPULATIONS TYPICALLY UNDER-REPRESENTED IN CLINICAL TRIAL DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMMES .......................................................................................................... 40 
PART II: MODULE SV - POST-AUTHORISATION EXPERIENCE .................................................... 43 
SV.1. POST-AUTHORISATION EXPOSURE ......................................................................................... 43 
PART II: MODULE SVI - ADDITIONAL EU REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SAFETY SPECIFICATION ......... 44 
PART II: MODULE SVII - IDENTIFIED AND POTENTIAL RISKS ................................................... 45 
SVII.1. IDENTIFICATION OF SAFETY CONCERNS IN THE INITIAL RMP SUBMISSION .......................................... 45 
SVII.2. NEW SAFETY CONCERNS AND RECLASSIFICATION WITH A SUBMISSION OF AN UPDATED RMP ..................... 47 
SVII.3. DETAILS OF IMPORTANT IDENTIFIED RISKS, IMPORTANT POTENTIAL RISKS, AND MISSING INFORMATION ........ 48 
PART II: MODULE SVIII - SUMMARY OF THE SAFETY CONCERNS .............................................. 54 
PART III: PHARMACOVIGILANCE PLAN (INCLUDING POST-AUTHORISATION SAFETY STUDIES) ..... 55 
III.1. ROUTINE PHARMACOVIGILANCE ACTIVITIES .............................................................................. 55 
III.2. ADDITIONAL PHARMACOVIGILANCE ACTIVITIES ........................................................................... 55 
III.3. SUMMARY TABLE OF ADDITIONAL PHARMACOVIGILANCE ACTIVITIES ................................................... 56 
PART IV: PLANS FOR POST-AUTHORISATION EFFICACY STUDIES ............................................. 58 
PART V: RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES (INCLUDING EVALUATION OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF 
RISK MINIMISATION ACTIVITIES) ........................................................................................ 60 
V.1. ROUTINE RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES ................................................................................. 60 
V.2. ADDITIONAL RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES ............................................................................. 62 
V.3. SUMMARY OF RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES .............................................................................. 64 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN ............................................................ 66 
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR ..................................................................................... 66 
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS ....... 66 
II.A List of important risks and missing information ................................................................ 67 
II.B Summary of important risks .......................................................................................... 67 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan ............................................................................. 70 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation ........................................... 70 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan ................................................... 70 
PART VII: ANNEXES ........................................................................................................... 71 
ANNEX 4: SPECIFIC ADVERSE DRUG REACTION FOLLOW-UP FORMS ............................................................ 72 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX 6: DETAILS OF PROPOSED ADDITIONAL RISK MINIMISATION ACTIVITIES .............................................. 76 
 
 
 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
Abbreviation 
Definition/Description 
ADR 
AIDS 
ALT 
AMS 
ART 
AST 
BW 
CCDS 
CCSI 
CHMP 
CIDP 
CLcr 
CLL 
CSR 
CVID 
DLP 
DM 
EEA 
EMA 
EPAR 
ESID 
EU 
FDA 
GVP 
HBV 
HCP 
HCV 
HIV 
HLA 
HSCT 
IDEaL 
IG 
Adverse Drug Reaction 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
Alanine Aminotransferase 
Aseptic Meningitis Syndrome 
Antiretroviral Therapy 
Aspartate Aminotransferase 
Body Weight 
Company Core Data Sheet 
Company Core Safety Information 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy 
Creatinine Clearance 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
Clinical Study Report 
Common Variable Immunodeficiency 
Data Lock Point 
Diabetes Mellitus 
European Economic Area 
European Medicines Agency 
European Public Assessment Report 
European Society for Immunodeficiencies 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
Good Pharmacovigilance Practice 
Hepatitis B Virus  
Healthcare Professionals 
Hepatitis C Virus  
Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
Human Leukocyte Antigen 
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation 
Immunoglobulin Diagnosis, Evaluation, and key Learnings 
Immunoglobulins 
IG 10% 
Immune Globulin Infusion (Human) 10%, administered IV or SC 
IgA 
Immunoglobulin A 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviation 
Definition/Description 
IgAD 
IgG 
Immunoglobulin A Deficiency 
Immunoglobulin G 
IGIV 10% 
Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human) 10%, administered IV 
IgM 
Immunoglobulin Macroglobulinemia (M) 
IGSC 10% 
Immune Globulin Subcutaneous (Human) 10% 
ISG 
ITP 
IV 
Immune Serum Globulin 
Immune Thrombocytopenia 
Intravenous(ly) 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Mg 
MGUS 
MI 
MM 
NICHD 
NOAEL 
NZW 
OD 
PCR 
PI 
PID 
PIDD 
PL 
PND 
PRAC 
PSAF 
PSUR 
PT 
Milligram 
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance 
Myocardial Infarction 
Multiple Myeloma 
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
New Zealand White 
Odds Ratio 
Polymerase Chain Reaction 
Product Information 
Primary Immunodeficiency 
Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases 
Package Leaflet 
Postnatal Day 
The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
Proven Specific Antibody Failure 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
Preferred Term 
rHuPH20 
Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase 
RMP 
SC 
SID 
SmPC 
SMQ 
TEE(s) 
TK 
TVR 
Risk Management Plan 
Subcutaneous(ly) 
Secondary Immunodeficiencies  
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standardised MedDRA Queries 
Thromboembolic Event(s) 
Toxicokinetic(s) 
Triple Virally Reduced 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviation 
Definition/Description 
UK 
ULN 
US 
WHO 
United Kingdom 
Upper Limit of Normal 
United States 
World Health Organisation 
 
 
 
 
 
Part I: Product(s) Overview 
Table Part I.1 – Product Overview 
Active substance(s) 
Human Normal Immunoglobulin 
(INN or common 
name) 
Pharmacotherapeut
ic group(s) (ATC 
Code) 
Marketing 
Authorisation 
Holder 
Medicinal products 
to which this RMP 
refers 
Invented name(s) 
in the European 
Economic Area 
(EEA) 
Marketing 
authorisation 
procedure  
Brief description of 
the product 
J06BA01 
Baxalta Innovations GmbH (a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda 
Pharmaceutical Company Limited) 
Industriestrasse 67 
A 1221 Vienna, 
Austria. 
1 
HyQvia 100 mg/mL solution for infusion for subcutaneous (SC) use 
Centralised 
Chemical class: 
Immune sera and immunoglobulins: immunoglobulins, normal human 
Summary of mode of action: 
The immune globulin infusion (Human) 10% (IG 10%) component 
provides the therapeutic effect of this medicinal product. The 
recombinant human hyaluronidase facilitates the dispersion and 
absorption of IG 10%. 
Human normal immunoglobulin contains mainly immunoglobulin G (IgG) 
with a broad spectrum of opsonising and neutralizing antibodies against 
infectious agents. Human normal immunoglobulin contains the IgG 
antibodies present in the normal population. It is usually prepared from 
pooled human plasma from not fewer than 1,000 donations. It has a 
distribution of IgG subclasses closely proportional to that in native 
human plasma. Adequate doses of human normal immunoglobulin may 
restore abnormally low IgG levels to the normal range. The mechanism 
of action in indications other than replacement therapy is not fully 
elucidated but includes immunomodulatory effects. 
Recombinant human hyaluronidase is a soluble recombinant form of 
human hyaluronidase that increases the permeability of the 
subcutaneous tissue by temporarily depolymerizing hyaluronan. 
Hyaluronan is a polysaccharide found in the intercellular matrix of the 
connective tissue. It is depolymerized by the naturally occurring enzyme 
hyaluronidase. Unlike the stable structural components of the interstitial 
matrix, hyaluronan has a very fast turnover with half-life of 
approximately 0.5 days. The rHuPH20 of HyQvia acts locally. The effects 
of the hyaluronidase are reversible, and permeability of the 
subcutaneous tissue is restored within 24 to 48 hours. 
 
 
 
 
Hyperlink to the 
Product Leaflet (PL) 
Indication(s) in the 
EEA 
Important information about its composition: 
Human normal immunoglobulin (IG 10%) vial 
Glycine 
Water for injections 
Recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20) vial 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium phosphate dibasic 
Human albumin 
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) disodium 
Calcium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
ema-combined-h-2491-en 
Current: 
Replacement therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
• 
Primary immunodeficiency (PID) syndromes with impaired 
antibody production 
•  Secondary immunodeficiencies (SID) in patients who suffer from 
severe or recurrent infections, ineffective antimicrobial treatment 
and either proven specific antibody failure (PSAF)* or serum IgG 
level of <4 g/L. 
*PSAF = failure to mount at least a 2-fold rise in IgG antibody titre to 
pneumococcal polysaccharide and polypeptide antigen vaccines. 
Proposed: 
Replacement therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
• 
Primary immunodeficiency (PID) syndromes with impaired 
antibody production 
•  Secondary immunodeficiencies (SID) in patients who suffer from 
severe or recurrent infections, ineffective antimicrobial treatment 
and either proven specific antibody failure (PSAF)* or serum IgG 
level of <4 g/L. 
*PSAF = failure to mount at least a 2-fold rise in IgG antibody titre to 
pneumococcal polysaccharide and polypeptide antigen vaccines. 
Immunomodulatory therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0 to 
18 years) in: 
•  Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) as 
maintenance therapy after stabilization with IVIg. 
Dosage in the EEA 
Current: 
The dose and dosage regimen are dependent on the indication. 
Dose level may need to be individualized for each patient dependent on 
the pharmacokinetic (PK) and clinical response. Dose based on 
bodyweight may require adjustment in underweight or overweight 
patients. 
The following dosage regimens are given as a guideline. 
Replacement therapy in primary immunodeficiency syndromes 
Patients naïve to immunoglobulin therapy 
 
 
 
 
The dose required to achieve a trough level of 6 g/L is of the order of 
0.4-0.8 g/kg body weight per month. The dosage interval to maintain 
steady state levels varies from 2 to 4 weeks. 
Trough levels should be measured and assessed in conjunction with the 
incidence of infection. To reduce the rate of infection, it may be 
necessary to increase the dosage and aim for higher trough 
levels (>6 g/L). 
At the initiation of therapy, it is recommended that the treatment 
intervals for the first infusions be gradually prolonged from a 1-week 
dose to up to a 3- or 4-week dose. The cumulative monthly dose of IG 
10% should be divided into 1-week, 2-week, etc. doses according to the 
planned treatment intervals with HyQvia. 
Patients previously treated with immunoglobulin administered 
intravenously (IV) 
For patients switching directly from IV administration of immunoglobulin, 
or who have a previous IV dose of immunoglobulin that can be 
referenced, HyQvia should be administered at the same dose and at the 
same frequency as their previous IV immunoglobulin treatment. If 
patients were previously on a 3-week dosing regimen, increasing the 
interval to 4 weeks can be accomplished by administering the same 
weekly equivalents. 
Patients previously treated with immunoglobulin administered 
subcutaneously (SC) 
For patients currently being administered immunoglobulin SC, the initial 
dose of HyQvia is the same as for SC treatment but may be adjusted to 
3- or 4-weeks interval. 
The first infusion of HyQvia should be given one week after the last 
treatment with the previous immunoglobulin. 
Secondary immunodeficiencies 
The recommended dose is 0.2-0.4 g/kg every 3 to 4 weeks. 
IgG trough levels should be measured and assessed in conjunction with 
the incidence of infection. Dose should be adjusted as necessary to 
achieve optimal protection against infections; an increase may be 
necessary in patients with persisting infection; a dose decrease can be 
considered when the patient remains infection free. 
Posology in paediatric population 
The posology in children and adolescents (0-18 years) is not different to 
that of adults as the posology for each indication is given by body 
weight (BW) and adjusted to the clinical outcome of the above-
mentioned condition. 
Proposed:  
Immunomodulatory therapy in CIDP 
A dose titration schedule is recommended by gradually increasing the SC 
infusion volume until the full dose is reached to ensure the patients’ 
tolerability The following dose regimens are given as a guideline: 
Patients previously treated with IVIg 
Patients switching directly from IVIg must be on stable doses* of IVIg. 
Before initiating therapy with the medicinal product, the weekly 
equivalent dose should be calculated by dividing the last IVIg dose by 
the IVIg dose interval in weeks. The starting dose and dosing frequency 
are the same as the patient’s previous IVIg treatment. The typical dosing 
interval for HyQvia is 4 weeks. For patients with less frequent IVIg 
dosing (greater than 4 weeks), the dosing interval can be converted to 
 
 
 
 
4 weeks while maintaining the same monthly equivalent IgG dose. 
As shown in the table below, the calculated one-week dose (1st infusion) 
should be administered 2 weeks after the last IVIg infusion. One week 
after the first dose, the next weekly equivalent dose (2nd infusion) should 
be administered. A titration schedule can take up to 9 weeks (Table 1), 
depending on the dosing interval and tolerability. 
*Variations in the dosing interval of up to ±7 days or monthly equivalent 
dose amount of up to ±20% between the subject’s IgG infusions are 
considered a stable dose. 
Table 1: Recommended IGIV to HyQvia Infusion Dose Titration 
Schedule 
Week
* 
Infusion 
Number 
Dose 
Interval 
Example for 100 g 
every 4 weeks 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
No infusion 
1st infusion 
1-week-dose 
25 g 
2nd infusion 
1-week-dose 
25 g 
3rd infusion 
2-week-dose 
50 g 
No infusion 
4th infusion 
3-week-dose 
75 g 
No infusion 
No infusion 
5th infusion 
4-week-dose 
100 g (Full dose 
reached) 
*1st infusion starts 2 weeks after the last IVIg dose. 
Current: 
Pharmaceutical form - Solution for infusion 
HyQvia is a dual vial unit consisting of one vial of human normal 
immunoglobulin (Immune Globulin 10% or IG 10%) and one vial of 
recombinant human hyaluronidase (rHuPH20). 
One ml contains 100 mg of Human normal immunoglobulin (purity of at 
least 98% IgG). 
IG 10% is a clear or slightly opalescent and colourless or pale-yellow 
solution. Recombinant human hyaluronidase is a clear, colourless 
solution. 
Strengths 
The HyQvia dual vial system is available in the following volume 
combinations: 
rHuPH20 
Human normal immunoglobulin 
Volume (ml) 
Protein (g) 
Volume (ml) 
1.25 
2.5 
5 
2.5 
5 
10 
25 
50 
100 
Pharmaceutical 
form(s) and 
strengths 
 
 
 
 
rHuPH20 
Human normal immunoglobulin 
Volume (ml) 
Protein (g) 
Volume (ml) 
10 
15 
20 
30 
Proposed: Not applicable. 
200 
300 
Yes 
Is/will the product 
be subject to 
additional 
monitoring in the 
EU? 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II: Safety specification 
Part  II:  Module  SI  -  Epidemiology  of  the  indication(s)  and 
target population(s) 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes 
Incidence 
Prevalence: 
Demographics of the 
target population in the 
indication: 
Risk factors for the 
disease: 
The main existing 
treatment options: 
Primary immunodeficiency diseases (PIDD) are recognised as 
inherited, heterogeneous disorders of the immune system that 
result in increased rates of severe infections, immune dysregulation 
associated with autoimmune diseases, and the development of 
malignancies. The International Union of Immunological Societies 
Expert Committee on Primary Immunodeficiencies currently 
recognises more than 480 PID syndromes, and more than 480 gene 
defects causing PID. However, some forms of PIDD are extremely 
rare, so fewer than 20 types comprise more than 90% of all PIDDs. 
The estimated incidence of PIDD (in aggregate) has historically been 
reported as between as 1 per 10,000 persons and 1 per 
50,000 persons but with improved definition of clinical phenotypes 
the collective incidence has been re-estimated to be at least 1 per 
1000 to 1 per 5,000 persons. 
Many studies, based on different methodologies, have attempted to 
estimate the prevalence of PIDD in various countries and have 
generated inconsistent results. For example, the most recent 
estimates obtained were 6.87/100,000 inhabitants in France in 
2017, 5.6/100,000 in Australia in 2007, 5.9/100,000 in the United 
Kingdom (UK), and 2.72/100,000 in Germany, and 1.3/100,000 in 
Russia. These estimates of prevalence were based on data from 
registries and seem to be much lower than recently reported 
estimates based on specific population surveys in the United States 
(US). A US national probability sample conducted in 2005 suggested 
a population prevalence of diagnosed PID at approximately 1 in 
1,200 individuals (86.3/100 000 inhabitants), whereas earlier 
estimates placed the prevalence at 1 in 10,000. Prevalence 
estimates derived from administrative medical claims databases 
estimated US prevalence at between 41.1 and 50.5 per 100 000. 
Even so, the frequency of specific PID syndromes varies widely. 
Rare immune deficiencies, such as severe combined 
immunodeficiency (SCID), occur once in every 100,000 to 500,000 
births and common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) incidence is 
approximately 2 per 100,000. Selective Immunoglobulin A (IgA) 
deficiency (IgAD) can affect as many as 1 in 143 people. 
Highlighting the variability in distribution of this genetic condition for 
those of Caucasian and of European descent, the rate is 1 in 500 to 
700, and for individuals of Japanese descent, prevalence is only 1 in 
18,500. 
Without routine screening or a well-designed prevalence study, the 
true prevalence of PIDD may not be well estimated. 
PIDD can occur in adults, children and adolescents. Both male and 
females and all races and ethnic groups can be affected by PIDD. 
The only known risk factor is having a family history of a PIDD, 
which increases the risk of having the condition. 
Treatment will depend on the type of PIDD. Patients who suffer from 
PIDD often receive treatment with antibiotics, steroids, 
 
 
 
 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes 
Natural history of the 
indicated condition in the 
untreated population, 
including mortality and 
morbidity: 
Important co-morbidities: 
immunoglobulin replacement therapy, and chemotherapy. 
The prognosis of patients with PIDD varies depending on the 
etiology of the disorder, with the major factor in assessing prognosis 
dependent on the extent of damage to the lungs and other organs 
as well as how successful future complications can be prevented. 
Upon examining patients with a spectrum of PIDD syndromes, the 
ESID determined infections were the most common complication, 
affecting 58% of patients. Among patients with PIDD the overall 
mortality rate was 5.2% with infection accounting for 56% of deaths 
in the population. For specific PIDDs the highest mortality observed 
were in individuals with SCID (13%) and ataxia telangiectasia 
(13%). Nevertheless, patient outcomes and long-term survival have 
improved significantly in recent years with Ig replacements 
therapies, improved awareness and diagnosis of PIDD, better 
management of infections and early access to antibiotics, advances 
in gene therapy, bone marrow and HSCT techniques, and enhanced 
intensive care services. 
Individuals with PIDD have varied clinical presentations, and many 
have significant co-morbidities, most of which can be categorised as 
infectious or non-infectious conditions related to the 
immunodeficiency itself. For example, a patient with CVID may 
suffer from recurrent pneumonia causing irreversible lung 
damage (bronchiectasis) or be diagnosed with lymphoma before 
being identified as a patient with PIDD The frequency and the 
clinical impact on patients suffering with such infectious or non-
infectious (i.e., autoimmunity, cancer, etc.) co-morbidities are 
discussed below. 
Recurrent infections: 
Many patients with PIDD or a secondary immunodeficiency are 
susceptible to persistent recurrent infections, which if left untreated, 
may be fatal. Various patients with PIDD report serious or chronic 
health conditions prior to diagnosis, primarily sinusitis (68%), 
bronchitis (55%), pneumonia (51%), and repeated ear 
infections (51%). Nearly one-third of patients also report frequent 
diarrhea prior to diagnosis. Although far less common, relatively 
high rates of malabsorption (9%), sepsis (5%), meningitis (4%), 
and hepatitis (3%) are also reported prior to diagnosis. It is also 
believed that routine vaccinations provide herd immunity to those at 
risk, thus decreasing the circulation of infectious diseases. 
Non-Infections: 
It is also known that patients with PIDD may have a predisposition 
to autoimmune diseases which are often triggered by dysfunction of 
the innate or adaptive immune response. Represented by over 80 
heterogeneous conditions, autoimmune conditions are considered 
rare among the general population, and collectively they affect 
approximately 3% to 5% percent of the population in Western 
countries. In patients with PIDD, autoimmunity occurs at a 
significantly higher incidence commonly appearing as the first 
presentation of immune deficiency. Some of the more common 
autoimmune manifestations of PIDD, along with their rate of 
occurrence, include immune thrombocytopenia ([ITP] 34%), Evans 
syndrome (12%), autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (10%), 
rheumatoid arthritis (7%), anti-IgA (5%), systemic lupus 
erythematosus (3%), diabetes mellitus (3%), and inflammatory 
bowel syndrome (3%). Some immunodeficient patients may also 
 
 
 
 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes 
have a greater risk for malignancies as a clinical complication, 
compared to the risk in the general population. This susceptibility is 
thought to be partly associated with the patients’ inability to launch 
an effective immune surveillance against malignant cells or agents. 
Of all reported malignancies in the PIDD population, Hodgkin 
lymphoma and Non-Hodgkin lymphoma are the most common, 
accounting for 10% and 49%, respectively. Individuals homozygous 
for ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) have the highest lifetime cancer risk 
of 10% to 38% of all PIDD patients. This rare neurologic PIDD, 
which occurs at a frequency of 1 per 40,000 to 300,000 births, is 
reported to account for a third of all malignancy cases observed in 
the PIDD population. In a PIDD population drawn from 
administrative medical claims data in the US, statistically 
significantly higher comorbid diagnoses included chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease
deficiency anaemia in 11.8%, hypothyroidism in 21.2%, lymphoma 
in 16.7%, neurologic disorders in 9.7%, arrhythmias in 19.9%, 
electrolyte disorders in 23.6%, coagulopathies in 16.9%, and weight 
loss in 8.4%. An analysis from the US Immunodeficiency Network 
Registry identified Fatigue was reported in 25.9% (95% CI 23.7–
28.3) of PAD patients, compared to 6.4% (95% CI 4.9–8.2) of non-
PAD. Patients with common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) had 
the highest prevalence of fatigue (p < 0.001) among all PIDD 
diagnoses. 
asthma in 51.5%, rheumatoid disease in 14%, 
‐
Secondary Immunodeficiencies 
Incidence: 
Secondary immunodeficiencies, which are more common that 
PIDDs, result from a variety of factors that can affect a host with an 
intrinsically normal immune system, including infectious agents, 
drugs, haematological malignancies, metabolic diseases, and 
environmental conditions. SID occurs when the immune system is 
weakened by another treatment or illness. Hence, SIDs are not 
genetic in nature, but instead a result of external factors such as 
chronic illnesses e.g., leukaemias, chronic infections such as human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), extreme age or extreme external 
factors such as malnutrition, etc. Some examples of SID include the 
following: 
Congenital acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) (with 
recurrent bacterial infections) 
Globally, it is estimated that more than 1,000 infants are born with 
HIV each day. In 2011 there were an estimated 7.6 per 100,000 
population diagnosed with HIV in the EU, representing an increase 
of 16% of cases compared to 2004. 
Multiple Myeloma 
Worldwide, incidence ranges from 0.4 to 6 cases per 
100,000 person years, representing 0.8% of all cancer diagnoses. In 
2016 an age-standardized incidence rate was estimated at 
2.1/100,000 persons. Incidence rates are highest and appear to be 
on the rise in North America, Australia, New Zealand, and Europe 
unlike rates in Asian countries which have remained considerably 
stable. 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with hypogammaglobulinemia 
Hypogammaglobulinemia, a common immunodeficient abnormality, 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Immunodeficiencies 
Prevalence: 
develops in up to 85% of CLL patients and is highly associated with 
increased susceptibility to infection in all patients. Global incidence 
of CLL varies, in part due to the reported differences associated with 
ethnicity among the population. The estimated incidence of CLL in 
Europe is approximately 6.96 cases per 100 000 population 
annually, whereas a lower incidence of 4.5 cases per 100 000 
population has been reported in the US. 
Allogeneic HSCT/with hypogammaglobulinemia 
HSCT is used for a broad spectrum of indications worldwide, with a 
frequency that varies considerably among the world regions. In 
Europe allogeneic HSCTs account for 38% of all HSCT procedures. 
In other regions such as Asia and the Eastern Mediterranean/Africa 
allogeneic HSCT are more common representing 58% and 65% of 
procedures. 
The most prevalent secondary immunodeficiency is the one caused 
by HIV and causes the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, which 
prevalence varies worldwide. There were approximately 37 million 
individuals living with HIV at the end of 2020 of which 
73% (~27 million) were receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) by 
mid-2017. Some examples of SID include the following: 
Congenital AIDS (with recurrent bacterial infections) 
Among those with HIV in 2011, 1% of the cases (494 individuals) in 
the European Region were acquired by perinatal transmission. In 
2019, 0.7% of 136,449 new HIV cases occurred via mother-to-child 
transmission. As of 2018, 10,752 persons are known to be living 
with perinatal HIV in the US with 1,544 children under the age of 13 
diagnosed with perinatal HIV. Of those with HIV, 26% in Europe (UK 
and Ireland), and 42% in the US, are estimated to have progressed 
to a diagnosis of AIDS. 
There are numerous immunological defects in HIV infected children 
which cause them to be extremely vulnerable to infections, 
especially bacterial infections, as compared to individuals without 
HIV. As the disease progresses, deficits in humoral immunity are 
thought to be directly related to the high rate of recurrent bacterial 
infections in those with symptomatic HIV. The consequences are 
severe infections with ubiquitous encapsulated bacteria, which 
appear before or with viral and other opportunistic infections. In a 
large observational study, the most serious bacterial infections that 
frequently occurred in children with perinatal HIV were bacterial 
sepsis (56%) and pneumonia (25%). 
Multiple myeloma 
The second most common hematologic cancer in the Western world 
is MM, accounting for 10% to 15% of all hematologic malignancies. 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with hypogammaglobulinemia 
CLL is recognised as the most common leukaemia in the Western 
world accounting for approximately 30% to 40% of all forms of 
leukaemia. This form of leukaemia, which primarily affects adults, 
results from a progressive accumulation of malignant B cells in the 
marrow and blood which in many patients leads to complications of 
anaemia, bleeding, and susceptibility to infection. 
In the EU there are approximately 46 000 individuals living with CLL 
according to 5-year prevalence estimates, which account for an 
annual prevalence of 2 cases per 100 000 population. The highest 
prevalence of CLL has been reported in the Western European 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Immunodeficiencies 
countries of Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, and 
the Netherlands. Regional differences in the European population 
may be related to under diagnosis and in some regions misdiagnosis 
of CLL as Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, thereby leading to the observed 
variability in reported frequency rates. 
Allogeneic HSCT/with hypogammaglobulinemia 
Globally transplant rates for allogeneic HSCT range from a low of 
0.2 procedures per 10 million population in Vietnam, to as high as 
434.9 procedures per 10 million population in Israel. In 2017, 
18,281 allogenic HSCT procedures were performed in Europe. 
During allogeneic HSCT bone marrow ablation is performed in order 
to remove diseased marrow which is then replaced by healthy stem 
cells of a donor. As recipients of allogeneic HSCT undergo recovery, 
replaced cells require time to progressively mature into functional 
immune cells leaving patients relatively immunodeficient. During 
recovery patients who have undergone transplantation are highly 
susceptible to viral, bacterial and fungal infections, and may suffer a 
higher incidence of infections possibly related to secondary 
hypogammaglobulinemia. Secondary hypogammaglobulinemia can 
occur in an estimated 20% to 25% of allogeneic HSCT patients 
within the first 100 days after transplantation. 
SID can occur in adults, children and adolescents. Both male and 
females and all races and ethnic groups can be affected by SID. 
Demographics of the 
target population in the 
indication: 
Risk factors for the 
disease: 
The specific risk factors depend on the underlying aetiology for the 
SID. 
For MM, among the general population, men are 1.5 times more 
likely than women to develop the disease, additionally, genetic 
predispositions may also increase this risk. For example, studies 
conducted in Iceland and Sweden of MM have reported a more than 
two-fold elevated risk among those who are first degree relatives of 
patients with MM. The incidence also increases with each decade of 
life with approximately 72% of cases occurring in patients 65 years 
of age or older and a median age of 70 years at diagnosis. 
CLL is 30% to 50% times more common in men than women and is 
considered to be a disease of the aging population with incidence 
increasing around age 50 with a median age of approximately 
70 years old at diagnosis. 
HSCT patients at increased risk of developing 
hypogammaglobulinemia are 30 years of age or younger, male 
recipients of female donor cells, or have graft-versus-host disease. 
Patients receiving immunoglobulin therapy for CLL are likely to also 
be receiving a number of chemotherapeutic agents, most given in 
combination regimens. Depending on the region, the three most 
frequently used agents are bendamustine, rituximab, fludarabine, 
and cyclophosphamide. Chlorambucil is used in a small minority of 
patients. These drugs may be given in together as combination 
therapy and may be administered with prednisone to treat nausea 
and vomiting. A general side effect profile for chemotherapeutic 
agents is outlined earlier. 
For patients with chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML), drugs 
known as tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) that target a specific 
gene found in CML are the standard treatment. These drugs are less 
likely to affect normal cells, so their side effects are generally not as 
The main existing 
treatment options: 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Immunodeficiencies 
severe as those seen with other drugs that can be used to treat 
CML, such as traditional chemotherapy drugs. Besides the 
haematological side effects of most of TKIs like anaemia, 
thrombopenia and neutropenia, the most common adverse effects 
are oedema, nausea, hypothyroidism, vomiting and diarrhoea. More 
serious and possibly long-term effects include pleural effusion, 
prolonged QT syndrome, liver damage, and congestive heart failure. 
Drugs that treat HIV/AIDS known as ART are designed to slow the 
replication of the virus. These drugs are typically administered as a 
combination regimen. Examples of commonly used agents include 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) such as abacavir 
or lamivudine; non-NRTIs such as efavirenz or nevirapine; protease 
inhibitors like amprenavir or tipranavir; integrase 
inhibitors (raltegravir and dolutegravir); enfuvirtide (a fusion 
inhibitor) and/or entry inhibitors such as maraviroc. The most 
common side effects of ART are nausea, vomiting diarrhoea, rash, 
loss of fat particularly on the face and arms, and lipid abnormalities. 
Patients undergoing allogenic bone marrow transplantation will 
require ablative therapy with high-dose chemotherapy and/or 
radiation prior to transplantation. The combinations of either 
cyclophosphamide and busulfan or fludarabine and busulfan are 2 
commonly used regimens. Chemotherapy associated adverse 
reactions can range from mild/moderate such as nausea, vomiting, 
diarrhoea to severe such as liver/kidney damage, 
thrombocytopenia. Patients undergoing radiation therapy typically 
experience. Adverse events associated with radiation therapy are 
skin changes and fatigue and those that are specific to the part of 
the body being treated. 
Survival studies of patients with CLL indicate a heterogeneous 
prognosis with a median survival of 8 to 10 years, which is likely 
due to 80% of patients being diagnosed prior to severe disease-
progression. This is considerably better than survival of 5 to 6 years 
reported in the 1970s for CLL patients. However, bacterial infections 
of the respiratory tract, skin or urinary tract, remain the major 
cause of death in CLL patients. Recent improvement in survival 
rates have also been demonstrated in individuals with MM. Overall, 
5-year age adjusted survival rates for MM patients have increased 
from 36% in 1998-2001 to 44% in 2006-2009. However, younger 
patients have benefited from gains in survival more than older 
patients (75 years and older) who have poorer outcomes, which 
may be due to the aggressive impact of disease in the elderly 
compounded by their inability to receive certain intensive therapies. 
Among allogeneic HSCT patients, risk of mortality has largely been 
associated with persistent low levels of antibody production. 
Transplant patients with persistent hypogammaglobulinemia, 
characterised by low IgG, demonstrated a 54% survival rate as 
compared to 71% in those with normal levels. Despite appropriate 
antimicrobial drug intervention, increased mortality in allogeneic 
HSCTs patients with low IgG has been associated with an increased 
incidence of bacterial infections. In HIV infected children, bacterial 
infections are associated with increased morbidity and mortality. In 
particular, bacterial infections that cause pneumonia are a leading 
cause of illness and death in children younger than 5 years old. 
Globally acute respiratory infection, which is principally caused by 
pneumonia, accounts for almost 2 million deaths in children younger 
than 5 years of age. Mortality rates associated with pneumonia in 
Natural history of the 
indicated condition in the 
untreated population, 
including mortality and 
morbidity: 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Immunodeficiencies 
Important co-morbidities: 
HIV infected children are reportedly 3 to 6 times higher than rates in 
children with pneumonia without HIV infection. 
Patients with a secondary immunodeficiency, which may be acquired 
from malignancies or HIV, are also at risk for a spectrum of 
infections associated with disease complications or related to the 
immunosuppressive impact of treatment. The risk of infectious 
complications, in patients with CLL early in disease, is highly 
associated with hypogammaglobulinemia and increased 
susceptibility to bacterial infections. Recurrent infections, commonly 
from respiratory and severe urinary tract infections, occur in as 
many as 80% of patients with CLL. Similarly, MM patients are 
especially prone to increased incidence of bacterial septicaemia and 
infection of the respiratory and urinary tracts. In a population-based 
study conducted in Sweden, patients with MM were 7.1 times more 
likely to develop a bacterial or viral infection than the general 
population. The risk of recurrent disease is also elevated in HIV 
infected patients. Patients with perinatal HIV frequently have 
occurrences of severe bacterial infections such as pneumonia 
(111 per 1,000 person years), bacteraemia (16 per 1,000 person 
years), and urinary tract infections (33 per 1,000 person years) 
which become more frequent with increasing immunosuppression. 
Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) 
Incidence: 
Prevalence: 
CIDP is a rare, acquired immune-mediated neuropathy primarily 
affecting adults characterized by progressive, symmetrical, proximal 
and distal weakness. A systematic literature review and meta-
analysis published in 2019 included 5 studies that estimated CIDP 
incidence (pooled 818 cases; 220,513,524 person-years of follow-
up). Studies included in the estimate were rated as moderate 
quality. The crude meta-estimate of incidence was 0.33 (95% CI 
0.21-0.53) per 100,000 person-years and ranged from 0.15 to 1.4 
per 100,000 person-years. Incidence of CIDP was higher in males 
versus females and ranged from 0.51 to 0.92 and 0.22 to 0.48, 
respectively.  
The estimated prevalence of CIDP in populations from the United 
Kingdom, Australia, Italy, Japan, and the United States is 0.8 to 8.9 
per 100,000. The Broers meta-analysis of prevalence included 9 
studies for which 3,160 cases were reported among a population of 
160,765,325 people. The crude prevalence was estimated at 2.81 
(95% CI 1.58-4.39) per 100,000 persons. Population prevalence 
estimates ranged from 0.67 to 10.3 per 100,000 persons. Male 
prevalence ranged from 1.36  to 6.73 per 100,000 persons. Female 
prevalence estimates ranged from 0.31 to 2.87 per 100,000 
persons.  
Demographics of the 
target population in the 
indication: 
CIDP can affect all ages but is more common in older males. It is 
thought that the disease is more likely to be progressive in the older 
age group and relapsing-remitting in younger patients. 
Risk factors for the 
disease: 
No specific predisposing factors for CIDP have been identified. There 
have been conflicting studies on human leukocyte antigen (HLA) 
type associations, but no clear genetic predisposition has been 
found. In several case reports, treatment with tumour necrosis 
factor-alpha inhibitors has been associated with the subsequent 
development of chronic demyelinating neuropathies. CIDP is 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) 
reported to occur more commonly in patients with diabetes mellitus 
(DM) but has not been rigorously tested. A study by Said found that 
among 100 CIDP cases evaluated, 16% had an infectious event 6 
weeks or less before CIDP onset. In an Italian CIDP cohort, 
Donnedu found significant associations between exposure to toxic 
environmental agents (odds ratio [OR] = 2.55; 95% CI, 1.42-4.55), 
cigarette smoke (OR = 2.02; 95% CI, 1.4-2.93), and dietary 
supplements (OR = 1.97; 95% CI, 1.08-3.58) and development of 
CIDP. 
Treatment options are described by “The European Academy of 
Neurology/Peripheral Nerve Society guideline on diagnosis and 
treatment of chronic inflammatory demyelinating 
polyradiculoneuropathy: Report of a joint Task Force—Second 
revision.” 
1)  Corticosteroids: Strongly recommended as first-line 
therapy although the best corticosteroid regimen is 
unknown. Pulsed high-dose corticosteroid treatment with 
oral dexamethasone or IV methylprednisolone may be an 
alternative to daily prednisone/prednisolone or 
dexamethasone, or both. Long-term treatment may induce 
significant side-effects. Treatment with IVIg may be 
considered first-line for patients with motor CIDP. 
2)  IVIg: Strongly recommended for first-line therapy. Evidence 
of IVIg benefit has been demonstrated in multiple placebo-
controlled trials.  No preference for IVIg over 
corticosteroids.  
3)  SCIg: Strongly recommended for maintenance therapy of 
CIDP. No preference for IVIg or SCIg for maintenance 
therapy.  
4)  Plasma exchange: Strongly recommended. Initial 
treatment with 5 exchanges over 2 weeks; thereafter 
individually adapted. Peripheral veins should be used, if 
possible.  
5)  Immunosuppressive drugs: The guideline advised to use 
immunosuppressive drugs azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, 
ciclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil, and rituximab after 
failure with recommended treatments or as add-on 
medication. 
The guideline strongly recommends against treatment with 
interferon beta-1a. 
The guideline weakly recommends against treatment with 
methotrexate and fingolimod. 
The guideline advises against use of alemtuzumab, bortezomib, 
etanercept, fampridine, fludarabine, immunoadsorption, interferon 
alpha, abatacept, matalizumab, and tacrolimus. 
In a population-based study from Iceland with 21 years of follow-up, 
Hafsteinssdottir identified 19 individuals with incident or prevalent 
CIDP. The cohort was primarily male (14/19) with mean age at 
diagnosis 57 years (range 19-81) with women diagnosed at an 
earlier age (mean age 36 years) than men (mean age 63 years). 
Mean follow-up was 6.9 years. Risk for mortality was similar to the 
underlying Icelandic population (standardized mortality ratio 0.9, 
95% CI 0.3-2.2). 
The main existing 
treatment options: 
Natural history of the 
indicated condition in the 
untreated population, 
including mortality and 
morbidity: 
 
 
 
 
Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) 
Important co-morbidities: 
A study by Donnedu evaluated comorbidities associated with CIDP in 
393 patients in Italy based on a structured web-based 
questionnaire. All patients included in the evaluation met European 
Federation of Neurological Societies and Peripheral Nerve Society 
criteria and included in an Italian CIDP database. One or more 
comorbidities were reported in 294 (75%) of the CIDP cohort. 
Diabetes (14%), monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined 
significance (MGUS) (12%) and other immune disorders (16%) were 
more frequent in the CIDP cohort than would be expected based on 
rates estimated from the general European population. CIDP 
patients with diabetes had more disability and reported lower quality 
of life than those without diabetes. Patients with MGUS tended to be 
older at symptom onset and experienced more frequent motor 
CIDP.  
 
 
 
 
Part  II:  Module  SII  -  Non-clinical  part  of  the  safety 
specification 
The below provides an overview of the studies involved in the non-clinical study program for HyQvia. 
For ease of reading, study tables have been organised by test article(s): 
•  Studies with IG 10% (KIOVIG/GAMMAGARD LIQUID) 
•  Studies with rHuPH20 
•  Studies with IG 10% and rHuPH20 
• 
Four local tolerance studies have been conducted with Immune Globulin Subcutaneous (IGSC) 
10% and rHuPH20 in combination. 
Key safety findings from non-clinical studies and relevance to human usage: 
Study 
Test Article: IG 10% 
Single dose 
toxicity 
PV0330101 
Determination of Acute Toxicity 
in Mice after Intravenous 
Administration of Immune 
Globulin Intravenous (Human) 
10% Triple Virally Reduced 
(TVR) Solution. 
Relevance for Human Usage 
Mice were administered a single dose of 
2,500, 5,000, or 10,000 mg/kg IGI, 10% or 
GAMMAGARD S/D, the highest applicable 
volume, by the IV route. Behavioural 
depression with or without dyspnoea was 
observed in the surviving animals of the 
group treated with 10,000 mg/kg IGI, 10%. 
No treatment-related histopathological 
changes were observed in the lung, heart, or 
kidneys up to this dose. The no observed 
adverse effect level (NOAEL) for this study in 
mice was 5,000 mg/kg for IGI, 10%. 
PV0340101 
Determination of Acute Toxicity 
in Rats after Intravenous 
Administration of Immune 
Globulin Intravenous ([IGIV] 
Human) 10% TVR Solution. 
Rats were administered a single dose of 
2,000 mg/kg IGI, 10% or GAMMAGARD S/D 
by the IV route (PV0340101). No 
treatment-related findings were revealed by 
gross necropsy. The NOAEL was 2,000 mg/kg 
for IGI, 10%. 
Repeat-dose 
toxicity 
Reproductive/
Developmental 
toxicity 
None 
None 
- 
- 
Genotoxicity 
OEFZS-UL-0159 
Salmonella typhimurium 
Reverse Mutation Test 
There was no statistically significant increase 
in the mutation frequency. Metabolic 
activation did not change these results. 
IGI, 10% is not considered to have genotoxic 
potential. 
Carcinogenicity  None 
- 
Local tolerance  PV0350101 
Investigation on Local 
Tolerance of IGIV (Human) 
10% TVR Solution in Rabbits. 
Excellently tolerated after IV infusion, slight 
irritation after intra-arterial or paravenous 
administration. The observed irritation and 
inflammatory reactions in studies in rabbits 
for other routes are considered to be a 
consequence of the animals’ immune 
response to the human IgG preparation and 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Test Article: rHuPH20 
Single dose 
toxicity 
03-007/R03005 
A Preliminary IV Toxicity Study 
in Rats with OptiphaseTM 
Repeat-dose 
toxicity 
RDH00007/R05015 
Recombinant Human 
Hyaluronidase: Pilot Ascending 
Dose Peribulbar and 
Subcutaneous Tolerability 
Study in Rhesus Monkeys 
RDH00006/R05014 
A Single/Repeat-Dose Toxicity 
Study of Hyaluronidase 
Administered by Peribulbar and 
Subcutaneous Injection to 
Rhesus Monkeys, with a 3-
Week Recovery 
1005-1253/R05108 
PH20: A 6-Week Toxicity Study 
Following Repeated Intravesical 
Administration to Cynomolgus 
Monkeys. 
Relevance for Human Usage 
considered of limited relevance for human 
usage. 
Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a 
single dose of 10,500 U/kg rHuPH20 by IV 
route and 2 additional rats received only a 
vehicle formulation. Histological analysis 
revealed slight renal tubule dilation with the 
lumina containing an amorphous material 
consistent with hyaline casts in all 5 male 
rats. All other tissues evaluated male rats and 
all tissues in the female rats were within 
normal limits. 
The SC no effect level was considered to be at 
least 45,000 U per injection. 
rHuPH20 was well tolerated by male and 
female rhesus monkeys when administered as 
single peribulbar injections in one or both 
eyes and single or repeat once weekly SC 
injections (up to 2 weeks) at 130, 3,880, and 
38,800 U/injection. Under the conditions of 
the study, a NOAEL of 38,800 U/injection 
(12,000 U/kg) was determined for rHuPH20 
treatment by either peribulbar or SC routes of 
administration. Within the limits of detection, 
neutralizing antibodies were not identified. 
A six-week toxicity study to establish the 
toxicity of rHuPH20 in cynomolgus monkeys 
when administered by intravesical 
route (urinary bladder) once weekly for 
6 consecutive weeks followed by a seven-day 
observation period was conducted. There was 
no mortality subsequent to treatment. Clinical 
observations included swelling of the skin, 
skin red in colour, or red spots on the 
urogenital area, penis/vulva, and sacrum. 
These clinical signs were noted both in control 
and rHuPH20 treated animals and were 
considered procedure-related from the 
catheterisation. In addition, one episode of 
vomiting was observed in one rHuPH20 and 
one observation of decreased activity and 
lying on cage floor was noted in one rHuPH20 
treated female. Due to the single-episode 
occurrence of these clinical observations, they 
could not be clearly attributed to rHuPH20 
treatment. No treatment- related macroscopic 
or microscopic observations were noted in 
any of the tissues examined. 
Toxicokinetic (TK) evaluation performed from 
 
 
 
 
Study 
SNBL.258.04/R08056 
A 7-Day Repeat-Dose 
Intravenous and Subcutaneous 
Toxicity Study of rHuPH20 in 
Cynomolgus Monkeys. 
SNBL.258.01/R09050 
A 39-Week Toxicity Study of 
rHuPH20 Administered 
Subcutaneously in Cynomolgus 
Monkeys with a Recovery 
Phase. 
Reproductive/
Developmental 
toxicity. 
RDH00016/R07046 
Subcutaneous Dosage-Range 
Developmental Toxicity Study 
of rHuPH20 in Mice. 
Relevance for Human Usage 
plasma bioanalysis of hyaluronidase activity 
noted no detectable levels among any of the 
plasma samples. 
In conclusion, the weekly intravesical 
administration of rHuPH20 for 6 consecutive 
weeks to cynomolgus monkeys at dose levels 
of 0 or 200,000 U/ injection (77,000 U/kg) 
was not associated with any overt toxicity. 
Administration of rHuPH20 was well tolerated 
by cynomolgus monkeys via either IV or SC 
delivery at a dose of 5 mg/kg [580,000 units 
(U)/kg] once daily for 7 consecutive days. 
The NOAEL was 5 mg/kg (580,000 U/kg) by 
either SC or IV routes of administration. 
Treatment-related minimal SC perivascular 
lymphoplasmacytic infiltration present at 
injection site in all animals administered 
2.0 mg/kg rHuPH20 and in 1/4 males and 
1/4 females administered 0.2 mg/kg 
rHuPH20. At the end of recovery period, 
minimal SC perivascular lymphoplasmacytic 
infiltration present in a single male that had 
been administered 2.0 mg/kg rHuPH20 
indicating substantial recovery, and therefore 
recoverability. Plasma hyaluronidase activity 
increased from study day 1 to 85 followed by 
a decrease on days 183 and 267. Loss of 
hyaluronidase activity following chronic 
repeated doses of 2.0 mg/kg consistent with 
development of hyaluronidase neutralising 
activity in plasma specimens. The NOAEL for 
rHuPH20 was 2.0 mg/kg (240,000 U/kg), the 
highest dose level administered. 
The SC NOAEL (2 mg/kg; 240,000 U/kg) 
exceeds the expected dose level of rHuPH20 
in humans by a factor of approximately 
3200-fold. Because of body surface 
area (factor 3.1), the human equivalent dose 
is 0.65 mg/kg which represents a safety 
margin at least 1,032-fold. 
These results support the use of rHuPH20 as 
a locally acting, transiently active, permeation 
enhancer for SC administration of IG, 10%. 
Daily SC administration of 10 and 30 mg/kg 
rHuPH20 was found to be toxic to developing 
embryos/foetuses as determined by increased 
% resorptions and litter size with no effects 
on maternal BW or BW gain at doses as high 
as 10 mg/kg. 
Based on the results of this study it can be 
speculated that the total litter losses observed 
at SC dose of 30 mg/kg/day and reduced 
litters at 10 mg/kg were the result of the 
disruption or degradation of hyaluronic acid in 
 
 
 
 
Study 
RDH00017/R08176 
Subcutaneous Developmental 
Toxicity Study of rHuPH20 in 
Mice. 
Relevance for Human Usage 
the developing embryo by rHuPH20. 
Lower doses (1 and 3 mg/kg/day) did not 
result in maternal toxicity and did not appear 
to affect embryo development. 
No clear maternal toxicity (clinical 
observations, BW gains) occurred at any of 
the doses tested up to 18 mg/kg/day. 
Therefore, the NOAEL for maternal toxicity 
was 18 mg/kg/day. 
Reductions in foetal weight and increases in 
the number of late resorptions were observed 
in the 9 and 18 mg/kg dosage groups. There 
were no other adverse effects (no 
malformations or variations) on embryo-foetal 
development. NOAEL for embryo-foetal 
development was 3.0 mg/kg. 
TK analysis of plasma hyaluronidase activity 
generally confirmed dose-dependent 
increases in exposure to rHuPH20 after SC 
administration in the dams. Retrospective 
analysis of a subset of TKs samples collected 
for the study on day 15 of gestation 
demonstrated that all dams tested developed 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies within comparable 
ranges across all 3 dose groups. These anti-
rHuPH20 antibodies were also shown to be 
predominately of the IgG isotype. Because 
IgG antibodies are known to cross the 
placenta during gestation, the foetuses were 
likely exposed to the maternal anti-rHuPH20 
antibodies. Since antibody titre ranges were 
similar across all rHuPH20 dosed groups and 
anti-rHuPH20 titres did not correlate with the 
dose-dependent observation of resorptions at 
≥9 mg/kg/day, these data suggest that anti-
rHuPH20 antibodies had no effects on 
embryo-foetal development in the CD-1 
mouse model. 
Pre/Postnatal 
Development. 
RDH00019/R09058 
Subcutaneous Developmental 
and Perinatal/ Postnatal 
Reproduction Toxicity Study of 
rHuPH20 in Mice, Including a 
Postnatal Behavioral/ Functional 
Evaluation. 
The maternal NOAEL for rHuPH20 was 
9 mg/kg/day. No effects on viability and 
growth in the offspring including sexual 
maturation, learning, memory, and the ability 
to produce an F2 generation. 
The NOAEL for maternal reproduction and 
offspring development was also 9 mg/kg/day. 
20029369/12096 
Evaluation of Anti-rHuPH20 
Antibodies Following 
Administration of rHuPH20 by 
Subcutaneous Injection in Mice 
(Developmental and 
Perinatal/Postnatal 
Reproduction Study Design). 
Alignment of the timelines for plasma sample 
analysis of anti- rHuPH20 antibodies in this 
study and the assessments of neurological 
and reproductive system developmental 
milestones in study RDH00019, demonstrates 
that exposure of offspring to anti-rHuPH20 
antibodies throughout all stages of 
development from late gestation through 
adulthood does not result in adverse effects 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Juvenile 
Toxicity 
20039195/13123 
A 6-week Subcutaneous Dose-
Range Finding Toxicity Study of 
rHuPH20 in Juvenile Mice 
Relevance for Human Usage 
on overall growth, neurological development, 
sexual maturation, reproductive function or 
mating outcome in offspring of rHuPH20 
treated mice. 
Juvenile mice were administered rHuPH20 SC 
either daily at 1, 3 or 9 mg/kg/day or weekly 
at 3 or 9 mg/kg/week from postnatal day 
(PND) 7 to PND 42. SC administration of 
rHuPH20 either daily or once weekly was well 
tolerated in juvenile mice at levels up to 
9.0 mg/kg/dose. There were no adverse 
effects observed at doses up to 
9.0 mg/kg/dose. Anti-rHuPH20 antibodies 
were detected in all rHuPH20-dosed groups 
by PND 30 and were cross-reactive to 
rMuPH20 and rMuHyal5, thus supporting the 
relevance of the CD-1 mouse model for 
studying the potential impact of anti-rHuPH20 
antibodies. 
13125 
Tolerability Study of Daily 
Subcutaneous Administration of 
rHuPH20 in Juvenile Mice 
Juvenile mice were administered daily SC 
injections of rHuPH20 at 0 mg/kg/dose 
(control), 3 mg/kg/dose or 9 mg/kg/dose 
from PND 7 to PND 90. 
20081082 
Good laboratory practices 
toxicity study to determine the 
potential toxicity of rHuPH20 as 
well as de novo produced anti-
rHuPH20 antibodies  
No adverse effects were noted in any dosed 
groups as a result of rHuPH20 administration, 
and no marked differences in average BWs 
were observed across groups. 
rHuPH20 was administered SC to juvenile 
mice daily from PND 7 to PND 30 and 
thereafter administered weekly until PND 129 
(after reproductive assessments for the 
juvenile subset) or PND 241 (chronic subset). 
Evaluations included neurobehavioral 
assessments, reproductive capacity and foetal 
evaluations, and chronic toxicity through 
adulthood. 
Subcutaneous administration of rHuPH20 in 
male and female Crl:CD1(ICR) mice at a dose 
of 1 mg/kg/dose did not lead to treatment-
related mortality or clinical signs and there 
were no rHuPH20-related effects on BWs or 
BW gains. There were no rHuPH20-related 
effects on sexual maturation, neurobehavioral 
endpoints or reproductive parameters (mating 
and fertility, sperm motility, concentration or 
morphology, ovarian, uterine, or litter 
observations) in animals assigned to the 
juvenile subset, and rHuPH20 did not produce 
any foetal external, visceral, or skeletal 
abnormalities. In addition, there were no 
rHuPH20-related effects on any 
ophthalmological or clinical pathology 
parameters evaluated in mice assigned to the 
chronic subset. There were observations of 
increased splenic weights with an associated 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Relevance for Human Usage 
increase in haematopoiesis in females 
assigned to the chronic subset at 1 
mg/kg/dose rHuPH20. However, these 
findings were considered unrelated to 
rHuPH20 because it was most likely to be a 
secondary/reactive response to the 
inflammation at the site of rHuPH20 
administration. Minimal to moderate, non-
adverse microscopic findings attributed to 
rHuPH20 were limited to injection site 
reactions (primarily a mixed cell infiltration 
within the SC tissues with occasional 
observations of SC mixed cellular 
inflammation) noted in male and female mice 
in the chronic subset. 
All animals administered rHuPH20 generated 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies with a high incidence 
of rHuPH20 neutralising activity and 
cross-reactivity to both the rMuPH20 and 
rMuHyal5 sperm hyaluronidases. This 
confirms the relevance of the study to assess 
the safety of both rHuPH20 and de novo 
produced anti-rHuPH20 antibodies. 
Genotoxicity 
None 
Carcinogenicity  None 
- 
- 
Local 
Tolerance 
04-007/R05049 
A Preliminary IP Local Tolerance 
Study in Rats with HUA0415C 
Other Toxicity 
Studies. 
12124 
Antibody Response Against 
rHuPH20 in New Zealand White 
(NZW) Rabbits Following Three 
Separate Immunization 
Procedures. 
Sprague-Dawley female rats were dosed with 
either control saline or rHuPH20 and analysed 
for necropsy both at short-term (7 days) and 
at long-term (28 days). 
Cytologic changes in epithelium of distal 
convoluted tubules in all 3 long-term animals 
at highest dose (15,000 U/kg) and one animal 
at intermediate dose (1,500 U/kg). 
Hydrometra in all long-term animals with 
renal tubule changes, and also in 2 short-
term animals from highest dose. 
Based on the observed hydrometra and distal 
renal tubule changes, the NOAEL for rHuPH20 
in this study was determined to be below the 
dose of 15,000 U/kg. 
Thus, the dose of 1,500 U/kg was considered 
the maximum tolerated dose in this study.  
The results support the use of either a daily 
or weekly SC dosing regimen for the 
generation of high-titre, sustained levels of 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies in female NZW 
rabbits. The results also demonstrate that 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies can bind in vitro to 
the recombinant form of rabbit PH20, and 
that the incidence of cross-reactivity is high 
(>80%) supporting the use of the NZW rabbit 
model to study the potential impact of anti-
rHuPH20 antibodies. 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Relevance for Human Usage 
20035646/12208 
Effects of Anti-rHuPH20 
Antibodies on Male Fertility and 
General Reproduction in the 
New Zealand White Rabbit. 
20035449/12195 
Effects of Anti-rHuPH20 
Antibodies on Female Fertility 
and Embryo- Foetal 
Development with Postnatal 
Assessments in the New 
Zealand White Rabbit. 
Test Articles: IGSC 10% and rHuPH20 
Local 
Tolerance 
AU0206W01 
Pre-Clinical Studies on the 
Subcutaneous Application of 
GAMMAGARD LIQUID after 
HYLENEX Pre-treatment: Local 
Tolerance in the Rabbit. 
R09131 
Local Tolerance Feasibility 
Study after Repeated 
Subcutaneous (Bolus) 
Administration of GAMMAGARD 
10% with rHuPH20 in SCID1 
1 SHO- PrkdcscidHrhr mice, commonly referred to as SCID 
All rHuPH20-treated males generated 
persistent anti-rHuPH20 antibody titres prior 
to/during mating and titres were maintained 
during semen evaluations and assessments of 
mating outcome. Anti-rHuPH20 antibodies 
cross-reacted with recombinant rabbit PH20, 
supporting the relevance of the NZW rabbit 
model for evaluating the potential effects of 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies on male fertility. The 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies in rabbit plasma also 
demonstrated neutralising activity and 
cross-neutralising to rRbPH20. Reactivity of 
rabbit IgG to the rabbit PH20 and the 
neutralisation of rabbit PH20 hyaluronidase 
activity demonstrates the relevance of the 
NZW rabbit model for evaluating the potential 
effects of anti-rHuPH20 antibodies on male 
fertility to rHuPH20. 
In the absence of any biologically meaningful 
effects on sperm parameters or Caesarean-
section evaluations in the mated females 
(mating outcomes), it is concluded that 
persistent exposure to anti-rHuPH20 
antibodies prior to mating had no effect on 
male reproductive functions, mating 
behaviour or fertility. 
Maternal exposure to elevated titres of 
anti-rHuPH20 antibodies prior to mating and 
throughout gestation had no effect on mating 
and fertility. Maternal anti-rHuPH20 
antibodies transferred to their offspring 
during gestation, persisted through at least 3 
months of age and had no effect on embryo-
foetal or postnatal development of offspring 
including developmental milestones, growth, 
behaviour, maturation or offspring mating 
and fertility. 
Mild to moderate SC inflammatory reactions 
were observed after single or repeated 
application of IG 10% with and without 
rHuPH20. 
These results were considered a consequence 
of the rabbit’s immune response against the 
human IgG preparation and considered of 
limited relevance for human usage. 
No test-item-related adverse effect after 
repeated SC administration of IG 10% with 
and without rHuPH20. 
IG 10% with and without rHuPH20 are 
considered well tolerated. 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Relevance for Human Usage 
Mice. 
11018 
Assessment of Induration 
Following Subcutaneous 
Infusions of Immunoglobulin in 
Yucatan Micro-Pigs 
11028 
Evaluation of Induration via 
Laser Doppler Assessment of 
Blood Flow Following 
Subcutaneous Infusions of 
Immunoglobulin in Yucatan 
Micro- Pigs 
It was demonstrated that pre-administration 
of rHuPH20 increases dispersion of IgG, 
significantly reduces in-line pressure, and 
mitigates infusion site induration with 
administration of large volumes of IgG in a 
porcine model. 
It was demonstrated that pre-administration 
of rHuPH20 increases dispersion of IgG, 
significantly reduces in-line pressure, and 
mitigates infusion site induration with 
administration of large volumes of IG 10% in 
a porcine model. 
Local cutaneous blood perfusion is improved 
in the presence of rHuPH20 during large 
volume infusions of IG 10%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II: Module SIII - Clinical trial exposure 
Table SIII.1: Duration of exposure by indication 
Cumulative for all indications (person time): 
Duration of exposure 
Patients 
Person time 
0 to <0.5 years 
0.5 to <1 year 
1 to <2 years 
2 to <3 years 
3 or more years 
Total 
172 
25 
115 
49 
53 
414 
(years) 
37.00 
15.48 
156.35 
126.03 
191.90 
526.76 
Included  Studies  160602,  160603,  160902,  161001  (Healthy  Volunteers),  161101,  161503,  161504,  170901  - 
Part 4, 161403, 161505, TAK771-1001 (Healthy Volunteers). 
Indication-PID (person time): 
Duration of exposure 
Patients 
Person time 
0 to <0.5 years 
0.5 to <1 year 
1 to <2 years 
2 to <3 years 
3 or more years 
Total 
104 
13 
95 
21 
30 
263 
(years) 
15.64 
9.02 
125.54 
58.95 
98.73 
307.87 
PID = Primary immune deficiency. 
Indication:  PID  -  Studies  160602,  160603,  160902,  161001  (Healthy  Volunteers),  161101,  161503,  161504, 
170901 - Part 4. 
Indication-CIDP (person time): 
Duration of exposure 
Patients 
Person time 
0 to <0.5 years 
0.5 to <1 year 
1 to <2 years 
2 to <3 years 
3 or more years 
Total 
68 
12 
20 
28 
23 
(years) 
21.36 
6.46 
30.81 
67.08 
93.17 
151 
218.88 
CIDP = Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. 
Indication: CIDP - Studies 161403, 161505, TAK771-1001 (Healthy Volunteers). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table SIII.2: Age group and gender by indication 
Cumulative for all indications: age/gender groups (person time): 
Age group 
Patients 
Person time (years) 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
<18 years 
18 to <65 years 
65 to <75 years 
75 or more years 
84 
124 
16 
6 
38 
133 
11 
2 
122 
257 
27 
8 
108.74 
46.84 
155.58 
149.19 
159.48 
308.67 
32.19 
19.91 
52.10 
4.43 
5.98 
10.40 
Total 
230 
184 
414 
294.55 
232.21 
526.76 
Studies  included  160602,  160603,  160902,  161001  (Healthy  Volunteers),  161101,  161503,  161504,  170901  – 
Part 4, 161403, 161505, TAK771-1001 (Healthy Volunteers). 
Indication-PID: age/gender groups (person time): 
Age group 
Patients 
Person time (years) 
Male 
Female 
Male 
Female 
<18 years 
18 to <65 years 
65 to <75 years 
75 or more years 
84 
64 
3 
0 
38 
64 
9 
1 
122 
128 
12 
1 
108.74 
46.84 
155.58 
65.87 
65.21 
131.08 
4.44 
0.00 
12.97 
17.41 
3.79 
3.79 
Total 
151 
112 
263 
179.06 
128.82 
307.87 
PID = Primary immune deficiency. 
Indication:  PID  -  Studies  160602,  160603,  160902,  161001  (Healthy  Volunteers),  161101,  161503,  161504, 
170901 - Part 4. 
Indication-CIDP: age/gender groups (person time): 
Age group 
Patients 
Person time (years) 
Male 
Female 
<18 years 
18 to <65 years 
65 to <75 years 
75 or more years 
Total 
0 
60 
13 
6 
79 
0 
69 
2 
1 
72 
Male 
0.00 
83.31 
27.75 
4.43 
0 
129 
15 
7 
Female 
0.00 
0.00 
94.27 
177.59 
6.94 
2.18 
34.69 
6.61 
151 
115.49 
103.39 
218.88 
CIDP = Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. 
Indication: CIDP - Studies 161403, 161505, TAK771-1001 (Healthy Volunteers). 
Table SIII.3: Ethnic origin by indication 
Cumulative for all indications for Ethnic Origin groups (person time): 
Ethnic origin 
Patients 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Asian 
3 
3 
Person time 
(years) 
6.10 
4.39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cumulative for all indications for Ethnic Origin groups (person time): 
Ethnic origin 
Black or African American 
White/Caucasian 
Multiple 
Other 
Not Reported 
Total 
Patients 
Person time 
(years) 
47 
352 
4 
1 
4 
414 
16.24 
482.69 
9.33 
1.27 
6.74 
526.76 
Indication:  Cumulative  -  Studies  160602,  160603,  160902,  161001  (Healthy  Volunteers),  161101,  161503, 
161504, 170901 - Part 4, 161403, 161505, TAK771-1001 (Healthy Volunteers). 
Indication- PID: Ethnic Origin groups (person time): 
Ethnic origin 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Asian 
Black or African American 
White/Caucasian 
Multiple 
Other 
Not Reported 
Total 
Patients 
Person time 
(years) 
2 
3 
30 
223 
3 
1 
1 
263 
3.17 
4.39 
10.00 
282.34 
5.58 
1.27 
1.13 
307.87 
PID = Primary immune deficiency. 
Indication:  PID  -  Studies  160602,  160603,  160902,  161001  (Healthy  Volunteers),  161101,  161503,  161504, 
170901 - Part 4. 
Indication- CIDP: Ethnic Origin groups (person time): 
Ethnic origin 
American Indian or Alaska Native 
Asian 
Black or African American 
White/Caucasian 
Multiple 
Other 
Not Reported 
Total 
Patients 
Person time 
(years) 
1 
0 
17 
129 
1 
0 
3 
151 
2.93 
0.00 
6.25 
200.35 
3.75 
0.00 
5.60 
218.88 
CIDP = Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. 
Indication: CIDP - Studies 161403, 161505, TAK771-1001 (Healthy Volunteers).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II: Module SIV - Populations not studied in clinical trials 
SIV.1. Exclusion criteria in pivotal clinical studies within the development 
programme 
Exclusion criterion 
Reason 
exclusion 
for 
Included as 
missing 
information 
Rationale 
To prevent serious 
anaphylactic 
reactions. 
No 
Subjects with a 
history of known 
allergy, 
hypersensitivity, or 
persistent reactions 
(urticaria, breathing 
difficulty, severe 
hypotension, or 
anaphylaxis) following 
IGIV, IGSC, immune 
serum globulin (ISG), 
albumin infusions, or 
hyaluronidase of 
human or animal 
(including bee or 
vespid venom) origin 
Subjects with IgA 
deficiency and known 
anti-IgA antibodies 
To prevent serious 
anaphylaxis reactions 
No 
Subjects positive at 
enrollment for one or 
more of the following: 
HBsAg, polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) 
for hepatitis C virus 
(HCV), PCR for HIV 
Type 1/2 
No 
Transmission of 
infectious agents such 
as hepatitis B virus 
(HBV), HCV, and HIV 
is a theoretical 
possibility with any 
blood- or plasma-
derived medicinal 
product. Positive test 
results prior to study 
entry would preclude 
the ability to 
determine whether 
any such infection or 
positive antibody test 
is the result of 
administration of the 
investigational 
product. 
As with any product, 
hypersensitivity reactions are 
possible. 
Allergic/hypersensitivity 
responses including anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients 
with IgA deficiency is an 
important identified risk with the 
product. 
The use of HyQvia is 
contraindicated in patients with 
known hypersensitivity to human 
immunoglobulins, systemic 
hypersensitivity to hyaluronidase 
or recombinant hyaluronidase, or 
hypersensitivity to any of the 
excipients used in the 
manufacture of the product. 
Administering an IgA containing 
product in patients with selective 
IgA deficiency with antibodies 
against IgA can result in 
anaphylaxis. The use of HyQvia is 
contraindicated in patients who 
suffer from IgA deficiency with 
antibodies against IgA. 
In certain cases, the benefits of 
IG therapy may outweigh the risk 
of transmission of an infectious 
agent. Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all risk 
factors and weigh the benefit-risk 
balance for each individual prior 
to prescribing therapy. 
Additionally, HIV/HBV/HCV 
patients may require IgG therapy 
in certain clinical situations. 
Subjects with levels 
of alanine 
Since IV IgG has 
been associated with 
No 
Having an elevated transaminase 
per se is not a contraindication. 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion criterion 
Reason 
exclusion 
for 
Included as 
missing 
information 
Rationale 
aminotransferase 
(ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase 
(AST) >2.5 times the 
upper limit of normal 
(ULN) for the testing 
laboratory 
Subjects with 
neutropenia (defined 
as an absolute 
neutrophil 
count ≤500/mm3) 
Subjects with a 
history of 
thrombophilia or 
thrombotic episodes 
(e.g., deep vein 
thrombosis, 
myocardial infarction 
[MI], cerebrovascular 
accident, pulmonary 
edema, or sickle cell 
anaemia with history 
of painful vaso-
occlusive crisis) 
Subjects with 
bleeding disorders or 
who were receiving 
anticoagulation 
therapy at the time of 
study enrollment 
No 
No 
No 
elevated 
transaminases in the 
past (mostly due to 
HCV), such subjects 
are not allowed in 
studies to avoid that 
any such changes 
could be attributed to 
the product in error. 
Severe neutropenia 
increases the risk of 
serious infections, 
such as sepsis, even 
in subjects with 
normal 
immunoglobulins. 
Treatment with IV 
IgG may appear 
ineffective in such 
subjects; thus, they 
are excluded from 
clinical trials. 
Thromboembolic 
events are a known 
risk of IV 
immunoglobulin 
treatment. The risk of 
thrombosis by a new 
product cannot be 
justified until the 
efficacy of the 
product has been 
demonstrated. 
Concurrent 
anticoagulant therapy 
would preclude the 
ability to accurately 
monitor for the 
occurrence of 
thrombotic events 
related to 
immunoglobulin 
treatment. Further, 
the risk of hematoma 
from SC infusions is 
increased in patients 
who are 
anti-coagulated. 
It does not impact the efficacy of 
the IgG and treatment of patients 
with elevated transaminases with 
IV or SC IgG and does not 
present a safety risk to the 
patient. 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying risk factors and weigh 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing 
therapy. Patients with antibody 
deficiency require antibody 
replacement even if they have 
additional risk factors, such as 
neutropenia or T cell 
abnormalities. 
In certain cases, the benefits of 
immunoglobulin therapy may 
outweigh the risk of a thrombotic 
event. Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all risk 
factors and weigh the benefit-risk 
balance for each individual prior 
to prescribing therapy. 
In certain cases, the benefits of 
immunoglobulin therapy may 
outweigh the risk of a thrombotic 
event. Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all risk 
factors and weigh the benefit-risk 
balance for each individual prior 
to prescribing therapy. SC 
infusions might be undesirable in 
patients with significant 
anticoagulation. 
Subjects with 
abnormal protein loss 
(e.g., protein losing 
It is impossible to do 
proper PK 
assessments in 
No 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying diseases and weigh 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion criterion 
Reason 
exclusion 
for 
Included as 
missing 
information 
Rationale 
enteropathy, 
nephrotic syndrome, 
or severe lung 
disease) 
Subjects with 
myeloma or current 
history of any 
malignancy (other 
than adequately 
treated basal cell or 
squamous cell 
carcinoma of the skin 
or carcinoma in situ 
of the cervix) and 
subjects treated with 
immunosuppressive 
chemotherapeutic 
agents during the 
study period 
Subjects who had 
been exposed to any 
blood product other 
than an IGIV, SC 
immunoglobulin, ISG 
preparations, or 
albumin within the 6 
months prior to study 
entry 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing 
therapy. PIDD patients who also 
have abnormal protein loss are 
properly treated with 
replacement therapy while 
simultaneously addressing the 
cause of the abnormal losses. 
Yes 
- 
subjects with 
abnormal protein 
loss, so these 
subjects are excluded 
from clinical studies. 
Subjects who only 
have abnormal losses 
and not PIDD should 
not be treated with 
immunoglobulin and 
are not candidates for 
the study. In general, 
immunoglobulin 
replacement therapy 
is considered futile in 
conditions such as 
protein losing 
enteropathy, 
nephrotic syndrome, 
and severe lung 
disease. Correction of 
the underlying 
disorder usually 
results in 
normalisation of 
insufficient 
immunoglobulin 
levels caused by 
these conditions. 
Myeloma/other 
malignancies and 
immunosuppressive 
chemotherapeutic 
therapies would alter 
a subject’s host 
defences beyond 
antibody deficiency 
and make it 
impossible to assess 
the effectiveness of 
the immunoglobulin. 
No 
There are certain 
risks common to 
administration of any 
blood- or plasma-
derived medicinal 
product; notably, 
transfer of infectious 
agents, renal 
complications, 
hemolysis, or 
The product labelling provides 
awareness to the prescribing 
physicians regarding the 
precautions for use of blood- and 
plasma-derived medicinal 
products. Physicians must weigh 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing. 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion criterion 
Reason 
exclusion 
for 
Included as 
missing 
information 
Rationale 
thrombosis. These 
may not be apparent 
for several months. 
Although this is true 
for IgG products as 
well, these patients 
cannot stop their 
underlying treatment 
for any length of 
time. 
A key endpoint in the 
HyQvia clinical study 
program was to 
determine the 
efficacy of the active 
ingredient in reducing 
rates of infection. 
Concurrent antibiotic 
therapy would affect 
the ability to 
accurately assess the 
effect of HyQvia 
therapy on infection 
rates. 
Subjects with recent 
participation in other 
clinical studies 
involving 
investigational 
products or devices 
are typically excluded 
from clinical trials in 
order to accurately 
assess subject 
responses to the 
investigational 
product. 
Pregnant and 
lactating females are 
typically excluded 
from clinical trials for 
safety and ethical 
reasons. 
IGIV therapy has 
been associated with 
rare cases of renal 
dysfunction/renal 
failure and increases 
in serum creatinine 
levels. Inclusion of 
subjects with 
increased serum 
creatinine levels or 
No 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
Subjects who 
received antibiotic 
therapy for the 
treatment of infection 
within 7 days prior to 
enrollment or who 
were receiving 
prophylactic antibiotic 
therapy at the time of 
enrollment which 
could not be stopped 
Subjects who had 
participated in 
another clinical study 
involving an 
investigational 
product or device 
within 28 days prior 
to study entry 
Females who were 
pregnant or lactating 
at the time of study 
enrollment 
Subjects with serum 
creatinine levels 
greater than 1.5 
times the ULN for age 
and gender Subjects 
who had creatinine 
clearance (CLcr) 
values, calculated 
according to the 
formula below, which 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying risk factors and 
concurrent medicinal therapies 
and weigh the benefit-risk 
balance for each individual prior 
to prescribing therapy. The use of 
antibiotics in patients receiving 
HyQvia does not present a safety 
concern. 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying risk factors and weigh 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing 
therapy. 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion criterion 
Reason 
exclusion 
for 
Included as 
missing 
information 
Rationale 
were <60% of normal 
for age and gender: 
for males: CLcr = 
[(140 – age (years)) 
* (BW (kg))/[72 * 
(serum creatinine 
(mg/dL)]; for 
females: CLcr = 
[(140 – age (years)) 
* (BW (kg)) *0.85] / 
[72 * (serum 
creatinine (mg/dL))] 
Subjects with a total 
protein level >9 g/dL 
and subjects with 
macroglobulinemia 
(IgM) or 
paraproteinemia 
Subjects with 
anaemia that in the 
opinion of the 
investigator precluded 
phlebotomy for 
laboratory studies 
Subjects with severe 
dermatitis or 
anatomical 
abnormality on one or 
both thighs that 
would have precluded 
adequate sites for 
safe product 
administration 
decreased CLcr values 
would affect the 
ability to monitor for 
true cases of 
investigational 
treatment-related 
renal 
dysfunction/renal 
failure. The risk of 
exacerbating renal 
dysfunction cannot be 
justified until the 
efficacy has been 
demonstrated. 
Elevated protein 
levels can increase 
serum viscosity and 
thereby increase the 
risk of thrombotic 
complications. These 
risks cannot be 
justified until the 
efficacy of the 
product has been 
demonstrated and a 
proper risk/benefit 
analysis can be 
provided. 
The ability to obtain 
sufficient samples for 
laboratory testing is 
important in order to 
obtain accurate and 
consistent serological 
assessments across 
the entire trial 
population. The risk 
of exacerbating 
anaemia is not 
justified in a clinical 
study where there is 
not a direct benefit to 
the subject. 
Medical or anatomical 
obstructions to 
selected product 
administration sites 
would affect the 
ability to ensure 
consistency of 
product 
administration across 
the entire trial 
No 
No 
No 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying risk factors and weigh 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing 
therapy. 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying risk factors and weigh 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing 
therapy. In a clinical setting, 
blood samples are obtained for 
the benefit of the patient, not for 
the clinical study. 
Physicians must perform a 
baseline assessment of all 
underlying risk factors and weigh 
the benefit-risk balance for each 
individual prior to prescribing 
therapy. 
 
 
 
 
Exclusion criterion 
Reason 
exclusion 
population. 
for 
Included as 
missing 
information 
Rationale 
Subjects positive at 
enrollment for one or 
more of the following: 
HBsAg, PCR for HCV, 
PCR for HIV Type 1/2 
No 
Transmission of 
infectious agents such 
as HBV, HCV, and HIV 
are a theoretical 
possibility with any 
blood- or plasma-
derived medicinal 
product. Positive test 
results prior to study 
entry would preclude 
the ability to 
determine whether 
any such infection or 
positive antibody test 
is the result of 
administration of the 
investigational 
product. 
In certain cases, the benefits of 
immunoglobulin therapy may 
outweigh the risk of transmission 
of an infectious agent. Physicians 
must perform a baseline 
assessment of all risk factors and 
weigh the benefit-risk balance for 
each individual prior to 
prescribing therapy. Additionally, 
HIV/HBV/HCV patients may 
require IgG therapy in certain 
clinical situations. 
SIV.2. Limitations to detect adverse reactions in clinical trial development 
programmes 
Limitation of Trial Program  Discussion of Implications 
Ability to Detect Adverse 
Reactions (AR) 
Which are Rare 
A total of 177 subjects have 
been exposed to HyQvia in 
clinical trials: 36 subjects less 
than 18 years of age, 
128 subjects between the ages 
of 18 and 65 years, and 13 
subjects over the age of 
65 years. 
for Target Population 
Due to the small clinical trial 
population, and small number 
of participants at the extremes 
of young and old age, ARs 
which occur with frequencies 
<1/177 or which are 
age-related may not be 
adequately reflected in clinical 
trial results. However, across 
all clinical trials, the rate of 
total adverse drug reactions 
(ADRs) per infusion obtained 
for IGSC 10% with rHuPH20 is 
consistent with published data 
on SC administered IgG. 
No safety concerns have been 
observed in clinical trials which 
are attributed to prolonged 
exposure to HyQvia. No 
significant amount of safety 
data beyond 3 years is 
currently available; however, 
long-term data was collected 
during the post-authorisation 
safety study (PASS) 161302 
and 161406. 
Due to Prolonged exposure 
In clinical trials, 18 subjects 
have been exposed to HyQvia 
for a period of 1 to <2 years, 
21 subjects for a period of 2 to 
<3 years, and 30 subjects for 
a period of 3 or more years. 
Due to cumulative effects 
In clinical trials, 23 subjects 
No safety concerns have been 
 
 
 
 
Ability to Detect Adverse 
Reactions (AR) 
Limitation of Trial Program  Discussion of Implications 
have received >10 to 30 
infusions of HyQvia; 50 
subjects have received more 
than 30 infusions. 
Which have a long latency 
The length of follow-up 
observation periods differs 
depending on clinical trial 
protocol. 
for Target Population 
observed in clinical trials which 
are attributed to the effects of 
cumulative usage of HyQvia. 
Data on the long-term local 
and systemic effects of HyQvia 
were collected during the PASS 
studies study 161302 and 
study 161406, study 161504 
and phase 3 study 161503. 
Subjects have been observed 
during designated follow-up 
time periods, and there have 
been no notable ADRs which 
have occurred with latent 
onset. 
SIV.3. Limitations in respect to populations typically under-represented in 
clinical trial development programmes 
Table SIV.2: 
Exposure of special populations included or not in clinical trial development 
programmes 
Type of special population  
Exposure 
Pregnant women 
Breast-feeding women 
The safety of this medicinal product for use in human 
pregnancy has not been established in controlled 
clinical trials and therefore should only be given with 
caution to pregnant women and breast-feeding 
mothers. Immunoglobulin products have been shown 
to cross the placenta, increasingly during the third 
trimester. Clinical experience with immunoglobulins 
suggests that no harmful effects on the course of 
pregnancy, or on the foetus and the neonate are to be 
expected. 
Development and reproductive toxicology studies 
have been conducted with recombinant human 
hyaluronidase in mice and rabbits. No adverse effects 
on pregnancy and foetal development were associated 
with anti-rHuPH20 antibodies. In these studies, 
maternal antibodies to recombinant human 
hyaluronidase were transferred to offspring in utero. 
The effects of antibodies to the recombinant human 
hyaluronidase component of HyQvia on the human 
embryo or on human foetal development are currently 
unknown. 
The Company has conducted study 161301 
(Pregnancy Registry in US and EU) to obtain 
long-term safety data on both mother and child in the 
event of pregnancy exposure to HyQvia. The last 
patient out from the pregnancy registry (US and EU 
study 161301) was in December-2019. 
HyQvia was evaluated in 9 mothers (4 mothers before 
delivery and 5 mothers after delivery), 7 in the 
HyQvia arm and two in the alternative product arm. 
In addition, 7 infants were enrolled (5 in the HyQvia 
 
 
 
 
Type of special population  
Exposure 
Children 
Elderly 
Fertility 
arm and 2 in the alternative product arm). Four 
mothers were tested for anti-rHuPH20 binding or 
neutralizing antibodies and no antibodies were 
detected. 
Immunoglobulins are excreted into the milk and may 
contribute to protecting the neonate from pathogens 
which have a mucosal portal of entry. 
HyQvia was evaluated in 24 paediatric patients, 
including 13 patients between 4 and < 12 years and 
11 between 12 and < 18 years, who were treated for 
up to 3.3 years with an overall safety experience 
equivalent to 48.66 patient-years (as described in 
section Clinical efficacy and safety). 
No appreciable differences in the pharmacodynamic 
effects or efficacy and safety of HyQvia were observed 
between paediatric patients and adults. 
A prospective, Phase 4, multicentre study (161504) in 
Europe conducted by the Company evaluated 
42 paediatric subjects (age 2 to <18 years) who had 
received prior immunoglobulin therapy. No new safety 
concerns were identified. No subject was positive 
(titer ≥160) for binding antirHuPH20 antibodies. 
HyQvia was found to be safe and tolerable among 
paediatric subjects (2 to <18 years old) with PIDD. 
There are limited clinical data in geriatric patients 
over the age of 65 years; this age group was 
represented by a total of 13 subjects in clinical trials. 
However, the safety profile of the product is not 
expected to differ in this age group from that of 
younger adults. 
There are currently no clinical safety data for HyQvia 
on fertility available. 
Clinical experience with immunoglobulins suggests 
that no harmful effects of IG 10% on fertility are to be 
expected. Animal studies do not indicate direct or 
indirect harmful effects of rHuPH20 with respect to 
reproductive potential at the doses used for 
facilitating administration of IG 10%. 
Patients with relevant co-morbidities: 
Not included in the clinical development program. 
-  Patients with hepatic impairment 
-  Patients with renal impairment 
-  Patients with cardiovascular 
impairment 
-  Immunocompromised patients 
-  Patients with a disease severity 
different from inclusion criteria in 
clinical trials 
Population with relevant different ethnic 
origin 
Limited clinical data are available in patients with 
organ impairment (e.g., renal, liver, or cardiac) since 
these subjects have been routinely excluded from 
participation in clinical trials. 
Clinical studies with HyQvia did not exclude subjects 
based on race or ethnic origin; however, the 
majority (132) of participating subjects were 
Caucasian, with 3 Asian subjects, 28 Black, 12 
 
 
 
 
Type of special population  
Exposure 
Hispanic, and 2 of other ethnicities/racial origins. 
The target indications for HyQvia are known to occur 
in various ethnic and racial groups. It is unlikely that 
the safety of HyQvia is affected by race or ethnicity. 
There are no contraindications for use of HyQvia in 
patients of any racial or ethnic origin. 
Not included in the clinical development program. 
Subpopulations carrying relevant genetic 
polymorphisms 
 
 
 
 
Part II: Module SV - Post-authorisation experience 
SV.1. Post-authorisation exposure 
SV.1.1. Method used to calculate exposure 
The Company calculates the patient exposure based on estimates on yearly immunoglobulin dose per 
patient published in 3 difference sources: 
The  Immunoglobulin  Diagnosis,  Evaluation,  and  key  Learnings  (IDEaL)  patient  registry  is  an 
observational  registry  directed  at  the  use  of  immunoglobulin  in  the  USA  and  sponsored  by  Coram 
Clinical Trials, a provider of clinical research services for Phase I-IV clinical trials. According to IDEaL, 
a 2009 industry report found that approximately 55% of IGIV was prescribed for non- Food and Drug 
Administration  (FDA)  approved  indications.  Overall  (approved  and  off-label  use),  approximately 38 
500 kg of IGIV were administered to approximately 85 100 patients in the US in 2009, with an average 
administration of 453 g per patient per year. Sixty percent of the patients (and 67% of total grams 
used)  were  treated  for  7  diseases:  primary  immune  deficiencies  (~525  g/patient/year),  chronic 
inflammatory  demyelinating  polyneuropathy  (~840  g/patient/year),  idiopathic  thrombocytopenia 
purpura 
(~420  g/patient/year),  and  Kawasaki  disease 
(~40 g/patient/year). 
(~331  g/patient/year),  CLL 
The first national immunoglobulin database report 2008-2009 was published in January 2010 by the 
British Department of Health, on the current prescribing practice of immunoglobulin in England. It was 
stated  that  the  highest  consumption  found  in  a  given  group  of  patients  was  approximately 
400 g/patient/year. 
A  literature  article  published  in  2011  by  Khan  et  al.,  describing  the  relationship  between 
immunoglobulin dose and serum IgG level in relation to body size. Analysis of data from 107 patients 
with  CVID  who  received  immunoglobulin  replacement  therapy  in  2007-2008  revealed  an  annual 
immunoglobulin dose given of 456 ± 129 g, which equated to mean of 383 ± 188 mg/kg given every 
3 weeks. 
Based on published yearly doses and pursuing a conservative approach, Baxalta assumes an average 
treatment dose of 40 g per patient per month. The estimated patient exposure is calculated utilizing 
the following formula: 
The table below presents cumulative patient exposure as well as patient exposure for the reporting 
interval: 
Number of patients exposed per month =-------------------------------------------------------------- 
40 g per month X Number of months for period 
Number of grams sold per period 
SV.1.2. Exposure 
Based  on  the  above  methodology,  cumulative  global  patient  exposure  since  the  international  birth 
date  is  estimated  to  be  approximately  23,277,438 grams  corresponding  to  approximately 
5,214 patients exposed per month. Since post-marketing exposure is based on shipment data, it is 
not currently possible to break down the patient exposure by region, indication, gender, age, or other 
factors. 
Table SV.1: Cumulative Sales of HyQvia (16-MAY-2013 to 31-August-2022)* 
Units distributed (grams) 
Cumulative 
23,277,438 
Estimated number of patients exposed per month 
*Cumulative average of the estimated number of unique patients exposed during the given period of time. 
5,214 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part  II:  Module  SVI  -  Additional  EU  requirements  for  the 
safety specification 
Potential for misuse for illegal purposes 
There is no known potential for misuse of HyQvia for illegal purposes. 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II: Module SVII - Identified and potential risks 
SVII.1. Identification of safety concerns in the initial RMP submission 
SVII.1.1 Risks not considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the 
RMP 
None 
SVII.1.2. Risks considered important for inclusion in the list of safety concerns in the RMP 
Important Identified Risks 
Risk-benefit impact 
Allergic/hypersensitivity responses including 
anaphylactic reactions, especially in patients 
with IgA deficiency 
Altered immune response: 
•  Reduced efficacy of live attenuated 
virus vaccines such as measles, 
mumps, rubella, and varicella 
• 
Interference with serological testing 
after infusion of immunoglobulin 
Infusion site reactions (infusion site leaking) 
Thromboembolic events (TEEs) 
Haemolysis/Haemolytic anaemia 
True allergic reactions to HyQvia are rare, but 
can occur, especially in people with IgA 
deficiency. Although it is rare, medicines that 
contain human immunoglobulins can 
sometimes cause a fall in blood pressure with 
anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction in which 
a person stops breathing or their heart stops 
beating and is potentially fatal). This can 
happen even in patients who have previously 
received immunoglobulin treatment without 
negative side effects. 
For 6 weeks to 3 months after treatment with 
immunoglobulins, the effectiveness of live virus 
vaccines can be decreased. This includes 
vaccines that prevent measles, mumps, 
German measles, and chicken pox. For the 
measles vaccine, this effect can last up to a full 
year. 
Since HyQvia is made from blood components 
of other people, it may contain various types of 
antibodies which can be passed along to the 
HyQvia patient’s blood. Some of these 
antibodies can interfere with certain types of 
blood tests which test for red blood cell 
antibodies. 
Infusion site reactions are the most common 
type of reactions seen in patients who receive 
treatment with HyQvia. 
Blood clots have occurred in patients who were 
given immunoglobulin treatment, either 
IV (infused into the vein) or SC (infused under 
the skin). Certain risk factors make it more 
likely for a person to develop a blood clot, 
including old age, high blood pressure, 
diabetes, heart disease, previous blood clots, 
blood clotting disorders, lack of physical 
activity, dehydration, or a thick consistency of 
the blood. 
Immunoglobulin medicines may contain 
antibodies to certain blood groups which can 
cause the red blood cells to be attacked and 
broken down by these antibodies. If too many 
red blood cells are broken down, a person can 
develop a special type of anaemia, called 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risks 
Aseptic meningitis syndrome 
Risk-benefit impact 
haemolytic anaemia. 
Aseptic meningitis syndrome has been reported 
to occur in association with IV and SC 
immunoglobulin treatment; the symptoms 
usually begin within several hours to 2 days 
following immunoglobulin treatment. 
Discontinuation of immunoglobulin treatment 
may result in remission of AMS within several 
days without sequelae. Cerebrospinal fluid 
studies are frequently positive with pleocytosis 
up to several thousand cells per mm3, 
predominantly from the granulocytic series, and 
elevated protein levels up to several hundred 
mg/dL. 
AMS may occur more frequently in association 
with high dose (2 g/kg) IV immunoglobulin 
treatment. From post-marketing data no clear 
correlation of AMS to higher doses was 
observed. Higher incidences of AMS were seen 
in women. 
Important Potential Risks 
Risk-benefit impact 
Transmissible infectious agents 
Spread of localised infection 
Renal dysfunction/failure 
Drug administration error: incorrect sequence 
of administration of products 
Since HyQvia is made from pools of human 
plasma, it is possible that it could contain 
organisms that cause infection, which can be 
passed on through the medication. Several 
preventive measures are used when making 
HyQvia in order to remove infectious 
organisms, but the possibility of this occurring 
cannot be completely ruled out. 
When a medication is injected into an area 
where an infection exists, it is possible that the 
infection could spread. 
Some people who have received 
immunoglobulins through the vein (IV) have 
experienced kidney failure. In most of these 
cases, the person had other health issues which 
could lead to kidney failure. 
The HyQvia kit contains 2 separate vials of 
medicine. In order for HyQvia to work properly, 
the recombinant human hyaluronidase must be 
given first, and the IG 10% must be given 
second. It is possible that a person could give 
the vials in the incorrect order. 
Missing Information 
Risk-benefit impact 
Limited information on safety in pregnant and 
lactating women 
The Company has conducted study 161301 
(Pregnancy Registry in US and EU) to obtain 
long-term safety data on both mother and child 
in the event of pregnancy exposure to HyQvia. 
The last patient out from the pregnancy 
registry (US and EU study 161301) was in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing Information 
Risk-benefit impact 
Limited information on safety in neonates or 
infants <2 years old and on long-term 
treatment in patients under the age of 18 years 
Limited clinical data on the potential for long-
term local and systemic reactions related to 
potential antibody development against 
rHuPH20 
December-2019. 
While the limited data from 161301 does not 
suggest a different safety profile for pregnant 
and lactating women, the low number of 
participants in the study makes it difficult to 
draw conclusions for safety in pregnant and 
lactating women. 
Given cumulative data from studies 
160603/160902 and as presented in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) 
and company core data sheet (CCDS), HyQvia 
was evaluated in 24 paediatric patients, 
including 13 patients between 4 and < 12 
years and 11 between 12 and < 18 years, who 
were treated for up to 3.3 years with an overall 
safety experience equivalent to 48.66 patient-
years. 
No appreciable differences in the 
pharmacodynamic effects or efficacy and safety 
of HyQvia were observed between paediatric 
patients and adults. 
A prospective, Phase 4, multicentre study 
(161504) in Europe conducted by the Company 
evaluated 42 paediatric subjects (age 2 to <18 
years) who had received prior immunoglobulin 
therapy. No new safety concerns were 
identified. No subject was positive (titre ≥160) 
for binding antirHuPH20 antibodies. HyQvia 
was found to be safe and tolerable among 
paediatric subjects (2 to <18 years old) with 
PIDD. 
It is unknown whether it is safe for patients 
under the age of 18 years to take HyQvia over 
a long-term period. 
Some people may produce antibodies (a special 
type of protein that acts against something in 
the body) against recombinant human 
hyaluronidase. It is unknown whether long-
term treatment with recombinant human 
hyaluronidase in HyQvia would lead to any 
infusion site reactions or body-wide side 
effects. 
SVII.2. New safety concerns and reclassification with a submission of an 
updated RMP 
In  the  Rapporteur  Request  for  Supplementary  Information,  The  Company  received  the  following 
request from Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC):   
“Following a member state comment the MAH is asked to evaluate the safety concerns in the 
summary of safety concerns based on the current criteria of important safety concerns.” 
MAH  Response:  According  to  GVP  Module  V  (Rev  2),  only  those  important  risks  requiring  further 
evaluation and characterization and/or those requiring specific RMMs should be included [maintained] 
in the RMP.  
 
 
 
 
HyQvia  was  first  authorized  in  EU  via  centralized  Procedure  on  16-May-2013.  After  reviewing  the 
available safety information, as presented in the Periodic Benefit Risk Evaluation Report (PBRER), the 
following important identified risks, important potential risks and missing information will be removed 
as these risks are well characterized or additional information is not anticipated; no safety signal has 
been  identified  in  10  years  of  post-marketing  experience;  and  these  risks  are  currently  being 
monitored via routine pharmacovigilance activities (only):  
Important identified risks:  
•  Altered immune response 
o  Reduced efficacy of live attenuated virus vaccines such as measles, mumps, rubella, and 
varicella 
o 
Interference  with  serological  testing  after  infusion  of  immunoglobulin. 
•  Haemolysis / Haemolytic anaemia. 
•  Aseptic meningitis syndrome (AMS) 
Important potential risks:  
• 
Transmissible infectious agents 
•  Spread of localised infection 
•  Renal dysfunction/failure 
The remaining risks have either Targeted Questionnaires (TQs), additional PV activities or additional 
risk minimization measures (aRMMs) in place to further characterize and/or minimize the risks.  
SVII.3. Details of important identified risks, important potential risks, and 
missing information 
SVII.3.1. Presentation of important identified risks and important potential risks 
Important Identified Risk: Allergic/hypersensitivity responses including anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients with IgA deficiency 
Potential mechanisms: 
Immune response to human immunoglobulin therapy. 
Evidence source(s) and 
strength of evidence: 
Characterisation of the 
risk: 
Medical literature, potential mechanism of action 
Frequency with 95% Confidence Interval 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in general for IV and SC 
administered immunoglobulin products. 
Seriousness/Outcomes 
Outcomes vary depending on the severity of the 
allergic/hypersensitivity response or reaction and may result in a 
serious medical condition or potentially lead to a fatal outcome. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Mild hypersensitivity reactions such as a rash may resolve without 
treatment. However, severe reactions such as anaphylaxis may require 
significant medical intervention and may very rarely lead to death. 
Background incidence/prevalence 
The incidence of anaphylaxis does not appear to vary significantly 
between countries. Rates globally range from 1-3 cases per 10,000 in 
the general population. However, hypersensitivity drug reactions 
represent approximately one-third of ADRs, which can affect 7% of the 
general population and up to 20% of hospitalised patients. 
Hypersensitivity reactions after treatment with IGIV are associated with 
symptoms that can include local inflammation as well as systemic 
reactions. Severe anaphylactic reactions can occur in any patient 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Allergic/hypersensitivity responses including anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients with IgA deficiency 
receiving IGIV; however, the risk is increased in patients with selective 
IgA deficiency who have anti-IgA antibodies in their serum. Although 
these may occur at low frequency (1:20,000 transfusions) appropriate 
monitoring of patients, especially those at high risk, is vital. An 
increased frequency of allergic manifestations in IgA deficient patients 
has been previously reported. In 2009, Aghamohammadi et al. 
reported that 19 out of 23 (83%) IgAD patients, aged 4 to 32 years, 
suffered from allergic diseases including asthma, atopic dermatitis, 
allergic rhinitis/conjunctivitis, urticaria, drug allergy, or food allergy. 
The allergic diseases most commonly associated with IgAD are rhino 
conjunctivitis, urticaria, atopic eczema and bronchial asthma. However, 
the findings are not conclusive, as some studies show no increased 
frequency of allergies in IgAD subjects and the entity of IgA-related 
anaphylactic reactions is not evidence based. 
Impact on individual patient 
The individual impact of such reactions may range from negligible to 
significant depending on the acuity and severity of the reaction. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups: 
The IG 10% component of HyQvia contains trace amounts of IgA. 
Patients with antibodies to IgA potentially have a greater risk of 
developing severe hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reactions. 
Preventability: 
One article state that SC immunoglobulin therapy is associated with a 
less than 1% risk of systemic reactions during infusion. A study of 
immediate hypersensitivity reactions in 100 healthy volunteers, 
injected intradermally with 0.1 ml of rHuPH20 solution (150 U/ml), 
showed absence of reaction in all subjects (Halozyme study R04-0851). 
If a patient has known anaphylaxis or severe hypersensitivity to human 
immune globulin, it should be noted in their medical records. 
Pre-medication with antihistamines may be used for atopic individuals 
and those with a medical history of allergic reaction. 
Patients should be informed of the early signs of 
anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity (e.g., hives, pruritus, generalised 
urticaria, tightness of the chest, wheezing, and hypotension). If a 
patient is at high risk, the product should be administered only where 
supportive care is available for life-threatening reactions. 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product: 
There is currently no impact of this risk on the risk-benefit balance of 
the product, as the pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation measures 
that are in place are considered sufficient at this time. 
Public health impact: 
None 
Important Identified Risk: Infusion site reactions (infusion site leaking) 
Potential mechanisms: 
Local  tissue  inflammation/irritation  resulting  from  leaking  of  the 
medicinal  product  through  the  skin  during  physical  infusion  of  the 
product.  Infusion  site  leaking  can  result  from  increased  SC  tissue 
pressure  caused  by  rapid  infusion,  excessive  infusion  volume,  or 
insufficient  dose  of  recombinant  human  hyaluronidase.  Other  reasons 
could include incorrect needle angle (too shallow) and needle length in 
relation to the thickness of the SC tissue layer, and the use of infusion 
sites  with  insufficient  SC  tissue  to  facilitate  SC  medicinal  product 
administration. 
Evidence source(s) and  Medical literature, clinical trials, potential mechanism of action 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Infusion site reactions (infusion site leaking) 
strength of evidence: 
Characterisation of the 
risk: 
Risk factors and risk 
groups: 
Preventability: 
Frequency with 95% Confidence Interval 
Local reactions at infusion sites: swelling, soreness, redness, 
induration, local heat, itching, bruising and rash, may frequently occur. 
Infusion site leaking can occur during or after SC administration of 
immunoglobulins, including HyQvia. 
Seriousness/Outcomes 
Local reactions associated with administration of HyQvia are relatively 
common and rarely serious. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Local reactions at the infusion site are generally mild and include 
swelling, soreness, redness, induration, local heat, local pain, itching, 
bruising, and rash. 
Background incidence/prevalence 
The incidence of infusion site and generalised skin reactions after IGSC 
administration is reported to be as high as 0.584 per infusion. 
Impact on individual patient 
Depending on severity, local reactions may result in treatment 
intolerability and discontinuation of the product. 
Local reactions are a known risk of any SC infusion. 
The occurrence of local reactions may be minimised by infusing the 
product slowly upon first administration and ensuring that the product 
is not administered to patients with known sensitivities to human 
immune globulin. Infusion site leakage (leaking) may be minimised by 
using longer needles and/or more than one infusion site. Any change of 
needle size would have to be supervised by the treating physician. 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product: 
There is currently no impact of this risk on the risk-benefit balance of 
the product, as the pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation measures 
that are in place are considered sufficient at this time. 
Public health impact: 
None 
Important Identified Risk: Thromboembolic events (TEEs) 
Potential mechanisms: 
Increased viscosity is thought to be an important factor in the 
development of thromboembolic complications. 
Evidence source(s) and 
strength of evidence: 
SmPC, Company Core Safety Information (CCSI), medical literature, 
post-marketing reports. 
Characterisation of the 
risk: 
Frequency with 95% Confidence Interval 
Unknown; TEEs have been observed with IG 10% administered IV and 
SC and cannot be excluded with use of HyQvia. 
Seriousness/Outcomes 
The outcome and seriousness of TEEs can vary widely. Deep venous 
thromboses may resolve spontaneously with little sequelae, while 
stroke and MI may result in significant disability or death. 
Severity and nature of risk 
May potentially result in a serious medical condition or fatal outcome. 
Background incidence/prevalence 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Thromboembolic events (TEEs) 
The literature indicates that the presence of any single cardiovascular 
condition does not confer a significant risk of stroke or MI during IGIV 
infusion, but the risk for TEEs increases as the number of 
cardiovascular risk factors increase. The odds of sustaining a TEE 
within 2 weeks of IGIV treatment were reported to be ten-fold higher 
when 4 or more cardiovascular risk factors are present. Previous 
reports examining TEEs associated with IGIV treatment have proposed 
risk factors including age, cardiovascular risk factors, and first-time 
exposure of IGIV. The frequency of specific TEEs in the general 
European population are described below: 
MI: Coronary artery disease is the most common cause of death in the 
Western world, and most of these deaths are due to MI. Each year 
approximately 1.5 million patients experience a MI; the annual 
incidence rate is approximately 600 cases per 100,000 people. 
Stroke: In the UK, approximately 400,000 to 1 million episodes of 
stroke occur per year. 
Venous thromboembolism: Venous thromboembolism (and/or 
pulmonary embolism) is a common disorder with an annual incidence 
of 117 per 100,000 persons. 
Impact on individual patient 
In the case of severe TEEs, patients may experience disability or life-
threating/fatal outcomes requiring inpatient hospital care or long-term 
treatment. 
Patients at increased risk for thrombotic events include those with: 
•  A history of atherosclerosis. 
•  Multiple cardiovascular risk factors. 
•  Advanced age. 
• 
Impaired cardiac output. 
•  Hypercoagulable disorders. 
• 
•  Obesity. 
•  Diabetes mellitus. 
•  Acquired or inherited thrombophilic disorder. 
•  A history of vascular disease. 
•  A history of a previous thrombotic or TEE. 
Prolonged periods of immobilisation. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups: 
Preventability: 
If a patient has known risk factors or is part of a risk group for TEEs, it 
should be noted in the patient records. HyQvia should not be 
administered at the maximum allowable rate of infusion. Baseline 
assessment of viscosity should be considered for patients at risk. 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product: 
There is currently no impact of this risk on the risk-benefit balance of 
the product, as the pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation measures 
that are in place are considered sufficient at this time. 
Public health impact: 
Depending on the severity of the event, patients may require inpatient 
hospital care. 
Important  potential  risks:  Drug  administration  error: 
administration of products 
incorrect  sequence  of 
Potential mechanisms: 
If the two components of HyQvia are administered in the incorrect 
sequence (i.e., the IG 10% vial is infused prior to the administration of 
 
 
 
 
 
Important  potential  risks:  Drug  administration  error: 
administration of products 
incorrect  sequence  of 
rHuPH20), there will be a decrease in efficacy of the therapeutic 
component, IG 10%. Infusion of IG 10% by SC route without pre-
treatment with rHuPH20 is likely to result in increased infusion pump 
back pressure. 
Evidence source(s) and 
strength of evidence: 
Characterisation of the 
risk: 
Theoretical risk 
Frequency with 95% Confidence Interval 
Unknown. 
Seriousness/Outcomes 
Non-serious local infusion site reactions would be expected if the vial of 
IG 10% were administered before the vial of rHuPH20. 
Severity and nature of risk 
Although the immediate impact of the medication error would likely be 
mild in severity (e.g., localised infusion site reaction), there is a 
potential for longer term effects if the product is repeatedly 
administered incorrectly, resulting in insufficient IgG replacement 
therapy. Infusion of IG 10% by SC route without pre-treatment with 
rHuPH20 is likely to result in increased local induration and increased 
infusion pump back pressure (possibly resulting in high pressure alarm 
activation). High infusion pump pressure may be associated with 
erythema and vasovagal reactions. 
Background incidence/prevalence 
Medication administration errors represent one of the major concerns 
in patient safety. However, previous studies of medication 
administration errors focus on errors that occur in the inpatient setting, 
with major focus on those errors that are the result of healthcare 
professionals (HCP). This is understandable, due to the fact that it is 
very difficult to obtain the frequency of outpatient and self-
administration errors. These types of events are often only captured if 
the patient is ultimately hospitalised, and even in those instances, it is 
not recorded as an administration error. Therefore, the exact incidence 
and prevalence of self-administration medication errors is not known at 
this time. 
Impact on individual patient 
Misadministration may result in decreased efficacy of the therapeutic 
IG component of the product. 
All patients who receive HyQvia therapy are potentially at risk for 
medication error. However, patients who participate in home 
administration are at greater risk compared to those who receive 
therapy under the supervision of an HCP. 
Instructions in the SmPC and PIL clearly state the correct order of 
administration and function of each component of the vial combo. The 
product labels clearly state that the vial of rHuPH20 is to be infused 
first and the vial of IG 10% is to be infused second. Additionally, all 
therapies are to be initiated under the supervision of an HCP. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups: 
Preventability: 
Impact on the risk-
benefit balance of the 
product: 
There is currently no impact of this risk on the risk-benefit balance of 
the product, as the pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation measures 
that are in place are considered sufficient at this time. 
Public health impact: 
None 
SVII.3.2. Presentation of the missing information 
Missing information: Limited information on safety in pregnant and lactating women 
Evidence source: 
While the limited data from 161301 does not suggest a different safety 
profile for pregnant and lactating women, the low number of 
participants in the study makes it difficult to draw conclusions for 
safety in pregnant and lactating women. 
Population in need of further characterisation: 
Use in pregnant or breast-feeding women. The Company has 
conducted study 161301 (Pregnancy Registry in US and EU) to obtain 
long-term safety data on both mother and child in the event of 
pregnancy exposure to HyQvia. The last patient out from the 
pregnancy registry (US and EU study 161301) was in December-2019. 
Though small in sample size (9 mothers [4 mothers before delivery and 
5 mothers after delivery], 7 in the HyQvia arm and two in the 
alternative product arm. Four mothers were tested for anti-rHuPH20 
binding or neutralizing antibodies and no antibodies were detected). 
Missing information: Limited information on safety in neonates or infants <2 years old 
and on long-term treatment in patients under the age of 18 years 
Evidence source:  
The safety of drug in neonates or infants <2 years old and on 
long-term treatment in patients under the age of 18 years has been 
identified as missing information because limited data about the use of 
HyQvia in neonates or infants <2 years old and on long-term treatment 
in patients under the age of 18 years is available from the clinical trial 
development program. Given cumulative data from studies 
160603/160902 and as presented in the SmPC and CCDS, HyQvia was 
evaluated in 24 paediatric patients, including 13 patients between 4 
and <12 years and 11 between 12 and < 18 years, who were treated 
for up to 3.3 years with an overall safety experience equivalent to 
48.66 patient-years. 
No appreciable differences in the pharmacodynamic effects or efficacy 
and safety of HyQvia were observed between paediatric patients and 
adults. 
A prospective, Phase 4, multicentre study (161504) in Europe 
conducted by the Company evaluated 42 paediatric subjects (age 2 to 
<18 years) who had received prior immunoglobulin therapy. No new 
safety concerns were identified. No subject was positive (titer ≥160) 
for binding antirHuPH20 antibodies. HyQvia was found to be safe and 
tolerable among paediatric subjects (2 to <18 years old) with PIDD 
Population in need of further characterisation: 
Use in neonates or infants <2 years old. Further characterisation on 
the effect of prolonged use in patients under the age of 18 years. 
Missing  information:  Limited  clinical  data  on  the  potential  for  long-term  local  and 
systemic reactions related to potential antibody development against rHuPH20 
Evidence source:  
It  is  unknown  whether  long-term  treatment  with  recombinant  human 
hyaluronidase  in  HyQvia  would  lead  to  any  infusion  site  reactions  or 
body-wide side effects. 
Population in need of further characterisation: 
Long terms use of HyQvia in patient to determine the local and systemic 
reactions related to potential antibody development against rHuPH20. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part II: Module SVIII - Summary of the safety concerns 
Table SVIII.1: Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Allergic/hypersensitivity responses including anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients with IgA deficiency. 
Infusion site reactions (infusion site leaking). 
Thromboembolic events (TEEs). 
Important potential risks 
Drug administration error: incorrect sequence of administration of 
products. 
Missing information 
Limited information on safety in pregnant and lactating women. 
Limited information on safety in neonates or infants <2 years old 
and on long-term treatment in patients under the age of 
18 years. 
Limited clinical data on the potential for long-term local and 
systemic reactions related to potential antibody development 
against rHuPH20. 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 
post-authorisation safety studies) 
Pharmacovigilance 
III: 
Plan 
(including 
III.1. Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  beyond  adverse  reactions  reporting  and  signal 
detection: 
Expedited reporting of all TEEs. 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for infusion site reactions (infusion site 
leaking): 
Standardized  collection  of  information  via  leakage  or  site  leaking  questionnaire  to  facilitate  better 
characterisation of the risk. 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for thromboembolic events (TEEs): 
Standardized collection of information via TEE questionnaire to facilitate better characterisation of the 
risk. 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for Allergic/hypersensitivity responses 
including  anaphylactic  reactions,  especially  in  patients  with  IgA  deficiency  and  missing 
information (Limited clinical data on the influence of the type of PID on the immunogenicity 
of rHuPH20): 
Standardized  collection  of  information  via  immunological  event  questionnaire  to  facilitate  better 
characterisation of the risk. 
Other forms of routine pharmacovigilance activities: 
There are no other forms of routine pharmacovigilance activities ongoing for HyQvia. 
III.2. Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study 161406 summary 
Study short name and title: 
161406 – Non-Interventional Post- Marketing Safety Study on the Long-Term Safety of HyQvia 
(Global). 
Rationale and study objectives: 
To evaluate safety data in patients with PID. This study is a post market commitment to the FDA. 
(US only). 
Study design: 
Non-interventional, prospective, multicenter, open-label, post-authorisation registry. 
Study population: 
Adult patients (≥ 18 years) who have been prescribed treatment with HyQvia. 
Milestones: 
Study is ongoing. 
First interim analysis: after 50 subjects have been enrolled. 
Last interim analysis: not later than 6 months before last subject out (LSO). 
Final report: 23-August-2023. 
Study 161503 summary 
Study short name and title: 
161503 – Efficacy, Safety, Tolerability, Immunogenicity and Pharmacokinetic Evaluation of HyQvia 
in Paediatric Subjects with Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases. 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 161503 summary 
(US study). 
Rationale and study objectives: 
Primary Objective: Safety of HyQvia treatment in paediatric subjects with PIDD who have 
received prior IV or SC immunoglobulin therapy before enrolment into the study. 
Secondary Objective: Further safety assessments (e.g., immunogenicity), tolerability, 
characteristics of product administration, treatment preference and satisfaction, health-related 
quality of life, efficacy (immunoglobulin G2  trough levels), and PK parameters. 
Study design: 
Phase 3, open-label, prospective, non-controlled, multicentre study. 
Study population: 
Males or females of age 2 to <16 years.  
Milestones: 
Study is ongoing. 
Final report: Estimated for completion in 2023 
III.3. Summary Table of additional Pharmacovigilance activities 
Table Part III.1: Ongoing and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study 
Status  
Summary of 
objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestones  Due dates 
Category 1 - Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are conditions of 
the marketing authorisation 
None. 
Category 2 – Imposed mandatory additional pharmacovigilance activities which are Specific 
Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing authorisation or a marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances 
None. 
Category 3 - Required additional pharmacovigilance activities 
161406 – Non-
Interventional Post- 
Marketing Safety 
Study on the Long-
Term Safety of 
HyQvia (Global) 
To evaluate safety 
data in patients with 
PID. This study is a 
post market 
commitment to the 
FDA. (US only). 
Ongoing 
Limited clinical 
data on the 
potential for long-
term local and 
systemic reactions 
related to potential 
antibody 
development 
against rHuPH20. 
Protocol 
Submission 
First 
interim 
analysis 
Last interim 
analysis 
17-September-
2015 
(Amendment 
2) 
After 50 
subjects have 
been enrolled 
Not later than 
6 months 
before last 
subject out 
(LSO) 
Final report  23-August-
2023 
EMA 
Q4 2023 
2 Ochs HD, Gupta S, Kiessling P, Nicolay U, Berger M, Group SIS. Safety and efficacy of self-administered subcutaneous 
immunoglobulin in patients with primary immunodeficiency diseases. Journal of clinical immunology 2006;26(3):265-73. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Status  
Summary of 
objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Milestones  Due dates 
submission 
Final report  2023 
Limited information 
on long-term 
treatment in 
patients under the 
age of 18 years. 
Limited clinical 
data on the 
potential for long-
term local and 
systemic reactions 
related to potential 
antibody 
development 
against 
recombinant 
human 
hyaluronidase in 
the paediatric 
population. 
161503* – Efficacy, 
Safety, Tolerability, 
Immunogenicity and 
Pharmacokinetic 
Evaluation of HyQvia 
in Paediatric 
Subjects with 
Primary 
Immunodeficiency 
Diseases. 
Primary Objective: 
Safety of HyQvia 
treatment in 
paediatric subjects 
with PIDD who have 
received prior IV or 
SC immunoglobulin 
therapy before 
enrolment into the 
study. 
(US study). 
Secondary 
Objective: Further 
safety assessments 
(e.g., 
immunogenicity), 
tolerability, 
characteristics of 
product 
administration, 
treatment 
preference and 
satisfaction, 
health-related 
quality of life, 
efficacy 
(immunoglobulin G 
trough levels), and 
PK parameters. 
*This study was ongoing as of DLP of this RMP (02-September-2022), however, was completed after the DLP i.e., 
in March-2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
Part IV: Plans for post-authorisation efficacy studies 
Not applicable.
Part V: Risk minimisation measures (including evaluation of 
the effectiveness of risk minimisation activities) 
Risk Minimisation Plan 
V.1. Routine Risk Minimisation Measures 
Table Part V.1: Description of routine risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation activities  
Important identified 
risks: 
Allergic/hypersensitivity 
responses including 
anaphylactic reactions, 
especially in patients 
with IgA deficiency 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.3 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Package Leaflet (PL) Section 2 
PL Section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
The following recommendation provided under SmPC section 4.4 and 
PL section 4: 
To closely monitor the patients for any symptoms throughout the 
infusion period, particularly patients starting with therapy. 
Patients on self-home treatment and/or their guardian should also be 
trained to detect early signs of hypersensitivity reactions. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Important identified 
risks: Infusion site 
reactions (infusion site 
leaking) 
None proposed. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 2 
PL Section 3 
PL Section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
The following recommendation provided under SmPC section 4.4 and 
PL section 3: 
Use longer needles and/or more than one infusion site to avoid 
infusion site leakage. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Important identified 
risks: Thromboembolic 
events (TEEs) 
None proposed. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 4 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation activities  
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
The following recommendation provided under SmPC section 4.4: 
Patients should be sufficiently hydrated before use of 
immunoglobulins. Caution should be exercised in patients with 
pre-existing risk factors for thromboembolic events (such as advanced 
age, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and a history of vascular disease 
or thrombotic episodes, patients with acquired or inherited 
thrombophilic disorders, patients with prolonged periods of 
immobilisation, severely hypovolemic patients, patients with diseases 
which increase blood viscosity). Monitor for signs and symptoms of 
thrombosis and assess blood viscosity in patients at risk for 
hyperviscosity. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Important potential 
risks: Drug 
administration error - 
incorrect sequence of 
administration of 
products 
None proposed. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 2 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
PL Section 3 
PL Section 6 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
The following recommendation provided under SmPC section 4.4: 
The recommended infusion rate given in SmPC section 4.2 should be 
adhered to. Patients must be closely monitored throughout the 
infusion period, particularly patients starting with therapy. 
In case of adverse reaction, either the rate of administration must be 
reduced, or the infusion stopped. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Missing information: 
Limited information on 
safety in pregnant and 
lactating women 
None proposed. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
None. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
Missing information: 
Limited information on 
safety in neonates or 
infants <2 years old and 
on long-term treatment 
in patients under the age 
of 18 years 
None proposed. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.5 
SmPC Section 4.6 
SmPC Section 4.8 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation activities  
SmPC Section 5.1 
SmPC Section 5.2 
PL Section 2 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
None. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
None proposed. 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
None. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: 
None proposed. 
Missing information: 
Limited clinical data on 
the potential for long-
term local and systemic 
reactions related to 
potential antibody 
development against 
rHuPH20 
V.2. Additional Risk Minimisation Measures 
Educational materials are proposed as an additional risk minimisation measure. 
Objectives 
Rationale for the 
additional risk 
minimisation activity 
Target audience and 
planned distribution path 
To educate prescribers and users on the correct administration 
procedure of HyQvia and ensure they are well informed and able to 
use HyQvia according to the guidance provided in the SmPC and 
thereby mitigating the risk of Drug administration error. 
The PRAC requested the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) to 
propose educational materials. The focus of the educational materials 
would be to ensure that the sequence of administration of HyQvia and 
its excipient human recombinant hyaluronidase is appropriate and as 
per the SmPC. 
The educational materials are aimed at ensuring the appropriate 
sequence of administration of HyQvia and its excipients, to mitigate 
the risk of drug administration error in patients who participate in 
home administration. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where HyQvia is 
marketed, all health care professionals and patients who are expected 
to use HyQvia have access to/are provided with the following 
educational material: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient information pack 
Physician educational material:  
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Guide for healthcare professionals (HCP) 
Guide for Healthcare Professionals (HCPs):  
o 
Information on HyQvia, including the approved indication 
according to the SmPC. 
o  Detailed description of the administration procedures for 
infusing HyQvia with a syringe driver pump and with a 
 
 
 
 
peristaltic infusion pump with counseling points to 
emphasize with the patient at each process step.  
- 
- 
- 
Proper preparation and administration of 
HyQvia (i.e., infusion of the recombinant 
human hyaluronidase vial (HY) before the 
human normal immunoglobulin 10% vial 
(IG)). 
Following aseptic technique. 
Identification of early signs and symptoms of 
potential adverse events (e.g., local infusion 
site reactions, allergic-type hypersensitivity 
reactions) and measures to be taken in case 
reactions occur, including when to contact the 
HCP. 
o  Patients and/or their caregivers will be asked to 
demonstrate to the HCP trainer that they can successfully 
administer HyQvia. Proper technique should be reviewed 
at regular intervals. 
o  The importance of reporting adverse reactions such as 
infusion-related reactions and allergic-type 
hypersensitivity reactions.  
The patient information pack:  
Patient information leaflet  
• 
•  A patient/carer guide 
•  A patient diary 
•  Patient/carer guide:  
o  A detailed, step-by-step description of the correct 
preparation and administration technique for infusing 
HyQvia.  
o  Detailed description for the self-administration, infusion of 
HyQvia with a syringe driver pump and with a peristaltic 
infusion pump.  
o  A description of the potential risks(s) associated with the 
use of HyQvia namely: local infusion site reactions and 
allergic-type hypersensitivity reactions (signs and 
symptoms). 
o  Recommendations for managing possible adverse events 
associated with HyQvia treatment as well as when to 
contact the HCP. 
o 
Importance of reporting adverse events along with 
instructions on how to report.   
o  Website feature allows for clickable animations to guide 
patients through administration sequence. 
•  Patient diary:  
o  An infusion log will be provided to document the time, 
date, dose, infusion-site location, and any reactions the 
patient experiences.  
o  The infusion log will also include a description of 
precaution(s) needed to minimise the potential adverse 
events associated with the use of HyQvia.  
o  The infusion log will help facilitate regular monitoring of 
the patient´s health status and facilitate discussions with 
the HCP. 
 
 
 
 
Plans to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the 
interventions and criteria 
for success 
Given the nature of the error, effectiveness will be measured via a 
detailed review of post marketing data included in the next PBRER (Q2 
2025). 
V.3. Summary of risk minimisation measures 
Table Part V.3:  Summary  table  of  pharmacovigilance  activities  and  risk  minimisation 
activities by safety concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Important identified 
risks: 
Allergic/hypersensitivity 
responses including 
anaphylactic reactions, 
especially in patients with 
IgA deficiency 
Important identified 
risks: Infusion site 
reactions (infusion site 
leaking) 
Important identified 
risks: Thromboembolic 
events (TEEs) 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 4.3 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL 
section 4 where advice given to 
train the patients to detect early 
signs of hypersensitivity 
reactions and monitor the 
patients throughout the infusion 
period. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None. 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 2 
PL Section 4 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL 
section 3 contains advice to use 
longer needles and/or more 
than one infusion site to avoid 
infusion site leakage. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None. 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice 
is given to monitor the patient 
for signs and symptoms of 
thrombosis and assess blood 
viscosity in patients at risk for 
hyperviscosity and patients 
should be sufficiently hydrated 
before use of immunoglobulins. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
Immunological Event 
Questionnaire. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
Leakage or site leaking 
questionnaire. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
Expedited reporting of all TEEs. 
TEE questionnaire. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Important potential risks: 
Drug administration error 
- incorrect sequence of 
administration of 
products 
Missing information: 
Limited information on 
safety in pregnant and 
lactating women 
Missing information: 
Limited information on 
safety in neonates or 
infants <2 years old and 
on long-term treatment 
in patients under the age 
of 18 years 
PL Section 4 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None. 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 2 
SmPC Section 4.2 contains the 
recommended infusion rate. 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice 
is given on monitoring and 
management of adverse 
reaction. 
PL Section 3 
PL Section 6 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
Educational materials  
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL 
Section 2 where fertility, 
pregnancy and lactation are 
discussed. 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None. 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.5 
SmPC Section 4.6 
SmPC Section 4.8 
SmPC Section 5.1 
SmPC Section 5.2 
PL Section 2 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Study 161503 (Category 3) 
Missing information: 
Limited clinical data on 
the potential for long-
term local and systemic 
reactions related to 
potential antibody 
development against 
rHuPH20 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None. 
Routine risk minimisation 
measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal 
detection: 
Immunological Event 
Questionnaire. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Study 161406 (Category 3) 
Study 161503 (Category 3) 
Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of RMP for HyQvia (Human Normal Immunoglobulin) 
This is a summary of the RMP for HyQvia. The RMP details important risks of HyQvia, and how more 
information will be obtained about HyQvia's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
HyQvia's SmPC and its PL give essential information to HCP and patients on how HyQvia should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for HyQvia should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of HyQvia's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
HyQvia is authorised as: 
Replacement therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0-18 years) in: 
•
•
Primary immunodeficiency (PID) syndromes with impaired antibody production
Secondary  immunodeficiencies  (SID)  in  patients  who  suffer  from  severe  or  recurrent
infections,  ineffective  antimicrobial  treatment  and  either  proven  specific  antibody  failure
(PSAF)* or serum IgG level of <4 g/L.
*PSAF = failure to mount at least a 2-fold rise in IgG antibody titre to pneumococcal polysaccharide
and polypeptide antigen vaccines.
Immunomodulatory therapy in adults, children and adolescents (0 to 18 years) in: 
•
Chronic  inflammatory  demyelinating  polyneuropathy  (CIDP)  as  maintenance  therapy  after
stabilization with IVIg.
Kindly  refer  SmPC  for  the  full  indication.  It  contains  human  normal  immunoglobulin  as  the  active 
substance, and it is given by SC route. 
Further information about the evaluation of HyQvia’s benefits can be found in HyQvia’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the 
medicine’s webpage:  
https:/www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/hyqvia-epar-summary-public_en.pdf 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks
Important risks of HyQvia, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about HyQvia's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and
SmPC addressed to patients and HCP;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly;
• 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of HyQvia is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of HyQvia are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of HyQvia. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.,  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Allergic/hypersensitivity responses including anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients with IgA deficiency. 
Infusion site reactions (infusion site leaking). 
Thromboembolic events (TEEs). 
Important potential risks 
Drug administration error: incorrect sequence of administration of 
products. 
Missing information 
Limited information on safety in pregnant and lactating women. 
Limited information on safety in neonates or infants <2 years old 
and on long-term treatment in patients under the age of 
18 years. 
Limited clinical data on the potential for long-term local and 
systemic reactions related to potential antibody development 
against rHuPH20. 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important  identified  risk:  Allergic/hypersensitivity  responses  including  anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients with IgA deficiency 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Medical literature, potential mechanism of action. 
The IG 10% component of HyQvia contains trace amounts of IgA. 
Patients with antibodies to IgA potentially have a greater risk of 
developing severe hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reactions. 
One article state that SC immunoglobulin therapy is associated 
with a less than 1% risk of systemic reactions during infusion.A 
study of immediate hypersensitivity reactions in 100 healthy 
volunteers, injected intradermally with 0.1 ml of rHuPH20 
solution (150 U/ml), showed absence of reaction in all subjects 
(Halozyme Study R04-0851). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.3 
 
 
 
 
Important  identified  risk:  Allergic/hypersensitivity  responses  including  anaphylactic 
reactions, especially in patients with IgA deficiency 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL section 4 where advice given to train 
the patients to detect early signs of hypersensitivity reactions 
and monitored the patients throughout the infusion period. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None. 
None 
Important Identified Risk: Infusion site reactions (infusion site leaking) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Medical literature, clinical trials, potential mechanism of action 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Local reactions are a known risk of any SC infusion. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 2 
PL Section 4 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL section 3 contains advice to use longer 
needles and/or more than one infusion site to avoid infusion site 
leakage. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None. 
None 
Important Identified Risk: Thromboembolic events (TEEs) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
SmPC, CCSI, medical literature, post-marketing reports 
Patients at increased risk for thrombotic events include those 
with: 
•  A history of atherosclerosis. 
•  Multiple cardiovascular risk factors. 
•  Advanced age. 
• 
Impaired cardiac output. 
•  Hypercoagulable disorders. 
• 
•  Obesity. 
•  Diabetes mellitus. 
•  Acquired or inherited thrombophilic disorder. 
•  A history of vascular disease. 
•  A history of a previous thrombotic or TEE. 
Prolonged periods of immobilisation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice is given to monitor the patient 
for signs and symptoms of thrombosis and assess blood viscosity 
in patients at risk for hyperviscosity and patients should be 
sufficiently hydrated before use of immunoglobulins. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None. 
None 
Important potential risks: Drug administration error: incorrect sequence of 
administration of products 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Theoretical risk 
All patients who receive HyQvia therapy are potentially at risk for 
medication error. However, patients who participate in home 
administration are at greater risk compared to those who receive 
therapy under the supervision of an HCP. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 2 
SmPC Section 4.2 contains the recommended infusion rate. 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice is given on monitoring and 
management of adverse reaction. 
PL Section 3 
PL Section 6 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Missing information: Limited information on safety in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2 where fertility, pregnancy 
and lactation are discussed. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None. 
None. 
Missing information: Limited information on safety in neonates or infants <2 years old 
and on long-term treatment in patients under the age of 18 years 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.2 
SmPC Section 4.4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Limited information on safety in neonates or infants <2 years old 
and on long-term treatment in patients under the age of 18 years 
SmPC Section 4.5 
SmPC Section 4.6 
SmPC Section 4.8 
SmPC Section 5.1 
SmPC Section 5.2 
PL Section 2 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Study 161503 (Category 3) 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
Missing  information:  Limited  clinical  data  on  the  potential  for  long-term  local  and 
systemic reactions related to potential antibody development against rHuPH20 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 
SmPC Section 4.8 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Study 161406 (Category 3) 
Study 161503 (Category 3) 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
No studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study 161406 
Purpose  of  the  study:  To  evaluate  safety  data  in  patients  with  PID.  This  study  is  a  post  market 
commitment to the FDA (US only). 
Study 1615033 
Purpose of the study: 
To evaluate safety of HyQvia treatment in paediatric subjects with PIDD who have received prior IV 
or SC immunoglobulin therapy before enrolment into the study. 
Further  safety  assessments  (e.g., 
immunogenicity),  tolerability,  characteristics  of  product 
administration,  treatment  preference  and  satisfaction,  health-related  quality  of  life,  efficacy 
(immunoglobulin G trough levels), and PK parameters. 
3 This study was ongoing as of DLP of this RMP (02-September-2022), however, was completed after the DLP i.e., 
in March-2023. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part VII: Annexes 
Table of Contents 
Annex 4: Specific Adverse Drug Reaction Follow-Up Forms 
Annex 6: Details of Proposed Additional Risk Minimisation Activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4: Specific adverse drug reaction follow-up forms 
Annex 4.1 : The TEE Questionnaire 
Annex 4.2: Immunological Event Questionnaire 
Annex 4.3: Leakage or Site Leaking Questionnaire 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex 4.1: The TEE Questionnaire 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
1.  PATIENT INFORMATION 
Patient initials:           
Date of Birth (ddmmmyyyy)            or Age:            
Gender:  Male  Female  Unknown 
Race: Select One  If Other, please specify:           
2.  HYQVIA USE 
Send completed questionnaire by email to Takeda 
at: _______________________ 
Weight:             
Height:              
Waist circumference:           
kg    
cm   
lb 
in 
Indication for Use:            
Date of first Dose (ddmmmyyyy):                Date of Latest Dose (ddmmmyyyy):            
Lot number(s) prior to the event onset:           
Dose (mg/kg) / Infusion Rate (mL/hr):                        Frequency:            
3.  THROMBOEMBOLIC ADVERSE EVENT DESCRIPTION 
(Diagnosis, if available: otherwise, list signs and symptoms) 
Time of first symptom of thromboembolic event relative to the infusion:            
Outcome:  Unknown 
4.  POSSIBLE RISK FACTORS 
Cardiac and Vascular Disorders: (Check all that apply) 
Atherosclerosis 
Angina pectoris 
Previous Angioplasty 
Cardiac Stress Test abnormal 
Impaired cardiac output 
Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) 
PVD with claudication 
Unilateral limb swelling 
Hypertension 
Other Cardiac or vascular disorder 
 Specify:            
Previous Thromboembolic Episodes: (Check all that apply) 
Previous Thromboembolic event 
 Specify the year of event:            
Previous Myocardial Infarction 
Previous Pulmonary Embolism 
Previous Stroke 
Previous Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) 
Previous Transient Ischemic Attack  
Other (specify):            
Malignancies, Trauma or Surgery:  (Check all that apply) 
Metastatic or active malignant disorder 
Trauma or surgery within 4 weeks 
Immobilization: (Check all that apply) 
  Please specify:            
  Please specify:            
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
General (e.g., bedridden or prolonged bed rest > 3 
days) 
Limb immobilization (e.g., cast) 
Neurologic (e.g., paralysis or paresis from brain, 
spinal cord, or neuromuscular disease or injury)  
Send completed questionnaire by email to Takeda 
at: _______________________ 
Other type of immobility 
  Please specify:            
Inflammatory Disorders: (e.g., Rheumatoid Arthritis, ANCA-associated Vasculitis, Inflammatory Bowel: (Check 
all that apply) 
Current inflammatory disorder 
  Please specify:            
Infectious Disorders: (e.g., HIV, Pneumonia, Urinary Tract Infection, etc.): (Check all that apply) 
Current infectious disorder 
  Please specify:            
Co-Medications: (Check all that apply) 
Current oral contraceptives or hormone replacement 
therapy 
  Please specify:            
Current lipid lowering therapy 
  Please specify:            
Hypercoagulable Disorders (including Paraproteins): (Check all that apply) 
Factor V Leiden 
Paraproteins 
Protein C deficiency 
Elevated plasma homocysteine levels 
Antiphospholipid antibodies 
Antithrombin deficiency 
Protein S deficiency 
Other inherited hypercoagulable condition 
  Please specify:            
Other Risk Factors: (Check all that apply)   
Current Smoker 
Hyperthyroidism 
Hyperlipidemia 
In-dwelling venous catheter  
Other risk factors (please specify):           
5.  MEDICAL HISTORY / CONCOMITANT DISEASES 
Please specify any other medical history, concomitant disease and concurrent medication below. 
Diagnosis 
State Date 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
Stop Date 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
Check if Ongoing? 
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
  
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
CONCOMITANT MEDICATIONS 
Send completed questionnaire by email to Takeda 
at: _______________________ 
Indication 
Start Date 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
Stop Date 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
 Check if 
Ongoing? 
Trade / Generic 
Name 
Dose / Frequency/ 
Route of 
Administration 
Dose:               
Route:                 
Freq:                
Dose:               
Route:              
Freq:                
Dose:               
Route:              
Freq:                
Dose:               
Route:              
Freq:                
Dose:               
Route:              
Freq:                
Dose:               
Route:              
Freq:                
6.  ADDITIONAL COMMENTS 
Printed Name:            
Today’s Date:            
QUESTIONNAIRE 
COMPLETED BY 
Signature:  
Address:            
Contact Number:            
Email:            
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
 
 
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
 
Annex 4.2: Immunological Event Questionnaire 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
1.  PATIENT INFORMATION 
Patient initials: 
Send completed questionnaire by email to 
Takeda at: _______________________ 
Date of Birth or Age  Date (ddmmmyyyy):            Or  Age:            
Gender: 
Race: 
Male   Female   Unknown 
Select One  If Other, please specify:            
2.  HYQVIA USE  
Indication for Use (type of PID):  
CVID                                           
IgG subclass deficiency                  
Wiskott Aldrich Syndrome               
Antibody deficiency 
Other PID  If Other, please specify:            
Immunomodulation, specify disease indication:            
Hyper IgM Syndrome 
X-linked agammaglobulinaemia 
Severe Combined Immune Deficiency 
Date of first Dose 
(ddmmmyyyy ): 
Lot number(s) prior to the event onset:  
Date of Latest 
Dose (ddmmmyyyy): 
Dose / Infusion Rate: 
Frequency: 
3.  ADVERSE EVENT DESCRIPTION 
(Diagnosis, if not available: signs and symptoms) 
Primary Adverse Event 
Treatment with HyQvia was continued after Adverse Event remission 
Treatment with HyQvia was interrupted due to the following Adverse Event(s)            
Signs and Symptoms  
Presence of any of the following signs and symptoms (individually or in combination) raises the 
possibility of an immune mediated reaction. 
Please check all of the below signs and symptoms observed: 
Local Reactions 
Redness                               
Itching                                  
Urticaria                              
Induration 
Systemic Reactions 
Blistering of the Skin 
Thickening or Scaling of the Skin 
Persistent Nodules at site(s) 
Urticaria                                Generalized Itching (esp. groin or axillae) 
Tightness in Throat                
Hoarseness 
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
   
 
 
 
 
 
           
           
           
           
            
           
 
 
 
 
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
Send completed questionnaire by email to 
Takeda at: _______________________ 
Swelling in Mouth                   
Chest Tightness                     Wheezing 
Fall in Blood Pressure             
Cyanosis                              
Fainting/Loss of Consciousness 
Cold Clammy Skin 
Itching in mouth or throat 
   Nausea                                 Myalgia 
No    
  Yes     Results (esp eosinophilia):             
No     Yes     CH50:             C3:           C4:           
No     Yes  
4.  LABORATORY TESTS  
CBC:                                
Complement:                     
Immune Complexes:           
      PolyEthylene Glycol precipitation-complement consumption assay (PEG):           
       Human lymphoblastoid cell line (Raji) radioimmune assay:           
No  
Tryptase:                           
No  
Histamine Levels:                
No  
Biopsy:                              
No  
Anti-rHuPH20 antibody titer: 
 Yes   Results:           
 Yes   Results:           
 Yes   Results:           
Yes    Results:             Date (ddmmmyyyy):             
5.  TIMELINES and Treatment                                                    
No  
ER visit?         
Did the patient require: 
Hospitalization?  No  
Yes 
Yes            How long?            
Was Treatment Given? 
Antihistamines 
Steroids 
Epinephrine 
Oxygen 
No  
No  
No  
No  
No  
Yes   
Yes   
Yes   
Yes   
Yes 
IV    Oral  
IV    Oral  
IV    Oral  
IM 
Topical 
IM 
When did symptoms begin in relation to infusion: 
Outcome: Select One  
Comment:           
6.  MEDICAL HISTORY / CONCOMITANT DISEASES 
Diagnosis 
State Date 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
Stop Date 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
Check if 
ongoing 
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
   
 
 
 
 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
 
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
7.  ADDITIONAL COMMENTS 
Send completed questionnaire by email to 
Takeda at: _______________________ 
Printed Name:             
Today’s Date:            
QUESTIONNAIRE 
COMPLETED BY 
Signature: 
Address:            
Contact Number:            
Email:            
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
   
 
 
 
 
           
           
           
 
           
 
 
Annex 4.3: Leakage or Site Leaking Questionnaire 
 
 
 
 
 
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
Only to be completed by Takeda staff   
Email Address:            
Patient ID:            
Suspect Product(s):            
1.  CALL DEMOGRAPHICS  
Send completed questionnaire by email to Takeda at: 
____________________ 
Country:            
Date of Birth (ddmmmyyyy):            
Reporter Name   
Date of report (ddmmmyyyy) 
Date of Event (ddmmmyyyy) 
 HCP  or   Consumer 
If HCP, indicate profession:            
2.  PATIENT DEMOGRAPHICS  
Patient Initials 
Date of birth 
(ddmmmyyyy) 
Weight (kg/lb) 
Height (ft / Inches /cm) 
           kg
 lb
           ft
  in
 cm  
3.  PRESCRIBING / ADMINISTRATION DEMOGRAPHICS 
Ordering HCP / Contact Info:  Nurse Agency / Contact Info: 
Site of Infusion: 
Who Administered: 
4.  DOSING INFORMATION 
HyQvia Lot #: 
Indicate how many previous infusions were 
completed without extravasation/leakage? 
Dose ordered 
(grams): 
5.  NEEDLE DEMOGRAPHICS 
 Select One 
If Other, specify:            
Select One 
If Other, specify:            
Infusion# for 
Patient: 
 Check if treatment with 
HyQvia new to patient   
Dose Frequency 
Planned Every: 
2 weeks  
4 weeks Other:            
 3 weeks 
Needle Length:  
Needle Gauge: 
Needle Brand: 
Needle Set Type: 
 Select One 
If Other, specify:            
 24 Gauge 
 Other, specify:            
 HigHFlow (RMS)   
 FlowEase (Baxter)   
Other, specify:            
 Single  Bifurcated 
Other, specify:            
6.  PUMP DEMOGRAPHICS 
Pump Type 
Pump Brand / Manufacturer  Occlusion Pressure 
Syringe Driver   Peristatic 
7.  EVENT DESCRIPTION 
Was the needle set leaking? 
Was the needle set broken? 
Was the administration site leaking? 
What is the Occlusion Pressure set at? 
(PSI/mmHg):            
Yes   No   Unknown 
Yes   No   Unknown 
Yes   No   Unknown 
Was all the Recombinant Human Hyaluronidase (HY) that came 
Yes   No   Unknown 
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
           
           
           
           
 
            
           
           
           
           
           
           
Case ID:            
Patient/Study ID:            
Send completed questionnaire by email to Takeda at: 
____________________ 
with each vial of IG infused prior to the IG? 
If no, how much was infused?           mL 
How long after the HY was infused did the IG infusion start (in 
minutes)? 
Minutes            
Did leaking occur during infusion or after? 
During  
 After 
If leaking started after completion of infusion? 
 Immediately post infusion as soon as dressing came off 
 Well after completion of infusion 
How long did leaking continue? 
Minutes:            Hours:            Days:           
At what infusion rate did the leaking occur? 
          ml/hr/site 
How much was infused at the time leaking 
started? 
          mL or           grams 
What was the total intended dose to be infused? 
          mL  or           grams 
If using a bifurcated set, were both sites leaking? 
Yes   No   Unknown  Comments:            
Did the needle move or dislodge during infusion? 
Were the butterfly wings lying flat on the skin 
during infusion? 
Yes   No   Unknown 
Yes   No   Unknown 
Did the dressing come loose during the infusion? 
Yes   No   Unknown 
8.  ADDITIONAL COMMENTS 
Printed Name:            
Today’s Date:            
QUESTIONNAIRE 
COMPLETED BY 
Signature: 
Address:            
Contact Number:            
Email:            
Printed or downloaded documents must be verified against the effective version. 
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Do not distribute outside of Takeda without Quality approval or a confidentiality agreement 
 
 
 
 
           
 
Annex 6: Details of proposed additional risk minimisation activities 
Prior to the launch (where applicable) or use of HyQvia in each Member State the MAH must agree 
about  the  content  and  format  of  the  programme,  including  communication  media,  distribution 
modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority.  
The  educational  materials  are  aimed  at  ensuring  the  appropriate  sequence  of  administration  of 
HyQvia  and  its  excipients,  to  mitigate  the  risk  of  drug  administration  error  in  patients  who 
participate in home administration. 
The  MAH  shall  ensure  that  in  each  Member  State  where  HyQvia  is  marketed,  all  health  care 
professionals and patients who are expected to use HyQvia have access to/are provided with the 
following educational material: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient information pack 
Physician educational material:  
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Guide for healthcare professionals (HCP) 
Guide for Healthcare Professionals (HCPs):  
Information on HyQvia, including the approved indication according to the SmPC 
o 
o  Detailed  description  of  the  administration  procedures  for  infusing  HyQvia  with  a 
syringe  driver  pump  and  with  a  peristaltic  infusion  pump  with  counseling  points  to 
emphasize with the patient at each process step  
- 
- 
- 
Proper  preparation  and  administration  of  HyQvia  (i.e.,  infusion  of  the 
recombinant  human  hyaluronidase  vial  (HY)  before  the  human  normal 
immunoglobulin 10% vial (IG)) 
Following aseptic technique 
Identification  of  early  signs  and  symptoms  of  potential  adverse  events 
(e.g., local infusion site reactions, allergic-type hypersensitivity reactions) 
and  measures  to  be  taken  in  case  reactions  occur,  including  when  to 
contact the HCP 
o  Patients and/or their caregivers will be asked to demonstrate to the HCP trainer that 
they  can  successfully  administer  HyQvia.  Proper  technique  should  be  reviewed  at 
regular intervals. 
o  The importance of reporting adverse reactions such as infusion-related reactions and 
allergic-type hypersensitivity reactions  
The patient information pack:  
• 
Patient information leaflet  
•  A patient/carer guide 
•  A patient diary 
•  Patient/carer guide:  
o  A  detailed,  step-by-step  description  of  the  correct  preparation  and  administration 
technique for infusing HyQvia  
o  Detailed description for the self-administration, infusion of HyQvia with a syringe driver 
pump and with a peristaltic infusion pump  
o  A description of the potential risks(s) associated with the use of HyQvia namely: local 
infusion  site  reactions  and  allergic-type  hypersensitivity  reactions  (signs  and 
symptoms) 
o  Recommendations  for  managing  possible  adverse  events  associated  with  HyQvia 
treatment as well as when to contact the HCP 
o 
Importance of reporting adverse events along with instructions on how to report   
 
 
o  Website 
feature  allows 
administration sequence. 
•  Patient diary:  
for  clickable  animations  to  guide  patients  through 
o  An  infusion  log  will  be  provided  to  document  the  time,  date,  dose,  infusion-site 
location, and any reactions the patient experiences  
o  The infusion log will also include a description of precaution(s) needed to minimise the 
potential adverse events associated with the use of HyQvia  
o  The infusion log will help  facilitate regular monitoring of the patient´s health status 
and facilitate discussions with the HCP. 
 
 
 
