ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ibandronic acid Sandoz 50 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg of ibandronic acid (as ibandronate sodium monohydrate). 
Excipient with known effect
Each film-coated tablet contains 0.86 mg lactose (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablets.
White round biconvex tablets
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Ibandronic acid Sandoz is indicated in adults for the prevention of skeletal events (pathological 
fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy or surgery) in patients with breast cancer and 
bone metastases.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Ibandronic acid Sandoz therapy should only be initiated by physicians experienced in the treatment of 
cancer.
Posology
The recommended dose is one 50 mg film-coated tablet daily.
Special populations
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2).
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr ≥50 and <80 mL/min).
For patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr ≥30 and <50 mL/min) a dosage adjustment to one 
50 mg film-coated tablet every second day is recommended (see section 5.2).
For patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) the recommended dose is one 50 mg 
film-coated tablet once weekly. See dosing instructions, above.
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of ibandronic acid in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years have 
not been established. No data are available (see section 5.1 and 5.2).
2
Method of administration
For oral use.
Ibandronic acid Sandoz tablets should be taken after an overnight fast (at least 6 hours) and before the 
first food or drink of the day. Medicinal products and supplements (including calcium) should 
similarly be avoided prior to taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz tablets. Fasting should be continued for at 
least 30 minutes after taking the tablet. Water may be taken at any time during the course of 
Ibandronic acid Sandoz treatment (see section 4.5). Water with a high concentration of calcium should 
not be used. If there is concern regarding potentially high levels of calcium in the tap water (hard 
water), it is advised to use bottled water with a low mineral content.
-
-
-
-
The tablets should be swallowed whole with a full glass of water (180 to 240 ml) while the 
patient is standing or sitting in an upright position.
Patients should not lie down for 60 minutes after taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz.
Patients should not chew, suck or crush the tablet because of a potential for oropharyngeal 
ulceration. 
Water is the only drink that should be taken with Ibandronic acid Sandoz. 
4.3 Contraindications
-
-
-
-
Abnormalities of the oesophagus which delay oesophageal emptying such as stricture or 
achalasia
Inability to stand or sit upright for at least 60 minutes
Hypocalcaemia
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Patients with disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism 
Hypocalcaemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism should be effectively treated 
before starting Ibandronic acid Sandoz therapy. Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is 
important in all patients. Patients should receive supplemental calcium and/or vitamin D if dietary 
intake is inadequate.
Gastrointestinal irritation
Orally administered bisphosphonates may cause local irritation of the upper gastrointestinal mucosa. 
Because of these possible irritant effects and a potential for worsening of the underlying disease, 
caution should be used when Ibandronic acid Sandoz is given to patients with active upper 
gastrointestinal problems (e.g. known Barrett’s oesophagus, dysphagia, other oesophageal diseases, 
gastritis, duodenitis or ulcers).
Adverse experiences such as oesophagitis, oesophageal ulcers and oesophageal erosions, in some 
cases severe and requiring hospitalization, rarely with bleeding or followed by oesophageal stricture or 
perforation, have been reported in patients receiving treatment with oral bisphosphonates. The risk of 
severe oesophageal adverse experiences appears to be greater in patients who do not comply with the 
dosing instruction and/or who continue to take oral bisphosphonates after developing symptoms 
suggestive of oesophageal irritation. Patients should pay particular attention and be able to comply 
with the dosing instructions (see section 4.2).
Physicians should be alert to any signs or symptoms signaling a possible oesophageal reaction and 
patients should be instructed to discontinue Ibandronic acid Sandoz and seek medical attention if they 
develop dysphagia, odynophagia, retrosternal pain or new or worsening heartburn.
While no increased risk was observed in controlled clinical trials there have been post-marketing 
reports of gastric and duodenal ulcers with oral bisphosphonate use, some severe and with 
complications.
3
Acetylsalicylic acid and NSAIDs
Since Acetylsalicylic acid, Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs) and 
bisphosphonates are associated with gastrointestinal irritation, caution should be taken during 
concomitant administration.
Osteonecrosis of the jaw
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported very rarely in the post marketing setting in patients 
receiving ibandronic acid for oncology indications (see section 4.8).
The start of treatment or of a new course of treatment should be delayed in patients with unhealed 
open soft tissue lesions in the mouth.
A dental examination with preventive dentistry and an individual benefit-risk assessment is 
recommended prior to treatment with Ibandronic acid Sandoz in patients with concomitant risk factors.
The following risk factors should be considered when evaluating a patient’s risk of developing ONJ:
-
Potency of the medicinal product that inhibit bone resorption (higher risk for highly potent 
compounds), route of administration (higher risk for parenteral administration) and cumulative 
dose of bone resorption therapy
Cancer, co-morbid conditions (e.g. anaemia, coagulopathies, infection), smoking
Concomitant therapies: corticosteroids, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy to 
head and neck
Poor oral hygiene, periodontal disease, poorly fitting dentures, history of dental disease, 
invasive dental procedures e.g. tooth extractions
-
-
-
All patients should be encouraged to maintain good oral hygiene, undergo routine dental check-ups, 
and immediately report any oral symptoms such as dental mobility, pain or swelling, or non-healing of 
sores or discharge during treatment with Ibandronic acid Sandoz. While on treatment, invasive dental 
procedures should be performed only after careful consideration and be avoided in close proximity to 
Ibandronic acid Sandoz administration.
The management plan of the patients who develop ONJ should be set up in close collaboration 
between the treating physician and a dentist or oral surgeon with expertise in ONJ. Temporary 
interruption of Ibandronic acid Sandoz treatment should be considered until the condition resolves and 
contributing risk factors are mitigated where possible.
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal has been reported with bisphosphonates, mainly in 
association with long-term therapy. Possible risk factors for osteonecrosis of the external auditory 
canal include steroid use and chemotherapy and/or local risk factors such as infection or trauma. The 
possibility of osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal should be considered in patients receiving 
bisphosphonates who present with ear symptoms including chronic ear infections.
Atypical fractures of the femur
Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures have been reported with bisphosphonate 
therapy, primarily in patients receiving long-term treatment for osteoporosis. These transverse or short 
oblique fractures can occur anywhere along the femur from just below the lesser trochanter to just 
above the supracondylar flare. These fractures occur after minimal or no trauma and some patients 
experience thigh or groin pain, often associated with imaging features of stress fractures, weeks to 
months before presenting with a completed femoral fracture. Fractures are often bilateral; therefore the 
contralateral femur should be examined in bisphosphonate-treated patients who have sustained a 
femoral shaft fracture. Poor healing of these fractures has also been reported. 
Discontinuation of bisphosphonate therapy in patients suspected to have an atypical femur fracture 
should be considered pending evaluation of the patient, based on an individual benefit risk assessment.
4
During bisphosphonate treatment patients should be advised to report any thigh, hip or groin pain and 
any patient presenting with such symptoms should be evaluated for an incomplete femur fracture.
Renal function
Clinical studies have not shown any evidence of deterioration in renal function with long term 
ibandronic acid therapy. Nevertheless, according to clinical assessment of the individual patient, it is 
recommended that renal function, serum calcium, phosphate and magnesium should be monitored in 
patients treated with ibandronic acid.
Patients with known hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates
Caution is to be taken in patients with known hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates.
Ibandronic acid Sandoz contains lactose and sodium
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product.
This medicinal product contains less than 1mmol (23 mg) sodium per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially sodium free.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Medicinal product-Food Interactions
Products containing calcium and other multivalent cations (such as aluminium, magnesium, iron), 
including milk and food, are likely to interfere with absorption of Ibandronic acid Sandoz tablets. 
Therefore, with such products, including food, intake must be delayed at least 30 minutes following 
oral administration.
Bioavailability was reduced by approximately 75% when ibandronic acid tablets were administered 2 
hours after a standard meal. Therefore, it is recommended that the tablets should be taken after an 
overnight fast (at least 6 hours) and fasting should continue for at least 30 minutes after the dose has 
been taken (see section 4.2).
Interactions with other medicinal products
Metabolic interactions are not considered likely, since ibandronic acid does not inhibit the major 
human hepatic P450 isoenzymes and has been shown not to induce the hepatic cytochrome P450 
system in rats (see section 5.2). Ibandronic acid is eliminated by renal excretion only and does not 
undergo any biotransformation. 
H2-antagonists or other medicinal products that increase gastric pH.
In healthy male volunteers and postmenopausal women, intravenous ranitidine caused an increase in 
ibandronic acid bioavailability of about 20% (which is within the normal variability of the 
bioavailability of ibandronic acid), probably as a result of reduced gastric acidity. However, no dosage 
adjustment is required when ibandronic acid is administered with H2-antagonists or medicinal products 
that increase gastric pH.
Acetylsalicylic acid and NSAIDs 
Since Acetylsalicylic acid, Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs) and 
bisphosphonates are associated with gastrointestinal irritation, caution should be taken during 
concomitant administration (see section 4.4). 
Aminoglycosides
Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides, since both 
substances can lower serum calcium levels for prolonged periods. Attention should also be paid to the 
possible existence of simultaneous hypomagnesaemia.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
5
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of ibandronic acid in pregnant women. Studies in rats have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Therefore, 
ibandronic acid should not be used during pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether ibandronic acid is excreted in human milk. Studies in lactating rats have 
demonstrated the presence of low levels of ibandronic acid in the milk following intravenous 
administration. Ibandronic acid should not be used during lactation.
Fertility
There are no data on the effects of ibandronic acid in humans. In reproductive studies in rats by the 
oral route, ibandronic acid decreased fertility. In studies in rats using the intravenous route, ibandronic 
acid decreased fertility at high daily doses (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
On the basis of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profile and reported adverse reactions, it is 
expected that ibandronic acid has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The most serious reported adverse reactions are anaphylactic reaction/shock, atypical fractures of the 
femur, osteonecrosis of the jaw, gastrointestinal irritation, and ocular inflammation (see paragraph 
“Description of selected adverse reactions” and section 4.4).Treatment was most frequently associated 
with a decrease in serum calcium to below normal range (hypocalcaemia), followed by dyspepsia.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Table 1 lists adverse reactions from 2 pivotal phase III studies (Prevention of skeletal events in 
patients with breast cancer and bone metastases: 286 patients treated with Ibandronic acid Sandoz 
50 mg administered orally), and from post-marketing experience. 
Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class and frequency category. 
Frequency categories are defined using the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥ 
1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
Table 1
System Organ 
Class
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Adverse Drug Reactions Reported for Oral Administration of Ibandronic acid
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not known
Anaemia
Asthma 
exacerbation
Hypersensitivity†,
bronchospasm†,
angioedema†,
Anaphylactic 
reaction/shock†**
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Hypocalcaemia**
6
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Not known
System Organ 
Class
Nervous system 
disorders
Eye disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Oesophagitis, 
abdominal pain, 
dyspepsia, nausea
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders
Ocular 
inflammation†**
Paraesthesia, 
dysgeusia 
(taste 
perversion)
Haemorrhage, 
duodenal 
ulcer, gastritis, 
dysphagia, dry 
mouth
Pruritus
Atypical 
subtrochanteric 
and diaphyseal 
femoral 
fractures† 
Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome†, 
Erythema 
Multiforme†, 
Dermatitis
Bullous†
Osteonecrosis of 
jaw†**, 
osteonecrosis of 
the external 
auditory canal 
(bisphosphonate 
class adverse 
reaction) †
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions
Investigations
Asthenia
Azotaemia 
(uraemia)
Chest pain, 
influenza-like 
illness, 
malaise, pain
Blood 
parathyroid 
hormone 
increased
**See further information below
†Identified in post-marketing experience.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hypocalcaemia
Decreased renal calcium excretion may be accompanied by a fall in serum phosphate levels not 
requiring therapeutic measures. The serum calcium level may fall to hypocalcaemic values.
Osteonecrosis of jaw
Cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw have been reported, predominantly in cancer patients treated with 
medicinal products that inhibit bone resorption, such as ibandronic acid (see section 4.4.) Cases of 
ONJ have been reported in the post marketing setting for ibandronic acid.
Ocular inflammation
Ocular inflammation events such as uveitis, episcleritis and scleritis have been reported with 
ibandronic acid. In some cases, these events did not resolve until the ibandronic acid was discontinued.
7
Anaphylactic reaction/shock
Cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated 
with intravenous ibandronic acid.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with ibandronic acid. However, 
oral overdosage may result in upper gastrointestinal events, such as upset stomach, heartburn, 
oesophagitis, gastritis or ulcer. Milk or antacids should be given to bind ibandronic acid. Due to the 
risk of oesophageal irritation, vomiting should not be induced and the patient should remain fully 
upright.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Medicinal products for treatment of bone diseases, Bisphosphonates, 
ATC Code: M05BA06.
Ibandronic acid belongs to the bisphosphonate group of compounds which act specifically on bone. 
Their selective action on bone tissue is based on the high affinity of bisphosphonates for bone mineral. 
Bisphosphonates act by inhibiting osteoclast activity, although the precise mechanism is still not clear.
In vivo, ibandronic acid prevents experimentally-induced bone destruction caused by cessation of 
gonadal function, retinoids, tumours or tumour extracts. The inhibition of endogenous bone resorption 
has also been documented by 45Ca kinetic studies and by the release of radioactive tetracycline 
previously incorporated into the skeleton.
At doses that were considerably higher than the pharmacologically effective doses, ibandronic acid did 
not have any effect on bone mineralisation.
Bone resorption due to malignant disease is characterized by excessive bone resorption that is not 
balanced with appropriate bone formation. Ibandronic acid selectively inhibits osteoclast activity, 
reducing bone resorption and thereby reducing skeletal complications of the malignant disease.
Clinical studies in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases have shown that there is a dose 
dependent inhibitory effect on bone osteolysis, expressed by markers of bone resorption, and a dose 
dependent effect on skeletal events.
Prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases with ibandronic acid 
50 mg tablets was assessed in two randomized placebo controlled phase III trials with a duration of 96 
weeks. Female patients with breast cancer and radiologically confirmed bone metastases were 
randomised to receive placebo (277 patients) or 50 mg ibandronic acid (287 patients). The results from 
these trials are summarised below.
Primary Efficacy Endpoints
The primary endpoint of the trials was the skeletal morbidity period rate (SMPR). This was a 
composite endpoint which had the following skeletal related events (SREs) as sub-components:
8
-
-
-
-
radiotherapy to bone for treatment of fractures/impending fractures
surgery to bone for treatment of fractures
vertebral fractures
non-vertebral fractures
The analysis of the SMPR was time-adjusted and considered that one or more events occurring in a 
single 12 week period could be potentially related. Multiple events were therefore, counted only once 
in any given 12 week period for the purposes of the analysis. Pooled data from these studies 
demonstrated a significant advantage for ibandronic acid 50 mg p.o. over placebo in the reduction in 
SREs measured by the SMPR (p=0.041). There was also a 38% reduction in the risk of developing an 
SRE for ibandronic acid treated patients when compared with placebo (relative risk 0.62, p=0.003). 
Efficacy results are summarised in Table 2.
Table 2
Efficacy Results (Breast Cancer Patients with Metastatic Bone Disease) 
Placebo
n=277
All Skeletal Related Events (SREs)
Ibandronic acid 
50 mg
n=287
p-value
SMPR (per patient year)
SRE relative risk
1.15
-
0.99
0.62
p=0.041
p=0.003
Secondary Efficacy Endpoints
A statistically significant improvement in bone pain score was shown for ibandronic acid 50 mg 
compared to placebo. The pain reduction was consistently below baseline throughout the entire study 
and accompanied by a significantly reduced use of analgesics compared to placebo. The deterioration 
in Quality of Life and WHO performance status was significantly less in ibandronic acid treated 
patients compared with placebo. Urinary concentrations of the bone resorption marker CTx (C-
terminal telopeptide released from Type I collagen) were significantly reduced in the ibandronic acid 
group compared to placebo. This reduction in urinary CTx levels was significantly correlated with the 
primary efficacy endpoint SMPR (Kendall-tau-b (p<0.001)). A tabular summary of the secondary 
efficacy results is presented in Table 3.
Table 3
Secondary Efficacy Results (Breast Cancer Patients with Metastatic Bone Disease)
Bone pain *
Analgesic use *
Quality of Life *
WHO performance score *
Urinary CTx **
Placebo
n=277
0.20
0.85
-26.8
0.54
10.95
Ibandronic acid 
50 mg
n=287
-0.10
0.60
-8.3
0.33
-77.32
p-value
p=0.001
p=0.019
p=0.032
p=0.008
p=0.001
* Mean change from baseline to last assessment.
** Median change from baseline to last assessment
Paediatric population (see section 4.2 and section 5.2)
The safety and efficacy of ibandronic acid in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years have 
not been established. No data are available.
9
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
The absorption of ibandronic acid in the upper gastrointestinal tract is rapid after oral administration. 
Maximum observed plasma concentrations were reached within 0.5 to 2 hours (median 1 hour) in the 
fasted state and absolute bioavailability was about 0.6%. The extent of absorption is impaired when 
taken together with food or beverages (other than water). Bioavailability is reduced by about 90% 
when ibandronic acid is administered with a standard breakfast in comparison with bioavailability 
seen in fasted subjects. When taken 30 minutes before a meal, the reduction in bioavailability is 
approximately 30%. There is no meaningful reduction in bioavailability provided ibandronic acid is 
taken 60 minutes before a meal.
Bioavailability was reduced by approximately 75% when ibandronic acid tablets were administered 2 
hours after a standard meal. Therefore, it is recommended that the tablets should be taken after an 
overnight fast (minimum 6 hours) and fasting should continue for at least 30 minutes after the dose has 
been taken (see section 4.2).
Distribution
After initial systemic exposure, ibandronic acid rapidly binds to bone or is excreted into urine. In 
humans, the apparent terminal volume of distribution is at least 90 l and the amount of dose reaching 
the bone is estimated to be 40-50% of the circulating dose. Protein binding in human plasma is 
approximately 87% at therapeutic concentrations, and thus interaction with other medicinal products 
due to displacement is unlikely.
Biotransformation
There is no evidence that ibandronic acid is metabolized in animals or humans.
Elimination
The absorbed fraction of ibandronic acid is removed from the circulation via bone absorption 
(estimated to be 40-50%) and the remainder is eliminated unchanged by the kidney. The unabsorbed 
fraction of ibandronic acid is eliminated unchanged in the faeces.
The range of observed apparent half-lives is broad and dependent on dose and assay sensitivity, but 
the apparent terminal half-life is generally in the range of 10-60 hours. However, early plasma levels 
fall quickly, reaching 10% of peak values within 3 and 8 hours after intravenous or oral administration 
respectively. 
Total clearance of ibandronic acid is low with average values in the range 84-160 ml/min. Renal 
clearance (about 60 ml/min in healthy postmenopausal females) accounts for 50-60% of total 
clearance and is related to creatinine clearance. The difference between the apparent total and renal 
clearances is considered to reflect the uptake by bone.
The secretory pathway of renal elimination does not appear to include known acidic or basic transport 
systems involved in the excretion of other active substances In addition, ibandronic acid does not 
inhibit the major human hepatic P450 isoenzymes and does not induce the hepatic cytochrome P450 
system in rats.
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Gender
Bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of ibandronic acid are similar in both men and women.
Race
There is no evidence for clinically relevant interethnic differences between Asians and Caucasians in 
ibandronic acid disposition. There are only very few data available on patients with African origin.
10
Renal impairment 
Exposure to ibandronic acid in patients with various degree of renal impairment is related to creatinine 
clearance (CLcr). Subjects with severe renal impairment (CLcr  30 mL/min) receiving oral 
administration of 10 mg ibandronic acid daily for 21 days, had 2-3 fold higher plasma concentrations 
than subjects with normal renal function (CLcr ≥80 mL/min). Total clearance of ibandronic acid was 
reduced to 44 ml/min in the subjects with severe renal impairment compared with 129 mL/min in 
subjects with normal renal function. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild renal 
impairment (CLcr ≥50 and <80 mL/min). For patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr ≥30 and 
<50 mL/min) or severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) an adjustment in the dose is 
recommended (see section 4.2).
Hepatic impairment (see section 4.2)
There are no pharmacokinetic data for ibandronic acid in patients who have hepatic impairment. The 
liver has no significant role in the clearance of ibandronic acid since it is not metabolized but is 
cleared by renal excretion and by uptake into bone. Therefore dosage adjustment is not necessary in 
patients with hepatic impairment. Further, as protein binding of ibandronic acid is approximately 87% 
at therapeutic concentrations, hypoproteinaemia in severe liver disease is unlikely to lead to clinically 
significant increases in free plasma concentration.
Elderly (see section 4.2)
In a multivariate analysis, age was not found to be an independent factor of any of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters studied. As renal function decreases with age, this is the only factor to 
take into consideration (see renal impairment section).
Paediatric population (see section 4.2 and section 5.1)
There are no data on the use of Ibandronic acid Sandoz in patients less than 18 years old.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at exposures sufficiently in excess of the maximum 
human exposure indicating little relevance to clinical use. As with other bisphosphonates, the kidney 
was identified to be the primary target organ of systemic toxicity. 
Mutagenicity/Carcinogenicity:
No indication of carcinogenic potential was observed. Tests for genotoxicity revealed no evidence of 
genetic activity for ibandronic acid.
Reproductive toxicity:
No evidence of direct foetal toxicity or teratogenic effects was observed for ibandronic acid in 
intravenously or orally treated rats and rabbits. In reproductive studies in rats by the oral route effects on 
fertility consisted of increased preimplantation losses at dose levels of 1 mg/kg/day and higher. In 
reproductive studies in rats by the intravenous route, ibandronic acid decreased sperm counts at doses of 
0.3 and 1 mg/kg/day and decreased fertility in males at 1 mg/kg/day and in females at 1.2 mg/kg/day. 
Adverse effects of ibandronic acid in reproductive toxicity studies in the rat were those expected for this 
class of medicinal products (bisphosphonates). They include a decreased number of implantation sites, 
interference with natural delivery (dystocia), an increase in visceral variations (renal pelvis ureter 
syndrome) and teeth abnormalities in F1 offspring in rats.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core:
Povidone
Cellulose, microcrystalline
Crospovidone
11
Maize starch pregelatinised
Glycerol dibehenate
Silica, anhydrous colloidal
Tablet coat:
Lactose monohydrate
Macrogol 4000
Hypromellose
Titanium dioxide
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Ibandronic acid Sandoz 50 mg film-coated tablets are supplied in Polyamide/Al/PVC - Aluminium foil 
blister with 3, 6, 9, 28 or 84 tablets, packaged in a cardboard box.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal 
Any  unused  medicinal  product  or  waste  material  should  be  disposed  of  in  accordance  with  local 
requirements. The release of pharmaceuticals in the environment should be minimized.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestraße 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/685/001
EU/1/11/685/002
EU/1/11/685/003
EU/1/11/685/004
EU/1/11/685/005
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 26 July 2011
Date of latest renewal: 13 April 2016
12
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/
13
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
14
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Pharmathen S.A.
6, Dervenakion
EL-15351 Pallini Attiki
Greece
Pharmathen International S.A.
Industrial Park Sapes, Rodopi Prefecture, Block No 5, Rodopi 69300,
Greece
Lek S.A. 
ul. Domaniewska 50 C 
02-672 Warszawa 
Poland
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Verovškova 57, 1526 Ljubljana
Slovenia
Salutas Pharma GmbH
Otto-von-Guericke-Allee 1, 39179 Barleben
Germany
Salutas Pharma GmbH
Dieselstrasse 5, 70839 Gerlingen
Germany
S.C. Sandoz, S.R.L.
Str. Livezeni nr. 7A, RO-540472 Targu-Mures
Romania
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
•
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
15
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
D.
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
•
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
• At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
16
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
17
A. LABELLING
18
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
Outer Carton
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ibandronic acid Sandoz 50 mg film-coated tablets 
ibandronic acid
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg of ibandronic acid (as ibandronate sodium monohydrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
3 film-coated tablets
6 film-coated tablets
9 film-coated tablets
28 film-coated tablets
84 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Do not suck, chew or crush tablets.
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
19
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestraße 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/685/001
EU/1/11/685/002
EU/1/11/685/003
EU/1/11/685/004
EU/1/11/685/005
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Ibandronic acid Sandoz 50 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC {number}
SN {number}
NN {number}
20
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Polyamide/Al/PVC - Aluminium foil blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ibandronic acid Sandoz 50 mg film-coated tablets
ibandronic acid
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Sandoz GmbH
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon
Tue
Wed
Thu
Fri
Sat
Sun
21
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
22
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Ibandronic acid Sandoz 50 mg film-coated tablets 
ibandronic acid
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Ibandronic acid Sandoz is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Ibandronic acid Sandoz
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Possible side effects
How to store Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Ibandronic acid Sandoz is and what it is used for
Ibandronic acid Sandoz contains the active substance ibandronic acid. This belongs to a group of 
medicines called bisphosphonates. 
Ibandronic acid Sandoz tablets is used in adults and prescribed to you if you have breast cancer that 
has spread to your bones (called “bone metastases”). 
•
•
It helps to prevent your bones from breaking (fractures). 
It also helps to prevent other bone problems that may need surgery or radiotherapy. 
Ibandronic acid Sandoz works by reducing the amount of calcium that is lost from your bones. This 
helps to stop your bones from getting weaker. 
2. What you need to know before you take Ibandronic acid Sandoz 
Do not take Ibandronic acid Sandoz
•
if you are allergic to ibandronic acid or any of the other ingredients of this medicine that are 
listed in section 6
if you have problems with your food pipe/gullet (oesophagus) such as narrowing or difficulty 
swallowing
if you cannot stand or sit upright for at least one hour (60 minutes) at a time
if you have or ever had low calcium in your blood.
•
•
•
Do not take this medicine if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz.
Warnings and precautions
A side effect called osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) (bone damage in the jaw) has been reported very 
rarely in the post marketing setting in patients receiving ibandronic acid for cancer-related conditions. 
ONJ can also occur after stopping treatment.
23
It is important to try and prevent ONJ developing as it is a painful condition that can be difficult to 
treat. In order to reduce the risk of developing osteonecrosis of the jaw, there are some precautions 
you should take.
Before receiving treatment, tell your doctor/nurse (health care professional) if:
•
you have any problems with your mouth or teeth such as poor dental health, gum disease, or a 
planned tooth extraction
you don’t receive routine dental care or have not had a dental check up for a long time
you are a smoker (as this may increase the risk of dental problems)
you have previously been treated with a bisphosphonate (used to treat or prevent bone 
disorders)
you are taking medicines called corticosteroids (such as prednisolone or dexamethasone)
you have cancer. 
•
•
•
•
•
Your doctor may ask you to undergo a dental examination before starting treatment with Ibandronic 
acid Sandoz. 
While being treated, you should maintain good oral hygiene (including regular teeth brushing) and 
receive routine dental check-ups. If you wear dentures you should make sure these fit properly. If you 
are under dental treatment or will undergo dental surgery (e.g. tooth extractions), inform your doctor 
about your dental treatment and tell your dentist that you are being treated with Ibandronic acid 
Sandoz. 
Contact your doctor and dentist immediately if you experience any problems with your mouth or teeth 
such as loose teeth, pain or swelling, non-healing of sores or discharge, as these could be signs of 
osteonecrosis of the jaw.
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz
•
•
•
•
if you are allergic to any other bisphosphonates
if you have any swallowing or digestion problems
if you have high or low blood levels of vitamin D or any other minerals
if you have kidney problems
Irritation, inflammation or ulceration of the gullet/food pipe (oesophagus) often with symptoms of 
severe pain in the chest, severe pain after swallowing food and/or drink, severe nausea, or vomiting 
may occur, especially if you do not drink a full glass of water and/or if you lie down within an hour of 
taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz. If you develop these symptoms, stop taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz 
and tell your doctor straight away (see sections 3 and 4).
Children and adolescents
Ibandronic acid Sandoz should not be used in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years.
Other medicines and Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This is because Ibandronic acid Sandoz can affect the way some other medicines work. 
Also some other medicines can affect the way Ibandronic acid Sandoz works.
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following medicines:
•
•
supplements containing calcium, magnesium, iron or aluminium
acetylsalicylic acid and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines called “NSAIDs”, such as 
ibuprofen or naproxen. This is because NSAIDs and Ibandronic acid Sandoz can both irritate 
your stomach and gut
a type of antibiotic injection called “aminoglycoside” such as gentamicin. This is because 
aminoglycosides and Ibandronic acid Sandoz can both lower the amount of calcium in your 
blood.
•
24
Taking medicines that reduce stomach acid such as cimetidine and ranitidine, may slightly increase the 
effects of Ibandronic acid Sandoz.
Ibandronic acid Sandoz with food and drink
Do not take Ibandronic acid Sandoz with food or any other drinks except water as the medicine is less 
effective if it is taken with food or drink (see section 3).
Take Ibandronic acid Sandoz at least 6 hours after you last had anything to eat, drink or any other 
medicines or supplements (e.g. products containing calcium (milk), aluminium, magnesium and iron) 
except water. After taking your tablet, wait at least 30 minutes. Then you can have your first food and 
drink, and take any medicines or supplements (see section 3).
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Do not take Ibandronic acid Sandoz if you are pregnant, planning to get pregnant or if you are breast-
feeding. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
You can drive and use machines as it’s expected that Ibandronic acid Sandoz has no or negligible 
effect on your ability to drive and use machines. Talk to your doctor first if you want to drive, use 
machine or tools.
Ibandronic acid Sandoz contains lactose and sodium
This medicine contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to 
some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine.
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially sodium free.
3.
How to take Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
Take your tablet at least 6 hours after you last had anything to eat, drink or any other medicines or 
supplements except water. Water with a high concentration of calcium should not be used. If there is 
concern regarding potentially high levels of calcium in the tap water (hard water), it is advised to use 
bottled water with a low mineral content.
Your doctor may do regular blood tests while you are taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz. This is to check 
that you are being given the right amount of medicine.
Taking this medicine
It is important that you take Ibandronic acid Sandoz at the right time and in the right way. This is 
because it can cause irritation, inflammation or ulcers in your food pipe/gullet (oesophagus). 
You can help stop this happening by doing the following:
•
•
•
Take your tablet as soon as you get up for the day before having your first food, drink, any 
medicine or supplements.
Take your tablet with a full glass of water only (about 200 mL). Do not take your tablet with 
any drink other than water
Swallow the tablet whole. Do not chew, suck or crush the tablet. Do not let the tablet dissolve in 
your mouth.
25
•
•
After taking your tablet, wait at least 30 minutes. Then you can have your first food and drink, 
and take any medicines or supplements.
Stay upright (sitting or standing) while taking your tablet and for the next hour (60 minutes). 
Otherwise, some of the medicine could leak back into your food pipe/gullet (oesophagus).
How much to take
The usual dose of Ibandronic acid Sandoz is one tablet each day. If you have moderate kidney 
problems, your doctor may reduce your dose to one tablet every other day. If you have severe kidney 
problems, your doctor may reduce your dose to one tablet each week.
If you take more Ibandronic acid Sandoz than you should
If you take too many tablets talk to a doctor or go to hospital straight away. Drink a full glass of milk 
before you go. Do not make yourself sick. Do not lie down.
If you forget to take Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. If you are taking a tablet each day, skip the 
missed dose completely. Then carry on as usual the next day. If you are taking a tablet every other day 
or once a week, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice.
If you stop taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Keep taking Ibandronic acid Sandoz for as long as your doctor tells you. This is because the medicine 
will only work if it is taken all the time.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Talk to a nurse or a doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects 
you may need urgent medical treatment:
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
•
feeling sick, heartburn and discomfort in swallowing (inflammation of your gullet/ food pipe)
Uncommon (may affect less than 1 in 100 people):
•
severe stomach pain. This could be a sign of an ulcer of the first section of the bowel 
(duodenum) that is bleeding, or that your stomach is inflamed (gastritis)
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
•
•
persistent eye pain and inflammation
new pain, weakness or discomfort in your thigh, hip or groin. You may have early signs of a 
possible unusual fracture of the thigh bone.
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
•
pain or sore in your mouth or jaw. You may have early signs of severe jaw problems (necrosis 
(dead bone tissue) in the jaw bone).
itching, swelling of your face, lips, tongue and throat, with difficulty breathing. You may be 
having a serious, potentially life threatening allergic reaction.
severe adverse skin reactions
Talk to your doctor if you have ear pain, discharge from the ear, and/or an ear infection. These 
could be signs of bone damage in the ear.
•
•
•
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
•
asthma attack
26
Other possible side effects
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
•
•
•
tummy pain, indigestion, 
low calcium levels in your blood
weakness
Uncommon (may affect less than 1 in 100 people):
•
•
•
•
•
•
chest pain 
itching or tingling skin (paraesthesia)
flu-like symptoms, feeling generally unwell or in pain
dry mouth, strange taste in your mouth or difficulty swallowing
anaemia (bloodlessness)
high levels of urea or high levels of parathyroid hormone in your blood
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Ibandronic acid Sandoz
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ibandronic acid Sandoz contains
- 
The active substance is ibandronic acid. Each film-coated tablet contains 50 mg of ibandronic 
acid (as ibandronate sodium monohydrate).
The other ingredients are:
- 
tablet core: povidone, microcrystalline cellulose, crospovidone, maize starch pregelatinised, 
glycerol dibehenate, colloidal anhydrous silica.
tablet coat: titanium dioxide, lactose monohydrate, hypromellose, macrogol 4000
- 
What Ibandronic acid Sandoz looks like and contents of the pack
The film-coated tablets are white, round biconvex tablets supplied in Polyamide/Al/PVC - Aluminum 
foil blister. They are available in packs of 3, 6, 9, 28 and 84 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestraße 10
A-6250 Kundl
Austria
27
Manufacturer 
Pharmathen S.A.
Dervenakion 6 
Pallini 15351
Attiki 
Greece
And
Pharmathen International S.A.
Industrial Park Sapes, Street block 5
69300 Sapes, Prefecture of Rodopi
Greece
And
Lek S.A. 
ul. Domaniewska 50 C 
02-672 Warszawa 
Poland
And
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Verovškova 57, 1526 Ljubljana
Slovenia
And
Salutas Pharma GmbH
Otto-von-Guericke-Allee 1, 39179 Barleben
Germany
And
Salutas Pharma GmbH
Dieselstrasse 5, 70839 Gerlingen
Germany
And
S.C. Sandoz, S.R.L.
Str. Livezeni nr. 7A, RO-540472 Targu-Mures
Romania
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder.
België/Belgique/Belgien
Sandoz nv/sa
Tél/Tel: +32 27229797
Κύπρος
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Verovškova Ulica 57, 
SI-1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia 
Τηλ: +357 22 69 0690
28
България 
BO Sandoz Bulgaria 
55 Nikola Vaptsarov blvd, EXPO 2000, build.4, 
fl.4
BG-1407 Sofia
Teл.: + 359 2 970 47 47
Latvija 
Sandoz d.d. Latvia filiale
K.Valdemāra iela 33 – 29
LV-1010 Rīga
Tel: +371 67892006
Česká republika
Sandoz s.r.o.
Na Pankráci 1724/129
CZ 140 00, Praha 4 - Nusle
Tel: +420 225 775 111
office.cz@sandoz.com 
Danmark, Ísland, Norge
Sandoz A/S
Edvard Thomsens Vej 14
DK-2300 København S
Danmörk/Danmark 
info.danmark@sandoz.com
Tlf: +45 6395 1000
Lietuva
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d 
Branch Office Lithuania
Šeimyniškių g. 3A
LT – 09312 Vilnius
Tel: +370 5 2636 037
Magyarország
Sandoz Hungária Kft.
Tel: +36 1 430 2890
mailto:info.hungary@sandoz.com
Deutschland, Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Hexal AG
Industriestr. 25
D-83607 Holzkirchen
Deutschland/Allemagne
Tel: +49 8024/908-0
service@hexal.com 
Malta
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Verovškova Ulica 57, 
SI-1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia 
Tel: +356 21222872
Eesti 
Sandoz d.d. Eesti filiaal
Pärnu mnt 105
EE - 11312 Tallinn
Tel: +372 6652 400
Info.ee@sandoz.com
Ελλάδα
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12
España
Sandoz Farmacéutica, S.A. / BEXAL 
FARMACÉUTICA, S.A. 
Centro Empresarial Osa Mayor
Avda. Osa Mayor, nº 4
E-28023 (Aravaca) Madrid
Tel: +34 91 548 84 04
Registros.spain@sandoz.com 
Nederland
Sandoz B.V.
Veluwezoom 22
NL-1327 AH Almere
Tel: +31 36 52 41 600
Österreich
Sandoz GmbH
Biochemiestr. 10
A-6250 Kundl
Tel: +43 5338 2000
Polska
Sandoz Polska Sp. z o.o.
ul. Domaniewska 50 C
02-672 Warszawa
Tel.: +48 22 209 70 00
biuro.pl@sandoz.com
29
Portugal
Sandoz Farmacêutica Lda.
Avenida Professor Doutor Cavaco Silva, n.º 10E
Taguspark
2740–255 Porto Salvo
Tel: +351 21 196 40 00
România
Sandoz S.R.L.
Strada Livezeni 7A
540472 Targu Mures 
Tel: +40 21 407 51 60
Slovenija
Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d.
Verovškova 57
SI-1526 Ljubljana
Tel: +386 1 580 21 11
Info.lek@sandoz.com
Slovenská republika 
Sandoz d.d. - organizačná zložka
Žižkova 22B
SK-811 02 Bratislava
Tel: +421 2 50 706 111
Sverige
Sandoz A/S
Edvard Thomsens vej 14
DK-2300 Köpenhamn S
info.sverige@sandoz.com
Tlf: +45 6395 1000
France
Sandoz SAS
49, avenue Georges Pompidou
F-92593 Levallois-Perret Cedex
Tél: + 33 1 49 64 48 00 
Hrvatska
Sandoz d.o.o.
Maksimirska 120
HR – 10 000 Zagreb
Tel : +385 1 235 3111
Ireland
ROWEX LTD
Newtown
IE-Bantry Co. Cork
P75 V009
Tel: +353 27 50077
Italia
Sandoz S.p.A.
Largo Umberto Boccioni, 1
I-21040 Origgio / VA
Tel: +39 02 96541
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Sandoz Ltd
Park View, Riverside Way
Watchmoor Park
Camberley, Surrey
GU15 3YL United Kingdom
Tel: +44 1276 69 8020
uk.drugsafety@sandoz.com
Suomi/Finland
Sandoz A/S
Edvard Thomsens vej 14
DK-2300 Kööpenhamina S/Köpenhamn S
info.suomi@sandoz.com
Tlf: +45 6395 1000
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu/
30
