ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
Ibandronic acid Accord 6 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial with 2 ml concentrate for solution for infusion contains 2 mg ibandronic acid (as sodium 
monohydrate). 
One vial with 6 ml concentrate for solution for infusion contains 6 mg ibandronic acid (as sodium 
monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate).  
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Ibandronic acid is indicated in adults for 
− 
− 
Prevention of skeletal events (pathological fractures, bone complications requiring radiotherapy 
or surgery) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases. 
Treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia with or without metastases. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Patients treated with ibandronic acid should be given the package leaflet and the patient reminder card. 
Ibandronic acid therapy should only be initiated by physicians experienced in the treatment of cancer. 
Posology 
Prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases 
The recommended dose for prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone 
metastases is 6 mg intravenous injection given every 3-4 weeks. The dose should be infused over at 
least 15 minutes.  
A shorter (i.e. 15 min) infusion time should only be used for patients with normal renal function or mild 
renal impairment. There are no data available characterising the use of a shorter infusion time in 
patients with creatinine clearance below 50 ml/min. Prescribers should consult the section Patients with 
Renal Impairment below for recommendations on dosing and administration in this patient group. 
Treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia 
Prior to treatment with ibandronic acid the patient should be adequately rehydrated with 9 mg/ml 
(0.9%) sodium chloride solution. Consideration should be given to the severity of the hypercalcaemia 
as well as the tumour type. In general patients with osteolytic bone metastases require lower doses than 
patients with the humoral type of hypercalcaemia. In most patients with severe hypercalcaemia 
(albumin-corrected serum calcium* ≥3 mmol/l or ≥12 mg/dl) 4 mg is an adequate single dose. In 
patients with moderate hypercalcaemia (albumin-corrected serum calcium <3 mmol/l or <12 mg/dl) 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 mg is an effective dose. The highest dose used in clinical trials was 6 mg but this dose does not add 
any further benefit in terms of efficacy. 
* Note albumin-corrected serum calcium concentrations are calculated as follows: 
Albumin-corrected serum 
calcium (mmol/l) 
= 
serum calcium (mmol/l) - [0.02 x albumin (g/l)] + 0.8 
Albumin-corrected serum 
calcium (mg/dl) 
To convert the albumin-corrected serum calcium in mmol/l value to mg/dl, multiply by 4. 
serum calcium (mg/dl) + 0.8 x [4 - albumin (g/dl)] 
Or 
= 
In most cases a raised serum calcium level can be reduced to the normal range within 7 days. The 
median time to relapse (return of albumin-corrected serum calcium to levels above 3 mmol/l) was 
18-19 days for the 2 mg and 4 mg doses. The median time to relapse was 26 days with a dose of 6 mg. 
A limited number of patients (50 patients) have received a second infusion for hypercalcaemia. 
Repeated treatment may be considered in case of recurrent hypercalcaemia or insufficient efficacy. 
Ibandronic acid concentrate for solution for infusion should be administered as an intravenous infusion 
over 2 hours. 
Special populations 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Patients with renal impairment 
For patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr ≥50 and <80 ml/min) no dose adjustment is necessary. 
For patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr ≥30 and <50 ml/min) or severe renal impairment 
(CLcr <30 ml/min) being treated for the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and 
metastatic bone disease the following dosing recommendations should be followed (see section 5.2): 
Creatinine Clearance (ml/min) 
≥50 CLcr <80 
≥30 CLcr <50 
<30 
Dosage 
6 mg (6 ml of concentrate for 
solution for infusion) 
4 mg (4 ml of concentrate for 
solution for infusion) 
2 mg (2 ml of concentrate for 
solution for infusion) 
Infusion Volume 1 and Time 2 
100 ml over 15 minutes 
500 ml over 1 hour 
500 ml over 1 hour 
1 0.9% sodium chloride solution or 5% glucose solution 
2 Administration every 3 to 4 week 
A 15 minute infusion time has not been studied in cancer patients with CLCr <50 ml/min. 
Elderly population (> 65 years) 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of ibandronic acid in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years have 
not been established. No data are available (see section 5.1 and section 5.2). 
Method of administration  
For intravenous administration. 
The content of the vial is to be used as follows: 
•  Prevention of Skeletal Events - added to 100 ml isotonic sodium chloride solution or 100 ml 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5% dextrose solution and infused over at least 15 minutes. See also dose section above for 
patients with renal impairment. 
•  Treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia - added to 500 ml isotonic sodium chloride 
solution or 500 ml 5% dextrose solution and infused over 2 hours. 
For single use only. Only clear solution without particles should be used. 
Ibandronic acid concentrate for solution for infusion should be administered as an intravenous infusion.  
Care must be taken not to administer ibandronic acid concentrate for solution for infusion via 
intra-arterial or paravenous administration, as this could lead to tissue damage. 
4.3  Contraindications 
− 
− 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Hypocalcaemia 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Patients with disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism 
Hypocalcaemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism should be effectively treated 
before starting ibandronic acid therapy for metastatic bone disease. 
Adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. Patients should receive 
supplemental calcium and/or vitamin D if dietary intake is inadequate. 
Anaphylactic reaction/shock 
Cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated 
with intravenous ibandronic acid. 
Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when Ibandronic 
acid intravenous injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic 
reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment. 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw  
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported very rarely in the post marketing setting in patients 
receiving ibandronic acid for oncology indications (see section 4.8). 
The start of treatmentor of a new course of treatment should be delayed in patients with unhealed open 
soft tissue lesions in the mouth. 
A dental examination with preventive dentistry and an individual benefit-risk assessment is 
recommended prior to treatment with ibandronic acid  in patients with concomitant risk factors.  
The following risk factors should be considered when evaluating a patient’s risk of developing ONJ:  
Potency of the medicinal product that inhibit bone resorption (higher risk for highly potent 
- 
compounds), route of administration (higher risk for parenteral administration) and cumulative 
dose of bone resorption therapy 
Cancer, co-morbid conditions (e.g. anaemia, coagulopathies, infection), smoking 
Concomitant therapies: corticosteroids, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy to 
head and neck 
Poor oral hygiene, periodontal disease, poorly fitting dentures, history of dental disease , invasive 
dental procedures  e.g. tooth extractions 
- 
- 
- 
All patients should be encouraged to maintain good oral hygiene, undergo routine dental check-ups, 
and immediately report any oral symptoms such as dental mobility, pain or swelling, or non-healing of 
sores or discharge during treatment with ibandronic acid. While on treatment, invasive dental 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
procedures should be performed only after careful consideration and be avoided in close proximity to 
ibandronic acid administration. 
The management plan of the patients who develop ONJ should be set up in close collaboration 
between the treating physician and a dentist or oral surgeon with expertise in ONJ. Temporary 
interruption of ibandronic acid treatment should be considered until the condition resolves and 
contributing risk factors are mitigated where possible. 
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal 
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal has been reported with bisphosphonates, mainly in 
association with long-term therapy. Possible risk factors for osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal 
include steroid use and chemotherapy and/or local risk factors such as infection or trauma. The possibility 
of osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal should be considered in patients receiving 
bisphosphonates who present with ear symptoms including chronic ear infections. 
Atypical fractures of the femur 
Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures have been reported with bisphosphonate 
therapy, primarily in patients receiving long-term treatment for osteoporosis. These transverse or short 
oblique fractures can occur anywhere along the femur from just below the lesser trochanter to just 
above the supracondylar flare. These fractures occur after minimal or no trauma and some patients 
experience thigh or groin pain, often associated with imaging features of stress fractures, weeks to 
months before presenting with a completed femoral fracture. Fractures are often bilateral; therefore the 
contralateral femur should be examined in bisphosphonate-treated patients who have sustained a 
femoral shaft fracture. Poor healing of these fractures has also been reported.  
Discontinuation of bisphosphonate therapy in patients suspected to have an atypical femur fracture 
should be considered pending evaluation of the patient, based on an individual benefit risk assessment.  
During bisphosphonate treatment patients should be advised to report any thigh, hip or groin pain and 
any patient presenting with such symptoms should be evaluated for an incomplete femur fracture. 
Patients with renal impairment 
Clinical studies have not shown any evidence of deterioration in renal function with long term 
ibandronic acid therapy. Nevertheless, according to clinical assessment of the individual patient, it is 
recommended that renal function, serum calcium, phosphate and magnesium should be monitored in 
patients treated with ibandronic acid (see section 4.2). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
As no clinical data are available, dose recommendations cannot be given for patients with severe 
hepatic insufficiency (see section 4.2). 
Patients with cardiac impairment 
Overhydration should be avoided in patients at risk of cardiac failure. 
Patients with known hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates 
Caution is to be taken in patients with known hypersensitivity to other bisphosphonates. 
Excipients with known effect 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, i.e. essentially sodium free. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolic interactions are not considered likely, since ibandronic acid does not inhibit the major human 
hepatic P450 isoenzymes and has been shown not to induce the hepatic cytochrome P450 system in rats 
(see section 5.2). Ibandronic acid is eliminated by renal excretion only and does not undergo any 
biotransformation. 
Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides, since both 
substances can lower serum calcium levels for prolonged periods. Attention should also be paid to the 
possible existence of simultaneous hypomagnesaemia. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of ibandronic acid in pregnant women. Studies in rats have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Therefore, 
ibandronic acid should not be used during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether ibandronic acid is excreted in human milk. Studies in lactating rats have 
demonstrated the presence of low levels of ibandronic acid in the milk following intravenous 
administration. Ibandronic acid should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of ibandronic acid in humans. In reproductive studies in rats by the 
oral route, ibandronic acid decreased fertility. In studies in rats using the intravenous route, ibandronic 
acid decreased fertility at high daily doses (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
On the basis of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profile and reported adverse reactions, it is 
expected that ibandronic acid has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most serious reported adverse reactions are anaphylactic reaction/shock, atypical fractures of the 
femur, osteonecrosis for the jaw, and ocular inflammation (see paragraph “description of selected 
adverse reactions” and section 4.4). 
Treatment of tumour induced hypercalcaemia is most frequently associated with a rise in body 
temperature. Less frequently, a decrease in serum calcium below normal range (hypocalcaemia) is 
reported.  
In most cases no specific treatment is required and the symptoms subside after a couple of hours/days. 
In the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, treatment is 
most frequently associated with asthenia followed by rise in body temperature and headache. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 lists adverse drug reactions from the pivotal phase III studies (Treatment of tumour induced 
hypercalcaemia: 311 patients treated with ibandronic acid 2 mg or 4 mg; Prevention of skeletal events 
in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases: 152 patients treated with ibandronic acid 6 mg), and 
from post-marketing experience. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class and frequency category. 
Frequency categories are defined using the following convention: very common (>1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1 
Adverse Reactions Reported for Intravenous Administration of Ibandronic Acid 
System Organ 
Class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant, and 
unspecified 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
Infection 
Cystitis, vaginitis, 
oral candidiasis 
Benign skin 
neoplasm 
Anaemia, blood 
dyscrasia 
Asthma 
exacerbation 
Hypersensitivity†, 
bronchospasm†, 
angioedema† 
anaphylactic 
reaction/shock†
** 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Parathyroid 
disorder 
Hypocalcaemia*
* 
Headache, 
dizziness, 
dysgeusia (taste 
perversion) 
Hypophosphataemia 
Sleep disorder, 
anxiety, affection 
lability 
Cerebrovascular 
disorder, nerve root 
lesion, amnesia, 
migraine, neuralgia, 
hypertonia, 
hyperaestesia, 
paraesthesia 
circumoral, parosmia 
Eye disorders 
Cataract 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders 
Deafness 
Ocular 
inflammatio
†** 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Bundle branch 
block 
Myocardial 
ischaemia, 
cardiovascular 
disorder, palpitations 
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Pharyngitis 
Lung oedema, stridor 
Diarrhoea, 
vomiting, 
dyspepsia, 
gastrointestinal 
pain, tooth 
disorder 
Gastroenteritis, 
gastritis, mouth 
ulceration, 
dysphagia, cheilitis 
Cholelithiasis 
Skin disorder, 
ecchymosis 
Rash, alopecia 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Osteoarthritis, 
myalgia, 
arthralgia, joint 
disorder, bone 
pain 
Renal and 
urinary 
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
Pyrexia,Influenz
a-like illness**, 
oedema 
peripheral, 
asthenia, thirst 
Gamma-GT 
increased, 
creatinine 
increased 
Urinary retention, 
renal cyst 
Pelvic pain 
Hypothermia 
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase increase, 
weight decrease 
Injury, injection site 
pain 
8 
Stevens-
Johnson 
Syndrome†, 
Erythema 
Multiforme†, 
Dermatitis 
Bullous† 
Atypical 
subtrochante
ric and 
diaphyseal 
femoral 
fractures†  
Osteonecrosis of 
jaw†** 
Osteonecrosis of 
the external 
auditory canal 
(bisphosphonate 
class adverse 
reaction)† 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
**See further information below 
†Identified in post-marketing experience. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypocalcaemia 
Decreased renal calcium excretion may be accompanied by a fall in serum phosphate levels not 
requiring therapeutic measures. The serum calcium level may fall to hypocalcaemic values. 
Influenza-like illness 
A flu-like syndrome consisting of fever, chills, bone and/or muscle ache-like pain has occurred. In 
most cases no specific treatment was required and the symptoms subsided after a couple of hours/days. 
Osteonecrosis of jaw 
Cases of osteonecrosis  of the jaw have been reported, predominantly in cancer patients treated with 
medicinal products that inhibit bone resorption, such as ibandronic acid (see section 4.4.) Cases of 
ONJ have been reported in the post marketing setting for ibandronic acid. 
Ocular inflammation 
Ocular inflammation events such as uveitis, episcleritis and scleritis have been reported with ibandronic 
acid. In some cases, these events did not resolve until the ibandronic acid was discontinued. 
Anaphylactic reaction/shock 
Cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated 
with intravenous ibandronic acid. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Up to now there is no experience of acute poisoning with ibandronic acid concentrate for solution for 
infusion. Since both the kidney and the liver were found to be target organs for toxicity in preclinical 
studies with high doses, kidney and liver function should be monitored. Clinically relevant 
hypocalcaemia should be corrected by intravenous administration of calcium gluconate. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group: Medicinal products for treatment of bone diseases, bisphosphonate, 
ATC Code: M05BA06. 
Mechanism of action 
Ibandronic acid belongs to the bisphosphonate group of compounds which act specifically on bone. 
Their selective action on bone tissue is based on the high affinity of bisphosphonates for bone mineral. 
Bisphosphonates act by inhibiting osteoclast activity, although the precise mechanism is still not clear. 
In vivo, ibandronic acid prevents experimentally-induced bone destruction caused by cessation of 
gonadal function, retinoids, tumours or tumour extracts. The inhibition of endogenous bone resorption 
has also been documented by 45Ca kinetic studies and by the release of radioactive tetracycline 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
previously incorporated into the skeleton. 
At doses that were considerably higher than the pharmacologically effective doses, ibandronic acid did 
not have any effect on bone mineralisation. 
Bone resorption due to malignant disease is characterised by excessive bone resorption that is not 
balanced with appropriate bone formation. Ibandronic acid selectively inhibits osteoclast activity, 
reducing bone resorption and thereby reducing skeletal complications of the malignant disease. 
Clinical studies in the treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia 
Clinical studies in hypercalcaemia of malignancy demonstrated that the inhibitory effect of ibandronic 
acid on tumour-induced osteolysis, and specifically on tumour-induced hypercalcaemia, is 
characterised by a decrease in serum calcium and urinary calcium excretion. 
In the dose range recommended for treatment, the following response rates with the respective 
confidence intervals have been shown in clinical trials for patients with baseline albumin-corrected 
serum calcium ≥ 3.0 mmol/l after adequate rehydration. 
Ibandronic 
acid dose 
2 mg 
% of Patients with 
Response 
54 
90% Confidence 
Interval 
44-63 
4 mg 
6 mg 
76 
78 
62-86 
64-88 
For these patients and dosages, the median time to achieve normocalcaemia was 4 to 7 days. The 
median time to relapse (return of albumin-corrected serum calcium above 3.0 mmol/l) was 
18 to 26 days. 
Clinical studies in the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases  
Clinical studies in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases have shown that there is a dose 
dependent inhibitory effect on bone osteolysis, expressed by markers of bone resorption, and a dose 
dependent effect on skeletal events. 
Prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases with ibandronic acid 6 
mg administered intravenously was assessed in one randomized placebo controlled phase III trial with 
duration of 96 weeks. Female patients with breast cancer and radiologically confirmed bone 
metastases were randomised to receive placebo (158 patients) or 6 mg ibandronic acid (154 patients). 
The results from this trial are summarised below. 
Primary efficacy endpoints 
The primary endpoint of the trial was the skeletal morbidity period rate (SMPR). This was a composite 
endpoint which had the following skeletal related events (SREs) as sub-components: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
radiotherapy to bone for treatment of fractures/impending fractures 
surgery to bone for treatment of fractures 
vertebral fractures 
non-vertebral fractures. 
The analysis of the SMPR was time-adjusted and considered that one or more events occurring in a 
single 12 week period could be potentially related. Multiple events were therefore counted only once 
for the purposes of the analysis. Data from this study demonstrated a significant advantage for 
intravenous ibandronic acid 6 mg over placebo in the reduction in SREs measured by the time-adjusted 
SMPR (p=0.004). The number of SREs was also significantly reduced with ibandronic acid 6 mg and 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
there was a 40% reduction in the risk of a SRE over placebo (relative risk 0.6, p = 0.003). Efficacy 
results are summarised in Table 2. 
Table 2  Efficacy Results (Breast Cancer Patients with Metastatic Bone Disease) 
SMPR (per patient year) 
Number of events (per patient) 
SRE relative risk 
All Skeletal Related Events (SREs) 
Placebo 
n=158 
1.48 
3.64 
- 
Ibandronic acid 
6 mg n=154 
1.19 
2.65 
0.60 
p-value 
p=0.004 
p=0.025 
p=0.003 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
A statistically significant improvement in bone pain score was shown for intravenous ibandronic acid 
6 mg compared to placebo. The pain reduction was consistently below baseline throughout the entire 
study and accompanied by a significantly reduced use of analgesics. The deterioration in Quality of 
Life was significantly less in ibandronic acid treated patients compared with placebo. A tabular 
summary of these secondary efficacy results is presented in Table 3. 
Table 3 
Secondary Efficacy Results (Breast cancer Patients with Metastatic Bone Disease) 
Bone pain * 
Analgesic use * 
Quality of Life * 
Placebo 
n=158 
0.21 
0.90 
-45.4 
Ibandronic acid 6 mg 
n=154 
-0.28 
0.51 
-10.3 
p-value 
p<0.001 
p=0.083 
p=0.004 
* Mean change from baseline to last assessment. 
There was a marked depression of urinary markers of bone resorption (pyridinoline and 
deoxypyridinoline) in patients treated with ibandronic acid that was statistically significant compared to 
placebo. 
In a study in 130 patients with metastatic breast cancer the safety of ibandronic acid infused over 1 hour 
or 15 minutes was compared. No difference was observed in the indicators of renal function. The 
overall adverse event profile of ibandronic acid following the 15 minute infusion was consistent with 
the known safety profile over longer infusion times and no new safety concerns were identified relating 
to the use of a 15 minute infusion time. 
A 15 minute infusion time has not been studied in cancer patients with a creatinine clearance of 
<50 ml/min. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of ibandronic acid in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years have 
not been established. No data are available. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
After a 2 hour infusion of 2, 4 and 6 mg ibandronic acid pharmacokinetic parameters are dose 
proportional. 
Distribution 
After initial systemic exposure, ibandronic acid rapidly binds to bone or is excreted into urine. In 
humans, the apparent terminal volume of distribution is at least 90 l and the amount of dose reaching 
the bone is estimated to be 40-50% of the circulating dose. Protein binding in human plasma is 
approximately 87% at therapeutic concentrations, and thus interaction with other medicinal products, due 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to displacement is unlikely. 
Biotransformation 
There is no evidence that ibandronic acid is metabolized in animals or humans. 
Elimination 
The range of observed apparent half-lives is broad and dependent on dose and assay sensitivity, but the 
apparent terminal half-life is generally in the range of 10-60 hours. However, early plasma levels fall 
quickly, reaching 10% of peak values within 3 and 8 hours after intravenous or oral administration 
respectively. No systemic accumulation was observed when ibandronic acid was administered 
intravenously once every 4 weeks for 48 weeks to patients with metastatic bone disease. 
Total clearance of ibandronic acid is low with average values in the range 84-160 ml/min. Renal 
clearance (about 60 ml/min in healthy postmenopausal females) accounts for 50-60% of total clearance 
and is related to creatinine clearance. The difference between the apparent total and renal clearances is 
considered to reflect the uptake by bone. 
The secretory pathway of renal elimination does not appear to include known acidic or basic transport 
systems involved in the excretion of other active substances. In addition, ibandronic acid does not 
inhibit the major human hepatic P450 isoenzymes and does not induce the hepatic cytochrome P450 
system in rats. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Gender 
Bioavailability and pharmacokinetics of ibandronic acid are similar in both men and women. 
Race 
There is no evidence for clinically relevant interethnic differences between Asians and Caucasians in 
ibandronic acid disposition. There are only very few data available on patients with African origin. 
Patients with renal impairment 
Exposure to ibandronic acid in patients with various degrees of renal impairment is related to creatinine 
clearance (CLcr). In subjects with severe renal impairment (mean estimated CLcr=21.2 ml/min), dose-
adjusted mean AUC0-24h was increased by 110% compared to healthy volunteers. In clinical 
pharmacology trial WP18551, after a single dose intravenous administration of 6 mg (15 minutes 
infusion), mean AUC0-24 increased by 14% and 86%, respectively, in subjects with mild (mean 
estimated CLcr=68.1 ml/min) and moderate (mean estimated CLcr= 41.2 ml/min) renal impairment 
compared to healthy volunteers (mean estimated CLcr=120 ml/min). Mean Cmax was not increased in 
patients with mild renal impairment and increased by 12% in patients with moderate renal impairment. 
For patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr ≥50 and <80 ml/min) no dosage adjustment is 
necessary. For patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr ≥30 and <50 ml/min) or severe renal 
impairment (CLcr <30 ml/min) being treated for the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast 
cancer and metastatic bone disease an adjustment in the dose is recommended (see section 4.2). 
Patients with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2) 
There are no pharmacokinetic data for ibandronic acid in patients who have hepatic impairment. The 
liver has no significant role in the clearance of ibandronic acid since it is not metabolized but is cleared 
by renal excretion and by uptake into bone.  Therefore dosage adjustment is not necessary in patients 
with hepatic impairment. Further, as protein binding of ibandronic acid is approximately 87% at 
therapeutic concentrations, hypoproteinaemia in severe liver disease is unlikely to lead to clinically 
significant increases in free plasma concentration. 
Elderly (see section 4.2) 
In a multivariate analysis, age was not found to be an independent factor of any of the pharmacokinetic 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
parameters studied. As renal function decreases with age, this is the only factor that should be 
considered (see renal impairment section). 
Paediatric population (see section 4.2 and section 5.1) 
There are no data on the use of ibandronic acid in patients less than 18 years old. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at exposures sufficiently in excess of the maximum 
human exposure indicating little relevance to clinical use. As with other bisphosphonates, the kidney 
was identified to be the primary target organ of systemic toxicity. 
Mutagenicity/Carcinogenicity 
No indication of carcinogenic potential was observed. Tests for genotoxicity revealed no evidence of 
effects on genetic activity for ibandronic acid. 
Reproductive toxicity 
No evidence of direct foetal toxicity or teratogenic effects were observed for ibandronic acid in 
intravenously treated rats and rabbits. In reproductive studies in rats by the oral route effects on 
fertility consisted of increased preimplantation losses at dose levels of 1 mg/kg/day and higher. In 
reproductive studies in rats by the intravenous route, ibandronic acid decreased sperm counts at doses 
of 0.3 and 1 mg/kg/day and decreased fertility in males at 1 mg/kg/day and in females at 
1.2 mg/kg/day. Adverse effects of ibandronic acid in reproductive toxicity studies in the rat were those 
expected for this class of medicinal products (bisphosphonates). They include a decreased number of 
implantation sites, interference with natural delivery (dystocia), an increase in visceral variations 
(renal pelvis ureter syndrome) and teeth abnormalities in F1 offspring in rats. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride  
Sodium acetate trihydrate  
Glacial acetic acid  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
To avoid potential incompatibilities Ibandronic acid concentrate for solution for infusion should only be 
diluted with isotonic sodium chloride solution or 5% glucose solution. 
Ibandronic acid concentrate for solution for infusion should not be mixed with calcium containing 
solutions.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
After dilution: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability after dilution in 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) sodium chloride solution or 
5% glucose solution has been demonstrated for 36 hours at 25°C and 2°C to 8°C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the solution for infusion should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2° C to 8°C unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic condition. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
6 ml, glass vial (type I) with ethylene tetrafluoroethylene rubber stopper and aluminium seals with 
lavender flip-off cap. It is supplied as packs containing 1 vial with 2 ml of concentrate. 
6 ml, glass vial (type I) with ethylene tetrafluoroethylene rubber stopper and aluminium seals with 
pink flip-off cap. It is supplied as packs containing 1, 5 or 10 vials with 6 ml of concentrate. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/798/001  
EU/1/12/798/002 
EU/1/12/798/003   
EU/1/12/798/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 November 2012 
Date of latest renewal: 18 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One pre-filled syringe of 3 ml solution contains 3 mg ibandronic acid (as sodium monohydrate).   
Each ml of solution contains 1 mg ibandronic acid. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at increased risk of fracture (see section 5.1).  
A reduction in the risk of vertebral fractures has been demonstrated, efficacy on femoral neck fractures 
has not been established. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Patients treated with ibandronic acid should be given the package leaflet and the patient reminder card. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of ibandronic acid is 3 mg, administered as an intravenous injection over 15 - 
30 seconds, every three months. 
Patients must receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D (see section 4.4 and section 4.5). 
If a dose is missed, the injection should be administered as soon as convenient. Thereafter, injections 
should be scheduled every 3 months from the date of the last injection. 
The optimal duration of bisphosphonate treatment for osteoporosis has not been established. The need 
for continued treatment should be re-evaluated periodically based on the benefits and potential risks of 
ibandronic acid on an individual patient basis, particularly after 5 or more years of use. 
Special populations  
Patients with renal impairment  
Ibandronic acid injection is not recommended for use in patients who have a serum creatinine above 
200  μmol/l (2.3 mg/dl) or who have a creatinine clearance (measured or estimated) below 30 ml/min, 
because of limited clinical data available from studies including such patients (see section 4.4 and 
section 5.2)  
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment where serum 
creatinine is equal or below 200 μmol/l (2.3 mg/dl) or where creatinine clearance (measured or 
estimated) is equal or greater than 30 ml/min. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
Patients with hepatic impairment  
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population (>65 years)  
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2).  
Paediatric population  
There is no relevant use of ibandronic acid in children below 18 years, and ibandronic acid was not 
studied in this population (see section 5.1 and 5.2).  
Method of administration  
For intravenous use over 15 - 30 seconds, every three months. 
Strict adherence to the intravenous administration route is required (see section 4.4). 
4.3  Contraindications 
− 
− 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Hypocalcaemia 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Administration failures  
Care must be taken not to administer ibandronic acid injection via intra-arterial or paravenous 
administration as this could lead to tissue damage.  
Hypocalcaemia  
Ibandronic acid, like other bisphosphonates administered intravenously, may cause a transient decrease 
in serum calcium values.  
Existing hypocalcaemia must be corrected before starting ibandronic acid injection therapy. Other 
disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism should also be effectively treated before starting 
ibandronic acid injection therapy.  
All patients must receive adequate supplemental calcium and vitamin D.  
Anaphylactic reaction/shock  
Cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated 
with intravenous ibandronic acid.  
Appropriate medical support and monitoring measures should be readily available when ibandronic 
acid intravenous injection is administered. If anaphylactic or other severe hypersensitivity/allergic 
reactions occur, immediately discontinue the injection and initiate appropriate treatment.  
Renal impairment  
Patients with concomitant diseases, or who use medicinal products which have potential for 
undesirable effects on the kidney, should be reviewed regularly in line with good medical practice 
during treatment. 
Due to limited clinical experience, ibandronic acid injection is not recommended for patients with a 
serum creatinine above 200 μmol/l (2.3 mg/dl) or with a creatinine clearance below 30 ml/min 
(see section 4.2 and section 5.2). 
Patients with cardiac impairment  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overhydration should be avoided in patients at risk of cardiac failure.  
Osteonecrosis of the jaw  
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported very rarely in the post marketing setting in patients 
receiving ibandronic acid for osteoporosis (see section 4.8). 
The start of treatment or of a new course of treatment should be delayed in patients with unhealed 
open soft tissue lesions in the mouth. 
A dental examination with preventive dentistry and an individual benefit-risk assessment is 
recommended prior to treatment with ibandronic acid in patients with concomitant risk factors.  
The following risk factors should be considered when evaluating a patient’s risk of developing ONJ:  
Potency of the medicinal product that inhibit bone resorption (higher risk for highly potent 
- 
compounds), route of administration (higher risk for parenteral administration) and cumulative 
dose of bone resorption therapy 
Cancer, co-morbid conditions (e.g. anaemia, coagulopathies, infection), smoking 
Concomitant therapies: corticosteroids, chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy to 
head and neck  
Poor oral hygiene, periodontal disease, poorly fitting dentures, history of dental disease, invasive 
dental procedures e.g. tooth extractions  
- 
- 
- 
All patients should be encouraged to maintain good oral hygiene, undergo routine dental check-ups, 
and immediately report any oral symptoms such as dental mobility, pain or swelling, or non-healing of 
sores or discharge during treatment with ibandronic acid.While on treatment invasive dental 
procedures should be performed only after careful consideration and be avoided in close proximity to 
ibandronic acid administration.  
The management plan of the patients who develop ONJ should be set up in close collaboration 
between the treating physician and a dentist or oral surgeon with expertise in ONJ. Temporary 
interruption of ibandronic acid treatment should be considered until the condition resolves and 
contributing risk factors are mitigated where possible. 
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal 
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal has been reported with bisphosphonates, mainly in 
association with long-term therapy. Possible risk factors for osteonecrosis of the external auditory 
canal include steroid use and chemotherapy and/or local risk factors such as infection or trauma. The 
possibility of osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal should be considered in patients receiving 
bisphosphonates who present with ear symptoms including chronic ear infections.  
Atypical fractures of the femur  
Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures have been reported with bisphosphonate 
therapy, primarily in patients receiving long-term treatment for osteoporosis. These transverse or short 
oblique fractures can occur anywhere along the femur from just below the lesser trochanter to just 
above the supracondylar flare. These fractures occur after minimal or no trauma and some patients 
experience thigh or groin pain, often associated with imaging features of stress fractures, weeks to 
months before presenting with a completed femoral fracture. Fractures are often bilateral; therefore the 
contralateral femur should be examined in bisphosphonate-treated patients who have sustained a 
femoral shaft fracture. Poor healing of these fractures has also been reported.  
Discontinuation of bisphosphonate therapy in patients suspected to have an atypical femur fracture 
should be considered pending evaluation of the patient, based on an individual benefit risk assessment.  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During bisphosphonate treatment patients should be advised to report any thigh, hip or groin pain and 
any patient presenting with such symptoms should be evaluated for an incomplete femur fracture.  
Excipient with known effect 
Ibandronic acid injection is essentially sodium free. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Metabolic interactions are not considered likely, since ibandronic acid does not inhibit the major 
human hepatic P450 isoenzymes and has been shown not to induce the hepatic cytochrome 
P450 system in rats (see section 5.2). Ibandronic acid is eliminated by renal excretion only and does 
not undergo any biotransformation. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Ibandronic acid is only for use in postmenopausal women and must not be taken by women of child 
bearing potential. 
There are no adequate data from the use of ibandronic acid in pregnant women. Studies in rats have 
shown some reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Ibandronic acid should not be used during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether ibandronic acid is excreted in human milk. Studies in lactating rats have 
demonstrated the presence of low levels of ibandronic acid in the milk following intravenous 
administration. Ibandronic acid should not be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of ibandronic acid from humans. In reproductive studies in rats by the 
oral route, ibandronic acid decreased fertility. In studies in rats using the intravenous route, ibandronic 
acid decreased fertility at high daily doses (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
On the basis of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profile and reported adverse reactions, it is 
expected that ibandronic acid has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
The most serious reported adverse reactions are anaphylactic reaction/shock, atypical fractures of the 
femur, osteonecrosis for the jaw and ocular inflammation (see paragraph “Description of selected 
adverse reactions” and section 4.4). 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are arthralgia and influenza-like symptoms. These 
symptoms are typically in association with the first dose, generally of short duration, mild or moderate 
in intensity, and usually resolve during continuing treatment without requiring remedial measures 
(please see paragraph “Influenza like illness”). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
In table 1 a complete list of known adverse reactions is presented.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The safety of oral treatment with ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily was evaluated in 1251 patients treated 
in 4 placebo-controlled clinical studies, with the large majority of patients coming from the pivotal 
three-year fracture study (MF 4411).  
In the pivotal two-year study in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis (BM16550), the overall 
safety of intravenous injection of ibandronic acid 3 mg every 3 months and oral ibandronic acid 2.5 
mg daily were shown to be similar. The overall proportion of patients who experienced an adverse 
reaction was 26.0 % and 28.6 % for ibandronic acid 3 mg injection every 3 months after one year and 
two years, respectively. Most cases of adverse reactions did not lead to cessation of therapy. 
Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class and frequency category. 
Frequency categories are defined using the following convention: very common (>1/10), common (≥ 
1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare 
(<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
19 
 
 
 
Table 1: Adverse reactions occurring in postmenopausal women receiving ibandronic acid 3 mg 
injection every 3 months or ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily in the phase III studies BM16550 and MF 
4411, and in post-marketing experience. 
System Organ 
Class 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders  
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Asthma 
exacerbation 
Hypersensitivity 
reaction 
Anaphylactic 
reaction/shock*† 
Hypocalcaemia† 
Headache 
Gastritis, Dyspepsia, 
Diarrhoea, 
Abdominal pain, 
Nausea, Constipation  
Ocular 
inflammation*†  
Phlebitis/ 
thrombophlebitis  
Angioedema, 
Facial 
swelling/oedema, 
Urticaria  
Atypical 
subtrochanteric 
and diaphyseal 
femoral 
fractures†  
Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome†, 
Erythema 
Multiforme†, 
Dermatitis 
Bullous† 
Osteonecrosis of 
jaw*†  
Osteonecrosis of 
the external 
auditory canal 
(bisphosphonate 
class adverse 
reaction)† 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissues disorders  
Rash 
Musculoskeletal 
and , connective 
tissue disorders  
Arthralgia, Myalgia, 
Musculoskeletal 
pain, Back pain  
Bone pain 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Influenza like 
illness*, Fatigue  
Injection site 
reactions, 
Asthenia  
*See further information below  
†Identified in post-marketing experience. 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Influenza-like illness  
Influenza-like illness includes events reported as acute phase reaction or symptoms, including myalgia, 
arthralgia, fever, chills, fatigue, nausea, loss of appetite, and bone pain.  
Osteonecrosis of the jaw  
 Cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw have been reported, predominantly in cancer patients treated with 
medicinal products that inhibit bone resorption, such  as ibandronic acid (see section 4.4.) Cases of 
ONJ have been reported in the post marketing setting ibandronic acid.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular inflammation  
Ocular inflammation events such as uveitis, episcleritis and scleritis have been reported with 
ibandronic acid. In some cases, these events did not resolve until the ibandronic acid was discontinued. 
Anaphylactic reaction/shock  
Cases of anaphylactic reaction/shock, including fatal events, have been reported in patients treated 
with intravenous ibandronic acid. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with ibandronic acid injection.  
Based on knowledge of this class of compounds, intravenous overdosage may result in hypocalcaemia, 
hypophosphataemia, and hypomagnesaemia. Clinically relevant reductions in serum levels of calcium, 
phosphorus, and magnesium should be corrected by intravenous administration of calcium gluconate, 
potassium or sodium phosphate, and magnesium sulfate, respectively. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Medicinal products for treatment of bone diseases, bisphosphonates, ATC 
code: M05BA06  
Mechanism of action  
Ibandronic acid is a highly potent bisphosphonate belonging to the nitrogen-containing group of 
bisphosphonates, which act selectively on bone tissue and specifically inhibit osteoclast activity 
without directly affecting bone formation. It does not interfere with osteoclast recruitment. Ibandronic 
acid leads to progressive net gains in bone mass and a decreased incidence of fractures through the 
reduction of elevated bone turnover towards premenopausal levels in postmenopausal women.  
Pharmacodynamic effects  
The pharmacodynamic action of ibandronic acid is inhibition of bone resorption. In vivo, ibandronic 
acid prevents bone destruction experimentally induced by cessation of gonadal function, retinoids, 
tumours or tumour extracts. In young (fast growing) rats, the endogenous bone resorption is also 
inhibited, leading to increased normal bone mass compared with untreated animals.  
Animal models confirm that ibandronic acid is a highly potent inhibitor of osteoclastic activity. In 
growing rats, there was no evidence of impaired mineralisation even at doses greater than 5,000 times 
the dose required for osteoporosis treatment.  
Both daily and intermittent (with prolonged dose-free intervals) long-term administration in rats, dogs 
and monkeys was associated with formation of new bone of normal quality and maintained or 
increased mechanical strength even at doses in the toxic range. In humans, the efficacy of both daily 
and intermittent administration with a dose-free interval of 9 - 10 weeks of ibandronic acid was 
confirmed in a clinical trial (MF 4411), in which ibandronic acid demonstrated anti-fracture efficacy.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In animal models ibandronic acid produced biochemical changes indicative of dose-dependent 
inhibition of bone resorption, including suppression of urinary biochemical markers of bone collagen 
degradation (such as deoxypyridinoline, and cross-linked N-telopeptides of type I collagen (NTX)).  
Both daily, intermittent (with a dose-free interval of 9 - 10 weeks per quarter) oral doses as well as 
intravenous doses of ibandronic acid in postmenopausal women produced biochemical changes 
indicative of dose-dependent inhibition of bone resorption.  
Ibandronic acid intravenous injection decreased levels of serum C-telopeptide of the alpha chain of 
Type I collagen (CTX) within 3 - 7 days of starting treatment and decreased levels of osteocalcin 
within 3 months. 
Following treatment discontinuation, there is a reversion to the pathological pre-treatment rates of 
elevated bone resorption associated with postmenopausal osteoporosis.  
The histological analysis of bone biopsies after two and three years of treatment of postmenopausal 
women with doses of oral ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily and intermittent intravenous doses of up to 
1 mg every 3 months showed bone of normal quality and no indication of a mineralisation defect. An 
expected decrease in bone turnover, normal quality of bone and absence of defects in mineralization 
were also seen after two years of treatment with ibandronic acid 3 mg injection.  
Clinical efficacy  
Independent risk factors, for example, low BMD, age, the existence of previous fractures, a family 
history of fractures, high bone turnover and low body mass index should be considered in order to 
identify women at increased risk of osteoporotic fractures. 
Ibandronic acid 3 mg injection every 3 months  
Bone mineral density (BMD)  
Ibandronic acid 3 mg intravenous injection, administered every 3 months, was shown to be at least as 
effective as oral ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily in a 2-year, randomised, double-blind, multicentre, non-
inferiority study (BM16550) of postmenopausal women (1386 women aged 55 - 80) with osteoporosis 
(lumbar spine BMD T-score below -2.5 SD at baseline). This was demonstrated in both the primary 
analysis at one year and in the confirmatory analysis at two years endpoint (Table 2).  
The primary analysis of data from study BM16550 at one year and the confirmatory analysis at 2 years 
demonstrated the non-inferiority of 3 mg every 3 months injection dosing regimen compared to 2.5 mg 
oral daily dosing regimen, in terms of mean increases in BMD at lumbar spine, total hip, femoral neck 
and trochanter (Table 2).  
Table 2: Mean relative change from baseline of lumbar spine, total hip, femoral neck and trochanter 
BMD after one year (primary analysis) and two years of treatment (Per-Protocol Population) in study 
BM 16550. 
One year data in study BM 16550  
Two year data in study BM 16550  
ibandronic acid 
2.5 mg daily 
(N=377) 
ibandronic acid 3 
mg injection 
every 3 months 
(N=365) 
ibandronic acid 
2.5 mg daily 
(N=334) 
ibandronic acid 
3 mg injection 
every 3 months 
(N=334) 
3.8 [3.4, 4.2]  
4.8 [4.5, 5.2]  
4.8 [4.3, 5.4]  
6.3 [5.7, 6.8]  
Mean relative 
changes from 
baseline % 
[95% CI]  
Lumbar spine 
L2-L4 BMD  
Total hip BMD  
1.8 [1.5, 2.1]  
2.4 [2.0, 2.7]  
2.2 [1.8, 2.6]  
3.1 [2.6, 3.6]  
Femoral neck 
BMD  
1.6 [1.2, 2.0]  
2.3 [1.9, 2.7]  
2.2 [1.8, 2.7]  
2.8 [2.3, 3.3]  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trochanter 
BMD  
3.0 [2.6, 3.4]  
3.8 [3.2, 4.4]  
3.5 [3.0, 4.0]  
4.9 [4.1, 5.7]  
Furthermore, ibandronic acid 3 mg injection every 3 months was proven superior to oral ibandronic 
acid 2.5 mg daily for increases in lumbar spine BMD in a prospectively planned analysis at one year, 
p<0.001, and at two years, p<0.001.  
For lumbar spine BMD, 92.1 % of patients receiving 3 mg injection every 3 months increased or 
maintained their BMD after 1 year of treatment (i.e. were responders) compared with 84.9 % of 
patients receiving oral 2.5 mg daily (p=0.002). After 2 years of treatment, 92.8 % of patients receiving 
3 mg injections and 84.7 % of patient receiving 2.5 mg oral therapy had increased or maintained 
lumbar spine BMD (p=0.001). 
For total hip BMD, 82.3 % of patients receiving 3 mg injection every 3 months were responders at one 
year, compared with 75.1 % of patients receiving 2.5 mg daily orally (p=0.02). After 2 years of 
treatment, 85.6 % of patients receiving 3 mg injections and 77.0 % of patient receiving 2.5 mg oral 
therapy had increased or maintained total hip BMD (p=0.004).  
The proportion of patients who increased or maintained their BMD at one year at both lumbar spine 
and total hip was 76.2 % in the 3 mg injection every 3 months arm and 67.2 % in the 2.5 mg daily 
orally arm (p=0.007). At two years, 80.1 % and 68.8 % of patients met this criterion in the 3 mg every 
3 months injection arm and the 2.5 mg daily arm (p=0.001).  
Biochemical markers of bone turn-over  
Clinically meaningful reductions in serum CTX levels were observed at all time points measured. At 
12 months median relative changes from baseline were –58.6 % for the intravenous injection of 3 mg 
every 3 months regimen and –62.6 % for oral 2.5 mg daily regimen. In addition, 64.8 % of patients 
receiving 3 mg every 3 months injection were identified as responders (defined as a decrease ≥ 50 % 
from baseline), compared with 64.9 % of patients receiving 2.5 mg daily orally. Serum CTX reduction 
was maintained over the 2 years, with more than half of the patients identified as responders in both 
treatment groups.  
Based on the results of study BM 16550, ibandronic acid 3 mg intravenous injection, administered 
every 3 months is expected to be at least as effective in preventing fractures as the oral regimen of 
ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily. 
Ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily tablets  
In the initial three-year, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fracture study (MF 4411), a 
statistically significant and medically relevant decrease in the incidence of new radiographic 
morphometric and clinical vertebral fractures was demonstrated (table 3). In this study, ibandronic acid 
was evaluated at oral doses of 2.5 mg daily and 20 mg intermittently as an exploratory regimen. 
Ibandronic acid was taken 60 minutes before the first food or drink of the day (post-dose fasting 
period). The study enrolled women aged 55 to 80 years, who were at least 5 years postmenopausal, 
who had a BMD at the lumbar spine of -2 to -5 SD below the premenopausal mean (T-score) in at least 
one vertebra [L1-L4], and who had one to four prevalent vertebral fractures. All patients received 500 
mg calcium and 400 IU vitamin D daily. Efficacy was evaluated in 2,928 patients. Ibandronic acid 2.5 
mg administered daily, showed a statistically significant and medically relevant reduction in the 
incidence of new vertebral fractures. This regimen reduced the occurrence of new radiographic 
vertebral fractures by 62 % (p=0.0001) over the three year duration of the study. A relative risk 
reduction of 61 % was observed after 2 years (p=0.0006). No statistically significant difference was 
attained after 1 year of treatment (p=0.056). The anti-fracture effect was consistent over the duration of 
the study. There was no indication of a waning of the effect over time. 
The incidence of clinical vertebral fractures was also significantly reduced by 49 % after 3 years 
(p=0.011). The strong effect on vertebral fractures was furthermore reflected by a statistically 
significant reduction of height loss compared to placebo (p<0.0001). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Results from 3 years fracture study MF 4411 (%, 95 % CI) 
Placebo 
(N=974) 
ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily 
(N=977) 
62% (40.9, 75.1) 
9.56% (7.5, 11.7) 
4.68% (3.2, 6.2) 
49% (14.03, 69.49) 
5.33% (3.73, 6.92) 
2.75% (1.61, 3.89) 
1.26% (0.8, 1.7) 
6.54% (6.1, 7.0) 
Relative risk reduction  
New morphometric vertebral 
fractures  
Incidence of new 
morphometric vertebral 
fractures  
Relative risk reduction of 
clinical vertebral fracture  
Incidence of clinical vertebral 
fracture  
BMD – mean change relative 
to baseline lumbar spine at 
year 3  
BMD – mean change relative 
to baseline total hip at year 3  
-0.69% 
(-1.0, -0.4) 
3.36% 
(3.0, 3.7) 
The treatment effect of ibandronic acid was further assessed in an analysis of the subpopulation of 
patients who, at baseline, had a lumbar spine BMD T-score below –2.5 (table 4). The vertebral fracture 
risk reduction was very consistent with that seen in the overall population. 
Table 4: Results from 3 years fracture study MF 4411 (%, 95 % CI) for patients with lumbar spine 
BMD T-score below –2.5 at baseline 
Relative Risk Reduction  
New morphometric vertebral 
fractures  
Incidence of new 
morphometric vertebral 
fractures  
Relative risk reduction of 
clinical vertebral fracture  
Incidence of clinical vertebral 
fracture  
BMD – mean change relative 
to baseline lumbar spine at 
year 3  
BMD – mean change relative 
to baseline total hip at year 3  
Placebo 
(N=587) 
ibandronic acid 2.5 mg daily 
(N=575) 
59% (34.5, 74.3)  
12.54% (9.53, 15.55)  
5.36% (3.31, 7.41)  
50% (9.49, 71.91)  
6.97% (4.67, 9.27)  
3.57% (1.89, 5.24)  
1.13% (0.6, 1.7)  
7.01% (6.5, 7.6)  
-0.70% (-1.1, -0.2)  
3.59% (3.1, 4.1)  
In the overall patient population of the study MF4411, no reduction was observed for non-vertebral 
fractures, however daily ibandronic acid appeared to be effective in a high-risk subpopulation (femoral 
neck BMD T-score < -3.0), where a non-vertebral fracture risk reduction of 69 % was observed.  
Daily oral treatment with ibandronic acid 2.5 mg tablets resulted in progressive increases in BMD at 
vertebral and nonvertebral sites of the skeleton.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three-year lumbar spine BMD increase compared to placebo was 5.3 % and 6.5 % compared to 
baseline. Increases at the hip compared to baseline were 2.8 % at the femoral neck, 3.4 % at the total 
hip, and 5.5 % at the trochanter.  
Biochemical markers of bone turnover (such as urinary CTX and serum Osteocalcin) showed the 
expected pattern of suppression to premenopausal levels and reached maximum suppression within a 
period of 3 - 6 months of using 2.5 mg ibandronic acid daily. 
A clinically meaningful reduction of 50 % of biochemical markers of bone resorption was observed as 
early as one month after starting treatment with ibandronic acid 2.5 mg.  
Paediatric population (see section 4.2 and section 5.2).  
Ibandronic acid was not studied in the paediatric population, therefore no efficacy or safety data are 
available for this patient population. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The primary pharmacological effects of ibandronic acid on bone are not directly related to actual 
plasma concentrations, as demonstrated by various studies in animals and humans.  
Plasma concentrations of ibandronic acid increase in a dose-proportional manner after intravenous 
administration of 0.5 mg to 6 mg. 
Absorption  
Not applicable  
Distribution  
After initial systemic exposure, ibandronic acid rapidly binds to bone or is excreted into urine. In 
humans, the apparent terminal volume of distribution is at least 90 l and the amount of dose reaching 
the bone is estimated to be 40 – 50 % of the circulating dose. Protein binding in human plasma is 
approximately 85 % - 87 % (determined in vitro at therapeutic ibandronic acid concentrations), and 
thus there is a low potential for interaction with other medicinal products due to displacement. 
Biotransformation  
There is no evidence that ibandronic acid is metabolised in animals or humans.  
Elimination  
Ibandronic acid is removed from the circulation via bone absorption (estimated to be 40 – 50 % in 
postmenopausal women) and the remainder is eliminated unchanged by the kidney.  
The range of observed apparent half-lives is broad, the apparent terminal half-life is generally in the 
range of 10 - 72 hours. As the values calculated are largely a function of the duration of study, the dose 
used, and assay sensitivity, the true terminal half-life is likely to be substantially longer, in common 
with other bisphosphonates. Early plasma levels fall quickly, reaching 10 % of the peak values within 
3 and 8 hours after intravenous or oral administration, respectively.  
Total clearance of ibandronic acid is low with average values in the range 84 - 160 ml/min. Renal 
clearance (about 60 ml/min in healthy postmenopausal females) accounts for 50 – 60 % of total 
clearance, and is related to creatinine clearance. The difference between the apparent total and renal 
clearances is considered to reflect the uptake by bone.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The secretory pathway appears not to include known acidic or basic transport systems involved in the 
excretion of other active substances.(see section 4.5). In addition, ibandronic acid does not inhibit the 
major human hepatic P450 isoenzymes and does not induce the hepatic cytochrome P450 system in 
rats. 
Pharmacokinetics in special clinical situations  
Gender  
Pharmacokinetics of ibandronic acid are similar in men and women.  
Race  
There is no evidence for any clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences between Asians and 
Caucasians in ibandronic acid disposition. There is limited data available on patients of African origin. 
Patients with renal impairment  
Renal clearance of ibandronic acid in patients with various degrees of renal impairment is linearly 
related to creatinine clearance (CLcr).  
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment (CLcr equal or 
above 30 ml/min).  
Subjects with severe renal impairment (CLcr less than 30 ml/min) receiving daily oral administration 
of 10 mg ibandronic acid for 21 days, had 2 - 3 fold higher plasma concentrations than subjects with 
normal renal function and total clearance of ibandronic acid was 44 ml/min. After intravenous 
administration of 0.5 mg of ibandronic acid, total, renal, and non-renal clearances decreased by 67 %, 
77 % and 50 %, respectively, in subjects with severe renal failure, but there was no reduction in 
tolerability associated with the increase in exposure. Due to the limited clinical experience, ibandronic 
acid is not recommended in patients with severe renal impairment (see section 4.2 and section 4.4). 
The pharmacokinetics of ibandronic acid in patients with end-stage renal disease was only assessed in 
a small number of patients managed by haemodialysis, therefore, the pharmacokinetics of ibandronic 
acid in the patients not undergoing haemodialysis is unknown. Due to the limited data available, 
ibandronic acid should not be used in all patients with end-stage renal disease.  
Patients with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2)  
There are no pharmacokinetic data for ibandronic acid in patients who have hepatic impairment. The 
liver has no significant role in the clearance of ibandronic acid, which is not metabolised but is cleared 
by renal excretion and by uptake into bone. Therefore dose adjustment is not necessary in patients with 
hepatic impairment.  
Elderly population (see section 4.2)  
In a multivariate analysis, age was not found to be an independent factor of any of the pharmacokinetic 
parameters studied. As renal function decreases with age, renal function is the only factor to take into 
consideration (see renal impairment section). 
Paediatric population (see section 4.2 and section 5.1)  
There are no data on the use of ibandronic acid in patients less than 18 years old. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Toxic effects, e.g. signs of renal damage, were observed in dogs only at exposures considered 
sufficiently in excess of the maximum human exposure, indicating little relevance to clinical use.  
Mutagenicity/Carcinogenicity:  
No indication of carcinogenic potential was observed. Tests for genotoxicity revealed no evidence of 
genetic activity for ibandronic acid.  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproductive toxicity:  
Specific studies for the 3-monthly dosing regimen have not been performed. In studies with daily i.v. 
dosing regimen, there was no evidence for a direct foetal toxic or teratogenic effect of ibandronic acid 
in rats and rabbits. Body weight gain was decreased in F1
rats by the oral route effects on fertility consisted of increased preimplantation losses at dose levels of 
1 mg/kg/day and higher. In reproductive studies in rats by the intravenous route, ibandronic acid 
decreased sperm counts at doses of 0.3 and 1 mg/kg/day and decreased fertility in males at 1 
mg/kg/day and in females at 1.2 mg/kg/day. Other adverse reactions to ibandronic acid in reproductive 
toxicity studies in the rat were those observed with bisphosphonates as a class. They include a 
decreased number of implantation sites, interference with natural delivery (dystocia), and an increase 
in visceral variations (renal pelvis ureter syndrome). 
offspring in rats. In reproductive studies in 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium chloride  
Acetic acid, glacial 
Sodium acetate trihydrate  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Ibandronic acid solution for injection must not be mixed with calcium-containing solutions or other 
intravenously administered medicinal products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Pre-filled syringes made of colourless glass, the grey plunger rubber stopper and tip cap, containing 3 
ml of solution for injection.  
Packs of 1 pre-filled syringe and 1 injection needle or 4 pre-filled syringes and 4 injection needles.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Where the medicinal product is administered into an existing intravenous infusion line, the infusate 
should be restricted to either isotonic saline or 50 mg/ml (5 %) glucose solution. This also applies to 
solutions used to flush butterfly and other devices.  
Any unused solution for injection, syringe and injection needle should be disposed of in accordance 
with local requirements. The release of pharmaceuticals in the environment should be minimized.  
The following points should be strictly adhered to regarding the use and disposal of syringes and other 
medicinal sharps:  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Needles and syringes should never be reused.  
•  Place all used needles and syringes into a sharps container (puncture-proof disposable 
container).  
•  Keep this container out of the reach of children.  
•  Placing used sharps containers in the household waste should be avoided.  
•  Dispose of the full container according to local requirements or as instructed by your healthcare 
professional. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/798/005 
EU/1/12/798/006 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 November 2012 
Date of latest renewal: 18 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg  and  6 mg concentrate for solution for infusion (for oncology 
indications) 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solutionfor injection (for osteoporosos indications)   
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  
• 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
The MAH shall ensure that a patient reminder card regarding osteonecrosis of the jaw is 
implemented. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
ibandronic acid  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 2 mg of ibandronic acid (as sodium monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium chloride, sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid and water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial (2 mg/2 ml) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use, for infusion after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Read the package leaflet for the shelf life after dilution. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/798/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
[Justification for not including Braille accepted] 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.> 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN: 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg sterile concentrate 
ibandronic acid 
IV use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER<, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES> 
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2 mg/2 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ibandronic acid Accord 6 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
ibandronic acid  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 6 mg of ibandronic acid (as sodium monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium chloride, sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid and water for injections. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial (6 mg/6 ml) 
5 vials (6 mg/6 ml) 
10 vials (6 mg/6 ml) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use, for infusion after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Read the package leaflet for the shelf life after dilution. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/798/002 
EU/1/12/798/003   
EU/1/12/798/004   
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
[Justification for not including Braille accepted] 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.> 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN: 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ibandronic acid Accord 6 mg sterile concentrate 
ibandronic acid 
IV use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER<, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES> 
Lot  
5.        CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6 mg/6 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
Ibandronic acid 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One pre-filled syringe of 3 ml solution contains 3 mg of ibandronic acid (as sodium monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients:  sodium  chloride,  acetic  acid,  glacial,  sodium  acetate  trihydrate  and  water  for  injections. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection  
1 pre-filled syringe + 1 injection needle 
4 pre-filled syringes + 4 injection needles 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
For intravenous use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS 
OR  WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS,  IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/12/798/005 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/12/798/006 4 pre-filled syringe 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
[Justification for not including Braille accepted] 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.> 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN: 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg injection  
Ibandronic acid  
IV  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
Ibandronic acid Accord 6 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
ibandronic acid 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
•  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
• 
• 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ibandronic acid Accord is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you receive Ibandronic acid Accord  
3.  How to receive Ibandronic acid Accord  
4.  Possible side effects   
5.  How to store Ibandronic acid Accord  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ibandronic Acid Accord is and what it is used for 
Ibandronic acid Accord contains the active substance ibandronic acid. This belongs to a group of 
medicines called bisphosphonates. 
Ibandronic acid Accord is used in adults and prescribed to you if you have breast cancer that has 
spread to your bones (called ‘bone metastases’). 
• 
• 
It helps to prevent your bones from breaking (fractures). 
It helps to prevent other bone problems that may need surgery or radiotherapy. 
Ibandronic acid Accord can also be prescribed if you have a raised calcium level in your blood due to a 
tumour. 
Ibandronic acid Accord works by reducing the amount of calcium that is lost from your bones. This 
helps to stop your bones from getting weaker. 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Ibandronic acid Accord  
Do not receive Ibandronic acid Accord 
• 
if you are allergic to ibandronic acid or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6)  
if you have, or have ever had low levels of calcium in your blood 
• 
Do not receive this medicine if any of the above apply to you. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor 
or pharmacist before having Ibandronic acid Accord. 
Warnings and precautions 
A side effect called osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) (bone damage in the jaw) has been reported very 
rarely in the post marketing setting in patients receiving ibandronic acid for cancer-related conditions.  
ONJ can also occur after stopping treatment. 
It is important to try and prevent ONJ developing as it is a painful condition that can be difficult to 
treat. In order to reduce the risk of developing osteonecrosis of the jaw, there are some precautions you 
should take. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before receiving treatment, tell your doctor/nurse (health care professional) if: 
• 
you have any problems with your mouth or teeth such as poor dental health, gum disease, or a 
planned tooth extraction 
you don’t receive routine dental care or have not had a dental check up for a long time 
you are a smoker (as this may increase the risk of dental problems) 
you have previously been treated with a bisphosphonate (used to treat or prevent bone disorders) 
you are taking medicines called corticosteroids (such as prednisolone or dexamethasone) 
you have cancer.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Your doctor may ask you to undergo a dental examination before starting treatment with ibandronic 
acid.  
While being treated, you should maintain good oral hygiene (including regular teeth brushing) and 
receive routine dental check-ups. If you wear dentures you should make sure these fit properly. If you 
are under dental treatment or will undergo dental surgery (e.g. tooth extractions), inform your doctor 
about your dental treatment and tell your dentist that you are being treated with ibandronic acid.  
Contact your doctor and dentist immediately if you experience any problems with your mouth or teeth 
such as loose teeth, pain or swelling, non-healing of sores or discharge, as these could be signs of 
osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before receiving Ibandronic acid Accord: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to any other bisphosphonates. 
if you have high or low levels of vitamin D, calcium or any other minerals. 
if you have kidney problems. 
if you have heart problems and the doctor recommended to limit your daily fluid intake 
Cases of serious, sometimes fatal allergic reaction have been reported in patients treated with 
intravenous ibandronic acid. 
If you experience one of the following symptoms, such as shortness of breath/difficulty breathing, 
tight feeling in throat, swelling of tongue, dizziness, feeling of loss of consciousness, redness or 
swelling of face, body rash, nausea and vomiting, you should immediately alert your doctor or nurse 
(see section 4). 
Children and adolescents 
Ibandronic acid Accord should not be used in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and Ibandronic Acid Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This is because Ibandronic acid Accord can affect the way some other medicines work. 
Also, some other medicines can affect the way Ibandronic acid Accord works. 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are receiving a type of antibiotic injection called 
‘“aminoglycoside”’ such as gentamicin. This is because aminoglycosides and Ibandronic acid Accord 
can both lower the amount of calcium in your blood. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not receive Ibandronic acid Accord if you are pregnant, planning to get pregnant or if you are 
breast-feeding. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
You can drive and use machines as it’s expected that Ibandronic acid Accord has no or negligible 
effect on your ability to drive and use machines. Talk to your doctor first if you want to drive, use 
machines or tools. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, i.e. ‘essentially sodium free’. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
 How to receive Ibandronic Acid Accord 
Receiving this medicine 
• 
Ibandronic acid Accord is normally given by a doctor or other medical staff who have 
experience with the treatment of cancer. 
it is given as an infusion into your vein. 
• 
Your doctor may do regular blood tests while you are receiving Ibandronic acid Accord. This is to 
check that you are being given the right amount of this medicine. 
How much to receive 
Your doctor will work out how much Ibandronic acid Accord you will be given depending on your 
illness. 
If you have breast cancer that has spread to your bones, then the recommended dose is 6 mg every 
3-4 weeks, as an infusion in your vein over at least 15 minutes. 
If you have raised calcium level in your blood due to a tumour then the recommended dose is a single 
administration of 2 mg or 4 mg, depending on the severity of your illness.  
The medicine should be administered as an infusion in your vein over two hours. A repeated dose may 
be considered in case of insufficient response or if your illness reappears. 
Your doctor may adjust your dose and duration of intravenous infusion if you have kidney problems. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
 Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Talk to a nurse or a doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects - 
you may need urgent medical treatment: 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
persistent eye pain and inflammation 
new pain, weakness or discomfort in your thigh, hip or groin. You may have early signs of a 
possible unusual fracture of the thigh bone. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
pain or sore in your mouth or jaw. You may have early signs of severe jaw problems (necrosis 
(dead bone tissue) in the jaw bone). 
Talk to your doctor if you have ear pain, discharge from the ear, and/or an ear infection. These 
could be signs of bone damage in the ear. 
itching, swelling of your face, lips, tongue and throat, with difficulty breathing. You may be 
having a serious, potentially life threatening allergic reaction (see section 2). 
severe adverse skin reactions 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
asthma attack 
Other possible side effects 
Common (may affect upto 1 in 10 people) 
• 
flu-like symptoms, including fever, shaking and shivering, feeling of discomfort, fatigue, bone 
pain and aching muscles and joints. These symptoms usually disappear within a couple of hours 
or days. Talk to a nurse or doctor if any effects become troublesome or last more than a couple 
of days 
rise in body temperature. 
45 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
stomach and tummy pain, indigestion, being sick, vomiting or having diarrhoea (loose bowels) 
low calcium or phosphate levels in your blood 
changes in blood test results such as Gamma GT or creatinine 
a heart rhythm problem called ‘“bundle branch block”’ 
pain in your bone or muscles 
headache, feeling dizzy or feeling weak 
feeling thirsty, sore throat, changes in taste 
swollen legs or feet 
aching joints, arthritis, or other joint problems 
problems with your parathyroid gland 
bruising 
infections 
a problem with your eyes called ‘cataracts’ 
skin problems 
tooth problems. 
Uncommon (may affect less than 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
shaking or shivering 
your body temperature getting too low (hypothermia) 
a condition affecting the blood vessels in your brain called ‘“cerebrovascular disorder”’ (stroke 
or brain bleeding) 
heart and circulatory problems (including palpitations, heart attack, hypertension (high blood 
pressure) and varicose veins) 
changes in your blood cells (‘anaemia’) 
a high level of alkaline phosphatase in your blood 
fluid build up and swelling (‘“lymphoedema”’) 
fluid in your lungs 
stomach problems such as ‘“gastroenteritis”’ or ‘“gastritis”’ 
gallstones 
being unable to pass water (urine), cystitis (bladder inflammation) 
migraine 
pain in your nerves, damaged nerve root 
deafness 
increased sensitivity of sound, taste or touch or changes in smell 
difficulty swallowing 
mouth ulcers, swollen lips (‘“cheilitis”’), oral thrush 
itching or tingling skin around your mouth  
pelvic pain, discharge, itching or pain in the vagina 
a skin growth called a ‘“benign skin neoplasm”’ 
memory loss 
sleep problems, feeling anxious, emotional instability, or mood swings 
skin rash 
hair loss 
injury or pain at the injection site 
weight loss 
kidney cyst(fluid-filled sac in the kidney) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet.You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
46 
 
 
  
 
5. 
How to store Ibandronic acid Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
After dilution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability after dilution in 0.9 % sodium chloride or 5% glucose solution 
has been demonstrated for 36 hours at 25°C and 2°C to 8°C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the solution for infusion should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2° C to 8°C unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic condition. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the solution is not clear or contains particles. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ibandronic acid Accord contains  
• 
The active substance is ibandronic acid. 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
One vial with 2 ml of a concentrate for solution for infusion contains 2 mg ibandronic acid (as 
2.25 mg ibandronate sodium monohydrate). 
Ibandronic acid Accord 6 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
One vial with 6 ml of a concentrate for solution for infusion contains 6 mg ibandronic acid (as 
6.75 mg ibandronate sodium monohydrate). 
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, sodium acetate trihydrate, glacial acetic acid and water 
for injections.  
• 
What Ibandronic acid Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Ibandronic acid Accord is a concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). Colourless, clear 
solution.  
It is supplied in glass vials (type I) with rubber stopper and aluminium seals with flip-off cap. 
Ibandronic acid Accord 2 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
Each vial contains 2 ml of concentrate. Each pack contains 1 vial. 
Ibandronic acid Accord 6 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
Each vial contains 6 ml of concentrate. It is supplied as packs containing 1, 5 or 10 vials. Not all pack 
sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Dosage: Prevention of Skeletal Events in Patients with Breast Cancer and Bone Metastases 
The recommended dose for prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone 
metastases is 6 mg intravenously given every 3-4 weeks. The dose should be infused over at least 
15 minutes. 
Patients with renal impairment 
For patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr ≥50 and <80 ml/min) no dosage adjustment is necessary. 
For patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr ≥30 and <50 ml/min) or severe renal impairment 
(CLcr <30 ml/min) being treated for the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and 
metastatic bone disease the following dosing recommendations should be followed: 
≥30 CLcr <50 
Creatinine Clearance (ml/min) 
≥50 CLcr <80 
Dosage 
6 mg (6 ml of concentrate for 
solution for infusion) 
4 mg (4 ml of concentrate for 
solution for infusion) 
2 mg (2 ml of concentrate for 
solution for infusion) 
1  0.9% sodium chloride solution or 5% glucose solution 
2 Administration every 3 to 4 week 
<30 
Infusion Volume 1 and Time2 
100 ml over 15 minutes 
500 ml over 1 hour 
500 ml over 1 hour 
A 15 minute infusion time has not been studied in cancer patients with CLcr <50 ml/min. 
Dosage: Treatment of Tumour-induced hypercalcaemia 
Ibandronic acid Accord is usually administered in a hospital setting. The dose is determined by the 
doctor considering the following factors. 
Prior to treatment with Ibandronic acid Accord the patient should be adequately rehydrated with 
9 mg/ml (0.9 %) sodium chloride. Consideration should be given to the severity of the hypercalcaemia 
as well as the tumour type. In most patients with severe hypercalcaemia (albumin-corrected serum 
calcium* ≥3 mmol/l or ≥12 mg/dl) 4 mg will be an adequate single dosage. In patients with moderate 
hypercalcaemia (albumin-corrected serum calcium <3 mmol/l or <12 mg/dl) 2 mg is an effective dose. 
The highest dose used in clinical trials was 6 mg but this dose does not add any further benefit in terms 
of efficacy. 
* Note albumin-corrected serum calcium concentrations are calculated as follows: 
Albumin-corrected 
serum calcium 
(mmol/l) 
= 
serum calcium (mmol/l) - [0.02 x albumin (g/l)] + 0.8 
Or 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
= 
serum calcium (mg/dl) + 0.8 x [4 - albumin (g/dl)] 
Albumin-corrected 
serum calcium 
(mg/dl) 
To convert the albumin-corrected serum calcium in mmol/l value to mg/dl, multiply 
by 4. 
In most cases a raised serum calcium level can be reduced to the normal range within 7 days. The 
median time to relapse (re-increase of serum albumin-corrected serum calcium above 3 mmol/l) was 
18-19 days for the 2 mg and 4 mg doses. The median time to relapse was 26 days with a dose of 6 mg. 
Method and route of administration 
Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for solution for infusion should be administered as an intravenous 
infusion. 
For this purpose the contents of the vial are to be used as follows: 
-  Prevention of Skeletal Events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases - added to 100 ml 
isotonic sodium chloride solution or 100 ml 5 % dextrose solution and infused over at least 
15 minutes. See also dosage section above for patients with renal impairment 
-  Treatment of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia - added to 500 ml isotonic sodium chloride solution 
or 500 ml 5% dextrose solution and infused over 2 hours 
Note: 
In order to avoid potential incompatibilities, Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for solution for 
infusion should only be mixed with isotonic sodium chloride solution or with 5% dextrose solution. 
Calcium containing solutions should not be mixed with Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for 
solution for infusion. 
Diluted solutions are for single use. Only clear solutions without particles should be used. 
It is recommended that the product once diluted be used immediately (see point 5 of this leaflet ‘How 
to store Ibandronic Acid Accord’). 
Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for solution for infusion should be administered as an intravenous 
infusion.Care must be taken not to administer Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for solution for 
infusion via intra-arterial or paravenous administration, as this could lead to tissue damage. 
Frequency of administration 
For treatment of tumour induced hypercalcaemia, Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for solution for 
infusion is generally given as a single infusion. 
For the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, the Ibandronic 
acid Accord infusion is repeated at 3-4 week intervals. 
Duration of treatment 
A limited number of patients (50 patients) have received a second infusion for hypercalcaemia. 
Repeated treatment may be considered in case of recurrent hypercalcaemia or insufficient efficacy. 
For patients with breast cancer and bone metastases, Ibandronic acid Accord infusion should be 
administered every 3-4 weeks. In clinical trials, therapy has continued for up to 96 weeks. 
Overdose 
Up to now there is no experience of acute poisoning with Ibandronic acid Accord concentrate for 
solution for infusion. Since both the kidney and the liver were found to be target organs for toxicity in 
preclinical studies with high doses, kidney and liver function should be monitored. 
Clinically relevant hypocalcaemia (very low serum calcium levels) should be corrected by intravenous 
administration of calcium gluconate. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
ibandronic acid 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.  
•  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
• 
• 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ibandronic acid Accord is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you receive Ibandronic acid Accord  
3.  How to use Ibandronic acid Accord  
4.  Possible side effects   
5.  How to store Ibandronic acid Accord  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ibandronic acid Accord is and what it is used for 
Ibandronic acid Accord belongs to a group of medicines called bisphosphonates. It contains the active 
substance ibandronic acid.  
Ibandronic acid Accord may reverse bone loss by stopping more loss of bone and increasing bone 
mass in most women who take it, even though they won’t be able to see or feel a difference. 
Ibandronic acid Accord may help lower the chances of breaking bones (fractures). This reduction in 
fractures was shown for the spine but not for the hip.  
Ibandronic acid Accord is prescribed to you to treat postmenopausal osteoporosis because you 
have an increased risk of fractures. Osteoporosis is a thinning and weakening of the bones, which is 
common in women after the menopause. At the menopause, a woman’s ovaries stop producing the 
female hormone, oestrogen, which helps to keep her skeleton healthy. The earlier a woman reaches the 
menopause, the greater her risk of fractures in osteoporosis.  
Other things that can increase the risk of fractures include: 
• 
not enough calcium and vitamin D in the diet  
• 
smoking cigarettes, or drinking too much alcohol  
• 
not enough walking or other weight-bearing exercise  
• 
a family history of osteoporosis 
A healthy lifestyle will also help you to get the most benefit from your treatment. This includes:  
• 
• 
• 
eating a balanced diet rich in calcium and vitamin D  
walking or other weight-bearing exercise  
not smoking and not drinking too much alcohol 
2.  What you need to know before you receive Ibandronic acid Accord  
Do not use Ibandronic acid Accord 
• 
• 
if you have, or had in the past, low blood calcium. Please consult your doctor  
 if you are allergic to ibandronic acid or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
A side effect called osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) (bone damage in the jaw) has been reported very 
rarely  in  the  post  marketing  setting  in  patients  receiving  ibandronic acid  for  osteoporosis.    ONJ  can 
also occur after stopping treatment.  
It is important to try and prevent ONJ developing as it is a painful condition that can be difficult to 
treat. In order to reduce the risk of developing osteonecrosis of the jaw, there are some precautions you 
should take. 
you have any problems with your mouth or teeth such as poor dental health, gum disease, or a 
Before receiving treatment, tell your doctor/nurse (health care professional) if: 
• 
planned tooth extraction 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
you don’t receive routine dental care or have not had a dental check up for a long time 
you are a smoker (as this may increase the risk of dental problems) 
you have previously been treated with a bisphosphonate (used to treat or prevent bone disorders) 
you are taking medicines called corticosteroids (such as prednisolone or dexamethasone) 
you have cancer 
Your doctor may ask  you to undergo a dental examination before starting treatment with ibandronic 
acid. 
While  being  treated,  you  should  maintain  good  oral  hygiene  (including  regular  teeth  brushing)  and 
receive routine dental check-ups.  If you wear dentures you should make sure these fit properly. If you 
are under dental treatment or will undergo dental surgery (e.g. tooth extractions), inform your doctor 
about your dental treatment and tell your dentist that you are being treated with ibandronic acid. 
Contact your doctor and dentist immediately if you experience any problems with your mouth or teeth 
such as loose teeth, pain or swelling, or non-healing of sores or discharge, as these could be signs of 
osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Some patients need to be especially careful when using Ibandronic acid Accord. Talk to your doctor 
before receiving Ibandronic acid Accord: 
• 
If you have or have ever had kidney problems, kidney failure or have needed dialysis, or if you 
have any other disease that may affect your kidneys  
• 
• 
• 
If you have any disturbance of mineral metabolism (such as vitamin D deficiency)  
You should take calcium and vitamin-D supplements while receiving Ibandronic acid Accord. If 
you are unable to do so, you should inform your doctor  
If you have heart problems and the doctor recommended to limit your daily fluid intake. 
Cases of serious, sometimes fatal allergic reaction have been reported in patients treated with 
intravenous ibandronic acid. If you experience one of the following symptoms, such as shortness of 
breath/difficulty breathing, tight feeling in throat, swelling of tongue, dizziness, feeling of loss of 
consciousness, redness or swelling of face, body rash, nausea and vomiting, you should immediately 
alert your doctor or nurse (see section 4). 
Children and adolescents  
Ibandronic acid Accord must not be used in children or adolescents below 18 years. 
Other medicines and Ibandronic acid Accord 
Tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Ibandronic acid Accord is for use only by postmenopausal women and must not be taken by women 
who could still have a baby.  
52 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not take Ibandronic acid Accord if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.  
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.  
Driving and using machines  
You can drive and use machines as it’s expected that Ibandronic acid Accord has no or negligible 
effect on your ability to drive and use machines. 
Ibandronic acid Accord contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose (3 ml), i.e. ‘essentially sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to use Ibandronic acid Accord 
The recommended dose of Ibandronic acid Accord for the intravenous injection is 3 mg (1 pre-filled 
syringe) once every 3 months.  
The injection should be given into the vein by a physician or qualified/trained health care worker. Do 
not administer the injection to yourself.  
The solution for injection must be administered into a vein only, and not anywhere else in the body.  
Continuing to receive Ibandronic acid Accord 
To get the most benefit from the treatment it is important to continue receiving the injections every 3 
months for as long as your doctor prescribes it for you. Ibandronic acid Accord can treat osteoporosis 
only for as long as you keep receiving the treatment, even though you will not be able to see or feel a 
difference. After 5 years of receiving Ibandronic acid Accord, please consult with your doctor whether 
you should continue to receive Ibandronic acid Accord.  
You should also take calcium and vitamin-D supplements, as recommended by your doctor.  
If you use more Ibandronic acid Accord than you should 
You may develop low levels of calcium, phosphorus or magnesium in the blood. Your doctor may take 
steps to correct such changes and may give you an injection containing these minerals.  
If you forget to use Ibandronic acid Accord  
You should arrange an appointment to get the next injection as soon as possible. After that, go back to 
getting the injections every 3 months from the date of the most recent injection. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, or pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Talk to a nurse or a doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious side effects - 
you may need urgent medical treatment: 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people):  
• 
• 
• 
itching, swelling of your face, lips, tongue and throat, with difficulty breathing.  
persistent eye pain and inflammation (if prolonged)  
new pain, weakness or discomfort in your thigh, hip or groin. You may have early signs of a 
possible unusual fracture of the thigh bone.  
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10000 people):  
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pain or sore in your mouth or jaw .You may have early signs of severe jaw problems ( necrosis 
(dead bone tissue) in the jaw bone).  
Talk to your doctor if you have ear pain, discharge from the ear, and/or an ear infection. These 
could be signs of bone damage in the ear. 
serious, potentially life-threatening allergic reaction (see section 2).  
severe adverse skin reactions 
Other possible side effects  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  
• 
• 
headache  
stomach pain (such as gastritis) or tummy pain, , indigestion, nausea, having diarrhoea (loose 
bowels) or constipation  
pain in your muscles, joints, or back  
feeling tired and exhausted 
flu-like symptoms, including fever, shaking and shivering, feeling of discomfort, bone pain and 
aching muscles and joints. Talk to a nurse or doctor if any effects become troublesome or last 
more than a couple of days 
rash 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
• 
• 
inflammation of a vein  
pain or injury at the injection site  
symptoms of low blood calcium levels (hypocalcaemia) including muscle cramps or spasms 
and/or tingling sensation in the fingers or around the mouth 
• 
• 
• 
bone pain  
feeling weak 
asthma attacks 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people):  
• 
 hives 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ibandronic acid Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the syringe after 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
The person giving the injection should throw away any unused solution and put the used syringe and 
injection needle into an appropriate disposal container. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ibandronic acid Accord contains  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
One pre-filled syringe of 3 ml solution contains 3 mg ibandronic acid (as sodium monohydrate).   
Each ml of solution contains 1 mg ibandronic acid.. 
The other ingredients are sodium chloride, acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate and water for 
injections.  
What Ibandronic acid Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringes is a clear colourless solution. 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 3 ml of solution. Ibandronic acid Accord is available in packs of 1 
pre-filled syringe and 1 injection needle or 4 pre-filled syringes and 4 injection needles.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.   
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
Accord Healthcare B.V.,  
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht,  
The Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in {date}. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
This information is intended for healthcare professionals only:  
Please see the summary of product characteristics for more information.  
Administration of Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe should be injected 
intravenously over a period of 15 - 30 seconds.  
The solution is irritant, therefore strict adherence to the intravenous route of administration is 
important. If you inadvertently inject into the tissues around the vein, patients may experience local 
irritation, pain and inflammation at the injection site.  
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe must not be mixed with 
calcium-containing solutions (such as Ringer-Lactate solution, calcium heparin) or other intravenously 
administered medicinal products. Where Ibandronic acid Accord is administered via an existing 
intravenous infusion line, the intravenous infusate should be restricted to either isotonic saline or 50 
mg/ml (5 %) glucose solution.  
Missed dose  
If a dose is missed, the injection should be administered as soon as convenient. Thereafter, injections 
should be scheduled every 3 months from the date of the last injection.  
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overdose  
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdosage with Ibandronic acid Accord.  
Based on knowledge of this class of compounds, intravenous overdosage may result in hypocalcaemia, 
hypophosphataemia, and hypomagnesaemia, which can cause paraesthesia. In severe cases intravenous 
infusion of appropriate doses of calcium gluconate, potassium or sodium phosphate, and magnesium 
sulfate, may be needed.  
General advice  
Ibandronic acid Accord 3 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe like other bisphosphonates 
administered intravenously, may cause a transient decrease in serum calcium values.  
Hypocalcaemia and other disturbances of bone and mineral metabolism should be assessed and 
effectively treated before starting Ibandronic acid Accord injection therapy. Adequate intake of 
calcium and vitamin D is important in all patients. All patients must receive supplemental calcium and 
vitamin D.  
Patients with concomitant diseases, or who use medicinal products which have a potential for 
undesirable effects on the kidney, should be reviewed regularly in line with good medical practice 
during treatment.  
Any unused solution for injection, syringe and injection needle should be disposed of in accordance 
with local requirements. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
