EMA/140299/2015 
EMEA/H/C/002367 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz 
ibandronic acid 
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ibandronic Acid 
Sandoz. It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the 
medicine to reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations 
on the conditions of use for Ibandronic Acid Sandoz. 
What is Ibandronic Acid Sandoz? 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is a medicine that contains the active substance ibandronic acid. It is available 
as tablets (50 mg). 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU). The reference medicine for 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is Bondronat. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-
and-answer document here. 
What is Ibandronic Acid Sandoz used for? 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is used to prevent ‘skeletal events’ (fractures [broken bones] or bone 
complications requiring treatment) in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases (when the 
cancer has spread to the bone). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Ibandronic Acid Sandoz used? 
The recommended dose is one tablet taken once a day. The tablets must always be taken after the 
patient has fasted overnight for at least six hours and at least 30 minutes before the first food or drink 
of the day. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz must be taken with a full glass of plain water (but not mineral water) while 
standing or sitting up, and the tablets should not be chewed, sucked or crushed. The patient must also 
not lie down for one hour after taking the tablets. 
How does Ibandronic Acid Sandoz work? 
The active substance in Ibandronic Acid Sandoz, ibandronic acid, is a bisphosphonate. It stops the 
action of osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. This 
leads to less bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to make bones less likely to break, which is 
useful in preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone metastases. 
How has Ibandronic Acid Sandoz been studied? 
Because Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine. Medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ibandronic Acid Sandoz? 
Because Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Ibandronic Acid Sandoz been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ibandronic Acid Sandoz has been 
shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Bondronat. Therefore, the CHMP’s view 
was that, as for Bondronat, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended 
that Ibandronic Acid Sandoz be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Ibandronic Acid Sandoz is used as safely 
as possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Ibandronic Acid Sandoz, including the appropriate 
precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Ibandronic Acid Sandoz: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Ibandronic 
Acid Sandoz on 26 July 2011.  
The full EPAR for Ibandronic Acid Sandoz can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ibandronic Acid Sandoz, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2015.  
Ibandronic Acid Sandoz  
EMA/140299/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
