EMA/28364/2020  
EMEA/H/C/003853 
Ibrance (palbociclib) 
An overview of Ibrance and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Ibrance and what is it used for? 
Ibrance is a cancer medicine used to treat breast cancer when the cancer is locally advanced (has 
spread nearby) or metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body). Ibrance can only be used when 
the cancer cells have receptors (targets) for certain hormones on their surface (HR-positive) and do 
not produce abnormally large quantities of a receptor called HER2 (HER [human epidermal growth 
factor] negative). Ibrance is used in the following ways: 
• 
• 
together with an aromatase inhibitor (a hormonal medicine for cancer); 
together with fulvestrant (another hormonal medicine for cancer) in patients who have previously 
been treated with a hormonal medicine. 
In women who have not yet reached menopause, a medicine called a luteinising hormone-releasing 
hormone agonist should also be given. 
Ibrance contains the active substance palbociclib.  
How is Ibrance used? 
Ibrance can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines.  
Ibrance is available as capsules and tablets (75 mg, 100 mg and 125 mg). The recommended dose is 
125 mg once a day for 21 consecutive days, followed by a 7-day break to complete a 28-day treatment 
cycle. Treatment should be taken at around the same time each day. The capsules should be taken 
with food while the tablets can be taken with or without food. Treatment should continue for as long as 
the patient is benefitting from it and side effects are tolerable. If the patient experiences certain side 
effects, treatment may need to be interrupted or stopped, or the dose reduced.  
For more information about using Ibrance, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
How does Ibrance work? 
The active substance in Ibrance, palbociclib, blocks the activity of enzymes known as cyclin-dependent 
kinases (CDK) 4 and 6, which play a key role in regulating the way cells grow and divide. In some 
cancers, including HR-positive breast cancer, the activity of CDK 4 and 6 is increased, which helps the 
cancer cells to multiply uncontrollably. By blocking CDK4 and CDK6, Ibrance slows the growth of HR-
positive breast cancer cells. 
What benefits of Ibrance have been shown in studies? 
Ibrance has been studied in two main studies of women with HR-positive, HER2-negative breast 
cancer. In both studies, the main measure of effectiveness was how long patients lived without their 
disease getting worse (progression-free survival). 
The first study involved 521 women with metastatic breast cancer that had got worse after treatment 
with a hormonal medicine. They received either Ibrance and fulvestrant or a placebo (dummy 
medicine) and fulvestrant. Women taking Ibrance and fulvestrant lived on average 11.2 months 
without their disease getting worse compared with 4.6 months for women taking placebo and 
fulvestrant. 
The second study involved 666 women who had been through the menopause and whose breast 
cancer had started to spread and who had not yet received cancer treatment. They received either 
Ibrance and letrozole (an aromatase inhibitor) or placebo and letrozole. Women taking Ibrance and 
letrozole lived on average 24.8 months without their disease getting worse compared with 14.5 
months for women taking placebo and letrozole. 
What are the risks associated with Ibrance? 
The most common side effects with Ibrance (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
neutropenia (low blood levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that fights infection), infections, 
leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), tiredness, nausea (feeling sick), stomatitis (inflammation of 
the lining of the mouth), anaemia (low red blood cell counts), diarrhoea, alopecia (hair loss) and 
thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts). 
The most common severe side effects with Ibrance (which may affect up to 1 in 50 people) are 
neutropenia, leucopenia, infections, anaemia, tiredness and increased blood levels of liver enzymes 
(aspartate and alanine transaminases). 
For the full list of side effects of Ibrance, see the package leaflet. 
Ibrance must not be used by patients who are taking St John’s wort (a herbal preparation used to treat 
depression). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ibrance authorised in the EU? 
Ibrance has been shown to prolong the time patients live without their disease getting worse by an 
average of 6 to 10 months, which is considered of clear clinical value. Regarding safety, the main risk 
is neutropenia, which is a well-known risk of many cancer medicines and is considered manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Ibrance’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
that it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Ibrance (palbociclib)  
EMA/28364/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ibrance? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ibrance have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ibrance are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Ibrance are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Ibrance 
Ibrance received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 9 November 2016. 
Further information on Ibrance can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ibrance.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2020. 
Ibrance (palbociclib)  
EMA/28364/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
