EMA/319422/2021  
EMEA/H/C/000807 
Icandra1 (vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride) 
An overview of Icandra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Icandra and what is it used for? 
Icandra is a diabetes medicine that is used together with diet and exercise to control the blood glucose 
(sugar) in adults with  type 2 diabetes. It is used:   
• 
• 
• 
in patients  whose blood glucose is insufficiently controlled with  metformin taken alone; 
in  patients  who  are  already  taking  the  combination  of  vildagliptin  and  metformin  as  separate 
tablets; 
together  with  other  diabetes  medicines,  including  insulin,  when  these  medicines  do  not  provide 
adequate control of the blood glucose.  
Icandra  contains  the  active  substances  vildagliptin  and  metformin  hydrochloride.  This  medicine  is  the 
same  as  Eucreas,  which  is  already  authorised  in  the  EU.  The  company  that  makes  Eucreas  has  agreed 
that  its scientific data can be used for Icandra (informed consent).  
How is Icandra used? 
Icandra  is  available  as  tablets  (50 mg/850 mg  and  50 mg/1,000 mg),  and  the   recommended  dose is 
one  tablet  twice  a  day  (one  in  the  morning  and  one  in  the  evening).  The  starting  tablet  strength 
depends on the patient’s current treatment and the expected effects of Icandra. Taking Icandra with or 
just after food may reduce any stomach problems caused by metformin. 
The doctor should carry out tests to check the patient’s kidney and liver function before treatment with 
Icandra and at regular intervals during treatment. 
The  medicine  can  only  be  obtained  with  a  prescription.  For  more  information  about  using Icandra,  see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Icandra work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the glucose 
level  in  the  blood  or  the  body  is  unable  to  use  insulin  effectively.  Icandra  contains  two  active 
substances, each with  a different mode of action.   
1
 Previously known as Vildagliptin/metformin hydrochloride Novartis 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European  Union       
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vildagliptin  is  a  dipeptidyl  peptidase-4  (DPP-4)  inhibitor  that  works  by  blocking  the  breakdown  of 
incretin  hormones  in  the  body. These  hormones  are  released after  a  meal and  stimulate  the  pancreas 
to  produce  insulin.  By  blocking  the  breakdown  of  incretin  hormones  in  the  blood, vildagliptin  prolongs 
their  action,  stimula ting  the  pancreas  to  produce  more  insulin  when  blood  glucose  levels  are  high. 
Vildagliptin  does  not  work  when  the  blood  glucose  is  low.  Vildagliptin  also  reduces  the  amount  of 
glucose  made  by  the  liver,  by  increasing  insulin  levels  and  decreasing  the  levels  of  the  hormone 
glucagon.  
Metformin  works  mainly  by  inhibiting  glucose  production  and  reducing  its  absorption  in  the  gut.  As  a 
result  of  the  action  of  both  substances,  the  blood  glucose  is  reduced,  which  helps  to  control  type  2 
diabetes. 
What benefits of Icandra have been shown in studies? 
Vildagliptin  on  its  own  is  approved  for  use  in  the  EU  under  the  name Galvus, and  metformin  has  been 
available in the EU since 1959. Vildagliptin can be used with metformin in type 2 diabetes patients who  
are not  satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. 
Studies  with  Galvus  as  an  add-on  to  metformin,  metformin  and  a  sulphonylurea,  or  metformin  and 
insulin  have  been  used  to  support  the  use  of  Icandra  in  the  same  indications.  The  stud ies compared 
Galvus  with  placebo  (a  dummy  treatment)  and  measured  the  levels of  a  substance  in  the  blood  called 
glycosylated  haemoglobin  (HbA1c),  which  gives  an  indication  of  how  well  the  blood   glucose  is 
controlled. 
Vildagliptin  has  been  shown  to  be  more  effective  than placebo  at  reducing  HbA1c  levels  when  it  was 
added  to  metformin.  Patients  adding  vildagliptin  had  falls  in  HbA1c  levels  of  0.88  percentage  points 
after  24  weeks  from  a  starting  level  of  8.38%.  In  contrast,  patients  adding  placebo  had  smaller 
changes  in  HbA1c  levels,  with  a  rise  of  0.23  percentage  points  from a  starting  level  of  8.3%.  In  other 
studies,  vildagliptin  in  combination  with  metformin  has  been  shown  to  be  more  effective than  placebo 
when used with  a sulphonylurea or insulin. 
The  applicant  also  presented  the  results  of  two  studies  showing  that  the  active  substances  in  the  two 
strengths of Icandra were absorbed in the body in the same way as when they were taken as separate 
tablets. 
What are the risks associated with Icandra? 
The  most  common  side  effects  with Icandra  (seen  in  more  than  1  pa tient  in  10)  are  nausea  (feeling 
sick), vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal (belly) pain and loss of appetite. For the full list of all side effects 
reported with  Icandra, see the  package leaflet. 
Icandra  must  not  be  used  in  people  who are  hypersensitive  (allergic)  to  vildagliptin,  metformin or  any 
of  the  other  ingredients.  Icandra  must  also  not  be  used  in  patients  with  certain  kidney,  liver  or  heart 
problems  or  those who  could  develop  metabolic  acidosis  (build-up  of  acid  in  the  blood).  It  mus t  also 
not  be  used  in  patients  who  consume  excessive  amounts  of  alcohol  or  who  have  alcoholism,  or  in 
women who are breastfeeding. For the  full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Icandra authorised in the EU? 
Studies  have  shown  that  vildagliptin  taken  with  metformin  is  effective in  reducing  blood  glucose  levels 
and  that  the  combination  of  vildagliptin and  metformin  was  effective as  an  add-on  to  a sulphonylurea 
or  insulin.  The  combination  of  the  two  active  substances vildagliptin  and  metformin  in  one  tablet  may 
Icandra (vildagliptin Icandra0F (vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/319422/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
help  patients  to   stick  to   their  treatment.  The  European  Medicines  Agency  therefore  decided  that  
Icandra’ benefits are greater than  its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What  measures  are  being  taken  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of 
Icandra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and  effective  use  of  Icandra  have  been  included  in  the  summary  of  product  characteristics  and  the 
package leaflet. 
As  for  all  medicines,  data  on  the  use  of  Icandra  are  continuously  monitored.  Suspected  side  effects 
reported with  the medicine are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to  protect patients. 
Other information about Icandra 
Vildagliptin/metformin  hydrochloride  Novartis  received  a  marketing  authorisation  valid  throughout  the 
EU on 1 December 2008. The name of the medicine was changed to Icandra on 6 February 2009.  
Further 
information 
on 
Icandra 
can 
be 
found 
on 
the 
Agency’s 
website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/icandra. 
This overview was last updated in  06-2021. 
Icandra (vildagliptin Icandra0F (vildagliptin / metformin hydrochloride)  
EMA/319422/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
