EMA/308584/2021 
EMEA/H/C/0005083 
Icatibant Accord (icatibant) 
An overview of Icatibant Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Icatibant Accord and what is it used for? 
Icatibant Accord is a medicine used to treat the symptoms of hereditary angioedema in patients aged 2 
years and over. 
Patients with angioedema have rapid swelling that can occur anywhere in the body, such as in the face 
or limbs, or around the gut, causing discomfort and pain. Attacks of hereditary angioedema can be life 
threatening when the swelling around the throat presses against the airway. Icatibant Accord is used in 
patients whose angioedema is linked to naturally low levels of a protein called ‘C1 esterase inhibitor’. 
Icatibant Accord contains the active substance icatibant and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Icatibant Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Firazyr. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Icatibant Accord used? 
Treatment with Icatibant Accord should be started under the supervision of a healthcare professional. 
Icatibant Accord is available as a solution in a pre-filled syringe to be injected slowly under the skin, 
preferably in the abdomen (belly). The doctor may decide that the patient or their caregiver can inject 
the medicine themselves, after they have been trained by a healthcare professional.  
The recommended dose of Icatibant Accord in adults is one single injection. If symptoms continue or 
come back, a second injection can be given after 6 hours. If needed, treatment can be repeated for a 
third time after an additional 6 hours. No more than three injections should be given in any 24-hour 
period. The dose for adolescents and children depends on their body weight.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For more information about using Icatibant Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Icatibant Accord work? 
Patients with hereditary angioedema have high levels of a substance called ‘bradykinin’, which is 
involved in causing inflammation and swelling. The active substance in Icatibant Accord, icatibant, 
blocks the receptors that bradykinin normally attaches to. This blocks the activity of bradykinin, 
helping to relieve the symptoms of the disease. 
How has Icatibant Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Firazyr, and do not need to be repeated for Icatibant Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Icatibant Accord. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Icatibant Accord is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because the 
composition of Icatibant Accord is very similar to the reference medicine and when given by injection 
under the skin, the active substance in both products is expected to be absorbed in the same way. 
What are the benefits and risks of Icatibant Accord? 
Because Icatibant Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Icatibant Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Icatibant Accord 
has been shown to be comparable to Firazyr. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Firazyr, the 
benefits of Icatibant Accord outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Icatibant Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Icatibant Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Icatibant Accord are continuously monitored. Suspected side 
effects reported with Icatibant Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to 
protect patients. 
Other information about Icatibant Accord 
Icatibant Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 July 2021. 
Further information on Icatibant Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/icatibant-accord. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 07-2021. 
Icatibant Accord (icatibant)  
EMA/308584/2021  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
