Summary of risk management plan for Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution 
for injection in pre-filled syringe (Icatibant) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for 
injection in pre-filled syringe. The RMP details important risks of Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution 
for injection in pre-filled syringe, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Icatibant  Accord  30  mg  solution  for  injection  in  pre-filled  syringe’s  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment 
Report (EPAR). 
Important  new concerns  or changes to  the current  ones will be included in  updates of  Icatibant 
Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Icatibant Accord is indicated for symptomatic treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema 
(HAE)  in  adults,  adolescents  and  children  aged  2  years  and  older,  with  C1-esterase-inhibitor 
deficiency. 
It contains Icatibant as the active substance and it is administered by subcutaneous route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled 
syringe’s benefits can be found in Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/icatibant-accord. 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
Icatibant RMP Version 1.1 
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe, together with 
measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Icatibant Accord 
30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Icatibant  Accord  30  mg  solution  for 
injection in pre-filled syringe is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe are risks that 
need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the 
medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Icatibant 
Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information 
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on 
the long-term use of the medicine). 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
Icatibant RMP Version 1.1 
Important identified risk 
• 
Injection site reactions 
Important potential risk 
•  Deterioration  of  cardiac  function  under  ischaemic  conditions 
due to bradykinin antagonism 
•  Partial bradykinin agonism (excluding injection site reactions) 
•  Antigenicity manifesting as drug hypersensitivity and lack of 
efficacy 
•  Lack of efficacy 
•  Medication errors 
•  Effect  on  reproductive  hormone  levels  in  pubertal  /  post-
pubertal children 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnant and lactating women 
•  Use in children below 2 years of age 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Icatibant Accord 30 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
as post-authorisation development plan. 
 
 
