Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Background information 
Ponatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), designed with the purpose of inhibiting the kinase activity 
of native BCR-ABL, and all mutant variants, including ‘gatekeeper’ T315I. 
The Marketing Authorisation was granted by the European Commission on 1 July 2013 for the following 
indications in adult patients:  
• 
• 
chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) who are 
resistant to dasatinib or nilotinib; who are intolerant to dasatinib or nilotinib and for whom 
subsequent treatment with imatinib is not clinically appropriate; or who have the T315I 
mutation and  
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) who are resistant 
to dasatinib; who are intolerant to dasatinib and for whom subsequent treatment with imatinib 
is not clinically appropriate; or who have the T315I mutation.   
In October 2013, the EMA was informed that the rate of vascular occlusive events was higher than 
observed in the clinical trials that supported the initial marketing authorisation. A type II variation was 
submitted and additional risk minimisation measures such as updates to the product information were 
put in place. However, there were a number of outstanding issues which could not be resolved within 
the expedited variation procedure and which required a further review of the benefit-risk balance of 
Iclusig. These included further consideration of the PK-PD profile of ponatinib to determine the optimal 
dosing in all patient populations and indications (including recommendations for initial dose and dose 
reductions), further assessment of the nature, severity and frequency of all treatment-emergent 
vascular occlusive adverse events (and possible sequelae), and heart failure, exploration of the 
potential mechanisms of action leading to vascular occlusive events and consideration of the 
possibilities for further risk minimisation measures. Therefore the European Commission triggered a 
procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 on 27 November 2013. 
Scientific discussion 
Non-clinical issues 
As part of the assessment of potential causes that may lead to an increased occurrence of vascular 
occlusive events in ponatinib treated patients, molecular mechanisms based on on-target and off-
target effects were discussed. A number of plausible molecular mechanism exists that may contribute 
to vascular occlusive events. Further non-clinical studies will be conducted with the aim to further 
characterise the potential mechanisms for vascular occlusive events with ponatinib treatment.  
Clinical issues 
The overall safety profile for ponatinib is generally consistent with that considered at the time of 
marketing authorisation, with the notable addition of the risk of vascular occlusive events.  A total of 
81 (18%) patients on the phase 2 study (n=449) have experienced serious vascular occlusive events 
and overall, a total of 101 patients (23%) have experienced vascular occlusive events (serious and 
non-serious). The incidence of arterial thrombotic events (per 100 patient years) remains relatively 
constant.   
In view of the high risk for vascular occlusive events, the PRAC considered that it should be made clear 
in the product information that ponatinib should be discontinued in patients who do not respond to 
treatment (no haematologic response by 3 months).  
62 
 
 
Serious cardiac failure events have occurred in a total of 23 patients (5.1%). The majority of cases of 
cardiac failure occurred in patients at known risk from underlying disease, cardiovascular risk factors 
and prior treatment with cardiotoxic medications including other TKIs. There is also an association 
between vascular occlusive events and a risk of cardiac failure as a secondary event. It is therefore 
appropriate to reinforce existing recommendations for the cardiovascular status of the patient to be 
assessed before initiating treatment. 
The possible role of anti-platelet, anti-coagulant or lipid lowering drugs in reducing the risk of vascular 
occlusive events remains uncertain. Therefore no formal recommendation can be issued regarding 
concomitant the use of these agents and the potential risks of haemorrhage with anti-platelet and anti-
coagulant agents in ponatinib treated patients need to be considered. 
The risk of vascular occlusive events is likely to be dose related and therefore a dose reduction would 
be expected to reduce the risk of vascular occlusive events. The PRAC considered whether a 
recommendation for dose reduction (in the absence of an adverse event) in patients with chronic 
phase CML who have achieved major cytogenetic response was appropriate. Efficacy data in relation to 
dose reduction indicates that patients who have been dose reduced maintained response (MCyR and 
MMR) for the duration of the currently available follow-up. This raises the question of whether similar 
outcomes in terms of efficacy could be achieved with lower (starting and/or maintenance) doses, which 
are expected to reduce the risk of vascular occlusive events. However these data include a relatively 
small number of patients, most of which had been dose reduced due to adverse events, and follow-up 
time is limited. It is therefore unclear whether the maintenance of response observed in this particular 
group of patients can be generalised to the CP-CML population. While these data can be useful for 
physicians considering dose reduction, it is currently considered insufficient to adopt a formal 
recommendation for dose reduction in patients who have not experienced an adverse event. 
Conducting further studies aimed at clarifying the dose-efficacy relationship of ponatinib is considered 
key to allow exploration of dose reduction in the context of risk minimisation, which could ultimately 
lead to improving the benefit-risk balance of the product. A dose-ranging study will be conducted in 
patients with CP-CML in order to determine the optimal starting dose of Iclusig and characterise the 
safety and efficacy of Iclusig following dose reductions after achieving MCyR. This study is considered 
key to the benefit-risk of ponatinib and has been imposed as a condition to the marketing 
authorisation.     
Risk minimisation measures 
The Product Information for Iclusig was revised to include the following: 
•  Updated recommendations to assess cardiovascular status and consider alternative treatments 
where appropriate. 
• 
Inclusion of safety and efficacy data following dose reduction in CP-CML patients who have 
achieved MCyR to inform physicians of the currently available data on dose reduction. 
•  Discontinuation of treatment if haematologic response has not occurred by 3 months. 
•  Additional warnings about hypertension, cardiac failure and risk of bleeding with anti-clotting 
agents. 
•  Updated information on adverse reactions. 
An additional risk minimisation activity was required by the PRAC. The MAH shall provide relevant 
healthcare professionals with educational material highlighting important medical risks for which 
63 
 
 
 
monitoring and/or dose adjustment are recommended, instructions on management of adverse events 
based on monitoring and dose modifications or treatment withdrawal and available data on the 
relationship between dose and risk of vascular occlusive events.  
Overall conclusion 
Based on the totality of the data assessed during the procedure and on the advice from the Scientific 
Advisory Group for oncology, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Iclusig remains 
favourable taking into account the product information amendments and subject to the risk 
minimisation measures and additional pharmacovigilance activities agreed. 
Grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered Iclusig (ponatinib) in the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004, initiated by the European Commission. 
The PRAC reviewed all data presented by the MAH on the safety and efficacy of Iclusig, as well as 
the views expressed by the oncology scientific advisory group. 
The PRAC took note of the serious risk of vascular occlusive events associated with Iclusig, which is 
likely to be dose-related.  
The PRAC also considered the currently available data on dose-efficacy and dose-toxicity 
relationship, and concluded that it was too limited to allow for a formal recommendation for dose 
reduction as a risk minimisation measure in patients who have not experienced toxicity. 
Nevertheless the Committee agreed that it is important to reflect these data in the product 
information.  
The PRAC also noted that, although limited, the data in chronic phase CML is indicative of 
maintenance of response in patients who are dose reduced and therefore it was considered 
important to generate further data on the dose-efficacy relationship to potentially inform future 
risk minimisation measures.      
The PRAC is therefore of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of Iclusig remains favourable taking 
into account the product information amendments and subject to the risk minimisation measures and 
additional pharmacovigilance activities agreed. 
The PRAC has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Iclusig. 
The PRAC also recommended that a dose-ranging study be conducted in patients with CP-CML in order 
to determine the optimal starting dose of Iclusig and characterise the safety and efficacy of Iclusig 
following dose reductions after achieving major cytogenetic response. 
64 
 
 
CHMP opinion 
The CHMP, having considered the PRAC recommendation, agrees with the overall scientific conclusions 
by the PRAC and is of the opinion that the marketing authorisation for Iclusig should be varied.  
 
 
