PART VI  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ICLUSIG 
(PONATINIB) 
This is a summary of the RMP for Iclusig.  The RMP details important risks of Iclusig, how 
these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Iclusig's risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Iclusig's SmPC and its PL give essential information to HCPs and patients on how Iclusig should 
be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Iclusig should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Iclusig's 
RMP. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
I 
Iclusig is authorised for use in adult patients with CML and Ph+ ALL (see SmPC for the full 
indication).  It contains Ponatinib as the active substance and it is given by either 45 mg, 30 mg 
or 15 mg film-coated tablets once daily. 
Further information about the evaluation of Iclusig’s benefits can be found in Iclusig’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage (https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/iclusig).  
II 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of Iclusig, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Iclusig 's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
II.A 
Important risks of Iclusig are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Iclusig.  Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 19: 
Lists of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
Serious Infections 
Vascular occlusion events, comprising: 
•  Arterial Occlusive Events (AOEs) 
o  Cardiac Arterial Occlusive events 
o  Cerebral Arterial Occlusive events 
o  Peripheral Vascular Arterial Occlusive events 
o  Retinal Arterial Occlusive events and Vision Loss 
•  Venous Thrombotic/Embolic Events (VTEs) 
o  Retinal Vein Thrombotic events and Vision Loss 
Important potential risks 
Teratogenicity 
Missing information 
None 
II.B 
Table 20: 
Summary of Important Risks 
Summary of Important Identified Risk Serious Infections 
Important Identified Risk: Serious Infections 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical studies and post-marketing data 
Patients with leukemias typically are affected by nuisance 
infections due to the underlying hematologic condition. With active 
treatment, particularly those agents that cause defects in cell-
mediated immunity, the incidence of opportunistic infections 
increases, although endogenous bacterial, mycobacterial, and fungal 
infections also occur (Young, 2011). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8 and PL section 4.  
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
None 
Table 21: 
Summary of Important Identified Risk Vascular Occlusion Events 
Important Identified Risk: Vascular occlusion events 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical studies and post-marketing data  
Risk factors for each category of vascular occlusion are given 
below, and include prior history of an event, hypertension, diabetes, 
smoking, hypercholesterolemia, and family history.  A recent study 
suggests that the generation of NETs may be a mechanism by 
which cancers are prothrombotic (Demers et al 2012).  NETs are 
associated with bacterial killing (Brinkmann et al, 2004), and, more 
recently, with thrombotic processes (Fuchs et al, 2010, 
Brill et al, 2012).  The authors demonstrated that neutrophils from 
mice with CML-like myeloproliferative neoplasia generated NETs 
in vivo.  When neutrophils were isolated and stimulated in vitro 
with platelet-activating factor, they generated NETs to a degree 
higher than would be predicted by the percentage of BCR-ABL1+ 
neutrophils, with in vitro imatinib or dasatinib having no effect on 
the rate of NET formation.  The authors suggest that some systemic 
aspect of CML may be stimulating NET formation.  If true, it 
suggests that CML itself is prothrombotic, and the property may not 
be sensitive to TKIs. 
VOEs, especially AOEs, have also emerged as important identified 
risks associated with the use of other TKIs, including dasatinib and 
nilotinib (Valent et al, 2014) (Douxfils et al, 2016). 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Vascular occlusion events 
In the phase 2 trial, almost half of the patients who were reported to 
have a treatment-emergent AOE were ≥65 years old (47/104 
patients; 45.19%) and more than half were male (62/104 patients; 
59.62%), a majority of the patients who were reported to have risk 
factors for AOEs or serious AOEs had >1 risk factor (86/104 
[82.7%] and 70/83 [84.3%], respectively).  
The most common risk factors observed in patients who were 
reported to have an AOE were hypertension (75/104 patients; 
72.12%), hypercholesterolemia (69/104 patients; 66.35%), and 
history of cardiac disease (53/104 patients; 51.0%).  History of 
ischemic disease, diabetes, and obesity also were reported in 
relation to the occurrence of AOEs in >10% of the patients with any 
risk factors.  Of patients who were reported to have no risk factors 
by medical history, age, or sex, 2/104 patients (1.9%) were reported 
to have a non-serious treatment emergent AOE and 1 patient (1.2%) 
was reported to have a serious AOE. 
Arterial Occlusive Events 
Cardiac AOEs Risk factors that promote heart disease include 
economic transition, urbanization, industrialization, and 
globalization.  Therefor lifestyle changes promote heart disease.  
Further general risk factors include tobacco use, physical inactivity, 
and unhealthy diet.  Newly emerging CVD risk factors such as low 
birth weight, folate deficiency and infestations are more frequent 
among the poorest in low- and middle-income countries 
(The National Academies. Promoting Cardiovascular Health in the 
Developing World (2010)). 
Elderly patients and patients with underlying pre-disposing disease 
such as diabetes mellitus seemed to be at higher risk of developing 
ischaemic cardiac side effects during TKI therapy. 
In the phase 2 trial, patients with and without cardiovascular risk 
factors, including patients age 50 years or younger, experienced 
these events. Vascular occlusion AEs were more frequent with 
increasing age and in patients with prior history of ischemia, 
hypertension, diabetes, or hyperlipidemia.  Of the 56 patients with a 
cardiac ischemic event, 32 (57.1%) patients did present with a 
history of cardiac disease. 
Cerebral AOEs 
There were 28 patients without a history of ischemic 
cerebrovascular disease who experienced a serious cardiac 
ischemic/thrombotic event.   
Risk factors include heart disease (eg, atrial fibrillation, valvular 
disease, recent MI (Wein and Bornstein 2000; 
Di Tullio and Homma 2002), hypertension (MacMahon et al 1990), 
smoking (Kawachi et al 1993), diabetes 
(Karapanayiotides et al 2004), and hypercholesterolemia).  Previous 
transient ischemic attack is a strong predictor of future stroke. 
Important Identified Risk: Vascular occlusion events 
In the phase 2 trial, of the 39 patients with an AOE, 20 (51.3%) of 
patients presented with a history of ischemic disease and 
12 (30.8%) presented with a history of diabetes. 
Peripheral Vascular AOEs Risk factors contributing to PVD 
include individuals who are ≥ 50 years of age with diabetes 
mellitus, smoking >10 pack-year/history of smoking 
(Hirsch et al 2001).  PVD is more prevalent among families with 
atherosclerosis and in those with risk factors for cardiovascular 
disease, men, and certain ethnic populations.  Many risk factors of 
PVD are similar to those that are associated with coronary 
atherosclerosis and include smoking, hypertension, diabetes, 
hyperlipidemia, homocysteinemia, metabolic syndrome, including 
inflammatory mediators (Selvin and Erlinger, 2004; 
Smith et al, 2004; Murabito, 1997). 
In the phase 2 trial, of the 40 patients with a peripheral vascular 
AOE, 15 (37.5%) of patients presented with a history of ischemic 
disease and 11 (27.5%) with a history of diabetes. 
About 90% of patients with renal artery stenosis have 
atherosclerosis as a predisposing factor; 10% of patients with renal 
artery stenosis have fibromuscular dysplasia as a predisposing 
factor.  Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is a common condition 
that typically occurs in patients at high risk of cardiovascular 
disease with coexistent vascular disease at non-renal sites 
(Cheung et al, 2005). 
Venous Thrombotic/Embolic Events  
In the phase 2 study, with longer follow-up it has also become 
evident that VTEs are largely observed early in the course of 
therapy.  The possible reasons include the initial active malignancy 
or acquired risk factors that may occur early in the course of 
therapy, including immobility, trauma, surgery, and hospitalization, 
all of which exacerbate blood stasis in a hyperviscous state such as 
an active malignancy 
Ku and colleagues studied risk factors among patients with acute 
leukemia (2009).  They found that the 2-year incidence of venous 
thromboembolism in 2482 patients ALL was 4.5%.  Blann and 
Dunmore (2011) found an association of both arterial and venous 
thrombosis with various types of cancer. 
Retinal Vascular Occlusive Events and Vision Loss: 
Risk factors for BRVO and CRVO include the following (risk 
factors may differ for each type of occlusion): hypertension, 
cardiovascular disease, age, diabetes, smoking, obesity, glaucoma, 
retinal arteriolar abnormalities, and certain ethnic populations 
(Rogers et al, 2010; Cugati et al 2006; Rehak et al 2008; 
The Eye Disease Case-control Study Group, 1993 and 1996). 
Important Identified Risk: Vascular occlusion events 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.2 and PL section 3 contain advice for dose 
adjustment or interruption for arterial occlusion and venous 
thromboembolism.  SmPC section 4.2 contains guidance on 
assessment of the cardiovascular status and the management and 
monitoring of the cardiovascular risk factors.  
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2 contain advice on monitoring 
and managing vascular occlusion events. 
SmPC section 4.8 and PL section 4.  
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
None  
Table 22: 
Summary of Important Potential Risk Teratogenicity 
Important Potential Risk: Teratogenicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Non-clinical studies 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Women of childbearing potential 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
Recommendation for women to avoid becoming pregnant and for 
men to not father a child in SmPC section 4.6 and PL section 2. 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
None 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C 
II.C.1 
None  
II.C.2 
None 
 
 
