09 October 2014 
EMA/667786/2014 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
Iclusig 
International non-proprietary name: ponatinib 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/002695/A-20/0003 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the PRAC and considered by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 3 
2.2. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 5 
2.2.1. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Benefit evaluation .............................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Risk minimisation activities .................................................................................... 9 
2.4. Product Information .............................................................................................. 9 
3. Consultation with the Scientific Advisory Group ...................................... 9 
4. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment .................................... 10 
5. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................. 11 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 2/12 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
In October 2013, the EMA was informed that an FDA review of Iclusig concluded that the rate of 
vascular occlusive events was higher than observed in the clinical trials that supported the initial 
marketing authorisation. A type II variation (EMEA/H/C/2695/II/002) to update the product 
information was submitted and assessed in an expedited manner to ensure that the EU product 
information reflected the most recent data.  
After submission of the variation dossier, the MAH informed the EMA that the phase 3 EPIC trial 
[AP24534-12-301; a phase 3 randomised, open-label study of ponatinib versus imatinib in adult 
patients with newly diagnosed chronic myeloid leukaemia in chronic phase (CP-CML)] had been 
discontinued with immediate effect. This decision was made on the grounds of patient safety, because 
arterial thrombotic events were observed in patients treated with Iclusig. 
In the EU, the above mentioned variation was concluded within a 30-day timeframe to put in place 
additional risk minimisation measures such as updates to the product information and risk 
management plan, and circulation of a DHPC. 
However, there were a number of outstanding issues which could not be resolved within the expedited 
variation procedure and which required a further review of the benefit-risk balance of Iclusig. These 
included further consideration of the PK-PD profile of ponatinib to determine the optimal dosing in all 
patient populations and indications (including recommendations for initial dose and dose reductions), 
further assessment of the nature, severity and frequency of all treatment-emergent vascular occlusive 
adverse events (and possible sequelae), and heart failure, exploration of the potential mechanisms of 
action leading to vascular occlusive events and consideration of the possibilities for further risk 
minimisation measures. Therefore the European Commission triggered a procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 on 27 November 2013. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Ponatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), produced by a computational and structure-based 
approach to the development of a small molecule TKI. Ponatinib was designed with the purpose of 
inhibiting the kinase activity of native BCR-ABL, and all mutant variants, including ‘gatekeeper’ T315I. 
The Marketing Authorisation was granted by the European Commission on 1 July 2013 for the following 
indications in adult patients:  
• 
• 
chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) who are 
resistant to dasatinib or nilotinib; who are intolerant to dasatinib or nilotinib and for whom 
subsequent treatment with imatinib is not clinically appropriate; or who have the T315I 
mutation and  
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) who are resistant 
to dasatinib; who are intolerant to dasatinib and for whom subsequent treatment with imatinib 
is not clinically appropriate; or who have the T315I mutation.   
2.1.  Non-clinical aspects 
As part of the assessment of potential causes that may lead to an increased occurrence of vascular 
occlusive events in ponatinib treated patients, molecular mechanisms based on on-target and off-
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
target effects were discussed. A number of plausible molecular mechanism exists that may contribute 
to vascular occlusive events with ponatinib use. 
BCR-ABL inhibition itself has been suggested to play a role in the development of dyslipidaemia and 
atherosclerosis due to effects on the insulin receptor pathway1. A number of off-target effects including 
but not limited to platelet-derived growth factor receptor β (PDGFRβ), vascular endothelial growth 
factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), and TIE2 may contribute to vascular occlusive events in different ways. 
The VEGF protein is heavily involved in maintenance and integrity of the vascular endothelium and 
disruption of its signalling pathway had direct effects on endothelial cells including induction of 
apoptosis, inhibition of proliferation and impairment of endothelial regeneration2,3. Pre-clinically, a 
worsening of injury, inhibition of endothelial cell proliferation and cell death have been attributed to 
inhibition of VEGFR2 by another TKI, sunitinib, in a neonatal rodent model of stroke4. TIE2, a tyrosine 
kinase receptor for angiopoietin 1, is almost exclusively expressed in endothelial cells. It was found to 
have effects on vascular function and survival directly at the TIE2 kinase level and indirectly via ABL 
kinase based on data from a targeted ABL kinase knockout mouse model in which Chislock et al5 
observed embryonic and perinatal lethality, with mutant mice displaying a focal loss of vasculature and 
tissue necrosis. PDGF protein is involved in proliferation and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells 
(VSMC); both events are critical in the pathogenesis of artery obstructive diseases6,7,8 and PDGF 
signalling disruption may inhibit vascular injury repair at the level of VSMCs. Some of these ponatinib 
off-target effects are unique for this TKI relative to other TKIs targeted against BCR-ABL. Further 
potential mechanisms will be investigated, including effects on proliferation, coagulation and 
inflammation in a range of in-vitro studies conducted in relevant cell-lines. In addition, in vivo 
investigations in a mouse model are anticipated to further inform on the liability of ponatinib in context 
of thrombogenesis. 
Whilst ponatinib metabolites are not expected to contribute to vascular occlusive events based on their 
known physico-chemical properties, the inhibitory potency of selected metabolites in kinase assays will 
be investigated nevertheless. 
The following five non-clinical studies will be conducted with the aim to further characterise the 
potential mechanisms for vascular occlusive events with ponatinib treatment.  
Table 1 Planned non-clinical studies to characterise potential mechanisms for 
vascular occlusive events with ponatinib treatment 
Study description 
Proposed reporting 
timeline 
Pro-thrombotic potential of ponatinib in vivo in a murine model of 
December 2015 
1 Vigneri P, Frasca F, Sciacca L, Pandini G, Vigneri R. Diabetes and cancer. Endocr Relat Cancer 2009; 16:1103-23. 
2 Lee S, Chen TT, Barcber CL et al. Autocrine VEGF signalling is required for vascular homeostasis. Cell. 2007; 130:691-
703. 
3 Elice F, Jacoub J, Rickles FR et al. Hemostatic complications of angiogenesis inhibitors in cancer patients. Am J Hematol 
2008; 83:862-870. 
4 Shimotake J, Derugin N, Wendland M, Vexler ZS, Ferriero DM. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 inhibition 
promotes cell death and limits endothelial cell proliferation in a neonatal rodent model of stroke. Stroke 2010; 41:343-9. 
5 Chislock  E, Ring C, Pendergast AM. Abl kinases are required for vascular function, Tie2 expression and angiopoietin-1-
mediated survival. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 20113; 110:12432-7. 
6 Bailey SR. Coronary restenosis: a review of current insights and therapies. Catheter Cardiovasc Intervent. 2002; 55:265-
271. 
7 Sanz-Gonzalez SM, Castro C, Perez P, Andres V. Role of E2F and ERK1/2 in STI571-mediated smooth muscle cell growth 
arrest and cyclin A transcriptional repression. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2004; 317:972-9. 
8 Levitzki A. PDGF receptor kinase inhibitors for the treatment of restenosis. Cardiovasc Res 2005: 65:581-6. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Study description 
thrombosis 
Proposed reporting 
timeline 
Proliferation and survival of human endothelial cells in vitro 
December 2015 
Proliferation and survival of human vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro  December 2015 
Activation of the pro-coagulation cascade and expression of surface 
December 2015 
adhesion molecules in human endothelial cells in vitro 
Initiation of pro-inflammatory events in human endothelial cells in vitro 
December 2015 
2.2.  Clinical aspects 
During the assessment, data from the studies listed below was considered, with the most relevant 
contribution coming from the phase 2 study. 
Table 2 Summary of trials contributing to the assessment 
Phase 1:  
AP24534-07-101 
Phase 2: 
AP24534-10-201 
Phase 3: 
AP24534-12-301 
Trial Description 
Title 
Population 
Dosing 
N 
Regions/Centers 
Objectives 
A Phase 1 Dose Escalation 
Trial to Determine the Safety, 
Tolerability and Maximum 
Tolerated Dose of Oral 
AP24534 in Patients with 
Refractory or Advanced 
Chronic Myelogenous 
Leukemia and other 
Hematologic Malignancies 
Refractory hematologic 
malignancies: Ph+ leukemia 
(CP-CML, AP-CML, BP-CML and 
Ph+ ALL), AML, and other 
hematologic malignancies 
Oral once daily administration 
(2 mg to 60 mg dose 
escalation) 
81 (65 Ph+ leukemia) 
5 US sites  
To determine the MTD or a 
recommended dose of oral 
ponatinib in patients with 
refractory hematologic 
malignancies 
A Pivotal Phase 2 Trial of 
Ponatinib (AP24534) in 
Patients with Refractory 
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia and 
Ph+ Acute Lymphoblastic 
Leukemia 
(PACE Trial) 
A Phase 3 Randomized, Open-
Label Study of Ponatinib 
versus Imatinib in Adult 
Patients with Newly Diagnosed 
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in 
Chronic Phase 
(EPIC Trial) 
Adult patients (≥18 years old) 
with CML in chronic phase 
(CP), accelerated phase (AP) 
or blast phase (BP) or with 
Ph+ acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) who either: 
• 
Are resistant or intolerant 
to either dasatinib or 
nilotinib 
Have the T315I mutation 
• 
Oral 45 mg once daily 
449 
68 sites in US/Canada, 
Europe, Australia, Asia 
To determine the efficacy of 
ponatinib in Ph+ leukemia 
patients who are resistant or 
intolerant to either dasatinib 
or nilotinib or who have the 
T315I mutation 
Patients with newly diagnosed 
chronic myeloid leukemia in 
chronic phase (CP-CML) 
Ponatinib: Oral 45 mg dose 
once daily 
Imatinib: Oral 400 mg dose 
once daily 
307 (155 ponatinib) 
171 sites in US/Canada, 
Europe, Australia, Asia 
To compare the efficacy of 
ponatinib with imatinib in 
adult patients with newly 
diagnosed chronic myeloid 
leukemia in chronic phase (CP-
CML) 
The data previously assessed in the type II variation (EMEA/H/C/2695/II/002) had a cut-off date of 
September 2013. Updated analyses of the vascular occlusive events occurring in the clinical 
development program and from other sources (expanded access, commercial use) were conducted 
using follow-up data available up to 6 January 2014 and 7 April 2014.  
A review of non-serious vascular events was also performed and it indicates that a small number could 
have been classified as serious based on their medical importance. However the reported incidence or 
character of serious events reported to date is not substantially changed by this. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1.  Clinical safety 
The overall safety profile for ponatinib is generally consistent with that considered at the time of 
marketing authorisation, with the notable addition of the risk of vascular occlusive events.  The limited 
post marketing experience so far has generally been consistent with the safety profile observed in 
clinical trials.  
In general, the overall safety profile for ponatinib is consistent with known class effects for BCR-ABL 
TKIs. Risks have not been specifically analysed for patients with/without the T315I mutation. 
Vascular Occlusive Events 
The number of patients experiencing vascular occlusive events has risen with time. Based on the 6 
January 2014 data from the phase 2 trial (N=449), taking into account the re-classification of 
seriousness performed by the MAH, a total of 81 patients (18%) have experienced serious vascular 
occlusive events, compared to a total of 62 patients (14%) from the September 2013 data. Overall, a 
total of 101 patients (23%) have experienced vascular occlusive events (serious and non-serious), 
compared to a total of 91 patients (20%) from the September 2013 data. 
The incidence of arterial thrombotic events (per 100 patient years) remains relatively constant.  The 
number of patients with arterial thrombotic events, and the number of patients with serious arterial 
thrombotic events, per 100 patient-years are 13.1 and 9.3 respectively based on the January 2014 
analysis of the phase 2 trial (compared to 13.3 and 9.1 in the September 2013 analysis). 
Patients who have a history of previous myocardial infarction, stroke or revascularisation are 
considered to be at particular risk of vascular occlusive events. In addition, there is some evidence that 
patients with 2 or more risk factors for cardiovascular disease (hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, 
diabetes, obesity) are at greater risk of these events. 
The risk of vascular occlusive events is likely to be dose related. An integrated dose intensity analysis 
concluded that for vascular occlusion, after adjusting for covariates, overall dose intensity is highly 
statistically significant with an odds ratio of approximately 1.6 for each 15 mg dose increase. As such a 
dose reduction would be expected to reduce the risk of vascular occlusive events. 
Table 3 Vascular Occlusive First Adverse Events in CP-CML Patients who Achieved 
MCyR at 45 mg or 30mg (data extraction 7 April 2014) 
Most Recent Dose at Onset of First Vascular Occlusive Event 
45mg 
19 
1 
30mg 
6 
13 
15mg 
0 
5 
Achieved MCyR at 
45mg (N=87) 
Achieved MCyR at 
30mg (N=45) 
Cardiac Failure Events 
Based on the January 2014 data analysis of the phase 2 study data (N=449), a total of 23 patients 
(5.1%) have experienced serious cardiac failure events, and a total of 37 patients (8.0%) have now 
experienced cardiac failure events (serious and non-serious). 
The majority of cases of cardiac failure occurred in patients at known risk from underlying disease, 
cardiovascular risk factors and prior treatment with cardiotoxic medications including other TKIs. There 
is also an association between vascular occlusive events and a risk of cardiac failure as a secondary 
event. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Role of anti-platelet, anti-coagulant or lipid lowering drugs  
The possible role of anti-platelet, anti-coagulant or lipid lowering drugs in reducing the risk of vascular 
occlusive events remains uncertain and has not been studied prospectively. Existing data was analysed 
but it is confounded by indication as these agents are used in patients at high risk of vascular occlusive 
events. The potential benefit of these drugs in reducing the risk may be determined by a greater 
understanding of the mechanisms underlying the risk of vascular occlusive events. 
In addition, haemorrhage has been observed in association with the use of ponatinib and therefore the 
potential risks of haemorrhage with anti-platelet and anti-coagulant agents in this patient population 
need be considered.  
2.2.2.  Benefit evaluation 
The evidence for the efficacy of ponatinib in the currently authorised patient population has not 
changed substantially since the marketing authorisation was granted.  
The efficacy of ponatinib is likely to be dose related. A starting dose of 45 mg was used in the pivotal 
trial, based on the maximum tolerated dose, and continues to be recommended in all indications in 
order to ensure that the efficacy demonstrated in the pivotal trial is achieved. 
Efficacy in patients who experienced an arterial thrombotic event was similar to patients who had not 
experienced such an event, based on the data assessed. Overall survival and progression-free survival 
appeared similar for patients with or without arterial thrombotic events, across all groups studied, 
based on currently available follow-up data. 
Historical comparison of bosutinib and ponatinib may suggest a better efficacy of ponatinib (major 
cytogenetic response (MCyR), complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), major molecular response 
(MMR)) in all populations, however these data are not robust enough to allow any conclusive 
statement. 
Patients with the T315I mutation 
Ponatinib is the only TKI which has demonstrated efficacy in patients with the T315I mutation in each 
of the currently authorised indications.   
In the ponatinib phase 2 study, the MCyR in patients with the T315I mutation (70.3%) exceeded the 
response of those without the mutation (51.7%). Molecular responses including MMR rates (57.8%), 
MR4 rates (39.1%) and CMR4.5 rates (32.8%) were all higher than in the CP-CML group without the 
T315I mutation.   
The benefit of ponatinib in patients carrying the T315I mutation can be considered overwhelmingly 
positive, particularly in the absence of any alternative treatment options. 
Patients without the T315I mutation 
In CP-CML patients who are refractory or intolerant to previous TKIs, ponatinib showed good efficacy in 
terms of molecular and cytogenetic responses. In the ponatinib phase 2 study the MCyR was 51.7%. 
The MMR, MR4 and CMR4.5 rates were 23%, 21.2% and 15.8%, respectively.  
The overall molecular responses, in all patient populations including CP-, AP-, and BP-CML appeared 
better in a more heavily treated patient population compared to bosutinib based on literature data. 
However, it is noted that bosutinib is also licensed for CP-, AP-, and BP-CML. 
For Ph+ ALL, bosutinib is not a licensed alternative. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose reduction and maintenance of response 
Based on the available data, a starting dose of 45mg is recommended in all indications in order to 
ensure maximal efficacy. Treatment should be continued as long as the patient does not show 
evidence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Dose modifications (to 30 mg or 15 mg) 
should be considered for the management of treatment toxicity. 
In vitro data indicates that a 40 nM concentration is sufficient to suppress all BCR-ABL mutants. A 30 
mg and a 45 mg ponatinib dose led to trough plasma (median Cmin) levels > 40 nM, sufficient to fully 
suppress growth of all BCR-ABL mutants. A 15 mg ponatinib dose led to trough plasma concentration < 
40 nM, sufficient to suppress all but two clones (E255V and possibly T315I). 
The potential for long durations of treatment in responding chronic phase CML patients together with 
the observed adverse event profile of ponatinib provide a rationale for examining the possibility of 
reducing dose in patients who have responded to treatment (in the absence of adverse events). A 
reduced dose would aim at reducing the risk of adverse events (particularly vascular events) while 
maintaining efficacy. 
On October 2013, the investigators of the ongoing phase 2 study were provided with the following 
instructions regarding CP-CML patients: 
•  All CP-CML patients currently in the study who have already achieved MCyR should have their 
dose reduced to 15 mg/day unless, in the judgement of the investigator, the benefit-risk 
analysis, having into account the patient’s CML characteristics, BCR-ABL mutation status, and 
the patient’s cardiovascular risk justifies treatment with a higher dose. 
• 
For all CP-CML patients currently on the study who have not yet achieved MCyR, ponatinib 
dose reduction to 30 mg/day should be considered unless, in the judgement of the 
investigator, the benefit-risk analysis, taking into account the patient’s CML characteristics, 
BCR-ABL mutation status, and the patient’s cardiovascular risk justifies treatment with a higher 
dose. 
At the time of these recommendations, 143 CP-CML patients were on the study. The subset of patients 
who underwent dose reduction after these instructions is small. It comprises 21 patients at 30 mg and 
41 patients (18 patients who started at 45 mg and 23 patients who started at 30 mg) at 15 mg, for a 
period of at most 6 months (data from 7 April 2014). Most patients underwent prior dose reduction 
due to adverse events.    
Table 4 Maintenance of response in CP-CML patients who achieved MCyR or MMR at 
45 mg dose (data extraction 7 April 2014) 
No Dose Reduction 
Dose reduction to 30 mg only  
     ≥ 90 day reduction at 30 mg 
     ≥ 180 day reduction at 30 mg 
     ≥ 360 day reduction at 30 mg 
Any dose reduction to 15 mg 
     ≥ 90 day reduction at 15 mg 
     ≥ 180 day reduction at 15 mg 
     ≥ 360 day reduction at 15 mg 
Achieved MCyR  
at 45 mg (N=87) 
Achieved MMR 
at 45mg (N=63) 
Number of 
Patients 
23 
25 
21 
11 
5 
39 
32 
10 
6 
Maintained 
MCyR 
18 (78%) 
24 (96%) 
20 (95%) 
10 (89%) 
4 (80%) 
39 (100%) 
32 (100%) 
10 (100%) 
6 (100%) 
Number of 
Patients 
18 
13 
8 
5 
2 
32 
27 
6 
3 
Maintained 
MMR 
11 (61%) 
11 (85%) 
9 (89%) 
4 (80%) 
1 (50%) 
30 (94%) 
26 (96%) 
6 (100%) 
3 (100%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this limited dataset, the majority of patients who underwent dose reduction maintained response 
(MCyR and MMR) for the duration of the currently available follow-up. Most patients who ultimately 
reduced dose to 15 mg initially had their dose reduced to 30 mg for a period.  
2.3.  Risk minimisation activities 
The PRAC requested the submission of an updated Risk Management Plan including a risk minimisation 
plan.  
An additional risk minimisation activity was required by the PRAC. The MAH shall provide relevant 
healthcare professionals with a brochure highlighting the importance of assessing the risks before 
starting treatment with ponatinib, available data on the relationship between dose and risk of vascular 
occlusive events, recommendation to consider discontinuation if a complete haematologic response has 
not occurred by 3 months,  important adverse events for which monitoring and/or dose adjustment are 
recommended and instructions on management of adverse events based on monitoring and dose 
modifications or treatment withdrawal. This additional risk minimisation measure has been added to 
annex II of the Product Information. 
The MAH is requested to submit, within 30 days of the CHMP opinion for this procedure, an updated 
version of the RMP and of the educational materials in order to properly reflect the outcome of this 
assessment. 
2.4.  Product Information  
The Product Information for Iclusig was revised to include the following: 
•  Updated recommendations to assess cardiovascular status and consider alternative treatments 
where appropriate. 
• 
Inclusion of safety and efficacy data following dose reduction in CP-CML patients who have 
achieved MCyR to inform physicians of the currently available data on dose reduction. 
•  Discontinuation of treatment if haematologic response has not occurred by 3 months. 
•  Additional warnings about hypertension, cardiac failure and risk of bleeding with anti-clotting 
agents. 
•  Updated information on adverse reactions. 
Amendments have been introduced to sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. Annex II has also been 
amended (see 2.3 risk minimisation activities). 
3.  Consultation with the Scientific Advisory Group  
The PRAC consulted the scientific advisory group for oncology which provided advice on a number of 
issues. 
The SAG proposed that, based on currently existing data, it is not justified to revise the indication and 
place in treatment of ponatinib. It was highlighted that patients with the T315I mutation or with Ph+ 
ALL have no alternative treatment approved, and for CML patients without the T315I mutation 
comparative data with other third line agents is too limited. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
The SAG noted that there are very limited prospective data that would identify the shape of the dose 
efficacy and dose toxicity relationship and there is currently no guidance for dose reduction when MCyR 
has been reached. The potential risk associated with dose reduction is the reduction in efficacy. The 
SAG emphasized that appropriate PK/PD information is necessary to provide clinicians with appropriate 
guidance regarding dose individualisation and possibly therapeutic drug monitoring is of benefit in this 
patient population in this respect. As such, and on the basis of available data, there is no treatment 
algorithm allowing dose reduction in patients who achieved MCyR.  
When asked to advise on appropriate guidance for monitoring of patients who have undergone dose-
reduction following MCyR in the absence of adverse reactions, in order to detect early signs of possible 
loss of therapeutic response, the SAG considered that data is insufficient that there are neither data 
providing guidance for dose reduction nor for a dose increase upon loss of a therapeutic response. The 
nature and the frequency of monitoring in the current European standard of practice is to perform a 
quantitative RT-PCR and/or cytogenetics in 1-3 months and upon indication on blood sample or bone 
marrow aspirate. 
Finally the SAG considered that there are no data which would support upfront the use of anti-platelet 
or anticoagulant medications or the use of statins. Data should be generated in order to understand 
the pathogenesis of VOEs in patients treated with ponatinib and to change the current medical 
practice. However in the light of the very high risk for thromboembolic complications, anti-coagulant 
therapy could be considered on a case by case basis taking into account the risk of haemorrhagic 
complications. 
4.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Within this procedure, the PRAC was asked to address a number of outstanding issues which could not 
be resolved within the previous variation procedure and which required a further review of the benefit-
risk balance of Iclusig. These included further consideration of the PK-PD profile of ponatinib to 
determine the optimal dosing in all patient populations and indications (including recommendations for 
initial dose and dose reductions), further assessment of the nature, severity and frequency of all 
treatment-emergent vascular occlusive adverse events (and possible sequelae), and heart failure, 
exploration of the potential mechanisms of action leading to vascular occlusive events and 
consideration of the possibilities for further risk minimisation measures. 
The overall safety profile for ponatinib is generally consistent with that considered at the time of 
marketing authorisation, with the notable addition of the risk of vascular occlusive events.  A total of 
81 (18%) patients on the phase 2 study (n=449) have experienced serious vascular occlusive events 
and overall, a total of 101 patients (23%) have experienced vascular occlusive events (serious and 
non-serious). The incidence of arterial thrombotic events (per 100 patient years) remains relatively 
constant.   
In view of the high risk for vascular occlusive events, the PRAC considered that it should be made clear 
in the product information that ponatinib should be discontinued in patients who do not respond to 
treatment (no haematologic response by 3 months).  
Serious cardiac failure events have occurred in a total of 23 patients (5.1%). The majority of cases of 
cardiac failure occurred in patients at known risk from underlying disease, cardiovascular risk factors 
and prior treatment with cardiotoxic medications including other TKIs. There is also an association 
between vascular occlusive events and a risk of cardiac failure as a secondary event. It is therefore 
appropriate to reinforce existing recommendations for the cardiovascular status of the patient to be 
assessed before initiating treatment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
The possible role of anti-platelet, anti-coagulant or lipid lowering drugs in reducing the risk of vascular 
occlusive events remains uncertain. Therefore no formal recommendation can be issued regarding the 
concomitant use of these agents and the potential risks of haemorrhage with anti-platelet and anti-
coagulant agents in ponatinib treated patients need to be considered. 
The risk of vascular occlusive events is likely to be dose related and therefore a dose reduction would 
be expected to reduce the risk of vascular occlusive events. The PRAC considered whether a 
recommendation for dose reduction (in the absence of an adverse event) in patients with chronic 
phase CML who have achieved major cytogenetic response was appropriate. Efficacy data in relation to 
dose reduction indicates that patients who have been dose reduced maintained response (MCyR and 
MMR) for the duration of the currently available follow-up. This raises the question of whether similar 
outcomes in terms of efficacy could be achieved with lower (starting and/or maintenance) doses, which 
are expected to reduce the risk of vascular occlusive events. However these data include a relatively 
small number of patients, most of which had been dose reduced due to adverse events, and follow-up 
time is limited. It is therefore unclear whether the maintenance of response observed in this particular 
group of patients can be generalised to the CP-CML population. While these data can be useful for 
physicians considering dose reduction, it is currently considered insufficient to adopt a formal 
recommendation for dose reduction in patients who have not experienced an adverse event.  
Conducting further studies aimed at clarifying the dose-efficacy relationship of ponatinib is considered 
key to allow exploration of dose reduction in the context of risk minimisation, which could ultimately 
lead to improving the benefit-risk balance of the product. A dose-ranging study will be conducted in 
patients with CP-CML in order to determine the optimal starting dose of Iclusig and characterise the 
safety and efficacy of Iclusig following dose reductions after achieving MCyR. This study is considered 
key to the benefit-risk of ponatinib and has been imposed as a condition to the marketing authorisation 
in Annex II. A phase IV study is also planned to collect more general safety evidence from the clinical 
use of Iclusig in order to characterise the risks further and potentially identify additional risk 
minimisation measures.       
In addition to clinical studies, non-clinical studies will be performed by the MAH with the aim to further 
characterise the potential mechanisms for vascular occlusive events with ponatinib treatment. 
Information from these studies may in the future offer additional opportunities for risk minimisation. 
5.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered Iclusig (ponatinib) in the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004, initiated by the European Commission. 
The PRAC reviewed all data presented by the MAH on the safety and efficacy of Iclusig, as well as 
the views expressed by the oncology scientific advisory group. 
The PRAC took note of the serious risk of vascular occlusive events associated with Iclusig, which is 
likely to be dose-related.  
The PRAC also considered the currently available data on dose-efficacy and dose-toxicity 
relationship, and concluded that it was too limited to allow for a formal recommendation for dose 
reduction as a risk minimisation measure in patients who have not experienced toxicity. 
Nevertheless the Committee agreed that it is important to reflect these data in the product 
information.  
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The PRAC also noted that, although limited, the data in chronic phase CML is indicative of 
maintenance of response in patients who are dose reduced and therefore it was considered 
important to generate further data on the dose-efficacy relationship to potentially inform future 
risk minimisation measures. 
The PRAC is therefore of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of Iclusig remains favourable taking 
into account the product information amendments and subject to the risk minimisation measures and 
additional pharmacovigilance activities agreed. 
The PRAC has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Iclusig. 
Assessment report  
EMA/667786/2014  
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
