EMA/85985/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004475 
Idacio (adalimumab) 
An overview of Idacio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Idacio and what is it used for? 
Idacio is a medicine that acts on the immune system (the body’s natural defences) and is used to treat 
the following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin); 
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin with inflammation of the joints); 
rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints);  
axial spondyloarthritis (inflammation of the spine causing back pain), including ankylosing 
spondylitis and when there are clear signs of inflammation but X-ray does not show disease; 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and active enthesitis-related arthritis (both rare diseases 
causing inflammation in the joints); 
•  Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the gut); 
•  ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut); 
•  hidradenitis suppurativa (also known as acne inversa, a long-term skin disease that causes lumps, 
abscesses (collections of pus) and scarring on the skin); 
•  non-infectious uveitis (inflammation of the layer beneath the white of the eyeball). 
Idacio is mostly used in adults when their condition is severe, moderately severe or getting worse, or 
when patients cannot use other treatments. For more information on the use of Idacio in all conditions, 
including when it can be used in children, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Idacio contains the active substance adalimumab and is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Idacio 
is highly similar to another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in 
the EU. The reference medicine for Idacio is Humira. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see 
here. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Idacio used? 
Idacio is available as a solution for injection under the skin in a vial or pre-filled syringe or pen, and is 
usually given every 2 weeks. The dose and frequency of injection depend on the condition to be 
treated and the dose for a child is usually calculated according to the child’s weight. After training, 
patients or their carers may inject Idacio if their doctor considers it appropriate. 
Idacio can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised by a 
doctor who has experience in the treatment of the diseases for which Idacio is used. Eye specialists 
treating uveitis should also take advice from doctors who have experience of using adalimumab. 
For more information about using Idacio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Idacio work? 
The active substance in Idacio, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been 
designed to recognise and attach to a substance in the body called tumour necrosis factor (TNF). TNF 
is involved in causing inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with the diseases that Idacio 
is used to treat. By attaching to TNF, adalimumab blocks its activity, thereby reducing inflammation 
and other symptoms of the diseases. 
What benefits of Idacio have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Idacio with the reference medicine Humira have shown that the active 
substance in Idacio is highly similar to that in Humira in terms of structure, purity and biological 
activity. Studies have also shown that giving Idacio produces similar levels of the active substance in 
the body to giving Humira. 
In addition, a study involving 443 patients with plaque psoriasis has shown that Idacio is as effective 
as Humira in controlling the disease. The study compared injections of the two medicines given under 
the skin every 2 weeks: after 16 weeks, 90% of those treated with Idacio and 92% of those treated 
with Humira had at least a 75% reduction in signs and symptoms of psoriasis. 
Because Idacio is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of adalimumab carried 
out with Humira do not all need to be repeated for Idacio. 
What are the risks associated with Idacio? 
The safety of Idacio has been evaluated and, on the basis of all the studies carried out, the side effects 
of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Humira. The most 
common side effects with adalimumab (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are infections 
(including in the nose, throat and sinuses), injection site reactions (redness, itching, bleeding, pain or 
swelling), headache and muscle and bone pain. 
Like other medicines of its class, Idacio may affect the ability of the immune system to fight off 
infections and cancer, and there have been some cases of serious infections and blood cancers in 
patients using adalimumab. 
Other rare serious side effects of adalimumab (which may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) include 
failure of the bone marrow to produce blood cells, disorder of the nerves, lupus and lupus-like 
conditions (where the immune system attacks the patient’s own tissues, causing inflammation and 
organ damage), and Stevens-Johnson syndrome (life-threatening reaction with flu-like symptoms and 
painful rash affecting the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals). 
Idacio must not be used in patients with active tuberculosis or other severe infections, or in patients 
with moderate to severe heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump enough blood around the 
body). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Idacio, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Idacio authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Idacio has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Humira and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in psoriasis have shown that the 
effectiveness of Idacio is equivalent to that of Humira. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Idacio will behave in the same way as 
Humira in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Humira, the benefits of Idacio outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Idacio? 
The company that markets Idacio must provide educational packs for doctors who prescribe the 
medicine. These packs will include information on the safety of the medicine. An alert card will also be 
given to patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Idacio have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Idacio are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Idacio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Idacio 
Idacio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 April 2019.  
Further information on Idacio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/idacio.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2019.  
