Summary of risk management plan for Idefirix 
(imlifidase) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Idefirix. The RMP details important risks of 
Idefirix, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Idefirix's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Idefirix's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Idefirix should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Idefirix should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Idefirix's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Idefirix is authorised for desensitization treatment of highly sensitized adult kidney transplant patients 
with positive crossmatch against an available deceased donor. The use of Idefirix should be reserved 
for patients unlikely to be transplanted under the available kidney allocation system including 
prioritization programmes for highly sensitized patients.  
Idefirix contains imlifidase as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Idefirix’s benefits can be found in Idefirix’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/idefirix.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Idefirix, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Idefirix's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Idefirix are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Idefirix. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Severe or serious infection 
Infusion-related reactions 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Severe and serious infection 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
Idefirix cleaves a type of antibodies called 
medicine 
immunoglobulin G (IgG) to prevent IgG from destroying the 
kidney transplant. In the period when IgGs are cleaved, 
there may be a higher risk of some infections. 
Infections are very common in transplanted patients 
receiving immunosuppression. In a large published study in 
kidney-transplanted patients not treated with Idefirix, 
about half of the patients had at least 1 infection during the 
first year after transplantation. About one third of the 
patients had urinary tract infection, 13% had pneumonia, 
and 12% had sepsis (a serious infection that causes the 
immune system to attack the body). 
In clinical studies with Idefirix, 9 of 54 patients (16.7%) 
with chronic kidney disease (CKD), whereof 7 of 46 kidney- 
transplanted patients (15%), had any severe or serious 
infection assessed as at least possibly related to Idefirix. No 
patients died from infections or from any other cause in the 
clinical studies with Idefirix. To minimise the risk of 
infections, all patients should receive treatment with 
antibiotics. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No firm conclusions can be drawn regarding subgroups due 
to small numbers of patients per subgroup. 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.2., 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
PL section 2 and 4. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
Study 17-HMedIdeS-14: An ongoing observational long-
term follow-up study to evaluate long-term graft survival 
and clinical outcome after imlifidase. 
Study 20-HMedIdeS-19: A post-authorisation efficacy study 
(PAES) to evaluate 1-year graft survival, kidney function 
and safety after imlifidase (including severe and serious 
infections). 
Study 20-HMedIdeS-20: A 5-year-extension post-
authorisation efficacy study (PAES) to evaluate long-term 
graft survival in patients who have undergone kidney 
transplantation after imlifidase administration. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Important identified risk: Infusion-related reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
As for other biologic treatments administered intravenously 
medicine 
(IV), infusion reactions may occur. Not only IV treatment 
with monoclonal antibodies and other proteins, but also IV 
infusion without active drug, has been associated with 
infusion reactions, though the exact mechanism is not 
known. Mild-to-moderate reactions are characterized by 
flushing, rash, fever, rigors, chills, shortness of breath, and 
low blood pressure. Severe reactions are associated with 
bronchospasms (narrowing of the airways), low blood 
pressure, heart dysfunction, severe allergic reaction, and 
other symptoms requiring treatment.  
In clinical studies with Idefirix, 3 of 54 patients (5.6%) with 
CKD had any infusion-related reaction assessed as related 
to Idefirix (whereof 2 patients were kidney-transplanted). 
In 2 of the 3 patients, infusion of Idefirix could be restarted 
within less than half an hour. No patients died from 
infusion-related reactions in the clinical studies with 
Idefirix. To minimize the risk of infusion-related reactions, 
all patients should receive glucocorticoid and antihistamine 
treatment before dosing. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No firm conclusions can be drawn with regard to subgroups 
due to small numbers of patients per subgroup. 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
SmPC section 4.2., 4.4 and 4.8. 
PL section 2, 3 and 4. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
activities 
Study17-HMedIdeS-14: An ongoing observational long-
term follow-up study to evaluate long-term graft survival 
and clinical outcome after imlifidase. 
Study 20-HMedIdeS-19: A post-authorisation efficacy study 
(PAES) to evaluate 1-year graft survival, kidney function 
and safety after imlifidase (including infusion-related 
reactions). 
Study 20-HMedIdeS-20: A 5-year-extension post-
authorisation efficacy study (PAES) to evaluate long-term 
graft survival in patients who have undergone kidney 
transplantation after imlifidase administration. 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Study 17-HMedIdeS-14: Observational long-term follow-up study 
Purpose of the study: To evaluate long-term graft survival in patients who have undergone kidney 
transplantation after imlifidase administration, and to evaluate long-term clinical outcome in terms of 
patient survival, kidney function, comorbidity, treatments, quality of life, safety, DSA, and 
immunogenicity. 
Study 20-HMedIdeS-19: Post-approval efficacy study (PAES) 
Purpose of the study: to assess 1-year overall graft survival rate in highly sensitized kidney transplant 
patients with positive crossmatch against a deceased donor and pre-treated with imlifidase. The study 
will include two non-comparative reference cohorts for descriptive purpose; one registry-based with 
kidney-transplanted patients and a second concurrent reference cohort with transplanted patients (any 
grade of sensitization) not enrolled to the imlifidase treatment. The study will also evaluate kidney 
function, patient survival, frequency of crossmatch conversion, safety profile (including serious and 
severe infections, and infusion-related reactions), and quality of life. 
Study 20-HMedIdeS-20: Post-approval efficacy study (PAES) long-term follow-up study 
Purpose of the study: A 5-year-extension post-authorisation efficacy study (PAES) to evaluate long-
term graft survival in patients who have undergone kidney transplantation after imlifidase 
administration and in patients in the non-comparative concurrent reference cohort.  
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Idefirix. 
 
