25 August 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-487855  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Idefirix (Recombinant IgG degrading enzyme of Streptococcus pyogenes) 
Prevention of graft rejection following solid organ transplantation 
EU/3/16/1826 
Sponsor: Hansa Biopharma AB     
Note   
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
4. COMP position adopted on 01 July 2020 .................................................. 7 
EMA/OD/0000005755 
Page 2/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Recombinant IgG degrading enzyme of Streptococcus 
Other name(s) 
pyogenes 
Idefirix 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
- 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Imlifidase 
Prevention of graft rejection following solid organ 
transplantation  
Hansa Biopharma AB   
P.O. Box 785 
220 07 Lund 
Sweden  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Hansa Medical AB  
08 December 2016 
12 January 2017 
EU/3/16/1826 
Post-designation procedural history 
Sponsor’s name change  
Name change from Hansa Medical AB to Hansa 
Biopharma AB – EC letter of 04 February 2019 
Marketing authorisation  
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Martina Weise / Kristina Dunder 
Hansa Biopharma AB   
05 February 2019 
28 February 2019 
EMA/H/C/004849 
Idefirix 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
For desensitization of highly sensitized patients to 
make them eligible for transplantation by inactivation 
of anti-HLA IgG 
Pre-transplant treatment to make patients with donor 
specific IgG eligible for kidney transplantation 
Further information on Idefirix can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
CHMP opinion 
R/Idefirix 
25 June 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Sponsor’s report submission 
COMP discussion  
Martin Mozina / Frauke Naumann-Winter 
15 March 2019  
16-18 June 2020  
EMA/OD/0000005755 
Page 3/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMP opinion (adoption via written 
01 July 2020 
procedure) 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2017 was based on the 
following grounds: 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to prevent the condition with the medicinal product containing recombinant IgG 
degrading enzyme of Streptococcus pyogenes was considered justified based on preliminary clinical 
data showing successful kidney transplantation in patients with high levels of donor specific anti-
human leukocyte antigen antibodies when the product was administered before transplantation; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to organ-specific morbidity including e.g. liver or kidney 
failure, lung fibrosis and lung function decline. The condition is life-threatening as the reduced 
survival of the transplanted organ leads to premature death. Five year solid organ transplant 
survival rates range from 37% on average for intestine to 80% for kidney;  
the population of patients eligible for prevention of the condition was estimated to be 
approximately 0.6 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time the application was made; 
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of prevention of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing recombinant IgG degrading enzyme of Streptococcus pyogenes will be of significant 
benefit to the population at risk of developing the condition. The proposed product targets patients 
with donor specific anti-HLA antibodies, for whom no satisfactory prevention method exists. The 
sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data demonstrating successful kidney transplantation in 
patients with high levels of donor specific anti-human leukocyte antigen antibodies when the product 
was administered before transplantation. The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically 
relevant advantage. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
EMA/OD/0000005755 
Page 4/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Condition 
The therapeutic indication “Idefirix is indicated for desensitisation treatment of highly sensitised adult 
kidney transplant patients with positive crossmatch against an available deceased donor. The use of 
Idefirix should be reserved for patients unlikely to be transplanted under the available kidney allocation 
system including prioritisation programmes for highly sensitised patients” falls within the scope of the 
designated orphan condition “Prevention of graft rejection following solid organ transplantation”.  
The initial orphan indication “prevention of graft rejection following solid organ transplantation” 
remains acceptable for the purpose of orphan designation maintenance. Nevertheless, it should be 
highlighted that at the time of this review and for future designations the COMP generally designates 
the slightly reworded orphan condition “treatment in solid organ transplantation”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP, 
please see EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There have been no changes in the chronically debilitating and life-threatening nature of the condition 
since the time of orphan designation. The condition is chronically debilitating due to organ-specific 
morbidity including e.g. liver or kidney failure, lung fibrosis and lung function decline. The condition is 
life-threatening as the reduced survival of the transplanted organ leads to premature death. Five-year 
solid organ transplant survival rates range from 37% on average for intestine to 80% for kidney; 
Number of people affected or at risk 
There have been no changes in the prevalence of the condition since the time of orphan designation. 
The sponsor estimated the prevalence of solid organ transplantation based on European registries. The 
estimated incidence was for January-December 2018 and was of 0.69 transplants per 10 000 people. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The standard of care in the overall condition “treatment in solid organ transplantation” depends on the 
specific phase of treatment, i.e. before, during or after transplant. The treatment may either involve 
the recipient pre-transplant, the graft or recipient peri-transplant or the recipient post-transplant.  The 
sponsor described the available treatment options for solid organ translation in general, apart from 
basiliximab which is authorised for the prophylaxis of acute graft rejection (especially T-cell mediated) 
and administered peri-transplant.    
Several approaches are used in current clinical practice to make sensitized patients eligible for 
transplantation. They are based on techniques to remove antibodies, e.g. plasmapheresis or 
immunoadsorption, sometimes combined with additional agents. These treatments require repeated 
dosing for several weeks to months prior to transplantation and are almost exclusively used for living-
EMA/OD/0000005755 
Page 5/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
donor kidney transplantation since deceased-donor kidney transplantations must take place within 
hours of donor death (Terasaki et al. 2005). There are no approved medicinal products for enabling 
renal transplantation in sensitized patients, and pre-sensitised patients have a lower probability to find 
a suitable donor. 
Significant benefit 
In kidney transplantation, the importance of desensitization practices followed by transplantation in 
highly sensitized patients is well established and has proven to increase patient survival and quality of 
life (QoL), since patients would otherwise remain in dialysis which is associated with a worse prognosis 
compared to transplantation".  The currently available desensitization practices allow kidney transplant 
from living donors, and require, as mentioned above, weeks to months of desensitization for the 
recipient to be able to accept the new organ without immediate rejection. Transplantation of organs 
from deceased donors must be performed within hours after graft removal, not allowing for prolonged 
desensitisation protocols. Therefore, highly sensitised patients have a high unmet medical need, 
especially in the setting of transplantation with kidneys from deceased donors.    
Idefirix works by cleaving the IgG molecules to F(ab’)2 and Fc fragments, thus abolishing the ability of 
anti-HLA antibodies to form immune complexes that are cytotoxic to the allograft. The data from the 
clinical studies supporting the marketing authorization showed that Idefirix was effective in cleaving 
almost all IgG-antibodies, leading to crossmatch conversion in highly sensitized patients with end-stage 
chronic kidney disease with the possibility of a subsequent kidney transplantation.  
There are two benefits with Idefirix treatment over conventional desensitization protocols: the 
completeness of IgG depletion, and the speed of desensitization, which allows deceased-donor 
transplantations within hours after treatment. More than one third of patients waiting for kidney 
transplantation are sensitized to varying extent against potential donor tissue. The clinical benefit is 
especially relevant for the patient population of highly sensitised adult kidney transplant patients with 
positive crossmatch against an available deceased donor, as in this case it allows transplantation in 
patients that otherwise would not be able to receive an organ. There were no available effective 
therapeutic options for these patients so far. 
The justification of significant benefit was also addressed in a protocol assistance procedure, during 
which the COMP agreed that the proposed clinical development and target population were sufficient to 
demonstrate significant benefit in case of positive results of the clincal studies. In conclusion, the 
signficant benefit appears justified because Idefirix addresses an unmet need in highly sensitised adult 
kidney transplant patients with positive crossmatch against an available deceased donor, allowing 
transplantation of patients who would not be otherwise transplanted. 
EMA/OD/0000005755 
Page 6/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 01 July 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product. 
the prevalence of graft rejection following solid organ transplantation (hereinafter referred to as 
“the condition”) was estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 0.7 in 10,000 
persons in the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
The condition is chronically debilitating due to organ-specific morbidity including e.g. liver or 
kidney failure, lung fibrosis and lung function decline, and life-threatening due to reduced survival 
of the transplanted organ, which leads to premature death; 
although satisfactory methods for the Prevention of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Idefirix may be of potential significant benefit to those 
affected by the orphan condition is confirmed. This is supported by clinical data in patients with 
end-stage chronic kidney disease who were ineligible for transplantation without prior 
desensitization due to high levels of HLA antibodies crossmatching against a potential donor 
kidney; 
• 
In these patients the administration of Idefirix allowed kidney transplantation using grafts from 
deceased donors. The committee considers that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage for 
the patients affected by the condition. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Idefirix, recombinant IgG 
degrading enzyme of Streptococcus pyogenes, for prevention of graft rejection following solid organ 
transplantation (EU/3/16/1826) is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan Medicinal 
Products. 
EMA/OD/0000005755 
Page 7/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
