16 December 2010 
EMA/99460/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Ifirmacombi 
International nonproprietary name: Irbesartan / Hydrochlorothiazide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002302 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Active Substance Irbesartan Hydrochloride.......................................................... 6 
2.2.3. Active Substance Hydrochlorothiazide................................................................. 7 
2.2.4. Medicinal Product ............................................................................................ 8 
2.2.5. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 10 
2.2.6. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 10 
2.3. Non-Clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 10 
2.4. Clinical Aspects ................................................................................................ 10 
2.4.1. Conclusions on clinical aspects ........................................................................ 13 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 13 
2.6. Benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................................... 14 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 2/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier  
The applicant Krka, d.d., Novo mesto  submitted on  6 May 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ifirmacombi, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the scope of the Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’ of 
Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the 
EMA/CHMP on 24 April 2008. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the European Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 6 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone 
The chosen reference product is:  
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: CoAprovel, 300 mg/25 mg, 300 mg/12.5 mg, 150 
mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablet 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
  Date of authorisation:  15-10-1998  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/086/011 - 034 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: CoAprovel, 300 mg/25 mg, 300 mg/12.5 mg film-
coated tablet 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
  Date of authorisation:  15-10-1998  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number(s):  EU/1/98/086/016 – 020, EU/1/98/086/022 – 
028, EU/1/98/086/030 - 031, EU/1/98/086/033 - 034 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Concepcion Prieto Yerro. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 3/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The application was received by the Agency on 6 May 2010.  
The procedure started on 26 May 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 August 2010.  
 
 
 
  During the meeting on 20-23 September 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 September 2010. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 15 October 
2010. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  26 November 2010.  
 
 
  During the meeting on 13-16 December 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Ifirmacombi on 16 December 2010.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 4/14 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Ifirmacombi film-coated tablets is a generic medicinal product containing the active substances 
Irbesartan (as hydrochloride) and Hydrochlorothiazide. The reference medicinal product is CoAprovel 
300 mg/25 mg, 300 mg/12.5 mg and 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets, containing Irbesartan in 
the form of free base. CoAprovel was authorised on 15 October 1998. Both medicinal products are 
administered orally. Bioequivalence has been demonstrated to the reference medicinal product. 
Irbesartan is a potent, selective angiotensin-II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist active through oral 
administration. It is expected to block all actions of angiotensin-II mediated by the AT1 receptor, 
regardless of the source or route of synthesis of angiotensin-II. The selective antagonism of the 
angiotensin-II (AT1) receptors results in increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin-II levels, and 
a decrease in plasma aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected 
by irbesartan alone at the recommended doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance. 
Irbesartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin-II and also 
degrades bradykinin into inactive metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its 
activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, 
directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The diuretic 
action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, increases 
aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, and 
decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of irbesartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at about 
4 hours, while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours.  
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in 
blood pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 
300 mg irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted 
in further placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 6.1 
mm Hg. The combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in overall 
placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reduction of up to 13.6/11.5 mm Hg. 
The safety and efficacy profile of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide has been demonstrated in several 
clinical trials, details of which can be found in the EPAR of the reference product CoAprovel. In 
addition, there is long-term post-marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use 
of this product. Since this application is a generic application referring to the reference medicinal 
product CoAprovel, a summary of the clinical data of irbesartan free base and hydrochlorothiazide has 
been provided and no new clinical studies regarding pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and efficacy and 
safety have been conducted with irbesartan hydrochloride/hydrochlorothiazide.   
The indication proposed for Ifirmacombi is the same as the authorised indication for the reference 
medicinal product: 
“Treatment of essential hypertension.  
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone.” 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 5/14 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Ifirmacombi is presented in the form of biconvex film-coated tablets which differ in shape and colour 
depending on strength. 150/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are pale pink and oval, 300/12.5 mg strength 
is white, capsule shaped, and 300/25 mg film-coated tablets are of pale pink colour and capsule shape.  
The  film-coated  tablets  are  composed  of  a  combination  of  two  active  substances,  irbesartan 
hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide, and excipients (defined in the SmPC section 6.1). The strength 
with respect to irbesartan is expressed on the free irbesartan base.   
The finished product is packaged in OPA/Al/PVC//Al blisters. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance Irbesartan Hydrochloride  
The first active substance in the combination product is Irbesartan, as hydrocholoride hydrated salt, 
chemical name 2-Butyl-3-[[2′-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl]methyl]-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-
one hydrochloride sesquihydrate.  
Irbesartan hydrochloride is a crystalline, white to almost white powder and is non-hygroscopic. It is 
sparingly soluble in ethanol, practically insoluble in chloroform and water. The substance shows 
polymorphism, however, the defined manufacturing process produces consistently the same crystalline 
form with characteristic X-ray powder diffraction pattern and characteristic IR spectrum. 
Manufacture 
The substance is manufactured at either of two manufacturing sites by a three-step synthesis and final 
purification step. The quality of the active substance is well controlled with the respect to impurity 
profile and residual solvents.  
The manufacturing process is well described, including several critical steps. The in-process controls at 
the critical steps are adequate to control the reaction progress. Starting materials are defined by 
suitable specifications, using appropriate analytical methods. Reprocessing procedure is also 
sufficiently described. No intermediates are isolated.  
The chemical structure of irbesartan hydrochloride has been confirmed using analytical data by 1H 
NMR, 13C NMR, MS, FT-IR and elemental analysis (for elements C, H, N). Melting point and XRD 
diffraction pattern to detect the correct polymorphic form have been also defined. All data are 
consistent with the proposed structure. Comparative X-ray diffraction patterns for irbesartan 
hydrochloride after manufacture and after 9 months at 40ºC/75% RH show that the crystalline form is 
not changed even during accelerated storage conditions.  
Specification 
As there is no monograph for irbesartan hydrochloride in Ph.Eur. (only for irbesartan free base 
anhydrous), the applicant developed their own specifications and test methods for the quality control. 
Control tests include visual appearance, solubility, identity by IR, a Ph.Eur. test for chlorides, assay 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 6/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and impurities by HPLC, residual solvents by GC, water, heavy metals and sulphated ash. Particle size 
is not routinely tested as it shows no significant influence on dissolution rate of the finished product.  
The acceptance criteria for impurities, including limits for organic impurities, inorganic impurities and 
residual solvents, are defined. The impurity profiles for active substance were studied and 
characterized in detail. Only impurities that have been found above the reporting threshold are 
individually monitored by the active substance specifications. The purity results of all starting 
materials, reagents and by-products, including potential genotoxic impurities, show that they are not 
carried over to the final active substance.  
The limits set for specification parameters are acceptable and in line with batch results, stability 
studies and CHMP/ICH guidelines. Analytical methods used are sufficiently described and fully validated 
in line with the CHMP/ICH requirements.   
Results of analysis of eight batches of the active substance were provided. Compliance with the 
specification was demonstrated.   
Stability 
Stability studies are performed in accordance with the relevant CHMP/ICH guidelines. Stability data of 
three production batches of the active substance up to 36 months of storage at 25˚C/60% RH and 6 
months at 40˚C/75% RH were provided. Compliance with the specification has been confirmed at both 
conditions.  
Irbesartan hydrochloride is unstable in basic solutions. Only slight degradation occurs in acidic and 
oxidizing conditions. The substance is photostable. 
A suitably validated re-test period is approved, supported by the available stability data. Additional 
storage precautions are not needed.  In accordance with EU GMP guidelines1, any confirmed out of 
specification result, or significant negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.3.  Active Substance Hydrochlorothiazide 
The second active substance in the finished product is hydrochlorothiazide, chemical name 6-Chloro-
3,4-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine-7-sulphonamide 1,1-dioxide. It is a white or almost white, 
almost odorless crystalline powder, very slightly soluble in water, sparingly soluble in ethanol and 
methanol, soluble in acetone, freely soluble in N,N-dmethylformamide, in n-butylamine and in diluted 
solutions of alkali hydroxides. It is practically insoluble in ether, in chloroform and in diluted mineral 
acids. Hydrochlorothiazide is an achiral substance. It shows polymorphism.  Data confirming that the 
suitable polymorphic form is manufactured and then maintained during stability was provided by all 
manufacturers. 
Manufacture 
Hydrochlorothiazide from three different manufacturers is used for the finished product. In order to 
guarantee its quality, a valid Certificate of suitability of the European Pharmacopeia monograph (CEP) 
has been submitted by each manufacturer. Instead of full information on the active substance, 
reference is made to these CEPs.  
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 7/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
Specification 
The hydrochlorothiazide specifications correspond to the Ph.Eur. monograph, as confirmed also by the 
three CEPs provided. Certificates of analysis for three batches per active substance manufacturer were 
provided. All results comply with the specifications and show sufficient batch consistency.  
Stability 
The CEP of each active substance manufacturer includes a suitably validated re-test period in a defined 
container closure system, supported by the available stability data. 
2.2.4.  Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the development work was to develop an immediate-release tablet equivalent to the 
originator’s product (CoAprovel) and exhibiting the same bioavailability.  
Different compositions of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide formulations were prepared during extensive 
formulation studies. The development was focused mainly on choosing the most suitable excipients to 
reach optimal dissolution profile.   
The chosen excipients and their function are as follows: mannitol (diluent), sodium starch glycolate 
(disintegrant), low-substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose (binder/disintegrant), talc (glidant), 
hydroxypropylcellulose (binder), macrogol 6000 and hydrogenated castor oil (lubricant). For film 
coating, ready-to–make film coating agent Opadry II is used in pink and white colour. 
All components of the finished product are well known and are routinely used in manufacture of solid 
oral dosage forms. Except both coating mixtures, for which an in-house specification was provided, all 
excipients meet pharmacopoeial requirements.   
Impact of particle size of irbesartan hydrochloride and hydrochlorothiazide on dissolution has been 
analyzed and has no influence on performance, technological process and dissolution characteristics. 
Different hardness of tablets has no significant impact on dissolution rate of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide from irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide film coated tablets. 
No excipients of human or animal origin were used in manufacturing of Ifirmacombi film-coated 
tablets. 
Manufacture of the Product 
Wet granulation was chosen due to technological benefits which resulted in the final product meeting 
analytical specifications. The manufacturing process can be divided in the following steps: mixing, 
granulating, drying/sieving, mixing of final mixture, tabletting, coating and packaging. Adequate in-
process controls and control of intermediates were established. The manufacturing process is 
considered a standard process according to the process validation guideline. As demonstrated by 
validation studies on pilot batches, the process is reproducible and capable to consistently yield 
product within quality specification.   
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 8/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Specification 
The specification for all strengths of the finished product includes standard testing parameters typical 
for this kind of dosage form. The finished product is tested for identification, appearance, assay, 
related substances, uniformity of dosage units by content uniformity, dissolution, identification of 
colorants and microbiological purity. Average weight parameter was added to facilitate identification of 
individual strengths. The tests are performed for both active substances, as relevant. 
Impurities/degradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the safety 
perspective. The proposed test procedures and acceptance criteria follow the principles of 
CPMP/ICH/367/96 guideline.  
Generally the same specification and limits are applied for both release and shelf-life, with 
identification, colorants and uniformity of dosage units tested only at release. The choice of tests and 
the limits are acceptable and justified.   
Initial comparative dissolution profiles were provided for 300/25 mg and 150/12.5 mg strengths, which 
were not considered sufficient to grant a biowaiver for the 150/12.5 mg strength. Dissolution 
comparison containing individual values and a corresponding dissolution study report were requested. 
The applicant provided comparative dissolution profiles for 300/25 and 150/12.5 mg strengths in three 
different dissolution media without a surfactant. Additionally, dissolution study on different 
hydrodynamic conditions was performed to show the similarity of dissolution profiles. The justification 
was found acceptable. 
Analytical methods used for the finished product control were sufficiently described and appropriately 
validated according to the guideline CPMP/ICH/381/95. 
Batch analysis results of three pilot batches per strength confirming compliance with the specification 
and consistency of manufacture have been submitted.  
Stability of the Product 
The stability studies are carried out in accordance with the current CHMP/ICH guidelines. All tests were 
carried out by validated, stability indicating analytical methods. In addition to release specification, 
water content and hardness are monitored for information, without any established limit.  
Film-coated tablets of all three strengths were placed on stability, three pilot batches per strength. The 
applicant is using a matrixing approach as per the relevant guideline, CPMP/ICH/4104/00.  
Accelerated studies (40ºC/75% RH) have been completed for all monitored batches. At present          
12 months of long-term stability results (at 25ºC/60% RH) are available. No significant changes or 
trends were observed so far. All results comply with the shelf-life specifications.  
The stability studies are ongoing. The last time point in the stability protocol will be 60 months. 
Production scale batches will be tested post-approval.    
In general, the results support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
In accordance with EU GMP guidelines2, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 9/14 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
2.2.5.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Initial major objection on pharmacokinetics, related to dissolution, was satisfactorily solved by the 
applicant. Dissolution of the product was thoroughly examined and described. The quality of the 
product is considered satisfactory.  
2.2.6.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3.  Non-Clinical aspects   
Since this application is a generic application referring to the originator product CoAprovel, no new 
non-clinical studies on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide have been undertaken. Both irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are widely used 
well-known active substances. Their pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties 
are well characterised. No further studies are required and the applicant has justified why no such data 
were provided.  
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted, which is considered acceptable and in line with 
current guidelines. 
2.4.  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
This application is a generic application, therefore, demonstration of therapeutic equivalence is shown 
by means of pharmacokinetic bioavailability studies. Consequently, new clinical studies are neither 
required nor submitted. 
The safety and efficacy profile of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide has been demonstrated in several 
clinical trials, details of which can be found in the EPAR of the reference product CoAprovel. In 
addition, there is long-term post-marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use 
of this product. 
In order to prove bioequivalence of the three strengths, the applicant has performed 2 bioequivalence 
studies with the 300/25 mg and 300/12.5 mg strength, respectively, and has applied for a biowaiver of 
a proportional formulation (150/12.5 mg). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP and the ethical requirements of Directive 
2001/20/EC as claimed by the applicant. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 10/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics  
The applicant has submitted two single-dose fasted-state bioequivalence studies that were sponsored 
by Krka d.d.: 
Randomized, open-label, 2-way crossover study of irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/25mg and 
CoAprovel 300mg/25 mg film-coated tablet in healthy volunteers.  
Randomized, laboratory-blinded, 2-way crossover study of irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide 300/12.5 mg 
and CoAprovel 300mg/12.5mg film-coated tablets in healthy volunteers.  
The pre-study and in-study validation of the analytical method in the two studies for both analytes is 
satisfactory and in accordance with the current guidelines. 
The LLOQ for both drugs is lower than 5% of the minimum Cmax. Therefore, in case of a carry-over 
effect was present it would have been detected. 
Results 
The pharmacokinetic analysis is adequate for both studies. The statistical analysis performed is 
parametric, except for Tmax, in accordance with the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence.  
Study for the 300mg/25mg strength 
Based on the statistical analyses the 90% confidence intervals calculated for AUC(0-t), AUC(0-inf) and 
Cmax of both drugs were inside the normal range of acceptability (0.80 – 1.25).  
 Study for the 300mg/12.5 mg strength 
Based on the statistical analyses submitted by the applicant the 90% confidence intervals calculated 
for AUC(0-t), AUC(0-inf) and Cmax of both drugs were inside the normal range of acceptability (0.80 – 
1.25) (see tables below). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 11/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 12/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
Safety data 
The safety profile of Ifirmacombi seems to be comparable with CoAprovel although it is obvious that 
the design of the PK studies undertaken was not powered to compare the safety profile. No difference 
in the safety profile can be anticipated. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.1.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Bioequivalence between the test product and the reference product has been shown for the 300/25 mg 
and 300/12.5 mg strengths. Extrapolation of the evidence obtained in the bioequivalence study for the 
300/25 mg strength to the proportional strength of 150/12.5 mg is possible. Bioequivalence was 
shown with the highest strength, kinetics is linear, this lower strength is qualitatively identical and 
quantitatively proportional in composition, and dissolution profiles are similar at 50 rpm with the 
paddle apparatus in media without surfactant at pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8. 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies Ifirmacombi is considered bioequivalent with 
CoAprovel. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. The PSUR of the reference product is on a 3-yearly cycle and the next data lock point is       
29 September 2013. 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considers that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance presented in 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Module 1.8.1. of the Marketing Authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product 
is on the market. 
Risk Management plan 
Not applicable 
The application is based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring 
additional risk minimization activities have been identified. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Combined Package Leaflet 
The QRD plenary considered the request of the applicant to use a combined Package Leaflet as 
acceptable.  
2.6.  Benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical and clinical data and bioequivalence has been 
shown. A benefit/risk balance comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
balance of Ifirmacombi in the treatment of essential hypertension in adult patients whose blood 
pressure is not adequately controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone was favourable and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/99460/2011  
Page 14/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
