European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/605953/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Irbesartan krka 
International Nonproprietary Name: irbesartan 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000962 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 7 
Clinical aspects ........................................................................................................................ 7 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 12 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 12 
2/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Krka, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on  06 December 2007 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Irbesartan Krka, in accordance with the 
centralised procedure falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under Article 
3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1). 
The chosen reference product is: 
■ Reference medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community 
provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aprovel 75mg, 150mg, 300mg tablets  
and 75mg, 150mg, 300mg film-coated tablets  
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol Myers Squib SNC  
(cid:131) Member State (EEA)/Community: Community 
(cid:131)  First authorisation:  Date 27-08-1997 
■ Reference medicinal product authorised in the Community/Member State where the application is 
made: 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aprovel 75mg, 150mg, 300mg tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi pharma Bristol Myers Squib SNC 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/97/046/004-006 
■ Medicinal Product used for bioequivalence study (where applicable) 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aprovel 300 mg film coated tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol Myers Squib SNC 
(cid:131)  Member State of source: Germany 
(cid:131) Bioavailability study number(s):  
Study No IBA-P7-064 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Concepción Prieto Yerro 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 6 December 2007. 
The procedure started on 26 December 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
17 March 2008. 
During the meeting 21-23 April 2008 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
28 April 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
22 May 2008. 
3/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 8 July 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on 
22 August 2008.  
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 2 September 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  22-25  September  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Irbesartan Krka on 25 September 2008. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 1 December 2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Irbesartan Krka 75 mg, 150 mg or 300 mg film-coated tablet is a generic medicinal product containing  
irbesartan as irbesartan hydrochloride as active substance. 
Irbesartan  is  a  potent,  orally  active,  selective  angiotensin-II  receptor  (type  AT1)  antagonist.  It  is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin-II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin-II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin-II (AT1) receptors 
results  in  increases  in  plasma  renin  levels  and  angiotensin-II  levels,  and  a  decrease  in  plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the  recommended  doses.  Irbesartan  does  not  inhibit  ACE  (kininase-II),  an  enzyme  which  generates 
angiotensin-II  and  also  degrades  bradykinin  into  inactive  metabolites.  Irbesartan  does  not  require 
metabolic activation for its activity. 
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  irbesartan  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  randomised,  double-blind 
placebo  controlled  studies,  and  controlled  studies  with  active  comparators  in  patients  with 
hypertension. Irbesartan was also studied in two large studies in kidney disease in patients with type 2 
diabetes. A summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of Aprovel. 
The indication proposed for irbesartan is the same as authorised for the reference medicinal product 
Aprovel. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Irbesartan Krka is presented in the form of film coated tablets. 
The film coated tablets contain 75 mg, or 150 mg or 300 mg of irbesartan as active substance. Other 
ingredients are defined in the SPC section 6.1. 
It is packaged into blisters made of PVC/PE/PVDC/Al.  
Active Substance 
The  chemical  name  of  irbesartan  hydrochloride  is  3-((2'-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl)-2-
butyl-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one hydrochloride or, 
2-Butyl-3-(p-(o-1H-tetrazol-5-ylphenyl)benzyl)-1,3-diazaspiro(4.4)non-1-en-4-one hydrochloride.  
Corresponding to the molecular formula C25H28N6O*HCl and relative molecular mass 465.0 
4/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
It appears as a crystalohydrate salt in an average ratio to water content of 1: 3/2. It is a white to almost 
white powder, sparingly soluble in ethanol, practically insoluble in chloroform and water. It does not 
show polymorphism. Irbesartan hydrochloride is not described in Ph Eur. 
•  Manufacture 
Irbesartan  HCl  is  manufactured  by  a  two  step  chemical  synthesis.  The  first  step  (path  A)  includes 
preparation of the intermediate product. The quality profile of the active substance obtained by path A 
is considered sufficiently described and adequately supported by data. Therefore path A is approvable 
and can be used for the synthesis of the active substance to be used for the manufacture of the finished 
product. 
In the second step the final synthesis and purification of irbesartan HCl takes place. The material can 
be re-processed if necessary. 
In  summary,  sufficient  information  has  been  provided  to  demonstrate  that  the  active  substance 
manufactured by path A is meets all relevant specifications. 
• 
Specification 
The drug substance specification as tested by the finished product manufacturer includes tests for 
appearance (visual), identification (IR and in-house),  solubility (PhEur), water (PhEur), heavy metals 
(PhEur), sulphated ash (Ph.Eur), related substances (HPLC), assay (titration), residual solvents (GC). 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  
A  total  of  three  batches  manufactured  by  the  synthetic  route  path  A.  The  results  are  within  the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
• 
Stability 
Three  production  scale  batches  were  put  on  long-term  (25±2°C/60±5%RH)  and  accelerated 
(40±2°C/75±5%RH) stability testing conditions respectively. 
6  months  stability  testing  results  of  the  active  substance  at  controlled  room  temperature 
25±2°C/60±5%RH,  accelerated  conditions  40±2°C/75±5%RH  and 
intermediate  condition 
30±2°C/65±5% RH are currently available. The stability study is ongoing. 
Appearance,  water  content,  content  of  irbesartan  hydrochloride  and  related  substances  are  being 
monitored using the same analytical methods used in the stability program as for release. 
No significant changes have been observed at accelerated and long term stability conditions. 
The  photostability  test  performed  according  to  the  ICH  Q1B,  on  one  batch  revealed  no  significant 
changes in the sample after 23 h. 
The  proposed  re-test  period  is  justified  based  on  the  stability  results  when  the  active  substance  is 
stored in the original packing material. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Different compositions of irbesartan HCl were tested, initially prepared by direct compression. During 
the  tabletting  process  some  technological  problems  appeared.  Using  a  combination  of  two  polyol 
diluents and different lubricant brought no significant improvement.  
Subsequently a wet granulation process was employed using ethanol as granulating agent. During the 
drying  step  the  wet  granulate is  put  in  combination  with  the  mannitol  as the main  diluent,  which  is 
known to be easily dried. Using this process previously observed problems were overcome.  
The formulation was further optimised using different excipients and studying their influence on tablet 
hardness and disintegration times. A relatively simple composition with well defined excipients was 
selected in order to prepare a stable and bioequivalent formulation. 
Film  coating  was  applied  in  order  to  protect  the  core  with  the  active  substance  against  light  and 
humidity. 
5/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extensive  experimental  work  has  been  done  by  the  applicant  in  order  to  develop  a  discriminatory 
dissolution  test  method  which  reflects  in  vivo  bioequivalence  as  required  by  the  guideline  on 
Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98). This work has led 
to  the  establishment  of  an  appropriate  dissolution  test  method  for  QC  purposes.  Comparative 
dissolution  studies  between  the  reference  and  generic  product  for  all  strengths  have  shown  the 
dissolution profiles can be considered similar as defined by the same guideline. 
The excipients selected are commonly used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical preparations. These 
are  Mannitol, 
Low-substituted 
hydroxypropylcellulose,  Hydrogenated  Castor  Oil;  the  coating  is  Opadry  White  (Polyvinyl  alcohol, 
Titanium dioxide, Macrogol 3000 and Talc). None of the excipients used for the manufacture of the 
drug product contain materials that are of animal or human origin. 
Comparative  results  of  impurities  profile  of  these  batches  (see  above)  and  innovator  batches  are 
provided. All detected impurities are present in concentrations below reporting level.  
Hydroxypropylcellulose, 
Talc,  Macrogol 
6000, 
Bioequivalence  study  was  performed  for  the  300  mg  strength  under  fasting  conditions  in  healthy 
volunteers. Plasma concentrations of irbesartan were determined using a validated LC/MS method. 
The impurity profile of the biobatch is very similar to the reference biobatch. Satisfactory certificates 
of analysis for the reference biobatch and test biobatch were provided. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The applicant has declared that starting materials and excipients used for the manufacture irbesartan 
film-coated tablets do not contain materials that are of animal or human origin and are not in contact 
with materials of animal or human origin, during their manufacture. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  wet  granulation  method  where  the  active  substance  is 
granulated  with  ethanol  and  part  of  the  excipients.  After  drying,  the  granulate  is  mixed  with  the 
remainder of the excipients and compressed into tablets. The process comprises the following stages: 
Mixing, Granulation, Drying/Sieving, Mixing, Compression/tabletting and Film coating. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for Appearance (visual), Identification 
(irbesartan: HPLC, UV, Titanium dioxide: TLC), Uniformity of dosage units-mass variation (PhEur), 
Dissolution (PhEur), Assay (HPLC), Degradation products (HPLC), Microbial contamination (PhEur), 
water (PhEur) and hardness (PhEur).   
Batch information for six batches of drug product (2 batches for each dose) is provided. All batches 
comply with the proposed specification. The batch analysis data presented indicate that the film-coated 
tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the finished product specification. 
There are no unqualified impurities present. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Three  pilot  scale  batches  of  Irbesartan  film-coated  tablets  300  mg    were  put  on  long-term 
(25±2°C/60±5%RH)  up  to  six  months,  intermediate(30±2°C/65±5%RH)  up  to  six  months  and 
accelerated (40±2°C/75±5%RH) stability testing conditions up to three months. 
Two pilot scale batches of Irbesartan film-coated tablets 75 mg  and two pilot scale batches of 150 mg 
tablets  were  put  on 
intermediate 
(30±2°C/65±5%RH) up to six months and accelerated (40±2°C/75±5%RH) stability testing conditions 
up to three months. 
The  stability  testing  is  performed  according  to  the  Reduced  stability  testing  protocol  (matrixing) 
following currently valid Note for guidance on bracketing and matrixing for stability testing of drug 
substances and drug product, CPMP/ICH/4104/00, according to which for conventional dosage forms 
and  when  active  substances  are  know  to  be  stable,  stability  data  on  at  least  two  pilot  batches  are 
(25±2°C/60±5%RH)  up 
six  months, 
long-term 
to 
6/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acceptable. Stability studies include testing of those attributes of the drug product that are susceptible 
to change during storage. 
All  tested  attributes  remained  within  the  limits  of  specifications  for  all  tested  batches  at  all  testing 
conditions. 
The  results  of  dissolution  of  Irbesartan  Krka  film-coated  tablets  at  accelerated  conditions  after  6 
months  were  below  the  limit  of  specification  for  all  tested  batches  due  to  this  reason  the  stability 
testing is being continued at intermediate stability testing condition. 
Photostability  test  was  performed  according  to  the  ICH  Guidelines  (Q1B),  on  one  batch  for  each 
strength.  No  significant  differences  in  irbesartan  assay  and  degradation  products  content  were 
observed. In conclusion, Irbesartan Krka film-coated tablets (75 mg, 150  mg and 300 mg strengths) 
are not sensitive to light. 
Based  on the stability  studies results  the  shelf  life and  storage  conditions as  defined in  the  SPC  are 
supported. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  quality  of  the  active  substance  obtained  by  path  A  is 
considered sufficiently described and adequately supported by data. Therefore only active substance 
manufactured  by  path  A  is  considered  acceptable.  The  applicant  should  manufacture  the  finished 
product  using  only  active  substance  obtained  by  path  A.    The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the 
clinic. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
This is a generic application containing a different salt of the active substance. The safety of Krka's 
irbesartan hydrochloride as alternative salt was demonstrated with acute toxicity study (T-2614), 90-
day toxicity study (T-2615) and Ames test (A-22/06). The results of these studies were in accordance 
with the available data in published literature and confirmed the safety of Krka's generic product. 
Irbesartan Krka film-coated tablets are similar to the reference medicinal product with respect to the 
impurity  profile.  Since  Irbesartan  Krka  is  essentially  similar  product  and  its  safety  was  proven,  no 
additional toxicology/impurities studies were considered necessary. 
No  ERA  has  been  submitted  and  the  Applicant  has  presented  a  justification.  It  is  accepted  that  the 
introduction of Irbesartan Krka is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales 
volumes for all irbesartan containing products. The risk of an environmental impact from the use of 
irbesartan is of no concern. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of a bioequivalence study. 
GCP 
The bioequivalence  study  is  stated to  have  been  performed  in  accordance  with GCP  and  the  ethical 
requirements  of  Directive  2001/20.  The  clinical  part  of  the  study  and  the  pharmacokinetic  and 
statistical  analyses  were  performed  by  a  CRO,  Canada.  The  bioanalysis  was  carried  out  in  a  CRO, 
Canada. 
The  Applicant  has  clarified  that  the  clinical  centre  has  been  inspected  regularly  by  Regulatory 
Agencies, including FDA (USA) in April 2007, MHRA (UK) in October 2007 and AGES (Austria) in 
7/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
February 2008. This is considered sufficient demonstration of the reliability of the study taking into 
account that no concern on this respect has been observed during the study assessment. 
Clinical study 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted a single-dose, fasted-state bioequivalence 
study. 
Pharmacokinetics  
•  Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
In study IBA-P7-064, the pharmacokinetics of irbesartan was investigated after a 300 mg single dose 
under fasting conditions in 24 healthy male healthy volunteers. Irbesartan was administered with 240 
mL  of  water  at  ambient  temperature.  Blood  samples  were  collected  prior  to  and  after  drug 
administration. There was a 1-week washout between treatments. 
The  clinical  part  of  the  study,  pharmacokinetic  and  statistical  analyses,  and  bioanalysis  were 
performed by CROs.  
The Protocol was approved on the 03/05/2007. It was subsequently approved by the Ethics Committee 
on the 04/05/2007. Amendment 01 dated 05/06/2007 was approved on the 06/06/2007. 
The clinical phase was performed in two groups. Subjects of group I were tested on the 13/06/2007 
and 20/06/2007. Subjects of group II were dosed on the 04/07/2007 and 11/07/2007. 
The analysis of the samples was conducted in the period from 20/07/2007 to 03/08/2007. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS  
Irbesartan 300 mg film coated tablets by KRKA, Slovenia has been compared to Aprovel 300 mg 
film coated tablets, (Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb), purchased in Germany. 
Biowaiver 
According  to  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 a bioequivalence study investigating only one strength may be acceptable 
if a new application concerns several strengths of the active substance. In such a case the choice of the 
strength  used  should  be  justified  on  analytical,  pharmacokinetic  and  safety  grounds.  Furthermore  all  the 
following conditions must be fulfilled: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process, 
the drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic range (if this is not the case the 
strengths where the sensitivity is largest to identify differences in the two products should be 
used), 
the qualitative compositions of the different strengths is the same, 
the ratio  between  amounts  of  active  substance  and excipients is the  same,  or,  in  the case  of 
preparations containing a low concentration of the active substance (less than 5%), the ratio 
between the amounts of excipients is similar, 
the dissolution profile should be similar under identical conditions for the additional strength 
and strength of the batch used in bioequivalence study. 
All the above points were met; however, the in vitro dissolution profiles submitted were inconclusive.  
The dissolution profiles should be carried out with a sampling time at 15 minutes. This time point is 
essential to decide whether the calculation of f2 similarity factor is necessary. Without a sampling time 
at 15 minutes, it is not possible to calculate the similarity factor (f2) because there are not three time 
points with only one of them above 85%. This point was considered a major objection. 
8/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the applicant was asked to submit comparative in vitro dissolution profiles in 0.1 M HCl 
media for the three different strengths of Irbesartan Krka (75, 150 and 300 mg) with sampling times at 
10, 15 and 20 minutes at least, in order to investigate with the adequate methodology the similarity of 
the dissolution profiles so that it is possible to justify a biowaiver for the 75 and 150 strengths. 
The assessment of the applicant’s responses showed that Irbesartan Krka only shows high solubility in 
the  physiological  pH  range  at  very  acid  pH  (1.2).  In  dissolution  media  with  this  pH  value  the 
dissolution profiles have shown to be similar now with the correct methodology. Dissolution profiles 
have shown to have the necessary low variability to employ the f2 similarity factor and the differences 
in  the  amount  dissolved  in  the  first  3  times  points  is  lower  than  10%.  Therefore,  the  dissolution 
profiles are considered similar, and the biowaiver for the 75 and 150 strengths granted. 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
Twenty-seven healthy male volunteers were included in the study, 26 completed the cross-over design. 
One  subject  withdrew  his  consent  after  period  2  for  personal  reasons.  Twenty-four  subjects  were 
analysed and included in the statistical analysis. One subject was enrolled but was not included in the 
study.  He  did  not  receive  any  medication.  Two  alternate  subjects  were  not  used;  therefore,  their 
samples were not assayed. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Irbesartan was analysed in plasma by HPLC with MS/MS detection.  
The validation of the analytical method is satisfactory 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
Standard  pharmacokinetic  variables  were  determined  through  non-compartmental  analysis  by  the 
linear trapezoidal rule. The pharmacokinetic analysis was performed with the program Kinetic 8.0. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
The  statistical  analyses  were  performed  with  SAS  9.1.  Descriptive  statistics  were  calculated  by 
treatment  for  the  estimated  pharmacokinetic  parameters.  Analysis  of  Variance  (ANOVA)  was  also 
carried  out  on  the  natural  log-transformed  AUCt,  AUCinf,  Cmax,  and  untransformed  Kel  and  t1/2  data. 
Values for the Tmax parameter were analyzed by a nonparametric approach in accordance with the NfG 
on  the  investigation  of  bioavailability  and  bioequivalence  and  its  Questions  and  Answer  document. 
Based  on  the  log-transformed  parameters,  the  following  criteria  were  used  to  evaluate  the 
bioequivalence between the test and reference products: 
• The 90% confidence intervals of the relative mean AUCt, AUCinf and Cmax of the test to reference 
products should be between 80% and 125%. 
9/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Results 
Table 1: Main pharmacokinetic parameters of the individual formulations (without log-transformation) 
Table 2: 90% Confidence intervals for the ratio of the PK parameters (after log-transformation) 
All pre-dose samples were found to be below the LLOQ. 
Data of 24 subjects were taken into account for Cmax and AUC0-t. AUCinf  was not calculated in four 
subjects for the reference because the terminal phase of elimination could not be adequately estimated 
for these subjects. 
The ratios of AUC0-t/AUCinf were all above 80% in all cases where the AUCinf could be estimated. 
No statistically significant period effect or sequence effect was detected in the ANOVA table of the 
primary PK metrics AUCt and Cmax. The ANOVA table took into consideration the existence of two 
groups of subjects. 
Based  on  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  Irbesartan,  the  reference  and  test  are  considered 
bioequivalent  with  respect  to  the  extent  and  rate  of  absorption  /  exposure.  The  90%  confidence 
intervals  calculated  for  AUC(0-t),  AUC(0-inf)  and  Cmax  of  irbesartan  were  inside  the  normal  range  of 
acceptability (0.80 – 1.25). 
The  absence  of  quantifiable  levels  in  pre-dose  samples  of  period  2  indicates  the  lack  of  carryover 
effect. Therefore, an unequal carry-over effect can be excluded and the cross-over design represents 
validly the relative bioavailability between test and reference products. This is also confirmed in the 
absence of period and sequence effects in the ANOVA table 
10/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The AUC estimated is considered representative enough of the extent of absorption / exposure since 
the  extrapolation  is  minor.  It  is  acceptable  the  absence  of  adequate  data  on  the  elimination  rate 
constant in 4 subjects. 
The Cmax was not observed in the first sampling time, therefore, the Cmax is considered to have been 
estimated correctly due to the adequate frequency of the sampling around Tmax. 
Protocol deviations: 
Fifty-nine deviations in the blood sampling were reported. If the deviation was equal or greater than 2 
minutes it was taken into account for PK calculations. The other time deviations were considered to 
have a negligible impact on the study outcome. These deviations were due to technical problems, late 
arrival of subjects or administrative errors. 
There  were  2  deviations  with  regards  to  xantine  consumption,  1  with  regards  to  vital  signs 
measurements, 14 in sample processing, storage and shipping and 1 subject who withdrew the consent 
was substituted according to the protocol. 
These deviations are considered normal and acceptable since they do not alter the validity of the study 
conclusion. 
Safety data: 
The  safety  analysis  includes  the  27  subjects  who  entered  the  study  and  received  at  least  one  of  the 
treatments. Fourteen adverse events were reported in subjects receiving the test and also 14 adverse 
events were reported in those receiving the reference product. 
The safety profile of both products seems to be comparable although the design was not powered to 
compare the safety profile. No difference in the safety profile is anticipated. 
(cid:131) Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Irbesartan Krka is considered bioequivalent with 
Aprovel. 
The results of study IBA-P7-064 with 300 mg formulation can be extrapolated to the other strengths 
(75  mg  and  150  mg)  submitted  for  the  marketing  authorisation, according  to  conditions  in  Note  for 
Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, 
section 5.4. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No  post-marketing  data  are  available.  The  medicinal  product  has  not  been  marketed  in  any 
country.   
11/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
No  description  of  Risk  Management  Plan  has  been  provided  by  the  applicant. Since  the  application 
concerns  a  generic  with  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
additional risk minimisation activities have been identified this approach is considered acceptable. 
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule for Irbesartan Krka should follow PSURs submission schedule for the 
reference medicinal product. 
User consultation 
The Package leaflet with a few minor exceptions has been harmonised with the originator PL. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical and clinical information and the bioequivalence 
has been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the risk-benefit 
balance of Irbesartan Krka in the “Treatment of essential hypertension. Treatment of renal disease in 
patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus as part of an antihypertensive drug regimen”, 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
12/12 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
