EMA/429103/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000962 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ifirmasta1 
irbesartan 
This document is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ifirmasta. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Ifirmasta. 
What is Ifirmasta? 
Ifirmasta is a medicine that contains the active substance irbesartan. It is available as tablets (75, 150 
and 300 mg). 
Ifirmasta is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Ifirmasta is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Aprovel. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Ifirmasta used for? 
Ifirmasta is used in adults who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure). ‘Essential’ means 
that the hypertension has no obvious cause. Ifirmasta is also used to treat kidney disease in adults 
with hypertension and type 2 diabetes.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Ifirmasta used? 
The usual recommended dose of Ifirmasta is 150 mg once a day. If the blood pressure is not 
sufficiently controlled, the dose can be increased to 300 mg a day or other medicines for hypertension 
can be added, such as hydrochlorothiazide. A starting dose of 75 mg can be used in patients receiving 
haemodialysis (a blood clearance technique) or in patients over 75 years of age. 
1 Previously known as Irbesartan Krka. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
                                                
In patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes, Ifirmasta is added to some other treatments for 
hypertension. Treatment is started at 150 mg once a day and is usually increased to 300 mg once a 
day. 
How does Ifirmasta work? 
The active substance in Ifirmasta, irbesartan, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means 
that it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful 
vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which 
angiotensin II normally attaches, irbesartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood 
vessels to widen. This allows the blood pressure to drop, reducing the risk caused by high blood 
pressure, such as having a stroke. 
How has Ifirmasta been studied? 
Because Ifirmasta is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce 
the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Ifirmasta? 
Because Ifirmasta is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefit and 
risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine. 
Why has Ifirmasta been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ifirmasta has been shown to have 
comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Aprovel. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Aprovel, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Ifirmasta be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Ifirmasta: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Irbesartan 
Krka on 1 December 2008. The name of the medicine was changed to Ifirmasta on 24 September 
2009.  
The full EPAR for Ifirmasta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ifirmasta, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2013. 
Ifirmasta0F  
EMA/429103/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
