EMA/712450/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002302 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ifirmacombi 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ifirmacombi. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Ifirmacombi. 
What is Ifirmacombi? 
Ifirmacombi is a medicine that contains two active substances, irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. It is 
available as tablets (150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide; 300 mg irbesartan and 
25 mg hydrochlorothiazide; 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide). 
Ifirmacombi is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Ifirmacombi is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ 
already authorised in the European Union (EU) called CoAprovel. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Ifirmacombi used for? 
Ifirmacombi is used in adults who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not 
adequately controlled by irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone. ‘Essential’ means that the 
hypertension has no obvious cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Ifirmacombi used? 
The dose of Ifirmacombi to be used depends on the dose of irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide that the 
patient was taking before. Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once a 
day are not recommended. Ifirmacombi may be added to other treatments for hypertension. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Ifirmacombi work? 
Ifirmacombi contains two active substances, irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a 
hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance 
that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, 
irbesartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic, which is another type of treatment for hypertension. It works by 
increasing urine output, reducing the amount of fluid in the blood and lowering the blood pressure. 
The combination of the two active substances has an additive effect, reducing the blood pressure more 
than either medicine alone. By lowering the blood pressure, the risks associated with high blood 
pressure, such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
How has Ifirmacombi been studied? 
Because Ifirmacombi is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to determine 
that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, CoAprovel. Two medicines are bioequivalent when 
they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ifirmacombi? 
Because Ifirmacombi is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits 
and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Ifirmacombi been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ifirmacombi has been shown to have 
comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to CoAprovel. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
CoAprovel, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Ifirmacombi be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Ifirmacombi 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ifirmacombi on 4 March 2011.  
The full EPAR for Ifirmacombi can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ifirmacombi, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Ifirmacombi  
EMA/712450/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
