EMA/56994/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002066 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ikervis 
ciclosporin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ikervis. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Ikervis. 
For practical information about using Ikervis, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Ikervis and what is it used for? 
Ikervis is a medicine used to treat severe keratitis, an inflammation of the cornea (the transparent 
layer covering the front of the eye) in adult patients with dry eye disease. It is used when treatment 
with artificial tears (tear substitutes) is insufficient to improve the condition. 
Ikervis contains the active substance ciclosporin. 
How is Ikervis used? 
Ikervis can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should only be started by a healthcare 
professional trained in ophthalmology (eye medicine). 
The medicine is available as single-dose eye drops and the recommended dose is one drop in each 
affected eye daily at bedtime. The doctor should confirm the need for continuing treatment at least 
every 6 months. If other eye drops are used, the different medicines must be given at least 15 minutes 
apart. Ikervis should be given last. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Ikervis work? 
In patients with dry eye disease, either not enough tear fluid is produced to create the protective film 
of moisture that normally coats the surface of the eye, or abnormalities in the tear fluid cause it to dry 
out too quickly. Without sufficient protection from the tear fluid, the cornea can get damaged and 
become inflamed (keratitis), which can eventually lead to ulceration, infection and reduced vision. 
The active substance in Ikervis, ciclosporin, acts on cells of the immune system (the body’s natural 
defences) that are involved in the processes that cause inflammation. Applying it directly to the eye 
reduces inflammation and damage there but limits its effects elsewhere in the body. 
What benefits of Ikervis have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Ikervis have been shown in one main study involving 246 patients with severe dry eye 
disease, where Ikervis was compared with the vehicle (the same eye drop formula but without any 
active substance). The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients whose condition 
responded to treatment after six months, as measured by a combination of damage to the cornea and 
a score for the level of symptoms, including discomfort and pain. About 29% (44 of 154) of those 
given Ikervis responded, compared with 23% (21 of 91) given the vehicle. The proportion of patients 
who responded to treatment was therefore similar in the two groups, but when only the damage to the 
cornea was considered, Ikervis was significantly better than the vehicle at reducing it. Levels of HLA-
DR (a measure of inflammation in eye cells) were also reduced in patients using Ikervis compared with 
the dummy treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Ikervis? 
The most common side effects with Ikervis (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are pain and 
irritation in the eye; other common side effects are lacrimation (excessive tears), ocular hyperaemia 
(red eye), and erythema (redness) of the eyelid. These symptoms are usually short lasting and occur 
at the time the eye drops are used. For the full list of all side effects reported with Ikervis, see the 
package leaflet. 
The medicine must not be used in patients who have or are suspected to have an infection of the eye 
or the tissues around the eye. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ikervis approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Ikervis’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Although Ikervis had 
not been shown to be any better than the vehicle in improving symptoms such as discomfort and pain, 
there was evidence that it could reduce the inflammation and damage to the cornea associated with 
keratitis. The CHMP considered that this was clinically meaningful, since none of the available 
medicines for the condition have been shown to reduce damage to the surface of the eye, which might 
help prevent the progression of the disease. Regarding safety, the medicine was well tolerated, with 
mainly short-lasting effects on the eye at the time the eye drops are used; the risk of effects on the 
body as a whole was considered to be low. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ikervis? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Ikervis is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
Ikervis  
EMA/56994/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
package leaflet for Ikervis, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Ikervis 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ikervis on 19 March 2015.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Ikervis can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Ikervis, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2015. 
Ikervis  
EMA/56994/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
