26 March 2015 
EMA/334374/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
ILARIS  
International non-proprietary name: CANAKINUMAB 
Procedure No. EMA/H/C/001109/P46 041 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 14 January 2015, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Ilaris, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that study  
An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety pilot study of 6-month canakinumab treatment with up 
to 6-month follow-up in patients with active Hyper-Igd Syndrome (HIDS) - CACZ885D2402  
is part of a clinical development program. A line listing of all the concerned studies is annexed. 
Canakinumab was first registered under the trade name ILARIS® for the treatment of CAPS in the 
United States (US) on 17 Jun 2009. Novartis is currently Marketing Authorization Holder in 72 
countries worldwide for 150 mg powder for injection and 36 countries worldwide for the 150 mg 
powder and solvent for injection (convenience kit). 
ILARIS® is also approved for the treatment of acute gouty arthritis (GA) attacks in the EU, Russia, 
Ecuador, Argentina, Mexico, Peru and Israel. Lastly ILARIS® is also approved for the treatment of 
systemic idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) in the EU, United States, Switzerland, Philippines, Russia, Chile, 
Argentina, Peru, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, Israel, Australia, Morocco and Malaysia. Submissions 
are either pending or in progress worldwide. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Canakinumab powder and solvent for solution for injection were supplied to the investigators at a dose 
strength of 150 mg. The powder is white and the solvent should be clear and colourless. Both were 
provided in 6 mL glass vials. Neither active comparator nor placebo was used. All test materials were 
supplied by Novartis Drug Supply Management (DSM). The batch and formulation numbers of the test 
drug are presented in Table 9-1. 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Study number: CACZ885D2402 
An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety pilot study of 6-month canakinumab treatment with up 
to 6 months follow-up and a 24-month long-term treatment in patients with active Hyper-IgD 
Syndrome (HIDS) 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
CACZ885D2402: An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety pilot study 
of 6-month canakinumab treatment with up to 6 months follow-up and a 
24-month long-term treatment in patients with active Hyper-IgD Syndrome 
(HIDS) 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objectives: To assess if canakinumab reduces the flare frequency in patients with active 
HIDS during the 6-month treatment period compared to a historical period (defined as the most recent 
6 months in which the patient did not receive drugs other than symptomatic treatment with NSAIDs 
and/or steroids). 
Secondary objectives: 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To assess occurrence of flares during the 6-month treatment period and the 24- month long-
term treatment period. 
To assess the change in flare severity over time as assessed by the physician’s global 
assessment of HIDS flare severity score. 
To assess the change in flare severity over time as assessed by patient’s global assessment of 
HIDS flare severity score. 
To assess the change in HIDS signs and symptoms over time as assessed by physician 
assessment of 4 key signs and symptoms severity score. 
To assess the change in HIDS signs and symptoms over time as assessed by the patient 
assessment of 4 key signs and symptoms severity score. 
To assess the time to resolution of initial flare after first canakinumab treatment. 
To assess the profile over time in CRP and/or SAA from baseline to EOS. 
To assess the number/percentage of patients who received dose up-titration during the 6-
month treatment period. 
To assess HIDS control by physician. 
To assess HIDS control by patient. 
To assess the change from baseline in the Childhood Health Assessment Questionnaire (CHAQ) 
in children and in the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in adults. 
To assess changes in the flare duration (mean/median days) during the trial as compared to 
the historical period. 
To assess the adverse events (AE) reported during the trial. 
To assess percentage of patients who experience a flare requiring rescue treatment. 
To assess/describe flare rescue treatments. 
To assess the time to flare after the last dose of canakinumab during the followup period. 
To assess the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of canakinumab in patients with HIDS 
during the trial. 
To assess the immunogenicity of canakinumab in patients with HIDS during the trial. 
To analyze the genetic expression (EG). 
Study design 
This was an open-label, single treatment arm, efficacy and safety pilot study of canakinumab 300 mg 
(4 mg/kg for patient ≤ 40 kg) subcutaneous injections every 6 weeks for 6 months in patients with 
active HIDS. Patients who experienced a new HIDS flare between baseline and Week 4 should receive 
an additional 150 mg (2mg/kg for patients ≤40 kg) dose at the moment of flare, and they would 
receive 450 mg (6 mg/kg for patients ≤40 kg) every 6 weeks thereafter starting at Week 6. However, 
if the flare occurred between Weeks 5-6, the patient should receive rescue medication with NSAIDs or 
corticosteroids and wait until Week 6 to receive a total of 450 mg every 6 weeks thereafter. 
All patients who completed the 6-month treatment period entered into a follow-up period of 6 months 
maximum duration. Patients remained in the follow-up period until either they completed the full 6-
month period or they experienced a HIDS flare. If a flare occurred at the end or prior to completion of 
the 6-month follow-up period, then the patient was re-dosed with the same dose administered at Day 
127. After the 6-month follow-up period all patients entered into a long-term period treatment of 24 
months. 
While in the long-term treatment period, patients received the same dose administered at Day 127, 
every 6 weeks. Serum concentrations of canakinumab to evaluate PK, and of total IL-1β (sum of free 
and bind canakinumab) to evaluate PD, were determined at Baseline (before administration of the first 
dose of canakinumab), on Days 4, 15, 43, 85, 127, and 169, and on follow-up visits until a flare 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occurred. Serum concentrations were also determined annually during the 24-month long-term 
treatment period, at the end of study visit, and in all scheduled visits where a flare was confirmed. 
Study population /Sample size 
The study population consisted of patients who were either male or female, aged 2 years or more, with 
a previous diagnosis of HIDS proven by DNA or enzymatic tests, and active HIDS, were included in the 
study. 
A total of 10 patients were screened for the study, of which 9 were treated and analysed. 
Inclusion criteria: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Male and female patients at least 24 months of age at the time of the screening visit. 
Patients with a diagnosis of HIDS proven by DNA analysis and/or enzymatic studies. 
At time of start of drug treatment: active HIDS as evidenced by a physician global assessment 
of HIDS flare severity ≥2 and CRP values >10 mg/L (normal CRP ≤10 mg/L). 
Patients who have a history of ≥3 febrile acute HIDS flares in a 6-month period when not 
receiving prophylaxis treatment (e.g., anakinra daily treatment) with a duration of each flare 
lasting ≥4 days and limiting the normal daily activities. 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Patients eligible for the 24-month long-term treatment period are those who completed the 
follow-up period after the implementation of Amendment 5 or completed the follow-up period 
prior to the implementation of Amendment 5 and continued to receive uninterrupted 
canakinumab. 
• 
• 
Parent’s or legal guardian’s written informed consent and child assent, if appropriate or 
patient’s informed consent for patients ≥18 years of age before any assessment is performed. 
Able to communicate with the investigator and comply with the requirements of the study (for 
children the parent can assist when necessary). 
Exclusion criteria: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnant or nursing (lactating) women. 
History of being immunocompromised, including a positive HIV at screening (ELISA and 
Western blot) test result. 
Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) or Hepatitis C antibody positive. 
Live vaccinations within 3 months prior to the start of the trial, during the trial, and up to 3 
months following the last study dose. 
History of significant medical conditions, which in the Investigator’s opinion would exclude the 
patient from participating in this trial. 
History of recurrent and/or evidence of active bacterial, fungal, or viral infections. 
Positive QuantiFERON (QFT-TB G In-Tube) test or positive Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) test 
(≥ 5 mm induration) at screening or within 2 month prior to the screening visit, according to 
the national guidelines. Patients with a positive PPD test (≥ 5 mm induration) at screening may 
have been enrolled only if they had either a negative chest x-ray or a negative QuantiFERON 
test. Patients with indeterminate QuantiFERON test result could be considered eligible for the 
Investigator’s opinion. 
• 
Use of the following therapies: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
NSAIDs for HIDS symptom control/treatment within 2 days prior to baseline visit. 
Corticosteriods [oral prednisone (or equivalent)] used to treat HIDS within 1 week  
prior to baseline visit. 
Anakinra within 24 hours prior to Baseline visit. 
Rilonacept within 1 week prior to Baseline visit. 
Etanercept within 2 weeks prior to Baseline visit. 
Infliximab within 12 weeks prior to the Baseline visit. 
Adalimumab within 8 weeks prior to the Baseline visit. 
Any other investigational biologic agent within 8 weeks or 5 half-lives prior to the  
Baseline visit, whichever is longer. 
Patients included in the screening should have stopped previous biologic treatment and other drugs 
(NSAID, corticosteroids). No patients should have received first dose of canakinumab medication 
without complying with the described timelines. 
• 
History of malignancy of any organ system (other than treated localized basal cell carcinoma of 
the skin), treated or untreated, within the past 5 years, regardless of whether there is 
evidence of local recurrence or metastases. 
• 
Patients who receive or have received any investigational drug during the 30 days before the 
enrolment into the study. 
Treatments 
Dosage form: Canakinumab powder for solution for injection (strength: 150 mg per vial). 
Mode of administration: Subcutaneous injection after reconstitution of each vial. 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage: All patients received dosing every 6 weeks for 6 months, starting at Day 1 with 300 mg 
(4mg/kg for patient ≤ 40 kg). In addition, patients who experience a new HIDS flare between Baseline 
and Week 4 received an additional 150 mg (2mg/kg for patient ≤ 40 kg) at that episode and 450 mg 
every 6 weeks thereafter starting at Week 6. But if it occurs during weeks 5 and 6, the patient 
received rescue medication with NSAIDS or corticosteroids and waited until Week 6 to receive a total 
of 450mg. Subsequent doses (on Weeks 12, and 18) were equal to the total dose received at Week 6. 
Patients who relapsed during the follow-up period were re-dosed with the same dose administered at 
Day 127. 
Duration of treatment: All patients completed the 6-month treatment period. After the 6-month 
follow-up period, patients entered in a long-term period treatment of 24 months.  
There was no reference therapy. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy: 
Assessments for the primary endpoint: 
• 
• 
Occurrence of flare during the 6-month treatment period: a flare was defined as a Physician 
Global Assessment of HIDS flare severity score of ≥2 and a CRP value >10mg/L. 
Occurrence of flare during a historical period (most recent 6 months in which the patient 
did not receive treatment for HIDS other than symptomatic treatment with NSAIDs and/or 
corticosteroids). 
• 
A comparison was made between assessments of these 2 periods in order to achieve the 
primary objective (assess if canakinumab reduces the flare frequency in patients with active 
HIDS during the 6-month treatment period compared to a historical period). 
Other assessments: 
• 
Physician (as well as patient) global assessment of HIDS flare severity: collected after each 
flare and based on a 5-point scale: 0 = Absent signs/symptoms; 1 = Minimal signs/symptoms; 
2 = Mild; 3= Moderate; 4 = Severe. 
• 
Physician’s (as well as patient’s) severity assessment of key HIDS symptoms: the severity of 
each of 4 key signs and symptoms of HIDS (fever, lymphadenopathy, aphtous ulcers, 
abdominal pain) was assessed after each flare by the investigator using the following 5- point 
scale: 0 = Absent signs/symptoms; 1 = Minimal signs/symptoms; 2 = Mild; 3 = Moderate; 4 = 
Severe. 
• 
Physician (as well as patient) global assessment of HIDS control based on a 5-point scale: 0 = 
No control; 1 = Poor control of HIDS associated signs and symptoms since the last visit; 2 = 
Somewhat control of HIDS associated signs and symptoms since the last visit; 3 = Good 
control of HIDS associated signs and symptoms since the last visit; 4= Excellent control of 
HIDS associated clinical signs and symptoms since the last visit. 
• 
Inflammation markers CRP and/or SAA. 
Patient reported outcomes about flares were collected through the patient’s diary. 
Safety: 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety assessments consisted on the control and collection of all adverse events (AEs) and serious 
adverse events (SAEs); the regular monitoring of hematology, blood chemistry and urine; regular 
assessments of vital signs; and physical examinations. 
Statistical Methods 
In general, categorical data were summarized using counts and percentages, while continuous data 
were reported using number of subjects, median, minimum and maximum. 
The primary efficacy variable (number of flares per patient observed during the 6-month treatment 
period) was analyzed descriptively for the FAS population.  
Time to flare after the last dose of canakinumab during the follow-period was summarized descriptively 
and analyzed with Kaplan-Meier curves. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 10 subjects with HIDS, from three medical centers, were eligible and entered the screening 
period, 9 of which were entered in the treatment period of the study. One patient did not have a 
qualifying flare during the screening period and was therefore discontinued early from the study. 
Among the 9 patients included in the study, all completed the 6-month treatment period, and the 6-
month follow-up period. During the 24-month long-treatment period, 1 patient discontinued the study 
due to lack of protocol compliance. 
Baseline data 
Four patients were below 16 years of age, 6 were below 18 years of age, 3 were 18 years or older. The 
majority were female (66,66%). Median time since HIDS diagnosis was 4.1 years. All patients were 
Caucasian. 
Efficacy results 
The median number of flares per patient decreased from 5 (3-12) during the 6-month historical period 
to 0 (0-2) flares during the 6-month treatment period (Table 4-1). 
In the historical period a total of 59 flares (range 3 to 12 flares per patient) were reported. During the 
6-month treatment period, only 2 patients had flares (1 patient had one flare; the other patient had 
two flares). One of the 2 patients received rescue medication because the flare occurred between week 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 and 6, and then received an escalated dose of canakinumab (450 mg) at week 6. In the patient with 
2 flares, one flare occurred at week 6 and the patient received an escalated dose of canakinumab (450 
mg). The second flare occurred 39 days later for which he did not receive rescue medication. 
HIDS flare severity over time 
During the treatment withdrawal period, 7 out of 9 patients had a flare. During the first 12-month of 
the long-term treatment period, 4 patients had 6 flares and during the second year of the long-term 
follow-up treatment period, 2 patients presented 2 flares. 
The severity of the flares decreased under treatment with canakinumab. At baseline, 4 patients had 
had a PGA of HIDS flare severity score of moderate and 5, of mild signs/symptoms. In the treatment 
withdrawal period, 7 out of 9 patients had a flare of which 3 were rated moderate and 4 mild. Six 
flares occurred during the first 12-month follow-up in 4 patients, 4 of which were mild and 2 of 
minimal signs/symptoms. In the 2nd year of the long-term follow-up, two flares occurred, one mild 
and one without signs/symptoms. 
The median time to resolution of the initial flare from the time of the first canakinumab treatment was 
3 days (1 to 5 days), which meant that the total duration of the initial flare had a median of 5.0 (3-9) 
days duration. The median flare duration during the first 6-month treatment period was 3.0 (2-4) 
days, during the withdrawal period 4.0 days (2-10 days), during the first 12-month long-term 
treatment period 3.5 (2-8) days and during the second year of the long-term treatment period 8.5 (6-
11) days. 
For the 7 patients who experienced a flare during the 6-month treatment withdrawal follow-up period, 
the median time to flare after the last canakinumab dose was 110 (62-196) days (Figure 4-1). Two 
patients did not flare during the withdrawal period. 
At baseline, the physician’s assessment of HIDS disease control is rated as no disease control or poor 
disease control in 6 and 3 patients, respectively. At Day 4, all patients had a score of good or excellent 
disease control, and these scores remained such until the end of the study. The patients’ assessments 
of disease control provided similar results. 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The inflammation biomarkers were elevated at baseline with median levels of CRP and SAA of 117.7 
mg/L and 688.5 mg/L, respectively. Median levels for both had normalized by Day 15 and remained 
normal for the remainder of the trial. Transient elevations were only observed during acute flares. 
Successful administration of ACZ885 as well as binding of IL-1β to canakinumab was evident from the 
increase in total IL-1β concentrations following the first dose on Day 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters 
such as CL/F, Ka and V/F and their associated variability were estimated, as well as parameters 
describing the kinetics of IL-1β, such as rate of production, clearance, and its binding affinity to 
canakinumab. The data from this study will be pooled with data from recently completed phase 2 
studies in related disease conditions (crFMF, TRAPS, and HIDS). 
No blood sample showed positive immunogenicity. 
Safety results 
All nine patients had at least one AE. The most commonly affected primary SOC were infections-
infestations, followed by gastrointestinal disorders and general disorders and administration site 
conditions. Pyrexia and pharyngo-tonsillitis were the most common AEs in patients who received active 
treatment and occurred in 44% and 33% of patients, respectively. 
Almost all the AEs described were of mild severity, three AEs were reported as severe: anemia, 
gastrointestinal hemorrhage and cellulitis. According to the causality assessed by the investigator only 
one of the AEs (vulvovaginal mycotic infection) was considered related to the study drug medication. 
No deaths occurred in this study and no patient experienced an adverse event leading to study 
discontinuation. 
Two patients received 450 mg doses of canakinumab every 6 weeks. No differences in terms of AEs 
and SAEs were observed in those 2 patients as compared with those treated with lower doses of 
canakinumab. 
A total of 14 SAEs were reported in four patients. These 4 patients were between 16 and 20 years old. 
The youngest patient reported three SAEs. One SAE was due to a temporomandibular dysfunction and 
required concomitant medication, the second one was a HIDS flare and the last one was chronic 
headache. All three SAEs required hospitalization. A second patient had one SAE, a hidradenitis 
suppurativa, which required hospitalization and concomitant medication. Another patient had arm 
cellulitis which required concomitant medication. Finally, there was a patient who reported 8 SAEs. This 
patient had a medical history of systemic AA amyloidosis, kidney transplantation, chronic anemia, 
digestive hemorrhage and hypertension, which appear to be responsible of the SAEs reported by this 
patient (acute peritonitis, anemia, bacteremia, gastrointestinal bleeding, pneumonia, hypertensive 
crisis and volume overload). None of these SAEs was considered to be related to study treatment by 
the investigator. 
No clinically significant abnormalities in hematology, clinical chemistry, vital signs, physical findings 
and/or other observations related to safety were reported. Overall the safety profile of canakinumab 
did not differ in the pediatric population with HIDS as compared to the adults with HIDS in this study.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The median number of flares was reduced from 5 during the 6-month historical period to 0 during the 
6-month canakinumab treatment period. 
Two of 9 patients experienced a flare in the treatment period. One patient had a flare between week 5-
6 and received rescue medication according to the protocol and waited until week 6 to receive 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
escalated dose (450 mg). The other patient had two flares, one occurred at week 6 and the patient 
received escalated dose (6 mg/kg) and the second flare occurred 39 days later, but according to the 
medical criteria no recue medication was taken. 
Seven of the 9 patients had a flare during the 6-month treatment withdrawal follow up period. 
Three of the 9 patients had one flare and 1 patient had 3 flares during the first 12- month long-term 
treatment period, and 2 of the 8 patients had a flare during the second year of the long-term 
treatment period. 
One patient discontinued the study in the first 12-month long-term treatment period due to lack of 
protocol commitment. The median time to flare after the last dose of canakinumab during the follow-
up period was 110 days (62-196 days). Flare severity was of mild to moderate severity at baseline and 
remained thus during the 6-month treatment withdrawal follow-up period, then changed to mild or 
minimal signs/symptoms during the 12-month long-term treatment period and to mild or without 
signs/symptoms during the second year of the long-term treatment period. 
Each of the 4 key signs and symptoms of HIDS (fever, lymphadenopathy, aphtous ulcers, abdominal 
pain) was of mild to moderate severity at baseline in most of the cases, and remained absent from Day 
4 until the end of the study in most of the cases. 
HIDS control assessment by patient and physician improved from no control disease or poor control at 
baseline, to good or excellent control from Day 4 until the end of the study. Elevated baseline median 
CRP and SAA levels normalized from Day 15 until the end of the study. Successful administration of 
ACZ885 as well as binding of IL-1β to canakinumab was evident from the increase in total IL-1β 
concentrations following the first dose on Day 1. 
There were no patient discontinuations due to safety reasons during the study and no deaths were 
observed. No clinically significant abnormalities in haematology, clinical chemistry, vital signs, physical 
findings and/or other observations related to safety were reported. The most frequent AEs were 
infections-infestations, followed by gastrointestinal disorders and general disorders and administration 
site conditions. During the study, four patients had SAEs, none was considered related to 
canakinumab. There was only one AE (non SAE) related to canakinumab, a vulvovaginal mycotic 
infection. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
Canakinumab treatment was able to reduce the HIDS flare rate as well as to reduce flare severity. 
Results of secondary objectives showed that the disease was well control during treatment. There were 
no patient discontinuations due to safety reasons during the study and no deaths were observed. 
Canakinumab was effective in improving signs and symptoms of HIDS, whilst normalizing serological 
inflammatory markers and providing maintained disease control with only few relapses during the 
conduct of the study.  
The safety profile was consistent with previous canakinumab studies in other indications. The report 
does not provide any evidence that further actions are required. 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Additional clarifications requested 
Not applicable. 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Non clinical studies 
Product Name:   
Ilaris  
Active substance:  
Canakinumab 
Not applicable for the Hyper-Immunoglobuline-D Syndrome (HIDS) development program.  
Ilaris has been registered for more than 5 years in the European Union. It is currently registered for 
the treatment of patients of 2 years of old and above with Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes 
(CAPS) and Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) and in adults for the treatment of gouty 
arthritis attacks.  
Clinical studies 
Product Name:   
Ilaris 
Active substance: 
Canakinumab 
Study title 
An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety pilot study 
of 6-month canakinumab treatment with up to 6-month 
follow-up in patients with active Hyper-IgD Syndrome 
(HIDS) 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study of 
canakinumab in patients with Hereditary Periodic Fevers 
(TRAPS, HIDS, or crFMF), with subsequent randomized 
withdrawal/ dosing frequency reduction and open-label 
long term treatment epochs 
Study number 
Date of 
completion 
CACZ885D2402 
July 2014 
Date of 
submission of 
final study report 
January 2015 
CACZ885N2301  May 2017 
November 2017 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
