European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 23 July 2009 
Doc.Ref.:  EMEA/503722/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
ILARIS 
International Nonproprietary Name: canakinumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001109 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier ............................................................................................................. 3 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product............................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1. 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
2.2. 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
2.3. 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
2.4. 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 16 
2.5. 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 34 
2.6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 41 
Page 2 of 43 
 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Novartis Europharm Ltd. submitted on 04 December 2008 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
ILARIS,  which  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  EU/3/07/439  on  20  March  2007. 
ILARIS  was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:  treatment  of 
cryopirin-associated  periodic  syndromes  (Familial  Cold  Urticaria  Syndrome  (FCUS),  Muckle-Wells 
Syndrome (MWS), and Neonatal Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), also known as 
Chronic Infantile Neurological Cutaneous Articular Syndrome (CINCA). The calculated prevalence of 
this condition was 0.05 per 10,000 EU population. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
The applicant applied for the following indication  
Treatment  of  Cryopyrin-Associated  Periodic  Syndromes  (CAPS)  in  adults,  adolescents  and  children 
aged 4 years and older with body weight above 15 kg, including: 
−  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
− 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
− 
Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMEA Decision 
P/27/2008 for the following condition(s):  
•  Cryopyrin Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including: 
-  Familial  Cold  induced  Autoinflammatory  Syndrome  (FCAS)  also  known  as  Familial  Cold 
induced Urticaria Syndrome (FCUS) 
-  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) 
-  Chronic  Infantile  Neurologic,  Cutaneous,  Articular  Syndrome  (CINCA),  also  known  as 
Neonatal-onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) 
on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
The PIP is not yet completed.  
Protocol Assistance: 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 24 February 2006, 2 June 2006 and 24 
July 2008. The Protocol Assistance pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the 
dossier.  
Licensing status: 
ILARIS has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the United States of America on 18 June 2009. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:   Christian K. Schneider 
Co-Rapporteur: Jaana Kallio 
Page 3 of 43 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 04 December 2008. 
The procedure started on 24 December 2008  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 March 
2009. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 
March 2009. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur 
and  Co-Rapporteur  declared  that  they  had  completed  their  assessment  report  in  less  than  80 
days.   
During  the  meeting  on  20-23  April  2009  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 28 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 04 July 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  
Marketing  Authorisation  to  ILARIS  on  23  July  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the specific obligations and follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 23 July 2009. 
Page 4 of 43 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1. 
Introduction 
The  condition  now  known  as  CAPS  consists  of  several  disorders  once  considered  to  be  3  distinct 
conditions, but almost all associated with mutations in the NLRP3/CIAS1 gene on chromosome 1q44 
that encodes the protein known as NLRP3 (formerly NALP3) or cryopyrin. 
The  NLRP3  gain-of-function  mutations  in  CAPS  are  associated  with  an  uncontrolled  caspase  1 
activity resulting in increased production of IL-1β.  
The  individual  disorders  are  known  as  Familial  Cold  Autoinflammatory  syndrome  (FCAS),  also 
known  as  Familial  Cold  Urticaria  (FCU),  Muckle-Wells  syndrome  (MWS),  and  Neonatal  Onset 
Multisystem  Inflammatory  Disease  (NOMID),  also  known  as  Chronic,  Infantile,  Neurologic, 
Cutaneous, Articular (CINCA) syndrome.  
These conditions may occur singly or as overlapping syndromes (i.e. MWS/FCAS or MWS/NOMID). 
The  world-wide  incidence  is  unknown  (often  under-diagnosed)  but  only  a  few  hundred  cases  are 
currently diagnosed.  
FCAS  was  described  in  the  dermatological  literature  in  1940  as  recurrent  episodes  of  cold  induced 
fever, arthralgia, conjunctivitis and rash, with intermittent symptom-free periods.  
MWS  was  described  in  1962  as  a  hereditary  rheumatological  syndrome  of  urticaria-like  rash, 
sensorineural deafness and amyloidosis, associated with conjunctivitis, arthralgia and fever. 
CINCA (NOMID) was described in the early 1980’s in the paediatric literature as a sporadic, severe 
inflammatory  disorder  starting  soon  after  birth  and  affecting  mainly  the  skin,  skeletal  and  central 
nervous systems.  
Although  the  majority  of  patients  with  CAPS  carry  mutations  in  the  NLRP3  gene,  about  50%  of 
NOMID and 25% of MWS patients do not show such mutations but do respond to IL-1 blockade just 
as  mutation-positive  patients.  Furthermore,  there  seems  to  be  no  clear  genotype/phenotype 
relationship, so that the same mutation in NLRP3 may give rise to a severe phenotype in one patient 
and  a  milder  phenotype  in  another.  These  findings  suggest  that  additional  so  far  uncharacterized 
genetic  or  environmental  factors  contribute  to  IL-1β  production  and  initiate  or  modulate  clinical 
severity.  
Thus, differences in genotypes or response to treatment do not permit FCAS, MWS and NOMID to be 
classed  as  distinct  clinical  entities.  The  earlier  distinction  between  them  is  historical,  and  the 
consideration  of  this  continuous  spectrum  of  severities  as  one  single  disease  is  scientifically  and 
medically  valid.  The  medical  literature  still  refers  to  distinct  phenotypes  and,  consistent  with  a 
continuum of disease severity, describes overlap syndromes. Thus, a patient with symptoms of both 
MWS and NOMID, by the classical description, is mostly now categorized as MWS/NOMID overlap.  
Canakinumab (ACZ885), the drug substance of Ilaris, is a human monoclonal anti-human interleukin-
1β (IL-1β) antibody of the IgG1/k isotype that was designed to bind selectively to and neutralize the 
activity of IL-1β, a pro-inflammatory cytokine, which is produced mainly by mononuclear phagocytes 
in response to injury and infection. 
A  paediatric  investigation  plan  was  agreed  for  canakinumab  for  the  use  in  Cryopyrin  Associated 
Periodic  Syndromes  (CAPS).  The  plan  required  nonclinical  and  clinical  studies.  It  is  partially 
completed:  within  the  application,  the  data  from  the  juvenile  toxicity  study  and  a  clinical  study 
(ACZ885 A2102) were available. 
Page 5 of 43 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Canakinumab  (ACZ885)  is  a  recombinant  human  monoclonal  anti-human  interleukin-1β  (IL-1β) 
antibody  that  was  designed  to  bind  selectively  to  and  neutralize  the  activity  of  IL-1β,  a  pro-
inflammatory  cytokine,  which is  produced  mainly  by  mononuclear phagocytes in  response to injury 
and infection. Canakinumab prevents the binding of endogenous human IL-1β to its cognate receptor 
on the surface of its target cells, thus functionally neutralizing its pro-inflammatory bioactivity. It does 
not bind to human IL-lα or the endogenous antagonist IL-lRa.  Canakinumab is expressed in a murine 
Sp2/0-Ag14 cell line. 
Drug Substance  
General information 
Canakinumab  is  a  fully  human  anti-human-IL-1β  monoclonal  antibody  that  belongs  to  the  IgG1/κ 
isotype subclass.  
Nomenclature 
The INN name for the drug substance (DS) is canakinumab. Chemically the drug substance is defined 
as  immunoglobulin  G1,  anti-(human  interleukin-1beta  (IL-1β))  human  monoclonal;  (1Glu>Glp)-γ1 
heavy chain (221-214’)-disulfide with kappa light chain, dimmer (227-227”:230-230”)-bisdisulfide. 
Structure 
The  molecular  formula  for  canakinumab  is  based  on  the  amino  acid  composition  without 
posttranslational glycosylation, but including N-terminal pyroglutamate formation and lysine residues 
at the C-terminals of the heavy chains.  
General properties 
The Canakinumab drug substance is a clear to opalescent aqueous solution.   
•  Manufacture 
Manufacturer 
The manufacture of canakinimab drug substance is performed by Novartis Pharma S.A.S., Huningue, 
France. 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  Canakinumab  drug  substance  has  been  described  in  sufficient 
detail. Batches and scale are defined. Flow charts have been provided.  
Briefly,  Canakinumab  is  produced  from  murine  Sp2/0  cells.  The  murine  cell  line  secretes  the 
monoclonal antibody into a serum-free cell culture medium and subsequently the monoclonal antibody 
is purified and formulated to produce bulk drug substance (BDS).  
A cell banking system consisting of master cell bank (MCB) and working cell bank (WCB) has been 
established. The fermentation process is performed as standard fed-batch culture and individual steps 
including inoculum preparation and harvest are adequately described.  
The drug substance is purified from the harvested cell culture fluid by centrifugation and clarification, 
and  is  then  subjected  to  a  sequence  of  chromatographic  steps,  virus  inactivation  treatment  and 
filtrations. The drug substance bulk is frozen for long term storage.  
Page 6 of 43 
 
Control of materials 
Raw materials  
Information on compendial and non-compendial raw materials is presented. For the non-compendial 
raw materials, tests are performed according to internal specifications. The internal acceptance criteria 
for non-compendial raw materials are provided. 
Raw materials of animal, human or recombinant origin 
Materials  of human  and recombinant origin  were  used  in  the culture  media  for cell  banks.  Relevant 
certificates and supplier statements are provided. 
Source, history and generation of the cell substrate 
The  choice  of  the  gene  of  interest,  the  origin  of  the  human  IL-1β  gene  and  the  verification  of  its 
identity  as  well  as  the  construction  of  the  expression  vectors  for  use  in  Sp2/0-Ag14  cells,  and  the 
generation of the production cell line were described.  
Cell banking system, characterisation and testing 
The  generation  of  the  producer  cell  line,  the  master  cell  bank  (MCB)  and  the  master  working  cell 
banks  (WCB)  is  adequately  described.  Data  on  genetic  stability  of  cell  banks  as  well  as  data  on 
characterisation  of  the  producer  cell  line  and  the  cell  banks  used  in  production  are  considered 
satisfactory in general. Consistency of the coding region between MCB, WCB and end of production 
cells (EPC) has been demonstrated.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
Upon request the applicant provided more information on process parameters and in-process controls 
(IPCs) for the cell culture and purification process of Canakinumab. The definition of IPCs follows a 
risk  based  approach.  Based  on  process  experience  throughout  development,  experience  with  similar 
processes  and  process  characterization  at  small  scale,  operational  and  performance  parameters  were 
classified into critical, key and non-key in a risk assessment prior to process validation at full scale. 
The  parameter  ranges  defined  during  small  scale  process  characterization  were  confirmed  during 
process  validation  of  three  consecutive  full  scale  batches  of  Canakinumab  drug  substance.  The 
provided data suggest that the manufacturing process is well controlled. The Applicant committed to 
submit the results of acceptance criteria for yield when available. 
Validation 
The full scale drug substance manufacturing process has been adequately validated demonstrating that 
the fermentation and purification process consistently produce drug substance of reproducible quality 
that complies with specifications and in-process tests. In addition, holding times of intermediates and 
chromatography column performances are sufficiently validated. 
Manufacturing process development 
The development of Canakinumab has encompassed several manufacturing changes to the production 
which are adequately described. 
Comparability of Canakinumab manufactured with the different processes was demonstrated.  
Characterisation 
The Canakinumab drug substance has been sufficiently characterised by physicochemical state-of-the-
art  methods  revealing  that  the  drug  substance  has  the  expected  structure  of  a  human  IgG1-type 
antibody. The analytical results are consistent with the proposed structure. Further more, heterogeneity 
Page 7 of 43 
of  the  drug  substance  was  adequately  characterised  by  analysing  size  and  charge  variants, 
glycosylation and other product-related substances and impurities. 
Overall,  the  biological  characterisation  is  considered  sufficient.  Canakinumab  drug  substance  was 
biologically characterized by its ability to neutralize human IL-1β in cell-based assays as well as by a 
binding  assay.  All  these  different  assays  delivered  comparable  results  with  respect  to  their  relative 
biological activity. 
•  Specification 
Specifications 
Overall, drug substance specifications are adequately set and justified. The specification for the drug 
substance at release and shelf life includes tests for appearance, identification, potency, pH, impurities, 
degradation products, bacterial endotoxins and quantity.  
Analytical methods 
Analytical methods for release testing of drug substance are adequately described and validated. An 
overview on the sites involved in quality control testing for drug substance has been provided. In case 
of change in testing site, adequate reports on method transfers and requalification data, respectively, 
have been provided. 
The  Applicant  has  developed  a  cell-based  potency  assay  as  a  routine  batch  release  test  in  which 
potency  is determined by  the  dose-dependent  inhibitory  effect  on the  binding  of  human  IL-1β  to its 
receptor on the surface of a human cell line.  
Reference standard 
The  reference  material  is  adequately  characterised.  In  summary,  the  results  of  analysis  confirm  the 
identity,  content,  high  purity  and  biological  activity  of  the  new  reference  material  ACZ885.04REF, 
and  demonstrate  its  suitability  as  a  reference  standard.  Comparability  with  previous  reference 
preparations was demonstrated.  
Batch data 
In general, batch release data revealed a consistent batch to batch production of drug substance; the 
observed drug substance heterogeneity is consistent from batch to batch.  
•  Stability 
The provided stability data are sufficient to support a defined drug substance shelf life under defined 
storage conditions. 
Drug Product 
Description and Composition  
Canakinumab 150 mg Powder for solution for injection is a lyophilisate to be reconstituted with water 
for injection (WFI) for subcutaneous injection. 
The reconstituted drug product contains 150 mg/mL  canakinumab, histidine, histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, sucrose, and polysorbate 80 and is reconstituted with 1.0 ml WFI prior to subcutaneous 
injection  
There is an overfill which was sufficiently justified. 
Page 8 of 43 
 
 
 
Container closure system 
Canakinumab 150 mg Powder for solution for injection is filled in colorless 6 mL type  I glass vials 
and  closed  with  a  coated  stopper. The  stopper  is  sealed  with  an  aluminium  cap  with  plastic  flip-off 
component. The cap does not come into contact with the drug product. The container closure system 
complies with PhEur requirements. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The  formulation  development  has  been  adequately  described.  The  rationale  for  the  selection  of  the 
formulation and container configuration has been adequately addressed and justified. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Manufacturer 
Canakinumab 150 mg Powder for solution for injection is manufactured by Novartis Pharma Stein 
AG, Switzerland. 
Description of manufacturing process, process controls and process validation 
The drug product manufacturing process and the in-process controls are described in sufficient detail. 
Briefly, Canakinumab 150 mg Powder for solution for injection is produced according to a standard 
aseptic  manufacturing  process  including  thawing  of  drug  substance,  bulk  compounding,  sterile 
filtration, filling and lyophilization. Critical steps are defined. Flow diagrams have been presented. 
The excipients of the drug product formulation comply with the quality requirements of the applicable 
compendial monograph. No excipients which are not described in a pharmacopoeia are used. 
The  validation  of  the  drug  product  manufacturing  process  has  been  performed  adequately  to  show 
consistent batch to batch production. The results of the analysis of the validation batches are all within 
the predefined specifications. The data suggest a robust manufacturing process.  
•  Product Specification 
Product Specification 
The  selected  parameters  to  control  the  drug  product  have  been  adequately  set.  The  proposed  drug 
product specifications are consistent with the corresponding drug substance specifications, with ICH 
guidelines  and  Ph.  Eur.  monographs.  Specifications  are  based  on  the  results  of  release  and  stability 
testing of clinical batches during development.  
Analytical methods 
Adequate information has been provided on analytical methods for control of drug product. 
Batch data 
Analytical results of drug product batches which were used in clinical trials, stability studies as well as 
in  process  validation  studies,  have  been  presented.  The  batch  data  reveal  a  consistent  and  robust 
production of Canakinumab drug product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The provided stability data support a defined drug product shelf life at the long term storage condition 
of 2-8°C.. The Applicant committed to continue the stability study with commercial scale batches and 
to notify the EMEA immediately in case of confirmed out-of-specification results. The post-approval 
stability protocol is acceptable. 
Page 9 of 43 
•  Adventitious Agents 
TSE safety 
Compliance  with  Note  for  Guidance  on  Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform 
Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal  Products  (EMEA/410/01  rev  02)  has 
been  sufficiently  demonstrated.  The  materials  of  human  and  recombinant  origin  used  in  the 
establishment  of  the  cell  bank  system  as  well  as  the  source  of  those  materials  and  information  on 
compliance  with  EU  requirements  on  minimizing  the  risk  associated  with  transmissible  spongiform 
encephalopathies  (TSE)  are  provided.  No  animal  or  human  materials  are  used  in  the  commercial 
manufacturing process of the drug substance. 
Viral safety 
The fermentation  process of  the  monoclonal  antibody  Canakinumab  is  in  a  culture  medium  without 
addition  of  human  or  animal  derived  components.  This  minimises  a  possible  contamination  for 
adventitious  viruses. The  cells  used  for  production  of  Canakinumab  have  been extensively  screened 
for viruses. These tests failed to demonstrate the presence of any viral contaminant in the cells used for 
production of Canakinumab with the exception of intracellular A-type and C-type retroviral particles. 
Such  particles  are  well  known  to  be  present  in  murine  Sp2/0  cells. This  is  acceptable  since  there is 
sufficient capacity within the manufacturing process of Canakinumab for reduction of this type of viral 
particles. Therefore, there are no concerns for the use in the production process of Canakinumab. The 
purification  process  of  Canakinumab  includes  several  steps  for  inactivation/removal  of  enveloped 
viruses. The effectiveness of these steps, has been sufficiently demonstrated. The removal capacity of 
small  non-enveloped  viruses  is  based  on  the  chromatography  and  the  nanofiltration.  This  can  be 
accepted as screening for viruses including a rodent parvovirus test is routinely performed at the end 
of  the  fermentation  runs.  In  summary,  virus  safety  of  Canakinumab  has  been  sufficiently 
demonstrated. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  documentation  provided  with  the  application  demonstrates  consistent 
batch-to-batch production of Canakinumab achieving a consistent quality for the drug substance and 
the  drug  product.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance  are  adequately  controlled 
and  validated.  The  drug  substance  has  been  adequately  characterised  with  regard  to  its 
physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics  using  state-of  the-art  methods.  The  manufacturing 
process of the drug product has been described and validated in sufficient detail. In addition, the viral 
safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  (including  TSE)  have  been  sufficiently 
assured.  In  general,  appropriate  drug  substance  and  drug  product  specifications  have  been  set.  The 
Applicant  committed  to  resolve  some  outstanding  minor  concerns  as  follow-up  measures 
postauthorisation. 
Page 10 of 43 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
IL-1  is  a  pro-inflammatory  cytokine  and  its  expression  is  inducible  by  a  variety  of  stimuli  (e.g. 
microbial products, cytokines, stress factors). IL-1β is produced via a non-classical pathway of protein 
secretion,  i.e.  IL-1β  is  produced  as  an  inactive  precursor  molecule  which  has  to  be  activated  by 
proteolytic cleavage by caspase-1 in the IL-1β inflammasome. Dysregulation of this process may lead 
to increased secretion of IL-1β and IL-1-mediated disease.  
In CAPS patients, mutations in the CIAS1 gene which control the activation of caspase-1 are observed. 
Such  mutations  cause  the  loss  of  tight  control  of  IL-1β  processing.  As  a  result,  relatively  minor 
stresses  (e.g.  exposure  to  cold)  lead  to  an  increased  secretion  of  IL-1β  with  consequent  systemic 
disease. In addition, there are chronic inflammatory syndromes without mutations in the CIAS1 gene 
but nevertheless elevated IL-1β release in vitro.  
Canakinumab  is  a  fully  human  anti-human  IL-1β  IgG1/k  monoclonal  antibody.  It  was  generated  by 
hybridoma  technology  from  B  cells  of  HuMab  mice  immunized  with  human  IL-1β.  Subsequently, 
canakinumab  was  recombinantly  expressed  in  murine  NS0  and  Sp2/0  cells.  It  was  shown  that  the 
binding  properties  and  neutralizing  capacity  of the different  preparations remained  unchanged (refer 
also to the discussion in the quality section). 
The  Applicant  has  conducted  several  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  to  address  the  affinity,  sensitivity, 
specificity  and  biological activity  of  Canakinumab.  Due  to  the lack  of  crossreactivity  to  IL-1β  from 
rodent  species,  the  in  vivo  activity  of  Canakinumab  could  not  be  demonstrated  in  classical  animal 
disease  models.  Instead,  other  models,  as  described  below,  were  utilised  to  demonstrate  the  in  vivo 
activity of the antibody (e.g. marmoset, human dermal fibroblasts). 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro 
By  surface  plasmon  resonance,  canakinumab  was  found  to  bind  specifically  to  human  IL-1β  with a 
KaD of 30-60 pM, depending on the assay. As this variability seems to be due to poor quality of the 
surface plasmon resonance sensograms, the applicant was asked to commit to improve the method to 
gain reliable results relating to receptor-binding, KD determination, and comparability and to thereby 
ensure validity of the non-clinical comparability data.  
Canakinumab  did  not  cross-react  with  IL-1a,  IL-1Ra,  or  any  other  member  of  the  IL-1  family, 
including IL-18 and IL-33. Using site-directed mutagenesis of recombinant human IL-1β the epitope 
of canakinumab was mapped precisely. By x-ray crystallography of IL-1β bound to the canakinumab 
Fab fragment it was found that the epitope partially overlaps with the binding site of IL-1β to the IL-1 
receptor.  Consequently,  soluble  IL-1  receptor  (both  type  I  and  type  II)  dose-dependently  inhibited 
binding to IL-1β to canakinumab in BIAcore analyses.  
In  a  cell-based  in  vitro  assay,  canakinumab  was  found  to  inhibit  the  activity  of  natural  and 
recombinant human IL-1β with IC50 of approximately 50 pM. Importantly, in this assay the inhibitory 
effect of canakinumab and IL-1Ra was found to be additive. Thus, canakinumab does not compromise 
the biological activity of IL-1Ra, an important endogenous inhibitor of IL-1 activity in vivo.   
Canakinumab does not bind to IL-1β from mouse, rat, rabbit, or cynomolgus monkey. The only non-
human species specifically recognized by canakinumab is the marmoset monkey. This limited species 
cross-reactivity  can  be  explained  with  one  amino  acid  in  the  IL-1β  sequence  that  is  crucial  for 
canakinumab binding. At position 64, Glu is present in human and marmoset IL-1β but changed to Ala 
or Gly in all other species analyzed.  
Page 11 of 43 
 
In vivo 
With  an  equilibrium  binding  constant  KD  of  ca.  23  pM  the  binding  affinity  of  canakinumab  for 
marmoset  IL-1β  was  slightly  higher  than  that  for  human  IL-1β.  In  an  in  vitro  assay,  canakinumab 
potently inhibited the expression of a reporter gene induced by marmoset IL-1β. Of note, the potency 
for marmoset IL-1β was found to be approximately two-fold lower than that for human IL-1β.  
Since  canakinumab  does  not  react  with  rodent  IL-1β,  the  in  vivo  activity  of  canakinumab  was 
demonstrated  in  models  of  inflammation  induced  by  human  IL-1β  in  rodents  (i.e.  mouse  joint 
inflammation, rat fever, neutrophil infiltration into mouse air pouch). In all three models, canakinumab 
inhibited the IL-1β -induced effects. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
With regard to secondary pharmacodynamics, it was shown that canakinumab does not block T cell 
proliferation in a human mixed leukocyte reaction in vitro, indicating that canakinumab is not acutely 
immunosuppressive in vivo.  
Binding of canakinumab to Fcγ receptors was determined by surface plasmon resonance and was as 
expected  for  a  human  IgG1  antibody.  However,  canakinumab  did  not  bind  to  the  surface  of  IL-1β-
producing cells in an antigen-dependent manner and did not recruit the complement component C1q. 
Thus, canakinumab is not expected to mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and 
complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). 
To enable further toxicological studies a surrogate antibody (01BSUR) with a murine IgG2a/k isotype 
was developed. 01BSUR is specific for mouse IL-1β (KD 302 pM) and does not bind to IL-1α and IL-
1Ra. In vitro, 01BSUR was able to inhibit IL-1-induced effects in a NIH3T3 fibroblast model with a 
potency similar to that of canakinumab. In vivo bioactivity of 01BSUR was shown in mouse model of 
collagen-induced  arthritis.  When  given  in  a  semi-prophylactic  treatment  mode,  01BSUR  almost 
completely inhibited the development of joint inflammation. Using this surrogate antibody in mice, it 
was further shown that neutralization of IL-1β does not inhibit the development of a T cell-dependent 
antibody response induced by immunization in the presence of aluminium hydroxide as adjuvant.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Stand-alone  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  not  conducted  with  canakinumab.  However,  the 
cardiovascular system was analyzed as part of the toxicology studies. No treatment-related effects on 
electrocardiography data were observed throughout treatment and recovery periods. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have been conducted. 
Overall,  the  pharmacological  studies  have  adequately  characterized  the  profile  of  the  product.  The 
specific binding of canakinumab to IL-1β and have demonstrated its capacity to inhibit IL-1-induced 
effects in vitro and in vivo. Because it is generally accepted that over-expression of IL-1 plays a major 
role in the development of CAPS, these studies support the clinical development of canakinumab in 
the current indication.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of canakinumab was determined following single IV administration in marmosets, 
rhesus  monkeys  and  mice  and  after  single  SC  administrations in  marmosets.  Pharmacokinetics  after 
multiple dosing was determined as part of the toxicology studies.  
Levels of canakinumab in marmoset serum were detected by a competitive ELISA, which was initially 
developed for the human system and subsequently validated for marmoset matrix. For detection of the 
surrogate 01BSUR in murine system a comparable competitive ELISA was used. Antibodies against 
canakinumab and 01BSUR were measured with a BiaCore-based assay qualified to use in marmoset 
and murine matrix. 
Page 12 of 43 
 
Taken  together,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  canakinumab  was  as  expected  for  a  human  IgG  antibody 
characterized by a small volume of distribution, similar to the plasma volume, low systemic clearance 
and  a  long  terminal  half-life.  Of  note,  with  4-7  days  the  elimination  half-life  of  canakinumab  in 
marmosets was shorter than in rhesus monkeys (17.4 days), mice (14.5 days) and humans (26 days). 
Shorter half-life for human IgG in marmosets has been observed previously.  
Pharmacokinetic parameters were similar in male and female marmosets. A dose-proportional increase 
in Cmax was observed between 5 and 50 mg/kg and slightly less than dose-proportional between 50 and 
150 mg/kg. On average, Cmax was reached 2-3 days after SC administration. After repeated dosing, a 
2-3-fold  accumulation  occurred.  Bioavailability  after  SC  administration  was  determined  to  be  60  % 
based on a cross-study comparison to a single-dose IV study.  
Two  PK  bridging  studies  were  performed  to  support  changes  in  the  canakinumab  manufacturing 
process.  Using  a  cross-over  design  following  single  SC  injection  in  marmosets,  canakinumab  from 
process  A  vs.  B  and  from  process  B  vs.  C  was  found  to  be  comparable  with  regard  to  its 
pharmacokinetic  characteristics.  In  addition,  the  effect  of  glycosylation  of  canakinumab  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  was  investigated.  These  analyses  were  performed  in  mice  with  canakinumab 
containing primarily biantennary G0, G1 and G2 oligosaccharides vs. high mannose oligosaccharides. 
It was shown that the pharmacokinetics was not influenced by the type of oligosaccharides attached to 
the IgG heavy chain. 
In  addition,  pharmacokinetics  of  01BSUR  was  determined  in  mice  after  single  and  repeated  SC 
administration. A dose-dependent increase in Cmax and AUC was observed. Tmax was approximately 24 
h after dosing and the elimination half-life was ranged between 1 and 17 days.  
Toxicology 
An extensive program of toxicology studies was performed. Toxicity of canakinumab was analysed in 
marmoset  monkeys.  Additional  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the  murine  surrogate  mAb 
01BSUR in mice. Regarding toxicokinetics, exposure to canakinumab or 01BSUR was demonstrated 
in each study. With the analysis method used, no anti-drug antibodies were detected. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No single-dose toxicity studies were performed with canakinumab, which is acceptable in view of the 
data provided by the repeated dose toxicity studies.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In  two  IV  repeat-dose  studies  canakinumab  was  given  twice  a  week  at  doses  of  0,  10,  30  and  100 
mg/kg.  In  the  first  study,  a  4-week  treatment  period  was  followed  by  8  weeks  of  recovery.  In  the 
second study 26 weeks of treatment were followed by 6 weeks of recovery. In both studies, no deaths 
occurred.  There  were  no  test-item  related  changes  with  regard  to  clinical  signs,  body  weight  food 
consumption, ophthalmology, ECG, hematology, clinical biochemistry, urinalysis, organ weights and 
histopathology. In both studies, the NOEL was 100 mg/kg given IV twice weekly. 
A total of three SC repeat-dose studies with canakinumab were performed.  
In the first study female marmosets were treated with 0, 5, 50 and 150 mg/kg on day 1 and day 43, 
terminal necropsy was on day 44. In the second study, marmosets were treated at 0, 15, 50 and 150 
mg/kg twice a week for a period of 13 weeks followed by a recovery period of 8 weeks. No test-item 
related deaths occurred during these studies. No test-item-related changes were observed with regard 
to clinical signs, body weight, food consumption, ophthalmology, ECG, macroscopic and microscopic 
evaluation and clinical chemistry. There were not alterations in hematology, immunophenotyping of 
blood and spleen. In both studies the NOEL was 150 mg/kg given SC.  
A third SC repeat-dose study was performed. In this study, marmosets were treated twice weekly for 
13 weeks with vehicle or with 150 mg/kg canakinumab from process A or from process C in a pre-
filled syringed. In this study, microscopic lesions and clinical pathology changes were observed in all 
groups,  including  controls.  One  male  marmoset  was  sacrificed  moribund  due  to  septicemia.  Fifteen 
days later, the cagemate was found dead without significant clinical signs. Other pathological changes 
Page 13 of 43 
included renal and intestinal lesions in both treated and control animals. Given the poor health already 
in the control animals, the study was not considered valid by the applicant.  
In all other toxicity studies performed with canakinumab in marmosets, such changes have not been 
observed. Thus, the results of this SC repeat-dose study do not raise concerns regarding the toxicity of 
canakinumab. 
•  Genotoxicity 
No  genotoxicity  studies  were  performed  with  canakinumab,  as  it  is  a  protein.  This  is  acceptable 
according to guideline ICH S6. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  with  canakinumab.  According  to  guideline  ICH  S6 
the 
carcinogenicity  studies  are  generally  not  required  for  monoclonal  antibodies.  Also, 
pharmacodynamics of canakinumab does not warrant carcinogenicity studies. Since pro-inflammatory 
cytokines such as IL-1 are implicated in tumor development, neutralization of IL-1 is not expected to 
promote tumour development.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive toxicity studies in marmosets were limited to evaluation of male fertility (part of the 26 
weeks repeat-dose toxicity study) and an embryo-fetal development study.  
No canakinumab-related effects were observed on the male reproductive system.  
In the embryo-fetal development study, pregnant marmosets were treated SC, twice a week, with 0, 
15, 50 or 150 mg/kg from GD 25 to GD109. Caesarean section was performed on GD112-114. There 
were  no  signs  for  maternal  toxicity.  The only  finding  associated  with canakinumab  treatment  was a 
slight reduction in the number of fetuses in the 150 mg/kg group, which correlated with a slight trend 
to  decreased  placental  weight.  Both  findings  were  statistically  not  significant.  There  were  no 
treatment-related  effects  regarding  fetal  development.  At  GD112-114,  placental  transfer  of  IgG  was 
confirmed.  However,  given  that  transfer  of  IgG  across  the  placenta  starts  late  during  gestation,  it  is 
unlikely that the fetus was exposed to canakinumab during the period of organogenesis.  
In  addition  a  full  panel  of  reproductive  toxicity  studies  was  performed  with  the  surrogate  mAb 
01BSUR in mice. In these studies, 01BSUR was administered once weekly by the SC route at doses of 
0, 15, 50 or 150 mg/kg.  
Male and female fertility was not affected by treatment with 01BSUR.  
In  the  embryo-fetal  development  study,  maternal  functions  were  unaffected  by  treatment  with 
01BSUR.  Regarding  the  fetus,  01BSUR  had  no  effect  on  fetal  weights  and  the  overall incidence  of 
fetal malformations or anomalies. However, in the high dose groups there was an increased incidence 
of  litters  and  fetuses  with  incomplete  ossification  of  the  parietal  and  the  frontal  bone  that  was 
statistically significant. These findings were considered a transitory delay in ossification and to be of 
no teratological significance, as there were no changes on any other bones. 
In  the  pre-/post-natal  development  study,  mice  were  exposed  to  01BSUR  throughout  gestation  and 
lactation.  Such  treatment  resulted  in  no  evidence  of  maternal  toxicity.  Furthermore,  there  were  no 
toxic effects on the development of the pubs, and their survival, physical development, behaviour and 
reproductive performance.  
Taken together the reproductive toxicity studies in marmosets and in mice did not identify a signal for 
reproductive toxicity by neutralization of IL-1b. 
A  juvenile  animal  study  was  conducted  with  the  surrogate  mAb  01BSUR.  Mice  were  treated  once 
weekly with 01BSUR from day 7 to day 70 post partum. There were no treatment-related effects on 
the development pre- and post-weaning. In the 150 mg/kg group, the mean day to development of the 
vaginal opening was later than in controls. There was no effect of treatment on fertility. 
Regarding  the  immune  system,  there  were  no  differences  in  counts  for  total  lymphocytes  and 
lymphocyte subsets in blood, spleen and thymus. However, functional studies on the immune system 
Page 14 of 43 
were  not  included  in  this  study.  To  exclude  possible  effects  of  neutralization  of  IL-1β  on  the 
developing  immune  system,  the  applicant  committed  to  perform  a  juvenile  immunotoxicity  study, 
assessing the effect of the canakinumab surrogate on immune function in juvenile animals. 
Treatment of mouse pups with 01BSUR by once weekly SC injection for 9 weeks resulted in generally 
minimal, inflammatory reactions at the injection sites. These were reversible over a 4 week recovery 
period.  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Please refer to the section on repeated dose toxicity studies. 
•  Local tolerance  
The local tolerance to canakinumab at the SC and IV injection sites were assessed in the course of the 
repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  in  marmoset.  Occasionally  mild  reactions  were  observed  which  were 
similar in the in the control animals and therefore not test article-related. In a dedicated local tolerance 
study, a single intra-articular injection of canakinumab (10 mg/kg) to marmosets was well tolerated. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Three  tissue-cross-reactivity  studies  were  performed  with  canakinumab,  each  with  canakinumab 
produced  by  a  different  process  (A,  B,  C).  Together  the  results  indicate  that  canakinumab  drug 
substance  produced  with  the  different  manufacturing  processes  have  similar  tissue  cross-reactivity 
profiles. In each study, full panels of human tissues (3 donors) and marmoset tissues (2 donors) were 
used. In general, the staining observed was consistent with the known expression of IL-1b in human 
tissues.  Reactivity  of canakinumab  with  marmoset  tissue  was  qualitatively  similar  but  quantitatively 
reduced  compared  with  the  reactivity  for  human  tissues.  The  most  notable  difference  in  tissue 
reactivity  is  that  follicular  and  germinal  cells  in  the  ovary  and  Leydig,  Sertoli,  and  gametogenic 
precursors in testis were recognized in marmoset but not in human tissues. However, in the absence of 
effects on the marmoset reproductive system (refer to repeat-dose toxicity studies) and in the absence 
of  staining  of  human  reproductive  tissues,  the  staining  of  marmoset  reproductive  tissues  is  not 
considered toxicologically relevant. 
In  conclusion,  treatment  of  marmosets  with  canakinumab  and  of  mice  with  the  surrogate  mAb 
01BSUR was well tolerated. In all the studies, NOEL or NOAEL was the highest dose administered 
(100  mg/kg/dose  IV  or  150  mg/kg/dose  SC).  No  signals  were identified for  general toxicity  and  for 
reproductive toxicity. Regarding the effects of IL-1β neutralization on the immune system, treatment 
of juvenile animals for 9 weeks and of adult animals for 4 weeks revealed no negative effects. There 
was no indication that susceptibility to infection is increased. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In accordance with the current guidelines, as this product is a protein, ecotoxicity and environmental 
risk assessment are not applicable. 
Page 15 of 43 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Canakinumab is indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in 
adults, adolescents and children aged 4 years and older with body weight equal to and above 15 kg, 
including: 
−  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
− 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
− 
Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
For  this  application,  a  single  pivotal  trial  (D2304)  has  been  performed  in  patients  with  MWS, 
additional  open-label  uncontrolled 
included  patients  with  FCAS,  NOMID  and 
NOMID/MWS overlap disease. 
trials  have 
There  are  currently  no  approved  therapies  for  CAPS:  anakinra  and  various  other  anti-inflammatory 
substances are used off-label. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Six clinical studies were conducted contributing PK and PD data. An overview of the main features of 
all PK studies is given in the following summary table.  
Page 16 of 43 
A  
(NS0 cell 
line) 
A  
(NS0 cell 
line) 
A  
(NS0 cell 
line) 
A  
(NS0 cell 
line) 
Multiple dose 
(4 doses, 
weekly 
interval) 
Two doses  
(2 weeks 
interval) 
Two doses  
(2 weeks 
interval) 
Study 
No. 
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Dose and route of 
Administration; Dosage 
Regimen  
CACZ885 
A1101 
Safety, 
tolerability, 
PK/PD 
IV: 1 mg/kg, 3 mg/kg, 600 
mg 
SC: 150, 300 mg 
Number 
of 
Subjects 
treated 
48 
Healthy Subjects or 
Diagnosis of Patients 
Duration of 
Treatment 
Product 
type 
Healthy subjects 
(Japanese) 
Single dose 
A  
(NS0 cell 
line) 
CACZ885 
A2102 
Efficacy, safety, 
PK/PD 
IV: 10 mg/kg 
34 
CAPS patients 
(NALP-3 mutations) 
Single dose 
SC: 150 mg (or 2 mg/kg < 
40 kg)  
upon relapse 
SC: 150 mg (SD or 4 doses 
weekly) 
CACZ885 
A2202 
Safety, 
tolerability, 
immunogenicity, 
PK/PD 
23 
Psoriasis Patients 
Single dose 
CACZ885 
B2101 
Safety, 
tolerability, PK 
IV: 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg on 
day 1 and 15 
50 
Healthy subjects 
(mild asthmatics) 
CACZ885 
A2101 
Safety, 
tolerability, 
PK/PD 
IV: 0.3, 1, 3, and 10 mg/kg 
on day 1 and 15 
53 
RA patients 
CACZ885 
D2304 
Efficacy, Safety, 
tolerability, 
PK/PD 
SC: 150 mg (or 2 mg/kg < 
40 kg)  
8-weekly 
CAPS patients 
(NALP-3 mutations) 
Multiple dose 
(8 weeks 
interval) 
B  
(Sp2/0 cell 
line) 
48  
(15 
completed 
part II 
canakinu
mab 
treatment) 
The studies examined doses up to 600 mg i.v. and 300 mg s.c. in healthy subjects (studies A1101 and 
B2101, with a cohort of mild asthmatics), in RA patients (study A2101), in psoriasis patients (study 
A2202), and in CAPS patients (Studies A2102 and D2304). Canakinumab was administered as an i.v. 
infusion in B2101, A2101, in a subset of healthy volunteers in A1101, and in stage 1 of A2102. In a 
subset of volunteers in A1101, in A2202, in stage 2 of A2102, and in D2304 the drug was given as a 
s.c. injection.  
Single-dose  pharmacokinetics  of  canakinumab  has  been  evaluated  in  Japanese  healthy  volunteers 
(A1101), in a subset of psoriasis patients (A2202) and in the adult target population (CAPS patients) 
after  both  IV  and  SC  administration.  Pharmacokinetics  of  two  doses  at  intervals  of  15  days  was 
analyzed in 2 studies with healthy volunteers/asthma patients and with RA patients (B2101, A2101). 
Multidose pharmacokinetics was analyzed in A2202, A2102, and D2304 studies (in psoriasis patients 
and CAPS patients). 
There is no classical therapeutic exploratory Phase II study in CAPS patients. Data from the first part 
of  study  A2102  was  combined  with  modelling  and  simulation  to  predict  the  dose  and  the  dosing 
regimen used in the subsequent CAPS studies. A dose of 150 mg s.c. when > 40kg and 2 mg/kg s.c. 
when ≤ 40kg, both every 8 weeks was applied. 
Page 17 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PK data were analyzed in serum using a non-compartmental analysis. A compartmental analysis was 
done with a population based PK-binding model using pooled data from all 6 studies (233 subjects). 
The PK-binding model is described by a dynamic drug-ligand binding and turnover model developed 
based  on  the  following  schematic:  canakinumab  +  IL-1β↔canakinumab-IL-1β  complex.  Using  a 
mixed effects modelling approach, the PK (canakinumab) and PD (total IL-1β) data were analyzed. 
A  summary  of  model-based  compartmental  and  non-compartmental  pharmacokinetic  parameters  is 
found in the following table. 
Table: Pharmacokinetic parameters (arithmetic mean) of canakinumab 
The  PK  characteristics  of  canakinumab  derived  from  noncompartmental  analysis  of  the  serum 
concentrations were typical for a human IgG1 molecule: 
Following  the  initial  s.c.  injection  of  150  mg  canakinumab  in  22  CAPS  patients,  peak  serum  levels 
were  reached  by  approximately  7  days  (median  value)  in  adult  patients  and  between  2  to  7  days  in 
pediatric patients receiving 2 mg/kg (N=3). Maximum serum concentrations were on average 15.9 (± 
3.5) µg/mL in adults and with 7.7-12.4 µg/mL (range) markedly lower in the children. Apparent half-
life following the single s.c. dose administration was 26.1 (± 7.31) days. Terminal half-life appeared to 
be  quite  constant  throughout  the  administration  routes,  the  doses  and  populations  studied,  and  is  in 
good agreement with the value expected for an IgG1 antibody (around 23 days). The values obtained 
from three pediatric patients receiving the BW-adjusted dose (23.7-25.7 days) were in the same range.  
Moderate inter-subject variability with a coefficient of variation of approximately 22.2% and 29.1% 
was observed in Cmax and AUCo-∞ values.  
Absolute bioavailability was properly calculated from parallel IV and SC groups in studies in Japanese 
healthy subjects as well as in (n=4) CAPS patients. Similar values in the range of 63-70 % has been 
found for different populations and using different formulations. However, a high variability (± 22% 
estimated in one study) has to be kept in mind leading to variations in Cmax and Ctrough during steady 
state.  
Bioavailability in children or other special populations has not been studied.  
From non-compartmental analysis of two studies (after IV administration of different doses in healthy 
subjects and in CAPS patients) as well as from population PK analysis consistent values of 0.16-0.18 
L/d for the total clearance were obtained. This corresponds to about 7 ml/h and is low compared to 
other monoclonal antibodies.  
Clearance of canakinumab appeared to be independent of dose, age, and gender, but was found to 
increase with body weight (in an allometric relationship with a power of approximately 0.7-0.8). This 
supports the choice of body weight adjusted dosing in children.  
Page 18 of 43 
 
 
Data on dose-proportionality are available from three clinical studies where at least three doses have 
been studied. In B2101, exposure parameters Cmax and AUC were not statistically dose proportional 
over the range of 1-10 mg/kg, but can be considered approximately dose-proportional. In A1101 and 
A2101, exposure parameters increased in proportion to dose over the range of 0.30 to 10.0 mg/kg i.v. 
and 150 to 300 mg s.c. Thus, the PK of canakinumab can be considered linear.  
Furthermore,  there  is  no  evidence  for  time-dependent  change  in  the  pharmacokinetic  properties  of 
canakinumab. 
A mean value of 5.6 L for the central volume of distribution was calculated from non-compartmental 
analysis. This  value  was confirmed  by  the  values  Vc/F  (about  8  L)  obtained from  the  subcutaneous 
single dose studies in healthy subjects and CAPS patients when a bioavailability (F) of about 70% is 
assumed. 
The  value  for  Vc/F   in  psoriasis  patients  (about  15  L)  was  approximately  twice  the  corresponding 
volume in healthy volunteers or other patient groups. In agreement with this, serum clearance (CL/F) 
was  also  increased.  A  greater  volume  of  distribution  may  indicate  that  a  larger  amount  of  IL-lβ  is 
absorbed  in  tissues,  such  as  the  subcutis.  However,  since  differences  in  bioavailability  between 
populations  cannot  be  excluded,  the  increase  in  Vc/F  and  Cl/F  might  also  be  attributed  to  reduced 
subcutaneous bioavailability in psoriasis patients.  
From  the  population  PK  analysis  using  a  dynamic  drug-ligand  binding  and  turnover  model  which 
integrates  both  mAb  and  IL-1β  inputs  and  elimination  (turnover)  and  binding  affinity  (“PK  binding 
model”),  estimation  of  the  volumes  of  distribution  of  the  central  and  peripheral  compartments  (VD 
and VP) were 3.30 ± 0.135 and 2.71 ± 0.151 L per 70 kg, with a distribution half-life of 2.2 days. The 
total volume of distribution during steady state (Vss) in a CAPS patient weighing 70 kg was estimated 
to be 6.0 L. 
It  can  be  concluded  that  the  volume  of  distribution  of  canakinumab  corresponds  to  1-2  times  the 
plasma volume which is in accordance with values obtained for other monoclonal antibodies.  
Based  on  the  parameter  estimates  from  the  final  PK-binding  model,  the  terminal  half-life  (t1/2)  in 
CAPS patients weighing 70 kg was estimated to be 26.6 days. This is in line with the half-life estimate 
of approximately 26 days in CAPS patients by non-compartmental analysis. 
The  single  dose  PK  parameters  from  CAPS  patients  were  in  good  agreement  to  those  derived  from 
(Japanese)  healthy  volunteers.  Population  PK results support the  assumption  that  the  PK  parameters 
between CAPS patients and other study populations (Japanese healthy volunteers, asthma, rheumatoid 
arthritis,  and  psoriatic  patients)  were  comparable,  except  for  the  non-Japanese  healthy  volunteers, 
which  differed  from  CAPS  patients  in  that  they  had  approximately  20%  slower  clearance  (after 
adjustment for body weight). However, this was not considered to have clinical relevance. 
Thorough  multiple  dose  PK  data  are  not  available  for  CAPS  patients  (or  any  other  subjects). 
Pharmacokinetics after repeated subcutaneous doses applying the intended multiple dose q8w regimen 
was assessed in one (pivotal) study. Sparse PK data (Ctrough) from 15 CAPS  patients after up to 6 
consecutive doses are available. Measured mean Ctrough level from 12 patients after 6 doses of 150 
mg sc every 8 weeks is 6.23 ± 2.53 µg/mL (mean SD).  There is good agreement between the observed 
and  predicted  steady  state  trough  concentrations  for  the  CAPS  patients  with  consistent  150  mg  s.c 
dosing every 8 weeks. Steady state PK data (Ctrough) for children < 40 kg receiving the 2 mg/kg dose 
are limited to one child only. No measured values reflecting the extent of exposure during steady state 
(Cmax or AUC) are available. 
The time to achieve steady state based on the observed Ctrough data agrees closely with the estimate 
from the PK-binding model, which predicts 24 weeks to reach 98.8 percent of the steady-state levels 
with an 1.3-fold accumulation factor after multiple dosing of 150 mg s.c. every 8 weeks. 
Based on the PK binding model, following multiple doses of 150 mg every 8 weeks in CAPS patients, 
the following steady state values for Cmax, Ctrough and AUCτ were simulated for different weight and 
age groups: 
Page 19 of 43 
 
 
Table: Summary statistics (mean, SD, min, max) of model-simulated steady state 
pharmacokinetic parameters (Cmax,ss (µg/mL), Ctrough,ss (µg/mL), AUC0-tau,ss (µg*day/mL)) 
in CAPS patients after 150 mg SC (or 2 mg/kg) q 8 weeks 
The simulations indicate that exposure should be highest in the BW group of 40-70 kg and lowest in 
children < 40 kg. Thus, there might be a risk of overexposure in patients weighing 40-70 kg and a risk 
of underexposure in children. Simulated Ctrough levels suggest that children are at higher risk to fall 
below 1 µg/ml which is considered to be a minimum flare-free level.  
Further thorough examination of steady state pharmacokinetics especially in children is needed. 
CL/F and Cmax values in four CAPS patients with moderate to end stage renal insufficiency were close 
to the mean values in adult CAPS patients (0.228 L/d and 15.9 µg/mL). This is expected as large IgG 
molecules are not excreted by kidneys and thus impaired renal function is unlikely to have an 
influence on canakinumab PK. 
No  formal  PK  studies  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  were  performed.  Serum  albumin  was  a 
significant covariate for canakinumab clearance, probably due to competition for the FcRn receptor. A 
28% difference in CL is predicted over the range of albumin observed in the patient population, from 
35 to 50 g/L, considered not to be clinically significant. However, impaired hepatic function leading to 
low  serum  albumin  may  enhance  canakinumab  clearance  leading  to  reduced  steady  state  drug 
exposure.  
Based  on  the  population  PK  analysis  in  233  subjects,  gender,  race  and  study  population  had  no 
influence  on  the  PK  of  canakinumab,  apart  from  a  slight  decrease  in  CL  in  non-Japanese  healthy 
volunteers (see above).  
Body  weight  was  a  significant  covariate  for  both  clearance  and  the  apparent  size  of  the  central 
compartment. Both parameters increase by body weight suggesting that BW adjusted dosing at least in 
children is justified.  
The  chosen  dosing  regimen  for  the  intended  indication  (150  mg  SC  flat  for  adults  and  2  mg/kg  for 
children < 40 kg) reduces the risk of overexposure in small children. But the intended regimen leads to 
a  relatively  lower  dose  of  1-2  mg/kg  when  BW  is  >  75  kg,  and  a  relatively  higher  dose  of  2-3.75 
mg/kg for the BW group between 40 and 75 kg. Therefore, this group (40-75 kg) might be overdosed 
compared to lower and higher body weight groups. PK data for the BW group between 40 and 70 kg 
are limited. Whether the intended dosing regimen leads to comparable and sufficient efficacy profile 
in all BW groups has to be further assessed by the MAH. The MAH is asked to calculate steady state 
predictions for different weight groups. 
Age was found to be a significant covariate on the subcutaneous drug absorption rate (Ka), slowing 
with age. This may reflect changes in lymphatic drainage, with approximately a 1.5 fold decrease in 
the  absorption  rate  as  age  doubles.  This  could  cause  lower  bioavailability  in  elderly  patients  and  a 
possible need for dose adjustment. 
It has to be considered that the PK data available from children (total children treated: N=12; thereof 
only N=1 child receiving more than a single BW-adjusted 2 mg/kg dose) and from elderly patients (> 
65y; n=1 CAPS) are very limited. Long term data of (steady state) exposure (Cmax and Ctrough levels) in 
children (and adults) are needed and should be measured in ongoing/further studies in order to validate 
the BW-adjusted dosing for children < 40 kg BW. 
Page 20 of 43 
 
 
In  conclusion,  single  dose  PK  of  canakinumab  is  well  characterized  but  there  is  further  need  to 
characterize  the  steady  state  PK  of  canakinumab  in  the  treated  population  relating  to  the  extent, 
variability and upper limits of drug exposure, represented by Cmaxss and AUCss and accumulation ratio 
(R).  A  particular  focus  should  be  put  on  these  parameters  in  very  low  BW  patients  (children),  very 
high BW patients as well as elderly patients in order to verify or adjust the proposed dosage regimen. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
A non-linear mixed effects PK-flare probability model was created to identify a dosing regimen which 
keeps  free  IL-1ß  production  below  the  threshold  associated  with  clinical  evidence  of  CAPS.  The 
response  model  was  created  from  the  PK  data  and  clinical  symptoms  of  relapse  from  the  first  7 
patients  enrolled  in  study  A2102.  .  The  model  enabled  the  prediction  of  the  levels  of  exposure  of 
CAPS patients to canakinumab over time, for both i.v. and s.c. doses, and the probability of relapse at 
any point in time for a specific dosing regimen and range of bodyweights. 
The model was able to fit the data for canakinumab concentration and the binary relapse data. 
The model estimated a canakinumab concentration of 1.1 µg/mL at which there is a 50:50 probability 
of  clinical  relapse  .  This  concentration  corresponds  to  about  7  times  the  value  of  KD  of  binding 
between canakinumab and IL-1ß (about 1 nM or 0.15 µg/ml) reflecting about 90% occupancy of IL-1ß 
in serum at that time. Thus, the probability of relapse increases with the decline of full occupancy of 
IL-1ß in serum.  Therefore,, the failure of dectection of free IL-1ß in serum during the whole treatment 
is plausible since it will be completely occupied by canakinumab.  
Simulations of different dosing regimens and Phase III trial designs were conducted. The simulations 
suggested that the most realistic dosing regimen should be 150 mg s.c. canakinumab every 8 weeks, or 
2 mg/kg if body weight is less than 40 kg. Based on the body weight range observed in these patients 
this should have a low probability of relapse in the region of 1% after subsequent dose at steady state. 
These were therefore the doses used in studies (CACZ85D2304) and (CACZ85D2306). 
The prediction was validated from study (CACZ85D2304) where all 15 patients in Part II on treatment 
with  canakinumab  were  free  of  disease  flare.  There  was  good  agreement  between  predicted  and 
observed Ctrough levels. However, validation is not complete since there are no observed values for 
Cmax,ss  and  AUCss,  and  data  on  children  <  40  kg  are  limited.  This  has  to  be  completed  in  further 
studies.  
Since the time to relapse in children during the pivotal study was significantly shorter than in adults 
this  might  be  explained  by  a  lower  exposure  in  children  leading  to  an  earlier  decline  in  serum 
concentrations of canakinumab. The applicant was requested to perform, after marketing authorisation, 
further pharmacokinetic studies in paediatric subjects. 
•  Special populations 
Renal  impairment:  since  canakinumab  is  a  human  IgG  immunoglobulin  with  large  molecular  size 
(~150  kDa),  little  intact  immunoglobulin  is  expected  to  be  filtered  by  the  kidney.  Therefore, 
impairment of renal function is not likely to have influence on the PK of canakinumab, and this was 
supported by the clearance and Cmax values of four patients with renal insufficiency included in one of 
the studies. 
Hepatic impairment: No formal study has been performed with canakinumab in patients with impaired 
hepatic function. Elimination of protein drugs such as canakinumab is thought to occur via proteolytic 
catabolism  in  different  tissues.  Although  liver  is  known  to  be  a  major  organ  of  protein  degradation, 
impaired hepatic function was not expected to be a limiting factor for elimination. 
Paediatric patients: Due to the lack of data, Ilaris will not be recommended for use in children below 
4  years  or  15  kg  of  weight.  Further  pharmacokinetic  investigations  in  children  have  also  been 
requested by the CHMP. 
Elderly: Results from the PK-binding model demonstrated that age had an effect on the s.c. absorption 
rate  constant;  however,  no  effect  of  age  was  observed  on  canakinumab  clearance,  and  steady  state 
exposure was not affected by age. 
Page 21 of 43 
The  proposed  SPC  wording  was:    “Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  modeling  indicates  that  age 
has  no  effect  on  weight  adjusted  clearance  (see  pharmacokinetic  properties).  However  clinical 
experience in such patients is limited.” 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No studies have been performed. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Studies on plasma protein binding, hepatic metabolism and drug interaction, human biomaterials and 
on extrinsic factors were not performed. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Canakinumab  binds  to  human  IL-1β  (not  to  IL-1α  or  IL-1ra),  and  blocks  the  interaction  of  this 
cytokine with its receptors, thereby functionally neutralizing its bioactivity. This results in inhibition 
of the down-stream events of IL-1 signaling, including IL-1β production, IL-1β pathway related gene 
activation, elevation of acute phase proteins such as SAA and CRP, and mobilization of neutrophils 
and platelets from the bone marrow.  
The resulting complexes of canakinumab and IL-1β are biologically inactive and are supposed to be 
eliminated  at  a  much  slower  rate  than  free  IL-1β,  resulting  in  elevation  of  total  IL-1β  (free  plus 
complex)  following  canakinumab  administration.  Thus,  measurement  of  free  plus  complexed  IL-1β, 
i.e. total IL-1β, is considered a relevant biomarker for canakinumab indicative of binding of IL-1β by 
the antibody.  
Members  of  the  IL-1  superfamily  form  an  important  part  of the  inflammatory  response  of the  body 
against  infection.  Thus,  permanent  suppression  of  IL-1β  pathway  is  associated  with  known  risks  of 
immunoincompetence, including infections and malignancies. 
IL-1β/canakinumab complexes mirror the reduction in free IL-1β level. PD studies include some data 
on  the  levels  of  other  cytokines,  such  as  IL-1Ra,  IL-5,  IL-6,  IL-8,  TNFα,  following  canakinumab 
dosing. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Neither healthy subjects nor patients had elevated serum IL-1β levels at baseline. This indicates that 
IL-1β serum/plasma levels are not useful as a biomarker to classify disease severity. 66% (61/92) of 
all  CAPS  patients  studied  had  no  detectable  levels  of  IL-1β  at  baseline  (IL-1β  as  measured  by  a 
commercial ELISA kit with a limit of quantification of 0.10 pg/mL). Where it was detectable (in 31/92 
patients), it was usually low, within the range 0.16 pg/mL to 3.42 pg/mL. 
Practically  no  free  IL-1β  was  detected  throughout  the  studies  with  the  method  chosen.  In  contrast, 
small  but  detectable  levels  of  (total)  IL-1β  were  often  detected  pre-dose  in  canakinumab-treated 
subjects and in placebo-treated subjects.  
An  increase  in  total  IL-1β  (bound  to  canakinumab)  was  observed  in  all  studies,  in  both  healthy 
subjects as well as patient populations, including CAPS patients, after canakinumab dosing.  
In  study  B2101  with  healthy  volunteers,  all  three  dose  levels  (1  mg/kg,  3  mg/kg  and  10  mg/kg) 
produced an approximately similar increase in total IL-1β. In study A1101 the increase of total IL-1β 
was greater with higher doses. In both studies, the duration of higher total IL-1β was increased with 
increasing  dose.  These  results  suggest  that  the  limiting  factor  for  canakinumab  binding  is  the 
availability of free IL-1β, and the excess canakinumab remains in circulation ready to bind any IL-lβ 
produced. 
Based  on  the  PK-binding  model,  predicted  steady  state  levels  (Ctrough,ss  and  Cmax,ss)  for  total  IL-1β 
following 150 mg s.c. doses of canakinumab every 8 weeks are 19.3 and 26.7 pg/mL. Higher levels of 
total IL1-ß in CAPS patients compared to other populations are consistent with the assumption of a 
Page 22 of 43 
higher  production  rate  in  tissue  of  these  patients.  There  was  a  high  inter-subject  variability  in  Il-1ß 
levels between CAPS patients after canakinumab.  
There is no clear relationship between increased plasma/serum levels of total IL-1β and response to 
canakinumab  in  CAPS  patients,  although  the  timing  of  normalization  of  clinical  inflammatory 
symptoms appears synchronous with the measured increase in canakinumab–IL-1β complexes and 
simulated inhibition of free IL-1β in the interstitium and in the blood, It is apparent that serum is not 
the relevant compartment for IL-1β accumulation. The Applicant has discussed the recruitment of IL-
1β from other compartments. According to literature provided by the Applicant, mast cells may play 
an important role in IL-1β production in the skin and possibly also in the joints and central nervous 
system. 
The levels of serum cytokines studied (IL-1ra, IL-6 and TNFα) did not show any clinically relevant 
changes in healthy volunteers. In 4 CAPS patients (study A2102) a decrease in the mean IL-6 and IL-
1ra levels was observed.  
In  D2304,  IL-1ra  levels  in  CAPS  patients  at  baseline  markedly  varied  in  the  range  of  120  to  3500 
pg/mL. After canakinumab treatment there was a tendency of decrease of the high levels (range at the 
end of part III: 113 to 628 pg/mL), the median values at baseline and throughout parts I,  II, and  III 
remained  stable  at  about  200  pg/mL.  In  part  II  there  was  no  significant  difference  in  IL-1ra  levels 
between placebo and treated group. There is a tendency of decrease in IL-6 while the levels of IL-18 
remained stable. The data available on MMP-1 and MMP-3 levels are sparse and does not allow any 
conclusions.  
Exploratory genomic studies were conducted in two CAPS studies to identify gene expression patterns 
of  blood  cells  that  are  associated  with  treatment  response  to  canakinumab.  A  treatment  related 
decrease  in  the  expression  of  the  IL-1β  target  gene  and  associated inflammatory  pathway  genes  IL-
1R1,  IL-1R2,  IL-1RN,  TL-R2  and  TL-R4,  but  not  in  the  expression  of  the  unrelated  inflammation 
gene TNF-α was observed in CAPS patients. These down-regulations were detectable as early as Day 
8 of treatment and persisted throughout the study.  
Thus, it appears that a negative feedback system following canakinumab binding to  IL-1β results in 
decrease in the production of IL-1β and associated cytokines. 
PD modelling 
IL-1β  production  and  clearance  were  highest  in  CAPS  patients.  However,  they  had  clearly  lower 
binding  affinity  of  canakinumab  to  IL-1β  than  in  the  patient  with  asthma,  rheumatoid  arthritis  or 
psoriasis. The CAPS patients responded to canakinumab treatment, indicating that the level of IL-1β 
capture  was  good  enough  for  a  clinical  response.  In  the  population  modelling  analysis,  no  clear 
relationships with body weight, age, serum albumin, cell line, or sex were observed in the binding of 
canakinumab with IL-1β, or in the turnover of IL-1β. 
Clinical efficacy  
Approximately 830 patients (including 37 children aged ≥4 years) have been receiving canakinumab 
in completed and ongoing clinical trials on various indications.  
Efficacy,  safety  and  tolerability  data  on  canakinumab  from  CAPS  studies  (completed  or  with  an 
interim data cut-off) are available for 104 subjects (including 23 children aged from 4 to 17 years of 
age). Of these, 20 patients were classified as having FCAS, 72 as MWS, 10 with MWS/NOMID, and 1 
with  NOMID.  Patients  were  observed  for  up  to  3¾  years,  the  overall  duration  of  exposure  was 
approximately 96 patient years. 
The single pivotal CAPS study used a controlled withdrawal design. Given the severity of the patient 
population  in  this  trial,  a  placebo-controlled  randomization  of  canakinumab-naïve  patients  was 
deemed  unethical,  especially  in  children.  Instead,  an  open-label  run-in  phase,  requiring  complete 
response, gave all patients initial treatment. 
Page 23 of 43 
Supportive efficacy data were provided in other open -label CAPS studies in which some patients with 
the most severe phenotype (MWS/NOMID and NOMID) were enrolled. 
•  Dose response studies 
Specific  dose-finding  studies  were  not  possible  due  to  the  scarcity  of  patients.  Thus,  modelling  and 
simulation  was  applied to data obtained  from  study  A2102  (an  open-label  dose-titration study  in  34 
CAPS patients with NALP3 mutations) that included assessment of drug levels and disease relapse.  
Dose selection was designed to: 
1.  Achieve a Cmax allowing for fast and complete clinical and serological response 
2.  Maintain clinical response for several weeks to permit a convenient dosing regimen 
3.  Select a subcutaneous injection volume not exceeding 1 ml. 
Canakinumab  plasma  levels  and  clinical  assessments  of  relapse  were  collected  in  patients  who 
received  an  i.v.  dose  of  canakinumab.  A  nonlinear  mixed  effect  PK-flare  probability  model  was 
created  to  identify  a  dosing  regimen  which  keeps  free  IL-1β  below  the  threshold  associated  with 
clinical evidence of CAPS. The response model was created from the PK data and clinical symptoms 
of relapse from the first 7 patients enrolled. All 7 patients achieved complete remission 2-7 days after 
canakinumab i.v. or s.c.. The time to relapse with the corresponding plasma level data were used to 
predict the dose of 150 mg s.c. if >40kg and 2 mg/kg s.c. was used when ≤ 40kg, both every 8 weeks. 
•  Main study (Study D2304) 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Study  D2304  was  a  multicenter,  multinational,  3-part  study  (Parts  I  and  III  uncontrolled,  Part  II 
placebo controlled) in adults and children with MWS (NALP3 mutation confirmed). 
Treatments 
150 mg s.c. if >40kg and 2 mg/kg s.c. when ≤ 40kg, both every 8 weeks. 
All patients received 1 injection of canakinumab in Part I (8 weeks) and those who had a complete and 
sustained response were randomized in Part II to receive a maximum of 3 injections of canakinumab 
or placebo at 8 week intervals. Patients who finished Part II, or flared beforehand, entered Part III and 
received canakinumab every 8 weeks until 48 weeks. 
Page 24 of 43 
 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  canakinumab  (percentage  of  patients  who 
experienced disease flare) compared with placebo in Part II as determined by the Physician’s global 
assessment of autoinflammatory disease activity, assessment of skin disease and inflammation markers 
(CRP and/or SAA). 
The secondary objectives were to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of canakinumab, 
to assess overall efficacy (response rate) of canakinumab in Part I and Part III as determined by the 
Physician’s  global  assessment  of  autoinflammatory  disease  activity,  assessment  of  skin  disease  and 
inflammation markers, to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of 
canakinumab and to assess the effect on disease progression with regards to deafness, kidney function, 
neurological and ophthalmological symptoms. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with disease flare in Part II (defined as 
those who experienced a protocol-defined clinical relapse, or discontinued from Part II for any reason) 
compared to placebo. 
Disease relapse was defined as a CRP and/or SAA values greater than 30 mg/L, as well as a physician 
global  assessment  of  auto-inflammatory  disease  that  was  either  rated  above  minimal  or,  if  equal  to 
minimal, accompanied by skin disease activity rated above minimal (assessed on the same day).  
This  composite score  uses a  combination  of  patient reported  outcomes,  physician  global  assessment 
and  laboratory  values that has  not  been  validated. The  prevention  of flare activity  was  considered a 
meaningful  objective  as  flares  are  characterised  by  inflammatory  activity  that  is  the  cause  for  long 
term disease progression and organ damage/amyloidosis.  
The following secondary efficacy endpoints were analyzed: 
•  Proportion of canakinumab treatment responders in Part I 
•  Proportion of patients without disease relapse in Part III 
•  Change in inflammatory markers CRP and SAA 
• 
Investigator’s clinical assessment of autoinflammatory disease activity 
•  Patient’s assessment of symptoms 
•  Assessment of skin disease 
Health-related Quality of Life was assessed using the following instruments: Medical Outcome Short 
Form  (36)  Health  Survey  (SF-36),  Functional  Assessment  of  Chronic  Illness  Therapy  –  Fatigue 
(FACIT-F), Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), and Child Health Questionnaire – Parent Form 
(CHQ-PF87) (in children/adolescent patients). 
Page 25 of 43 
 
Sample size 
The total sample size was planned to be at least be 20 patients randomized into the withdrawal period 
(Part II). The sample size was calculated to show superiority of canakinumab relative to placebo for 
the proportions of patients with disease flare. A sample size of 10 patients per group would give 90% 
power to detect a treatment difference between disease flare rate of 15% for the active group and of 
90% for the placebo group, based on Fisher's exact test with a 0.05 two-sided significance level. 
A total of 35 patients were screened and enrolled in Part I, of whom 31 were randomized into Part II 
(15 canakinumab : 16 placebo). All these 31 patients entered Part III. All patients were included in the 
safety and intent to treat populations. 
Randomisation 
There  was  an  imbalance  between  placebo-  and  canakinumab-treated  groups  with  regard  to  gender 
(93.3% females versus 6.7%). The applicant was requested to critically evaluate the effect of gender in 
the  clinical  efficacy  of  canakinumab.  In  the  answer,  no  gender  effect  regarding  response  to 
canakinumab could be discerned based on several assessments across canakinumab CAPS studies with 
regard to response to treatment and duration of response, and this was accepted by CHMP. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis used the intent-to-treat (ITT) population (all randomized patients receiving at least one dose 
of study drug). In Parts I, II and III the proportion of patients who responded without disease relapse 
was calculated. In Part II treatment comparison was performed on common odds ratio by a stratified 
test  procedure.  The  withdrawal  design  was  found  acceptable  by  CHMP  during  a  scientific  advice 
procedure. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
There was an open-label design in Part I for identification of canakinumab responders. Patients with 
complete  response  and  without  disease  relapse  until  Week  8  in  Part  I  entered  Part  II,  which  was  a 
double-blind,  placebo  controlled  withdrawal  period  for  up  to  24  weeks.  Upon  disease  flare  or 
completion  in  Part  II  patients  entered  Part  III,  which  was  open-label,  active  treatment  with 
canakinumab for 16 weeks. 
Patient disposition – n (%) of patients (Safety population) 
In Part I, one patient (0003) did not achieve the protocol-defined response criteria. After reviewing the 
patient’s PK data, it was concluded that the canakinumab levels were substantially lower possibly due 
to  suboptimal  administration  of  canakinumab  (self-administeration  was  reported  on  the  dosage 
administration  record).  Other  3  patients  who  initially  responded  in  Part  I  discontinued  due  to 
unsatisfactory therapeutic effect. They showed signs of clinical relapse according to the investigators 
before week 8 completion, but two of them did not meet the protocol defined criteria for flare. The 12 
patients discontinued in the placebo group entered into Part III. 
Page 26 of 43 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
The  majority  of  protocol  deviations  were  minor,  predominantly  missing  laboratory  tests  and  visits 
outside of visit windows.  
Baseline data 
All patients had a molecular diagnosis of NALP3 mutation. Based on investigators’ confirmations, the 
confirmed  mutation  in  NALP3  was  R260W  for  more  than  half  of  the  patients  (18,  51.4%);  seven 
patients had mutation T348M, three patients had D303N, two patients had E311K; the five remaining 
patients had mutations A439V, D305N, T346N, T346I and M662T. 
Baseline disease assessments (Safety population) 
Background and disease characteristics at baseline (Safety population) 
Page 27 of 43 
 
Numbers analysed 
One patient in the canakinumab treatment group was excluded from the per protocol population due to 
missing primary endpoint assessments. 
Page 28 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis populations – n (%) of patients 
Outcomes and estimation 
In  Part  I,  97.1%  of  patients  achieved  a  complete  response,  71.4%  by  the  first  scheduled  time  point 
(Day 8) the remainder by Day 15, except for 1 patient on Day 29, who had a viral infection interfering 
with  response  assessment.  Only  1  patient  did  not  achieve  the  protocol  defined  complete  response 
criteria.  By  Day  8,  mean  CRP  levels had  decreased from  30.7  to  5.4  mg/L  and  SAA  had  decreased 
from 137.3 to 18.3 mg/L compared to baseline. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  in  Part  II  was  met  by  demonstrating  a  statistically  significant  and 
clinically  relevant  difference  in  the  proportion  of  patients  who  experienced  a  disease  flare (none  on 
canakinumab, 81% on placebo) as shown in the following table. The median time to disease flare in 
the placebo treated patients in Part II was 100 days. 
Secondary efficacy variables were change in CRP and SAA levels during Part II. 
This showed that the low levels achieved in Part I stayed low in the canakinumab group but rose in the 
placebo group after active treatment withdrawal in Part II (see following figure) 
Figure:  Inflammatory  markers,  SAA  (A)  and  CRP  (B),  over  time  in  D2304  in  mg/L, 
mean±SEM 
Concordant with the re-appearance of disease activity in the opinion of the investigator and the acute 
phase proteins under placebo at end of Part II, patients also rated their disease activity higher and their 
symptoms  stronger  under  placebo  as  compared  to  canakinumab.  The  difference  was  clinically 
Page 29 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
meaningful  and  showed  a  trend  towards  statistical  significance  (p=0.07).  The  missed  statistical 
significance  might  be  explainable  by  the  fact  that  3  patients  in  the  canakinumab  group  rated  their 
disease  activity  severe  at  end  of  Part  II  while  they  also  reported  disease-related  and  unrelated 
symptoms  including  insomnia,  vertigo,  blurred  vision,  abdominal  pain  and  diarrhoea.  Thus,  the 
occurrence of these AEs may have influenced their assessment of their disease activity. 
A complete clinical response in Part I was achieved by 97.1% of patients, all receiving canakinumab. 
In  Part  II  there  was  a  statistically  significant  difference  (p<0.001)  in  the  number  of  patients  with 
disease flares, with no patients on canakinumab and 13/16 (81.3%) placebo-treated patients meeting 
the  protocol-defined  flare  criteria.  At  the  end  of  Part  III,  96.8%  of  patients  were  without  disease 
relapse.  One  male  patient  experienced  a  disease  relapse  on  Day  336  from  baseline.  When  patients 
resumed treatment with canakinumab in Part III, levels of serum inflammatory markers decreased to 
levels seen at the start of Part II. 
At  the  time  of  the  second  interim  analysis  of  the  uncontrolled  long-term  safety  and  efficacy  study 
D2306, a total of 98 patients had received canakinumab treatment. Treatment was shown to be highly 
effective as 5 (5.9%) of the patients with available assessment data had experienced a disease relapse. 
•  Uncontrolled studies 
Summary of uncontrolled trials 
Study  A2102  was  a  dose-titration  and  efficacy,  safety  and  tolerability  study  of  canakinumab 
administered s.c. or i.v. to adults or children (≥ 4 years) and included 2 subjects with FCAS  (adults), 
27 with MWS patients (5 of them children), 4 with MWS/ NOMID (2 adults, 2 adolescents), and 1 
with NOMID (adult). 
For dose selection, in Stage 1, four patients received 10 mg/kg canakinumab i.v. infusion on Day 1, 
and upon relapse a second i.v. infusion of canakinumab (1 mg/kg), and upon second relapse, 150 mg 
canakinumab s.c. In Stage 2, the 4 patients and additional 30 patients received 150 mg canakinumab 
s.c. injection and another 150 mg upon each relapse. The remaining patients were to provide short and 
long-term efficacy and safety data with the predicted dose, and received 150 mg canakinumab s.c. or 2 
mg/kg s.c. if aged ≤16 years at relapse. 
After  the first  150  mg  dose  of  canakinumab,  28  of  29  adult/paediatric  patients achieved  a  complete 
clinical response in 2 to 9 days and 1 patient achieved a partial response. The estimated median time to 
relapse was 115 days, consistent with the results from the pivotal study. 
After the first 2 mg/kg dose, all 5 children (≤16 years, <40 kg) achieved complete clinical response 
within 2 to 8 days, however 2 children (both with the V198M mutation) relapsed within a week but 
responded to ‘rescue’ treatment. The median time to relapse was 48.6 days. 
In later periods, 3 patients again achieved complete response and 2 again needed rescue treatment. 
Treatment  with  canakinumab  resulted  in a  rapid  onset  of efficacy,  with  disappearance  or  significant 
improvement of symptoms within one day after dosing (day 2). Laboratory parameters such as high 
CRP or SAA normalized within days of canakinumab injection. 
Page 30 of 43 
 
Improvements  in  audiologic  tests  were  noted  in  6  patients  and  quality  of  life  assessments  showed 
general trends for improvement after dosing. 
Study  D2306  was  designed  to  provide  long-term  safety  and  efficacy  data  for  canakinumab 
administered as an s.c. injection in patients who participated in the A2102 or D2304 studies or newly 
identified patients with CAPS. An interim analysis was conducted for this study. 
The demographics of patients included up to the cut-off date (09-Jan-2009) showed that most of the 57 
patients were Caucasian and 18 to 40 years old. Nine patients below 18 years of age were enrolled. All 
except 2 patients were diagnosed with NALP3 mutations.  
Up to the data cut-off (09-Jan-2009), 98 patients were exposed. Of these, 54 were roll-over patients, 
made up of 24 patients from Study A2102 and 30 patients from Study D2304 respectively. At the time 
of data cut-off, 44 canakinumab naïve patients had received treatment in this protocol. Overall, there 
were  19  FCAS  patients,  69  patients  with  MWS,  8  with  MWS  with  overlapping  NOMID,  and  1 
predominant NOMID phenotype patient although this patient from Study A2102 is grouped together 
with the MWS/NOMID for the purposes of interim analysis). At cut off, there were 54 patients from 
prior studies and 44 new patients not previously exposed to canakinumab. 
The dosing regimen of 150 mg s.c. was effective in treatment of 77 out of 98 CAPS patients (77/88 
patients with available response data). 16 (16.3%) patients needed to use an intensified dosing regimen 
and were treated with an adjusted dose. 
For  the  canakinumab-naïve  patients,  41  out  of  44  patients  for  whom  response  data  was  available  at 
database  lock  achieved  a  complete  clinical  response.  Of  the  3  patients  without  complete  response 
according  to  physician  assessment,  1  was  falsely  classified  as  FCAS  and  subsequently  recorded  as 
protocol deviation due to the diagnosis of cold urticaria. 
Canakinumab-naïve patients showed a substantial reduction (normalization) of their mean acute phase 
protein levels, with a decrease  mg/L at baseline for CRP 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Classical subgroup analyses were not performed owing to the small size of each study and the inability 
to pool across the differently designed studies to obtain reasonable sample sizes. 
However,  the  data  were  explored  for  any  gross  differences  between  patients  with  different  disease 
expressions  (i.e.  FCAS,  MWS,  MWS/NOMID  or  NOMID)  and  were  examined  for  differences 
between adult and paediatric patients. 
Subgroups of MWS patients 
As time to relapse data provided more suitable quantitative information, this was used for subgroup 
exploration in a study of mostly MWS patients. 
In Study A2102 there were no significant differences in time to relapse between subgroups with regard 
to gender, or previous use of canakinumab or anakinra (most patients). 
Response in FCAS Patients 
In  total  there  were  9  patients  with  FCAS  were  included  in  the  studies.  All  patients  responded  to 
therapy (except for one with missing response criteria) regardless of age or previous use of anakinra or 
canakinumab. 
The 2 patients with FCAS from Study 2102 (adults) had among the highest baseline disability scores 
(HAQ-DI  questionnaire)  and  the  highest  baseline  level  of  fatigue  (FACIT-F  questionnaire)  in  the 
study,  yet  both  showed  complete  response  to  canakinumab.  Their  baseline  CRP/SAA  values  were 
152/618 mg/L and 23.5 /48.9 mg/L, normalizing to <10mg/L by Day 8 and Day 3, respectively. 
Response in MWS/NOMID or NOMID Patients 
In total there were 5 patients with MWS/NOMID overlap and 1 patient with a predominant phenotype 
of NOMID. These patients responded similarly to all other CAPS patients to therapy regardless of age 
or previous use of anakinra or canakinumab. 
Page 31 of 43 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Response in paediatric patients 
Included in the studies, there were 8 children ≤40 kg, who received 2 mg/kg and another 7 adolescents 
<18 years of age, who received 150 mg. All of the adolescents were responders to the 150 mg dose, 
given at 8 week intervals, except for 1 patient who showed a partial response. After the first 2 mg/kg 
dose, all 8 children achieved a complete clinical response in 2 to 8 days and 6 children were kept in 
remission  with  the  given  dose.  However  2  children  in  Study  A2102  (both  with  V198M  mutation) 
rapidly  lost  response,  but  responded  to  a  higher  dose  (rescue),  which  was  needed  repeatedly 
throughout the study. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Safety  data  overall  are  rather  limited.  Safety  and  tolerability  data  from  completed  non-CAPS  trials 
were  available  from  465  male  or  female  subjects,  and  trials  with  an  interim  analysis  were  available 
from 104 male or female CAPS subjects (including 23 children), who were treated with canakinumab, 
and observed for periods of up to 3½ years at the initial evaluation. In response to the CHMP LoQ the 
applicant  provided  an  updated  report  on  safety.  Extent  and  duration  of  exposure  is  shown  in  the 
following table. 
The following table shows the available database as regards diagnosis by age group. 
•  Adverse events  
The  most  commonly  observed  AE  in  CAPS  trials  were  nasopharyngitis  (31.7%),  upper  respiratory 
tract infection (16.3%), headache (16.3%), rhinitis (11.5%), oropharyngeal pain (11.5%), and nausea 
(10.6%).  
Page 32 of 43 
 
 
Of  note,  vertigo  was  experienced  by  9  patients  (8.7%),  of  which  7  patients  had pre-existing  vertigo 
and 6 of these patients presented with active vertigo at the start of the study.  
There was no striking difference in AE between placebo group and verum group in the pivotal trial. 
This analysis is likely to be conservative as the treatment phase with verum was longer than in patients 
on placebo that discontinued/switched after shorter treatment duration.  
There were no opportunistic infections observed. 
Treatment of up to one year was not associated with a different pattern of AE. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No deaths were observed in the CAPS trial. There were 10 serious AE in 8 CAPS patients, one patient 
with chest infection, one with  pyrexia and urinary tract infections, two cases of vertigo (one patient 
additionally with unilateral blindness, increase intraocular pressure), one patient with flare of MWS, 
one  patient  with  progression  of  fibromyalgia  and  one  patient  with intra-abdominal  abcess  following 
appendectomy. 
Out  of  612  patients  treated  (active  treatment  and  placebo)  in  10  ongoing  studies,  58  SAEs  were 
reported  by  the  cut-off  date  (12-Sep-2008)  for  the  dossier.  These  include  16  cases  of  confirmed 
infections (urosepsis, lower respiratory tract infection, hand abscess, acute appendicits, diverticultitis, 
soft  tissue  injury/infection,  pharyngitis,  acute  adenitis,  pneumonia,  pericarditis,  sinusitis,  and 
exacerbation of COPD. 
There was 1 death in the AMD study F2201 5 months after a single dose of 10 mg/kg canakinumab. 
The death of this patient was not felt by the investigator to be study drug related. 
In the ongoing Study B2204, there was 1 death in this COPD study. A 75 year-old man with COPD 
received  1  dose  of  blinded  study  medication  (canakinumab  1  mg/kg  or  placebo)  on  11-Oct-07, 
presented with dyspnoea and pulmonary congestion (21-Oct-07), was then hospitalized (28-Oct 2007) 
with  worsening  dyspnoea  and  a  productive  cough  diagnosed  as  pneumonia.  Despite  treatment  with 
moxifloxacin, a tracheotomy and assisted ventilation, the patient died of respiratory failure (28-Nov-
07). The investigator reported the death of this patient as due the progression of the underlying disease 
without relationship to the study drug. 
• 
Immunogenicity 
No anti-canakinumab antibodies were detected. 
Local tolerability was good, the majority of patients had no injection site reactions. 
None  of  the  192  adult  and  paediatric  subjects  treated  with  canakinumab  in  the  six  different  clinical 
studies (thereof 31 with a duration of exposure > 48 weeks) developed anti-canakinumab antibodies, 
which  indicates  that  the  immunogenic  potential  of  canakinumab  is  low.  However,  due  to 
methodological insufficiencies (drug interference) underestimation of antibody incidence could not be 
excluded. An improved assay should be developed. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Overall there were no clinically significant changes in the laboratory parameters observed. There were 
3  patients  with  asymptomatic  liver  enzyme  elevations  (transaminases),  either  present  at  baseline  or 
transient changes in a patient with positive viral serology. 
Haemoglobin  values  increased,  platelet  count  decreased  and  lymphocyte  count  decreased  with 
canakinumab treatment, all consistent with reduced inflammatory activity. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Due to the low number of patients in the CAPS trial the evaluation as regards subpopulations was not 
considered meaningful at the time of authorisation. Further investigations, particularly in children with 
respect to the effect on childhood vaccinations, were requested as part of the Risk Management Plan. 
Page 33 of 43 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal clinical drug interaction studies between canakinumab and other medicinal products have 
been performed. 
The  most  common  concomitant  medications  in  CAPS  patients  were  paracetamol,  nonsteroidal  anti-
in  about  15%  of  patients,  antibiotics 
inflammatory  drugs,  systemic  glucocorticosteroids 
(cephalosporin,  amoxicillin)  and  iron  supplements.  It  is  not  expected  that  these  medications  will 
influence the PK of canakinumab. This is mainly because monoclonal antibodies are not metabolized 
by the cytochrome P450 system, and their mechanism of elimination could be via catabolism, different 
from elimination pathways of small molecules. 
The concomitant administration of anakinra (IL-1 receptor antagonist) with etanercept did not improve 
efficacy, but worsened the safety profile compared to each drug alone in RA patients (Genovese, et al. 
2004),  thus  anakinra  is  not  to  be  used  with  a  TNF-α  inhibitor  (Kineret  Prescribing  Information). 
Consequently, the concomitant use of canakinumab and a TNF-α inhibitor is, although not tested, also 
not recommended. 
Another  aspect  to  be  taken  into  account  is  that  the  expression  of  hepatic  CYP450  enzymes  may  be 
suppressed  by  the  cytokines  that  stimulate  chronic  inflammation,  such  as  IL-1  beta.  Thus,  CYP450 
expression  may  be  reversed  when  potent  cytokine  inhibitory  therapy,  such  as  canakinumab,  is 
introduced. 
The normalisation of inflammatory activity induced by treatment may cause an increase of CYP that 
could be relevant for CYP substrates. This is reflected in the SPC. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuation  in  the  CAPS  population  was  predominantly  caused  by  unsatisfactory  therapeutic 
response. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Not applicable. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system has deficiencies that should be addressed as 
part of the follow up measures 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue  
Identified Risks 
Infections 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Targeted follow-up of serious clinical 
trial and post-marketing cases using a 
targeted questionnaires/checklist 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Review and adjudication by dedicated 
Allergy-Infection-Malignancy (AIM) 
Adjudication Committee 
Labeling:  
Warnings and precautions 
(Section 6 of the Core Data 
Sheet [CDS])  
Interactions (Section 8 of the 
CDS) 
SmPC-Section 4.4 [Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use (serious infections)] 
An alert card for patients to 
Page 34 of 43 
Safety issue  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Potential Risks 
Severe ISR 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Dedicated CRF in clinical trial 
ACZ885D2306 (CAPS indication) 
Immunogenicity/ 
allergenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Targeted follow-up of serious clinical 
trial and post-marketing cases using a 
targeted questionnaires/checklist 
Review and adjudication by dedicated 
Allergy-Infection-Malignancy (AIM) 
Adjudication Committee 
Opportunistic 
infections 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Targeted follow-up of serious clinical 
trial and post-marketing cases using a 
targeted questionnaires/checklist 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Page 35 of 43 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
highlight the key safety findings 
and thus further promote safety 
use of Ilaris are being prepared. 
This risk 
comunication/minimization 
initiative is subject to national 
laws and thus will be discussed 
and agreed upon with the 
national HAs prior to Ilaris 
launch in each countries. 
Physicians Educational Program 
SmPC-Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
There is only one serious 
injection site reaction reported 
in A2204 study. Injection site 
reactions were reported in 8.6% 
(Part I) and 13.4% 
(canakinumab, Part II) of  
patients and predominantly mild 
in nature. 
Physicians Educational Program 
SmPC-Section 4.4 [Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use (Hypersensitivity 
reactions)] 
There are two serious event 
reported in A2204 study viz. 
serious injection site reaction 
and Lip edema. 
The majority of the reported 
AEs were mild in severity and 
resolved completely. 
Physicians Educational Program 
Labeling:  
[SmPC-Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use) serious infections]  
‘ILARIS may be associated with 
an increased incidence of 
serious infections. Therefore 
patients should be monitored 
carefully for signs and 
symptoms of infections during 
and after treatment with Ilaris. 
Physicians should exercise 
caution when administering 
ILARIS to patients with 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Malignancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Targeted follow-up of serious clinical 
trial and post-marketing cases using a 
targeted questionnaires/checklist 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Review and adjudication by dedicated 
Allergy-Infection-Malignancy (AIM) 
Adjudication Committee 
Lymphoid organ 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Page 36 of 43 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
infections, a history of recurring 
infections or underlying 
conditions which may 
predispose them to infections. 
Treatment with ILARIS should 
not be continued or initiated in 
patients with severe infections  
predominantly of the upper 
respiratory tract, in some 
instances serious, have been 
reported more frequently with 
ILARIS than with placebo 
treatment. Course and response 
to therapy (including antibiotic 
therapy) appear normal. 
Taking ILARIS with tumour 
necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors 
is not recommended because 
this may increase the risk of 
serious infections’  
[SmPC-Section 4.5 
(interactions)] 
‘An increased incidence of 
serious infections has been 
associated with administration 
of another IL-1 blocker in 
combination with TNF 
inhibitors. Use of ILARIS with 
TNF inhibitors is not 
recommended because this may 
increase the risk of serious 
infections.’  
Physicians Educational Program 
This risk is adequately 
addressed and communicated in 
the prescribing information and 
the label. 
Labeling: [SmPC-Section 4.4 
(Special warnings and 
precautions for use) 
malignancies]  
‘The risk for the development of 
malignancies with anti-
interleukin (IL)-1 therapy is 
unknown. A potential risk can 
not be excluded in patients 
treated with ILARIS’. 
Physicians Educational Program 
No AEs of lymphoid organ 
 
 
Safety issue  
toxicity 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Neutropenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Targeted follow-up of serious clinical 
trial and post-marketing cases using a 
targeted questionnaires/checklist 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Vertigo 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Targeted follow-up of serious clinical 
trial and post-marketing cases using a 
targeted questionnaires/checklist 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Page 37 of 43 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
toxicity have been reported 
during the clinical program in 
CAPS and RA patients so far. 
Not listed in the CDS. 
Labeling: [SmPC-Section 4.4 
(Special warnings and 
precautions for use) 
Neutropenia]  
“Neutropenia (absolute 
neutrophil count [ANC] < 1.5 x 
109/l) has been observed 
commonly with another 
medicinal product that inhibits 
IL-1 used in a patient population 
(rheumatoid arthritis) other than 
CAPS.    Neutropenia was 
observed commonly in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis (not an 
approved use) who were 
administered Ilaris 
subcutaneously in clinical 
studies.  None of these patients 
had serious infections associated 
with the neutropenia. Although 
neutropenia was observed 
uncommonly in CAPS patients, 
the numbers studied are small. 
Treatment with Ilaris should not 
be initiated in patients with 
neutropenia. It is recommended 
that neutrophil counts be 
assessed prior to initiating 
treatment, after 1 to 2 months, 
and periodically thereafter while 
receiving Ilaris. If a patient 
becomes neutropenic the ANC 
should be monitored closely and 
treatment should be 
discontinued.” 
Additional: Physicians 
Educational Program 
Labeling: Undesirable effects 
(Section 4.8 of the SmPC) 
The ability to drive and operate 
machines may be impaired by 
some symptoms associated with 
CAPS. Patients who experience 
vertigo during Ilaris treatment 
should wait for this to resolve 
completely before driving or 
operating machines. 
‘Vertigo has been reported in 
6-13% of patients in CAPS and 
 
 
Safety issue  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Hypercholesterolemia  Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Hepatic transaminase 
and bilirubin 
elevations 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Combination therapy 
toxicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Page 38 of 43 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
rheumatoid arthritis studies, 
and considered serious in 
approximately a third of cases. 
The majority of events occurred 
in close temporal relation to 
treatment initiation and 
responded to symptomatic 
treatment in all instances. 
Events resolved despite 
continuous treatment with 
Ilaris’. 
Not listed in the CDS. 
In the CAPS dataset, mean 
changes from baseline to end of 
study drug treatment were not 
clinically relevant for 
biochemistry parameters, except 
cholesterol and triglycerides 
where the mean changes seen in 
canakinumab-treated patients 
were increases of approximately 
10% 
In RA pooled dataset, mean 
increases in cholesterol were 
greater in the canakinumab 
groups versus placebo. 
Additional: Physicians 
Educational Program 
[SmPC-Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use) hepatic function] 
Rare, mild, transient and 
asymptomatic cases of 
elevations of serum 
transaminases and bilirubin 
have been reported patients with 
confounding factors in clinical 
trials. This risk is adequately 
addressed and communicated in 
the prescribing information and 
the label. 
This risk is adequately 
addressed and communicated in 
the prescribing information and 
the label. 
[SmPC-Section 4.5 
(interactions)] 
‘An increased incidence of 
serious infections has been 
associated with administration 
of another IL-1 blocker in 
combination with TNF 
 
 
 
Safety issue  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Autoimmunity 
reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Missing information 
Pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Study CACZ885D2401: Ilaris® 
Registry 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
inhibitors. Use of ILARIS with 
TNF inhibitors is not 
recommended because this may 
increase the risk of serious 
infections’ 
No risk minimization measure is 
considered necessary at this 
time. Upon the emergence of 
new safety findings related to 
autoimmunity reactions, as 
reviewed regularly in the PSUR, 
appropriate updated risk 
management activities will be 
considered. 
The risk of development of 
autoimmune disorders with anti-
IL-1 therapy is unknown. 
Should symptoms of 
autoimmune reactions occur, 
patients should be monitored for 
presence of anti-nuclear 
antibodies (ANA) and double-
stranded DNA (ds-DNA). 
This risk is adequately 
addressed and communicated in 
the prescribing information and 
the label. (section 4.6 of SmPC, 
Pregnancy and lactation). 
There is a limited amount of 
data from the use of 
canakinumab in pregnant 
women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct or indirect 
harmful effects with respect to 
reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3). The risk for the 
foetus/mother is unknown and 
treatment of women who are 
pregnant or who desire to 
become pregnant should 
therefore only be treated after a 
thorough benefit-risk 
evaluation. 
Physicians Educational Program 
Important potential interactions 
Vaccines 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Vaccination study (CACZ885A2106) 
Additional: post-vaccination antibody 
titers will be determined as part of the 
new interventional Vaccination Study. 
SmPC, section 4.4 warning & 
precautions:  
No data are available on either 
the effects of live vaccination or 
the secondary transmission of 
infection by live vaccines in 
Page 39 of 43 
 
 
 
Safety issue  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Pharmacodynamic 
interactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Drugs eliminated by 
CYP450 enzymes 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
including cumulative review in PSUR 
Page 40 of 43 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
patients receiving Ilaris. 
Therefore, live vaccines should 
not be given concurrently with 
Ilaris. It is recommended that, if 
possible, paediatric and adult 
patients complete all 
immunisations in accordance 
with current immunisation 
guidelines prior to initiating 
Ilaris therapy. 
SmPC, section 4.5: 
Should vaccination with live 
vaccines be indicated after 
initiation of Ilaris treatment, the 
recommendation is to wait for at 
least 3 months after the last 
Ilaris injection and before the 
next one (see section 4.4). 
Additional: The Alert Card 
informs the patients to tell their 
doctors if they are scheduled to 
receive any vaccine 
Physicians Educational Program 
SmPC, section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties: 
In clinical studies, CAPS 
patients who have uncontrolled 
overproduction of IL-1 beta 
show a rapid response to 
therapy with canakinumab, i.e. 
C-reactive protein (CRP) and 
serum amyloid A (SAA) levels, 
leukocytosis and high platelet 
count rapidly returned to normal 
within one week. 
No antibodies to canakinumab 
have been detected in CAPS 
patients treated with 
canakinumab. 
[SmPC] section 4.5: 
The expression of hepatic 
CYP450 enzymes may be 
suppressed by the cytokines that 
stimulate chronic inflammation, 
such as IL-1 beta. Thus, 
CYP450 expression may be 
reversed when potent cytokine 
inhibitory therapy, such as 
canakinumab, is introduced. 
This is clinically relevant for 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
CYP450 substrates with a 
narrow therapeutic index where 
the dose is individually 
adjusted. On initiation of 
canakinumab in patients being 
treated with this type of 
medicinal product, therapeutic 
monitoring of the effect or of 
the active substance 
concentration should be 
performed and the individual 
dose of the medicinal product 
adjusted as necessary. 
No additional risk minimization 
measure is considered necessary 
at this time. Upon the 
emergence of new safety 
findings related to drug-drug 
interactions, as reviewed 
regularly in the PSUR, 
appropriate updated risk 
management activities will be 
considered. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product. 
2.6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  documentation  provided  with  the  application  demonstrates  consistent 
batch-to-batch production of Canakinumab achieving a consistent quality for the drug substance and 
the drug product. The fermentation and purification of the drug substance, Canakinumab (ACZ885), 
are  adequately  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substance  has  been  adequately  characterised  with 
regard  to  its  physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics  using  state-of  the-art  methods.  The 
manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  has  been  described  and  validated  in  sufficient  detail.  In 
addition,  the  viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  (including  TSE)  have 
been sufficiently assured. In general, appropriate drug substance and drug product specifications have 
been set. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  safety  profile  of  canakinumab  and  a  mouse  anti-mouse  surrogate  antibody  (01BSUR)  were 
investigated in a series of repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice and marmosets. All pivotal studies were 
performed according to current regulatory standards and Good Laboratory Practice Regulations. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies were not conducted. This is in line with the ICH Guideline 
for the Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-Derived Pharmaceuticals (ICH S6, 1997). 
Immunotoxicity was investigated with the 01BSUR surrogate in mice at doses up to 150 mg/kg. There 
were  no  findings  that  could  be  unequivocally  attributed  to  the  treatment.  Lymphoid  hyperplasia  of 
spleen and lymphoid depletion that were the most noteworthy immunological findings observed in the 
Page 41 of 43 
 
 
toxicity  studies  in  marmosets,  were  not  observed  in  this  mouse  study  with  the  surrogate  antibody 
01BSUR. This raised a question of the relevance of this mouse model in immunotoxicity evaluation. 
Consequently,  immune  toxicity  related  to  canakinumab  treatment  could  not  be  excluded.  This  was 
considered  especially  important  for  the  paediatric  patients  since  the  immune  function  was  not 
evaluated  in  the  juvenile  study.  The  possibility  of  differential  effect  of  canakinumab  on  immune 
function in children and adult patients should be further investigated by performing a study in juvenile 
animals. 
Efficacy 
Demonstrated benefits: 
The immediate benefit of treatment of patients with CAPS by 8-weekly injections of canakinumab is 
the  reduction  of  inflammatory  activity  caused  by  neutralisation  of  excessively  secreted  IL-1  and 
reduction  of  secondary  inflammatory  mediators,  e.g.  IL-6.  Benefit  has  been  demonstrated  by  the 
prevention of relapses in MWS patients in a blinded randomised trial with a withdrawal design. The 
chosen endpoint was regarded as meaningful for the objective of relapse reduction/flare prevention. 
There  is  currently  no  approved  therapy  for  CAPS,  commonly  used  treatments  involve  anakinra, 
corticosteroids, colchicine and non-steroidals. Anakinra has not been tested in randomised trials but is 
commonly used because it is the only agent countering pathogenetic events in CAPS.  
Uncertain benefits: 
Long  term  benefit  is  expected  to  involve  the  reduction/prevention  of  amyloidosis  and  end  organ 
damage caused by the inflammatory process. This endpoint cannot be assessed in clinical studies with 
a  feasible  duration.  Biomarkers  for  inflammation  have  been  included  as  secondary  endpoint  in  the 
pivotal trial, a meaningful reduction of SAA and CRP has been demonstrated and therefore long term 
benefit as regards amyloidosis appears possible. 
Several  phenotypes  have  been  described,  all  with  underlying  mutations  in  the  NALP3  gene,  the 
reasons  for  different  phenotypes  are  unclear  at  present.  The  pivotal  trial  was  conducted  in  MWS 
patients, other phenotypes were included in open label studies. Induction and maintenance of response 
showed similarity between the different clinical phenotypes of CAPS ranging from FCAS over MWS 
to  NOMID  including  overlap  syndromes.  Considering  the  known  pathogenesis  and  the  fact  that 
patients  had  confirmed  mutation  in  the  NALP3  gene  inclusion  of  these  patients  in  the  indication 
appeared  justified.  No  patients  without  confirmed  genetic  mutation  were  included  in  the  trials. 
Preliminary  data indicated that  phenotypically  indistinguishable  patients  may  benefit from  treatment 
as well.  
Safety 
Demonstrated risks: 
Infections  (upper  respiratory  tract)  are  more  commonly  observed  with  canakinumab  treatment.  No 
opportunistic infections were observed so far. 
The available safety data show that therapy with canakinumab appeared to be rather well tolerated. 
Uncertain risks: 
The safety database was limited at the time of authorisation, 56 patients had been treated for more than 
48 weeks, only 6 patients had been treated for more than 96 weeks. Thus long term safety was not well 
known.  
Malignancies are a potential risk for any immunosuppressant. 
Drug  interactions  have  not  been  studied  but  normalisation  of  inflammatory  activity  may  cause  an 
increase of CYP that could be relevant for CYP substrates. 
The risk of intensified treatment with an increased dose, as used in a 20 patients (7 paediatric and 13 
adults) not responding long enough, remains currently unclear, the available data indicate no increased 
risk. 
Page 42 of 43 
Immunogenicity is low, however the performance of the assay requires improvement. The good local 
tolerability is regarded as clinical evidence that immunogenicity could be low. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 2.5 adequately addressed these 
•  User consultation 
The readability  test  was  considered  acceptable,  for  a  more  comprehensive  picture  the  company  was 
requested to provide further information on the demographics of the recruited participants. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The  benefit/risk  balance  is  considered  favourable  in  adults  with  MWS,  confirmed  mutations  and 
inflammatory  activity.  Extrapolation  to  less  well  investigated  phenotypes  appears  reasonable 
considering the pathogenesis. 
Long term safety beyond 1 year is unclear and will be further investigated.  
Efficacy has also been demonstrated in children; however duration of treatment response appears to be 
shorter  in  some  patients,  a  finding  that  should  be  investigated  further  in  combination  with  further 
PK/PD studies. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
• pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
• the following additional risk minimisation activities were required. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of ILARIS in the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic 
Syndromes (CAPS) in adults, adolescents and children aged 4 years and older with body weight above 
15 kg, including: 
−  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
− 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
− 
Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria 
(FCU) presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  under 
exceptional circumstances. 
Furthermore, the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan is not fully completed yet as only some of the 
measures are completed. Already available paediatric data of studies subject to this plan are reflected 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Page 43 of 43 
 
