26 March 2015 
EMA/334385/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
ILARIS  
International non-proprietary name: CANAKINUMAB 
Procedure No. EMA/H/C/001109/P46 040 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 15 December 2014, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Ilaris, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that study  
An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety study of 4-month canakinumab treatment with 5-month 
follow-up and long-term treatment period in patients with active recurrent or chronic TNF-receptor 
associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) - CACZ885D2203  
is part of a clinical development program. A line listing of all the concerned studies is annexed. 
Canakinumab was first registered under the trade name ILARIS® for the treatment of CAPS in the 
United States (US) on 17 Jun 2009. Novartis is currently Marketing Authorization Holder in 72 
countries worldwide for 150 mg powder for injection and 36 countries worldwide for the 150 mg 
powder and solvent for injection (convenience kit). 
ILARIS® is also approved for the treatment of acute gouty arthritis (GA) attacks in the EU, Russia, 
Ecuador, Argentina, Mexico, Peru and Israel. Lastly ILARIS® is also approved for the treatment of 
systemic idiopathic arthritis (SJIA) in the EU, United States, Switzerland, Philippines, Russia, Chile, 
Argentina, Peru, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, Israel, Australia, Morocco and Malaysia. Submissions 
are either pending or in progress worldwide. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Canakinumab was administered subcutaneously (subcutaneous injections) at a dose of 2 mg/kg for 
patients ≤ 40 kg or 150 mg for patients ≥ 40 kg. One dose escalation at Day 8 was incorporated into 
the design for patients in whom the 2 mg/kg or 150 mg dose was not sufficient to resolve the 
qualifying TRAPS flare. Batch and formulation numbers are provided in below table: 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
Study number: CACZ885D2203 
An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety study of 4-month canakinumab treatment with 5-month 
follow-up and long-term treatment period in patients with active recurrent or chronic TNF-receptor 
associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
CACZ885D2203: An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety study of 4-
month canakinumab treatment with 5-month follow-up and long-term 
treatment period in patients with active recurrent or chronic TNF-receptor 
associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objectives: To assess if canakinumab induces complete or almost complete response in 
patients with active TRAPS at Day 15 (defined as 15 days after the first dose). 
Secondary objectives: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To assess if canakinumab can induce complete or almost complete response in patients with 
active TRAPS at Day 8. 
To assess the percentage of patients with complete clinical remission (Physician’s Global 
Assessment score ≤ 1) at Day 8 and Day 15. 
To assess the percentage of patients with C-reactive protein (CRP) < 10mg/L and serum 
amyloid A (SAA) < 10mg/L at Day 8 and Day 15. 
To assess if canakinumab can induce complete or almost complete response at Day 15 for 
patients who received an additional dose on Day 8. 
To assess time to patient’s assessed clinical remission (Patient’s Global Assessment score 
≤ 1) after initial canakinumab treatment. 
To assess time to physician’s assessed clinical remission (Physician’s Global Assessment 
score ≤ 1) after initial canakinumab treatment. 
To assess the profile over time in CRP and SAA from baseline to end of study. 
To assess the profile over time in each of the 4 key TRAPS signs and symptoms (skin rash, 
eye manifestations, extremity pain, and abdominal pain) from baseline to end of study. 
To assess the profile over time in physician’s global assessment score from baseline to end 
of study. 
To assess the profile over time in patient’s global assessment of TRAPS activity from baseline 
to end of study. 
To assess percentage of patients who relapse during the 4-month treatment and long-term 
treatment periods. 
To assess the time to relapse after last canakinumab dose in the 4-month treatment period.  
To assess percentage of patients who relapse and require corticosteroid rescue treatment 
during the 4-month treatment and long-term treatment periods. 
To assess percentage of patients who relapse and require only NSAID rescue treatment 
during the 4-month treatment and long-term treatment periods. 
To assess percentage of patients who are able to reduce their corticosteroid maintenance dose 
during the 4-month treatment and long-term treatment periods. 
To assess the pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of canakinumab in patients with TRAPS.  
To assess pharmacokinetic (PK)/ pharmacodynamic (PD) relationships in order to derive a dose 
regimen (dose and dosing frequency) required to treat signs and symptoms of active TRAPS 
and to prevent recurrence/relapse of TRAPS. 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
To assess the immunogenicity of canakinumab in patients with TRAPS. 
Study design 
This was an open-label, single treatment arm, multicentre study of monthly canakinumab 150 mg (2 
mg/kg for patient ≤ 40 kg) subcutaneous injections in patients with active recurrent or chronic TRAPS. 
There was the potential for a single dose up-titration at Day 8 to 300 mg (4 mg/kg for patient ≤ 40 
kg), dependent on response. The overall study duration was up to 33 months (4-month treatment 
period with a maximum 5-month follow-up period following withdrawal plus a maximum 24-month 
long-term treatment period). 
Study population /Sample size 
The study population consisted of male and female patients aged ≥ 4 years with clinically and 
genetically confirmed diagnosis of TRAPS. 
The study was planned to recruit 20 patients. A total of 29 patients screened for the study, of which 20 
were allocated to treatment and analysed. 
Inclusion criteria: 
• 
Patient’s written informed consent for ≥ 18 years of age before any assessment was 
performed. Parent or legal guardian’s written informed consent and child’s assent, if 
appropriate, were required before any assessment was performed for patients < 18 years of 
age. 
• 
• 
Male and female patients at least 4 years of age at the time of the screening visit. 
Patients with a clinical diagnosis of TRAPS and a mutation of TNFRSF1A gene. Patients with low 
penetrance mutations, such as R92Q or P46L, can be included with mutual agreement between 
the investigator and Novartis. 
• 
Patients with a diagnosis of recurrent TRAPS must have experienced more than 6 
episodes/year prior to receiving an effective biologic therapy and the duration of each episode 
was to have at least 8 days. For patients receiving biologic therapy, this criterion applied to the 
disease state prior to receiving the biologic therapy. 
• 
Patients who had been treated with anakinra must have demonstrated a partial or complete 
clinical response with an associated decrease in their inflammation markers (CRP and SAA).  
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Active TRAPS as evidenced by clinical signs and symptoms of active TRAPS (Physician’s Global 
Assessment ≥ 2) and an elevated CRP > 10 mg/L (Normal CRP range ≤ 10 mg/L) and/or SAA 
> 10 mg/L (Normal SAA range ≤ 10 mg/L) at time of first canakinumab treatment. 
Important exclusion criteria: 
• 
Pregnant or nursing (lactating) women, where pregnancy was defined as the state of a female 
after conception and until the termination of gestation, confirmed by a positive human 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) laboratory test. 
History of being immunocompromised, including a positive HIV at screening (enzyme linked 
immunosorbent assay, ELISA and Western blot) test result. 
Positive QuantiFERON (QFT-TB G In-Tube) test or positive Purified Protein Derivative (PPD) test 
(≥ 5 mm induration) at screening or within 2 month prior to the screening visit, according to 
the national guidelines. Patients with a positive PPD test (≥ 5 mm induration) at screening 
could be enrolled only if they had either a negative chest x-ray or a negative QuantiFERON 
test. 
History of recurrent and/or evidence of active bacterial, fungal, or viral infection(s). 
Live vaccinations within 3 months prior to the start of the trial, during the trial, and up to 3 
months following the last dose. 
History of known hypersensitivity to canakinumab. 
History of malignancy of any organ system (other than localized basal cell carcinoma of the 
skin), treated or untreated, within the past 5 years, regardless of whether there was evidence 
of local recurrence or metastases. 
Treatments 
Canakinumab was administered subcutaneously (subcutaneous injections) at a dose of 2 mg/kg for 
patients ≤ 40 kg or 150 mg for patients ≥ 40 kg. One dose escalation at Day 8 was incorporated into 
the design for patients in whom the 2 mg/kg or 150 mg dose was not sufficient to resolve the 
qualifying TRAPS flare. 
Duration of treatment: 33 months (4 months of treatment period + maximum of 5 months of 
followup period following study drug withdrawal + maximum of 24 months long-term treatment 
period). Those patients who were dosed upon relapse in the follow-up period entered a country-specific 
program prior to the implementation of Protocol Amendment 2 (17 patients). 
There was no reference therapy. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy assessment was mainly based on: 
• Physician’s Global Assessment of TRAPS activity 
• Physician’s severity assessment of key TRAPS signs and symptoms 
• Response to treatment criteria 
• Inflammation markers (CRP and SAA) 
• Relapse 
• Patient’s Global Assessment of TRAPS activity 
• Corticosteroid and NSAID Use 
Response to treatment criteria 
Response to treatment was defined as follows: 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Complete response 
Complete response was defined as follows (all criteria to be fulfilled on the same day): 
• 
AND 
• 
Clinical remission: Physician’s Global Assessment score ≤ 1 
Serologic remission: CRP < 10 mg/L and /or SAA < 10 mg/L. 
Almost complete response 
Almost complete response was defined as follows: 
• 
AND 
• 
Clinical remission: Physician’s Global Assessment score ≤ 1 
Partial serologic remission*: ≥ 70% reduction of baseline CRP and/or ≥ 70% reduction of 
baseline SAA. 
*The aforementioned percent reduction was applicable only if the baseline serologic values were 
significantly above the normal range. 
Non-response 
Non-response was defined as follows (all criteria to be fulfilled on the same day): 
• 
No change or worsening from baseline Physician’s Global Assessment score 
AND/OR 
• 
Increased or < 50% reduction from baseline CRP and/or SAA value(s). 
Partial response 
Partial response was defined as all other cases not meeting the definition of Complete response, 
Almost complete response and Non-response. 
Relapse 
Relapse at a given study visit was defined as follows: 
• 
Clinical relapse: Physician’s Global Assessment ≥ 2 AND Physician’s Global Assessment score 
increases by at least 1 point from Day 15. 
AND 
• 
Serologic relapse: CRP and/or SAA ≥ 30 mg/L without other explanation for cause AND 
represent a 30% increase from Day 15, unless according to the Investigator’s judgment, 
serological relapse was a result of other factors (e.g. concurrent infection) and not due to 
relapse of disease activity. 
Safety: 
Safety assessments included collecting all AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), with their severity and 
relationship to study drug, and pregnancies. They also included the regular monitoring of hematology, 
blood chemistry and urine and regular assessments of vital signs, physical condition and body weight. 
Bioanalytics: 
Pharmacokinetic assessments: Canakinumab concentrations were analyzed in serum. 
Pharmacodynamic assessments: Total IL-1β (sum of free and bound canakinumab) concentrations 
were determined in serum by means of a competitive ELISA assay. 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical Methods 
Categorical variables were summarized by absolute frequencies and percentages. Continuous variables 
were summarized by mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, maximum, and number of non-
missing data points. All tables were presented for the single treatment group and all listings were 
presented by country, center and patient number. 
Analysis sets 
• 
Full Analysis Set (FAS): all patients who received at least one dose of study treatment and had 
at least one post-baseline assessment for primary efficacy. No data are excluded from the FAS 
analyses because of protocol deviations. 
• 
Safety Set (SAF): all patients who received at least one application of study treatment and had 
least one post-baseline safety assessment. The statement that a patient had no AEs also 
constitutes a safety assessment 
Analysis of the primary variable 
The primary objective of the study was to provide a first estimate of the ability of canakinumab to 
induce Complete or Almost complete response in patients with active TRAPS at Day 15. Analysis 
focused on estimation (point estimate together with 95% confidence interval [CI]). 
The proportion of subjects with Complete or Almost complete response at Day 15 was estimated using 
an exact (Clopper-Pearson) 95% CI. No statistical hypothesis testing was performed. The primary 
analysis was performed on the FAS. 
Analysis of secondary variables 
Proportions were analyzed using the same method as for the primary variable. Time to event data 
were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Analysis of all secondary variables was based on the FAS. 
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmcodynamic evaluations 
Data relating to PK/PD evaluations were summarized by presenting descriptive statistics by visit. 
Safety 
Treatment-emergent adverse events (the onset date is on or after the date of first study treatment) 
are summarized. Adverse events which occurred during the country-specific program were collected in 
the patient’s source documents and later transcribed in the clinical database. These events have been 
pooled and summarized with all treatment-emergent adverse events. Vital signs were analyzed 
descriptively including defined notable vital signs abnormalities. Laboratory data were analyzed 
descriptively and information summarized on newly occurring selected notable laboratory 
abnormalities. 
Other 
Health-related Quality of Life (patient ≥ 18 years at baseline completed the SF-36 and patients who 
were 5-17 years old at baseline completed the CHQ-PF50) was analyzed descriptively as exploratory 
analyses. 
Determination of sample size 
From prior experience with anakinra it was expected that 80-90% of subjects would respond favorably 
to canakinumab. In this proof of concept study, for a sample size of 20 completed patients, when the 
observed proportion of subjects with complete or almost complete response at Day 15 is 80% an exact 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Clopper Pearson) 95% confidence interval (CI) would extend from 56.3% to 94.3%. For an observed 
response rate of 90%, the 95% CI would extend from 68.3% to 98.8%. Sample size calculations were 
done using StatXact-8®. 
Interim analyses 
Although the overall study duration was up to 33 months, the primary efficacy endpoint occurred at 15 
days. The main purpose of the study was to establish the efficacy and safety of canakinumab 
treatment and provide PK/PD data to help determine optimal dosing to support further development in 
this rare, very symptomatic condition. Therefore the primary analysis at Day 15 was done prior to all 
patients completing the maximal 33-month study period. This was in order to allow the assessment of 
initial efficacy of canakinumab in TRAPS patients and to determine if development should move 
forward to Phase III. The analyses at the end of the active treatment period (4 months) and follow-up 
period (5 months) were also done prior to patients completing the maximal 33-month study period. In 
each case, the analyses were carried out when all patients had completed all the appropriate visits (up 
to Day 15 for the primary efficacy analysis, up to 4 months for the secondary efficacy analysis at the 
end of the 4-month active treatment period and up to the completion of the 5-month follow-up period 
to assess PK/PD data). The analyses conducted at these time points were based on data cleaned and 
locked at the respective time points and focused on the primary efficacy variable and available 
secondary variables. 
As the study is open-label with a single treatment group and the primary and other efficacy variables 
were examined only when data for all patients were cleaned and locked to the appropriate time point, 
no statistical adjustments were required. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
In this multicenter open label study, a total of 29 patients were screened, of whom 9 failed screening 
and 20 were enrolled, exposed to study medication and included in all analyses. The mean age of 
patients was 34.6 years, with the youngest patient being 7 years old and oldest being 77 years. The 
majority of patients (65%) were male, Caucasian (95%), and referred through the Investigator’s own 
practice. 
Baseline data 
The mean duration of TRAPS prior to enrollment was 4.6 years, all patients had a confirmed mutation 
of the TNFRS1A gene, and 11 patients had chronic TRAPS. The mean number of TRAPS episodes per 
year for those patients (9) with relapsing TRAPS, was 9.9, with mean duration of 11.9 days. 
At baseline, patients had a median body temperature within the normal range, but elevated median 
CRP and SAA levels. The Physician’s Global Assessment of TRAPS Activity was mild to moderate. 
Individual components of TRAPS activity showed absent to severe manifestations, predominantly 
absent to moderate. 
Six pediatric patients (<18 years of age) were included in the study. Two children were between 4 and 
12 years old (1 boy 7 and 1 boy 13 years old) and 4 children were between 12 and 18 years old (1 boy 
13, 1 girl 14, 1 girl16 and 1 boy 17 years old). Two pediatric patients had chronic TRAPS. Of the four 
patients with identifiable relapses, two patients had seven episodes per year, one patient had 10 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
episodes per year and one patient had 12 episodes per year. The duration of episodes ranged from 10 
to 20 days. The duration of TRAPS diagnosis was 0.0-7.5 years. 
Efficacy results 
Canakinumab at protocol recommended dose levels demonstrated rapid disease control for both, 
clinical signs and symptoms, as well as serologic response in patients with active TRAPS: 
• 
The primary objective of the study was to determine whether canakinumab induces complete 
or almost complete response in patients with active TRAPS at Day 15. A total of 19 patients, 
95.0% (95% CI: 75.1, 99.9), achieved a complete or almost complete response at Day 15. 
• 
Sixteen patients (80.0%) had achieved a complete or almost complete response, defined as 
both clinical and serologic remission at Day 8. The one patient who at Day 15 did not have a 
complete or almost complete response, was in clinical remission at that time, but lost the 
serologic remission from Day 8 due to a concomitant infection. 
• 
At Day 8, 18 patients (90.0%) had achieved a complete clinical remission, and at Day 15, all 
patients had achieved complete clinical remission. The KM estimate of median time to 
remission (Physician-assessed clinical remission) was 4.0 days. 
• 
By Day 3, no patients had severe disease activity, and by Day 8, all patients had either 
absent (11 patients, 55.0%), minimal (seven patients, 35.0%) or mild (two patients, 10.0%)
disease activity. At Day 15, all patients had absent (16 patients, 80.0%), or minimal (four 
patients, 20.0%) disease activity. 
• 
• 
Pediatric patients responded the same way than adult patients to 2 mg/kg (150 mg) 
canakinumab, and all six achieved a complete or almost complete response at Day 15.  
Successful administration of ACZ885 as well as binding of IL-1β to canakinumab was evident 
from the increase in total IL-1β concentrations following the first dose on Day 1. 
Biomarker of inflammation rapidly declined after canakinumab treatment: 
• 
At Day 3, the CRP level had changed from baseline by a median of -36.83% and the SAA by -
42.51% (Day 1 median levels were 124.78 mg/L and 198.00 mg/L, respectively). By Day 8 the 
median CRP and SAA levels were nearly within normal range (11.11 mg/L and 10.30 mg/L 
respectively). Both CRP and SAA median levels were within normal range at Day 15 and 
remained there for the duration of the treatment period. At the end of the follow-up period the 
median CRP and SAA values were 4.80 mg/L and 2.20 mg/L. 
• 
Throughout the long-term treatment period, median values of both CRP and SAA remained 
within normal range (≤ 10 mg/L). At the end of study visit, median CRP and SAA levels were 
noted at 4.00 mg/L and 4.85 mg/L. 
• 
At Day 8, seven patients (35%) had both normal CRP and SAA levels, which increased to 12 
patients (60%) at Day 15. 
Relapse episodes decreased during the follow up period after the canakinumab treatment: 
• 
All the 20 patients relapsed during the follow-up period (upon discontinuing canakinumab). 
The KM estimated median time to relapse was 91.5 days (95% CI: 65, 117) after the last 
canakinumab dose. Two weeks after re-treatment following relapse, clinical and serological 
markers were similar to those seen during remission indicating a rapid response to retreatment 
with canakinumab. 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Seven patients experienced relapse during the long-term treatment period, out of which four 
patients had more than one relapse episodes. 
Safety results 
All patients experienced at least one AE. The most common AEs were nasopharyngitis, headache, 
abdominal pain, oropharyngeal pain, pyrexia, diarrhea and vomiting. The majority of patients had AEs 
with 55% of patients having a worst severity of moderate and 30% of patients experiencing severe 
AEs. Six patients experienced eight severe AEs: abdominal pain (in four patients), foot deformity, 
dental caries, condition aggravated and intestinal obstruction. Except for one episode of abdominal 
pain in patient 0001-00001 and the dental caries AE, all the other severe AE cases were reported as 
SAEs. A total of 60.0% of patients experienced AEs suspected of being study drug related by the 
investigator. 
The most commonly reported AE suspected to be study drug related was nasopharyngitis. No patients 
died during the study. Seven patients (35.0%) experienced SAEs, none of them were suspected to be 
related to study drug by the investigator. There were no AEs leading to discontinuation. Two patients 
experienced an AE (condition aggravated and respiratory tract infection) resulting in dose adjustment 
or temporary interruption. These 2 events were regarded as being of moderate severity. The event 
respiratory tract infection was suspected to be related to the study drug, whereas the event condition 
aggravated was not suspected to be related to the study drug by the Investigator. There were no 
meaningful changes in hematology, clinical chemistry or vital signs parameters during the course of 
the study. 
Bioanalytical results 
Successful administration of ACZ885 as well as binding of IL-1β to canakinumab was evident from the 
increase in total IL-1β concentrations following the first dose on Day 1. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Canakinumab at protocol recommended dose levels demonstrated rapid disease control for clinical 
signs and symptoms as well as serologic response in patients with active TRAPS. There was a rapid 
improvement in the Physician’s Global Assessment of TRAPS activity following treatment with 
canakinumab; by Day 8; 16 patients (80%) had a complete or almost complete response; 18 patients 
(90.0%) had a clinical remission. At Day 8, the two patients without a clinical remission (2 adults) 
received an additional dose of canakinumab. At Day 15, 19 of 20 patients (95.0%) had a complete or 
almost complete response. All patients had clinical remission, with one patient (an adult) (5.0%) not 
achieving a serological remission. Both patients who were up-titrated achieved a complete or almost 
complete response at Day 15, as did the two patients (among them 1 child) without a response at Day 
8 who were not up-titrated. The Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimate of time to physician assessed clinical 
remission was 4.0 days, whereas KM estimate of time to patient’s assessed clinical remission was 3.0 
days.  
All patients had absent, minimal or mild symptoms for each disease area, as assessed by the 
Physician’s Global Assessment of TRAPS disease activity from Day 15 until the end of the treatment 
period. Following retreatment upon relapse, all patients experienced again absence to mild symptoms. 
The data collected in the long-term treatment period was in line with what was observed in the initial 
treatment period; i.e., during this period the majority of patients experienced absent, minimal or mild 
disease activity and none of the patients had severe disease activity. The patient reported assessment 
of TRAPS disease activity showed similar results. 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serological response to both CRP and SAA was achieved by all but one patient at Day 15. This patient 
had a serological response at Day 8, but then contracted an infection, and the inflammatory markers 
increased as well. In spite of the fact that the patient was in clinical remission at Day 15, the patient 
was classified as a non-responder. 
By Day 15, median CRP and SAA levels were within the normal ranges, and remained so throughout 
the course of the treatment period and long-term treatment period. Following re-treatment after 
relapse, both inflammatory markers showed a rapid decrease. The persistent decrease in SAA might 
help to reduce amyloidosis in patients with TRAPS.  
Response in pediatric patients was not different from response in adult patients; all pediatric patients 
had a complete or almost complete response at Day 15.  
Canakinumab was well tolerated with no unexpected safety findings. No deaths occurred in the study. 
There were seven patients with SAEs reported during the study, one of them in a child, and none of 
them were suspected to be related to the study drug by the Investigator. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
Canakinumab was effective in improving clinical signs and symptoms of TRAPS. After administration of 
Ilaris, a normalisation of serological inflammatory markers occurred and a prolonged disease control 
with only few relapses during the conduct of the study could be demonstrated.  
The safety profile showed no remarkable changes compared to previous canakinumab studies in other 
indications. 
The report does not provide any evidence that further actions are required. 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Additional clarifications requested 
Not applicable. 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Non clinical studies 
Product Name:   
Ilaris  
Active substance:  
Canakinumab 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not applicable for the TNF-receptor associated periodic syndrome (TRAPS) development program. Ilaris 
has been registered for more than 5 years in the European Union. It is currently registered for the 
treatment of patients of 2 years of old and above with Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes 
(CAPS) and Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) and in adults for the treatment of gouty 
arthritis attacks.  
Clinical studies 
Product Name:   
Ilaris 
Active substance: 
Canakinumab 
Study title 
An open-label, multicenter, efficacy and safety study of 
4-month canakinumab treatment with 5- month follow-up 
and long-term treatment period in patients with active 
recurrent or chronic TNFreceptor associated periodic 
syndrome (TRAPS) 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study of 
canakinumab in patients with Hereditary Periodic Fevers 
(TRAPS, HIDS, or crFMF), with subsequent randomized 
withdrawal/ dosing frequency reduction and open-label 
long term treatment epochs 
Study number 
Date of 
completion 
Date of submission 
of final study 
report 
CACZ885D2203 
June 2014  December 2014 
CACZ885N2301  May 2017 
November 2017 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
