13 December 2012 
EMA/CHMP/748727/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
ILARIS  
International non-proprietary name: CANAKINUMAB 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001109/II/0021 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Requested Type II variation ................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment ............................................................................. 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 5 
2.2.1. Pharmacology ................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................... 6 
2.2.3. Toxicology ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2.4. Discussion ........................................................................................................ 9 
2.2.5. Conclusion on non-clinical aspects ....................................................................... 9 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.3.1. Clinical pharmacology ........................................................................................ 9 
2.3.2. Clinical efficacy ............................................................................................... 26 
2.3.3. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 56 
2.4. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 69 
2.5. Changes to the Product Information ..................................................................... 72 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 79 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 81 
5. EPAR changes ........................................................................................ 84 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/748727/2012 
Page 2/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Novartis Europharm Ltd. submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 13 June 2012 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
ILARIS 
canakinumab 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
The MAH proposed the update of sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 of the SmPC in order to 
extend  the  indication  of  Ilaris  for  the  treatment  of  cryopyrin-associated  periodic  syndrome  (CAPS)  in 
patients aged 2 to <4 years of age and to increase the maximum dose to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg every 8 
weeks. Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Package Leaflet were proposed to be updated in accordance. 
In  addition,  the  MAH  took  the  opportunity  to  include  minor  editorial  changes  in  the  SmPC  and  in  the 
Package Leaflet. 
Furthermore, the PI is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version 8. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, Annex II, Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:  
Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  N°  1901/2006  as  amended,  the  application  included  an  EMA 
decision (P/208/2011) for the following condition(s): 
•  Cryopyrin Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) including: 
• 
• 
• 
Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria (FCU),  
Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
Neonatal-Onset  Multisystem  Inflammatory  Disease  (NOMID)  /  Chronic  Infantile 
Neurological, Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA) 
on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). At the time of submission of the application, the 
PIP was not yet completed as some measures were deferred. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 3/84 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000,  the  application  included  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with  authorised 
orphan medicinal products.  
The MAH submitted with this extension of indication a report on potential similarity between canakinumab 
and rilonacept. Rilonacept (Rilonacept Regeneron) was designated as an orphan medicinal product for 
“Cryopyrin-Associated  Periodic  Syndromes”  (CAPS)  (orphan  designation  EU/3/0/456  dated  10  July 
2007). A Commission Decision (CD) granting a Marketing Authorisation for rilonacept was issued by the 
European  Commission  (EC)  on  23  October  2009  for  the  following  indication:  “treatment  of 
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) with severe Symptoms, including 
• 
Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) 
•  Muckle-Wells syndrome (MWS) 
in adults and children aged 12 years and older”. 
However, the MAH for rilonacept withdrew their marketing authorisation on 20 September 2012 and the 
EC  consequently  issued  a  Commission  Decision  on  the  withdrawal  of  the  MA  on  24  October  2012. 
Therefore the CHMP no longer needed to conclude on a potential similarity between canakinumab and 
rilonacept. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated 
on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated 
on: 
CHMP opinion: 
13 June 2012  
24 June 2012 
17 August 2012 
19 September 2012 
20 September 2012 
12 October 2012 
23 November 2012 
10 December 2012 
13 December 2012 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 4/84 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Canakinumab  (Ilaris)  is  a  recombinant  human  monoclonal  anti-human  antibody  of  the  IgG1/kappa 
isotype  subclass.  It  binds  selectively  and  with  high  affinity,  to  interleukin-1β  (IL-1β)  with  no 
cross-reactivity with IL-1α or the IL-1 receptor antagonist. The IL-1β-canakinumab complex cannot bind 
to the IL-1 receptor, rendering the bound IL-1β functionally ineffective. 
Cryopyrin-associated  periodic  syndrome  (CAPS)  is  a  rare  disease  spectrum  of  genetic  disorders 
comprising familial cold autoinflammatory syndrome (FCAS, the least severe phenotype), Muckle-Wells 
syndrome  (MWS)  and  neonatal-onset,  multi-system,  inflammatory  disorder  (NOMID,  also  known  as 
chronic  infantile  neurologic,  cutaneous,  articular  syndrome,  or  CINCA,  the  most  severe  phenotype). 
These conditions result from a mutation in the NLRP3 gene on chromosome 1q44 which encodes for the 
protein  cryopyrin.  Cryopyrin  is  part  of  the  multiprotein  inflammasome  complex  involved  in  the  initial 
stages of the inflammatory cascade. The mutation results in overproduction of the IL-1β cytokine and a 
persistent inflammatory process. 
Patients with CAPS have a range of overlapping symptoms including fever, fatigue, myalgia, urticaria-like 
rash, sensorineural hearing loss and amyloidosis. Patients with FCAS present with hypersensitivity to low 
temperatures  and  symptom  presentation  in  response  to  cold.  MWS  patients  experience  unprovoked 
episodes  of  fever,  arthralgia,  myalgia,  urticarial  rash,  conjunctivitis  and/or  uveitis,  together  with 
neutrophilia and elevation of acute phase proteins (including C-reactive protein, CRP and serum amyloid 
A, SAA). Long-term complications of MWS include deafness and systemic amyloidosis. NOMID is the most 
severe CAPS phenotype, with a disease course which is chronic rather than recurrent. The degree of bone 
and joint involvement is variable in these patients, ranging from arthralgia and swelling only during flares, 
to arthropathy caused by overgrowth of the long bones resulting in deformity of joints. Nearly all NOMID 
patients  have  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  involvement  with  white  blood  cell  infiltration  into  the 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), chronic headaches, papilledema, neurosensory involvement, aseptic meningitis 
and amyloidosis (Prieur 2001, Aksentijevich et al 2002). Due to the etiology of the disease, symptoms in 
these patients are evident within the first 6 weeks of life (Goldbach-Mansky et al 2006). 
Canakinumab was approved in the EU in 2009 for the treatment of CAPS in patients aged 4 and above, at 
a dose of 150 mg for CAPS patients with a body weight greater than 40 kg, and 2 mg/kg for patients with 
a body weight of between 15 and 40 kg every 8 weeks (q8wk). Dosing can increase to 300 mg or 4 mg/kg 
q8wk  in  patients  for  whom  a  satisfactory  clinical  response  (resolution  of  rash  and  other  generalized 
inflammatory symptoms) has not been achieved. However, since CAPS is a genetic condition, patients can 
manifest  symptoms  and  have  a  confirmed  diagnosis  earlier  than  4  years  of  age,  particularly  those 
patients with the NOMID phenotype. Patients aged below the age of four were not included in the original 
CAPS submission due to the design of the studies used to support the original application.  
The  current  submission  aims  to  extend  the  age  range  for  which  canakinumab  can  be  used  to  those 
patients aged 2 to <4 years (referred to as 2-3 years in tables) with a body weight of 7.5 kg or above, and 
to  increase  the  maximum  dose  up  to  600  mg  or  to  8  mg/kg  q8wk,  in  patients  who  do  not  achieve 
satisfactory clinical response at currently approved dose. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical studies were performed to support the use of canakinumab for the treatment of CAPS 
in patients 2 years and older. Non-clinical data relevant for this application are reported below.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 5/84 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1.  Pharmacology 
The pharmacology data as provided with the marketing authorisation application is also applicable for the 
present application and no new data is deemed necessary.  
2.2.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
An update of the pharmacokinetic data for the CAPS patients 2 years and older was provided including a 
detailed comparison of pharmacokinetics of canakinumab in NHP vs. adult humans (see table below).  
Table 1 Comparative pharmacokinetics (Mean (SD)) of ACZ885 
New clinical PK and PD data in the CAPS indication were added. Kinetics of canakinumab and its binding 
to IL-1β were provided by the MAH with this variation application across a broad range of age (2 – 91 yr) 
and  disease  phenotypes  (MWS,  NOMID,  of  FCAS).  Using  PK  modelling,  canakinumab  systemic  drug 
exposure at steady state was derived for a typical adult CAPS patient (40 year, 70 kg) and a 2-3 year old 
CAPS patients group (3 year, 10 kg body weight) receiving low or high doses of canakinumab (2 mg/kg 
and 8 mg/kg for patients < 40 kg body weight; flat doses of 150 mg and 600 mg for patients ≥ 40 mg/kg 
body weight). The systemic drug exposures achieved with the new proposed regimen were compared to 
marmoset  toxicokinetic  data  derived  from  the  13-week  repeat-dose  study  (study  047003)  and  the 
26-week repeat-dose study (study  0380070) (see table below). For the high dose treatment in CAPS 
patients (600 mg SC every 8 weeks in adults; 8 mg/kg SC every at 8 weeks in children) an exposure 
multiple of at least 29x for adults and of 42x for children is achieved.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 6/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Comparative systemic exposure in marmosets and humans (adult and pediatric CAPs 
patients) 
The  studies  in  marmosets  provide  a  sufficiently  high  exposure  multiple to  support the  proposed  dose 
escalation (up to 8 mg/kg q8wk or 600 mg q8wk). 
2.2.3.  Toxicology 
The MAH submitted an updated assessment of the carcinogenic potential of canakinumab outlining in 
detail the carcinogenicity strategy for canakinumab.  
A discussion on literature data on the role of IL-1β in tumour biology was provided by the MAH. Overall, 
the weight of evidence from the scientific literature suggests that IL-1β has a more likely role in tumour 
promotion rather than in anti-tumour immunity. Thus, anti-IL-1β treatment is not expected to results in 
an increased tumour growth promotion or occurrence. Based on the existing toxicity data, canakinumab 
had  no  effect  on  the  measured  immune  function  parameters  and  did  not  promote  the  occurrence  of 
lymphoproliferative disease at dose levels of up to 150 mg/kg in the chronic marmoset toxicity study.  
Conventional  carcinogenicity  studies  were  not  considered  necessary  for  the  following  reasons:  1)  the 
IgG1  chemical  structures  itself  does  not  represent  a  carcinogenic  risk;  2)  canakinumab  is  not 
pharmacologically active in rodents; 3) carcinogenicity studies are not pragmatically or ethically feasible 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 7/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in marmoset monkeys; 4) based on the weight of evidence in the literature available to date in pre-clinical 
models,  neutralizing  IL-1β  does  not  suggest  an  increased  tumour  promoting  risk;  5)  carcinogenicity 
studies  with  a  surrogate  anti-murine  IL-1β  mAb  would  not  contribute  meaningfully  beyond  the 
information  summarized  above.  The  carcinogenic  risk  of  canakinumab  is  addressed  through  the 
pharmacovigilance system (malignancies is included as an important potential risk in the RMP). 
A detailed discussion on reproductive and developmental toxicity of IL-1β blockade was provided by the 
MAH with this variation application.  
The potential embryonic and teratogenic effects of canakinumab were evaluated in marmosets treated 
during the period of organogenesis. There were no adverse effects of canakinumab in the EFD study in 
marmosets  and  on  male  fertility  parameters  as  assessed  in  the  26-week  chronic  toxicity  study  in 
marmosets. In addition, a full set of reproductive toxicity studies had been performed with the surrogate 
anti-murine IL-1β mAb 01BSUR in mice. At doses up to 150 mg/kg, the murine surrogate 01BSUR caused 
no  adverse  findings  on  reproduction  or  development,  including  juvenile  development.  01BSUR  was 
neither teratogenic nor embryotoxic and did not affect fertility of the adult mice nor the development of 
the pups and juvenile animals.  
In  addition,  the  potential  for  immunotoxicity  of  IL-1β  blockade  especially  in  developing  animals  was 
discussed in detail by the MAH.  
In the pre-/postnatal mouse study, there was a treatment-related increase of histiocytes in mesenteric 
lymph  nodes  in  males.  This  was  not  considered  toxicologically  significant  because  there  were  no 
01BSUR-related  effects  on 
immune 
function  as  assessed  by  blood,  spleen  and 
thymus 
immunophenotyping,  no  microscopic  findings  in  other  lymphoid  organs  and  the  findings  were  seen  in 
males only. 
In the juvenile toxicity study in mice, animals were treated from day 7 to day 70 post partum. Transient 
decreased  in  food  intake  and  minimal  local  inflammation  at  the  injection  site  were  observed.  These 
findings were not considered toxicologically relevant. Immune parameters (phenotyping of blood, spleen 
and thymus lymphocytes) were measured 3 weeks post partum and no differences were observed in the 
lymphocyte subsets measured. Sampling was performed this time point, since the rodent immune system 
continues to develop until approximately PND 21 at which time the lymphoid compartments are similar to 
young adult levels.  
There was no evidence of any toxicity effect of 01BSUR on the immune system observed in adult mice in 
a 28-days immunotoxicity study. Blood, spleen and thymus immunophenotyping data demonstrated no 
effects. The T cell-dependent IgM and IgG response was not affected by the administration of 01BSUR.  
Of note, there is a difference between humans and mice in terms of the maturation of antibody responses 
to  T  cell-dependent  antigens:  humans  are  more  advanced  at  birth  with  a  functional  T  cell  system  in 
neonates. In contrast, in mice T cell dependent antibody responses begin after about 2 weeks and do not 
reach adult levels until 6-8 weeks of age. The human immune system is relatively well established at 
birth. However, with regards to memory against infectious agents, the immune system is maturing until 
adolescence, but this is independent of immune function.  
Published data from IL-1 knockout mice and mice overexpressing IL-1 receptor antagonist do not reveal 
any major immune system deficiencies. 
Taken together, the absence of immunotoxicity in juvenile mice and adult mice and what is known about 
post-natal immunological development in humans, the adult human data, as well as the data from IL-1b 
or IL-1R deficient mice support the use of canakinumab in children of 2 years and older.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 8/84 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion 
No new non-clinical studies were performed to support this variation application as the non-clinical data 
reviewed in the context of the canakinumab initial MAA is applicable for the present application this was 
considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
Exposure multiples were newly calculated based on up-dated human pharmacokinetic data taking into 
account a higher canakinumab dose and a lower age of CAPS patients. The available studies in marmosets 
provide a sufficiently high exposure multiple to support the proposed dose escalation.  
Potential  concerns  regarding  long-term  blockade  of  IL-1β  are  a  reduced  host-immune  defence  and 
tumour surveillance. Thus a detailed discussion on the carcinogenicity risk associated with canakinumab 
was provided. Based on this assessment, it is agreed that conventional carcinogenicity studies are not 
appropriate  and  that  carcinogenic  risk  is  adequately  addressed  in  the  RMP  by  monitoring  events  of 
malignancy. 
Potential effects of IL-1β blockade on development of the immune system were addressed in a juvenile 
toxicity study. Studies in mice with 01BSUR did not reveal immunotoxicity. Also, literature data on mice 
deficient  in  IL-1  signalling  did  not  reveal  major  immune  system  deficiencies.  Given  that  the  human 
immune system is rather well established at birth, the available data do support the proposed extension 
of the age range to patients of 2 years of age and older.  
2.2.5.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and toxicity data which were evaluated during the MAA 
of  canakinumab  are  considered  appropriate  to  support  the  proposed  extension  of  the  age  range  to  
patients of 2 years of age and older as well as the proposed dose escalation.  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
The following studies provide PK data in paediatric and adult patients with CAPS: A2102, D2304, D2201, 
D2306 and D2308. A summary of the PK study designs of the five studies is shown in the table below.  
The results of PK/PD analyses from studies A2102 and D2304 (including patients 4 years of age) were 
described  previously  in  the  initial  marketing  authorisation  application.  Single  dose  PK  data  after  SC 
administration of 2mg/kg in children were available from n=3 subjects. Sparse multiple dose PK data 
from n=3 children, thereof only 1 child < 40 kg receiving 2 mg/kg, contributed to the overall population 
PK analysis of the pivotal CAPS study. At the time of the initial MAA submission, study D2306 was ongoing 
and only clinical and safety data were included, based on the preplanned interim analysis data. 
As part of Specific Obligation SOB 002, relating to the lack of PK data in children, sparse PK data from 
N=29 additional pediatric CAPS subjects (2-17 y) with at least three sc q8w doses were presented by the 
MAH, derived from studies D2306 and D2308.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 9/84 
 
 
 
 
 
N=10 (out of N=29) new CAPS children weighing >40 kg received repeat canakinumab doses of 150 mg 
SC  and  N=15  weighing  ≤ 40  kg  received  2  mg/kg.  The  weight  distribution  is  visible  in  this  figure 
displaying distribution of Cmin,ss values over body weight: 
Amongst  the  data,  approximated  Cmax,ss  values  (10  and  14  days  post  dose  samples)  of  only  N=3 
patients  (thereof  one  child)  were  available.  No  dense  sampling  was  applied.  There  were  still  no  true 
observed Cmax,ss values in adults or pediatrics after repeated dosing of canakinumab. However, since 
the values for Cmin,ss and approximate Cmax,ss presented here confirmed former assumptions, this was 
considered acceptable.  
The measured “near Cmax,ss” in N=2 adults after 150 mg sc of 21 µg/ml is similar to the predicted value 
of 17.5 µg/ml based on the population PK model. A corresponding “near Cmax” value of 10.5 µg/ml at 14 
days post dose is available for one pediatric subject < 40 kg. 
Cmin,ss  values  from  N=15  children  after  at least three  repeated  doses  of  2 mg/kg  are  provided  (3.7 
µg/mL). Cmin,ss of children > 40 kg receiving 150 mg SC (6 µg/ml) were similar to those measured in 
adults  receiving  the  same  flat  dose.  This  confirms  that  steady  state  levels  (peak/trough)  in  adults  or 
children > 40 kg are higher (21.4/6.0 µg/mL) than in children < 40 kg (10.5/3.7 µg/ml). Thus, steady 
state exposure in children < 40 kg is lower (50%) than in adults.  
The figure below confirms that exposure (Cmin,ss) is highest in the BW group between 40-70 kg. This is 
consistent with the dosing regimen authorized for canakinumab where the BW group of 40 -70 kg receive 
the highest dose related to BW: 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 10/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was concluded that the highest steady state levels are reached in the patient group between 40-70 kg 
BW with about 40/12 µg/ml (peak/trough). 
Dose proportionality of Cmin,ss was again confirmed both in adults and pediatrics. 
Additional studies submitted with this variation application included the completed studies D2306 and 
D2201,  and  48-week  data  from  the  ongoing  study  D2308.  The  data  from  the  newly  added  studies 
provided additional concentration data from children between 2 and 4 years, patients receiving higher 
doses, and non-Japanese and Japanese CAPS patients.  
Table 3 Tabulated Summary of PK/PD data 
Demographic data for CAPS studies are summarized in the table below. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 11/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Demographic data for CAPS studies 
Methods – analysis of data submitted 
The collection of serum samples for canakinumab and IL-1β PK/PD analyses in studies D2201, D2306 and 
D2308 was based on sparse sampling approach, requiring population based modeling methodology with 
NONMEM. 
The  analysis  expanded  upon  the  population-based  PK-binding  model  developed  and  described  in  the 
initial  MAA  with  inclusion  of  additional  concentration  data  from  children  between  2  and  ≤4  years, 
non-Japanese and Japanese CAPS patients from studies D2201, D2306 and D2308. Various covariates to 
explain  interpatient  variability,  such  as  body  weight,  age,  gender,  ethnicity,  laboratory  values,  study 
population,  and  the  product  type  changes  (cell  line),  were  evaluated  in  the  model  to  assess  any 
differences among subgroups that might affect canakinumab PK or its binding to IL-1β and to support 
canakinumab posology in adult CAPS patients and children 2 years of age and older.  
PK Results 
Study CACZ885D2306  
This study was an open-label, single treatment arm, long-term safety, tolerability, and efficacy study of 
canakinumab in patients with FCAS, MWS, or NOMID requiring pharmacological intervention. The total 
treatment  duration  was  determined  by  when  the  patient  entered  the  study,  however,  the  minimum 
treatment  duration  was  6  months  and  the  maximum  treatment  duration  was  2  years.  The  primary 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 12/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
objective was to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of canakinumab in patients who participated 
in the A2102, D2201 or D2304 studies or in newly identified patients with the CAPS (FCAS, MWS, or 
NOMID). 
Patients with a body weight of > 40 kg were to receive 150 mg of canakinumab administered s.c. per each 
injection  every  8  weeks.  Patients  with  a  body  weight  of  ≤  40  kg  received  an  equivalent  of  2  mg/kg 
administered s.c. per each injection every 8 weeks. For patients entering from the D2304 study who had 
a shortened dosing frequency (less than every 8 weeks) or for patients from the A2102 study for whom 
it was known that additional study medication would be required on Day 1, received canakinumab 300 mg 
s.c. (or 4 mg/kg for patients with a body weight ≤ 40 kg) on Day 1. Dose titration was permitted. If 
patients failed to respond by Day 8, 300 mg canakinumab s.c. was administered. If patients responded to 
this by Day 15, then they were treated with 300 mg q8wk. If they failed to respond by Day 15, a further 
300 mg s.c. was administered and the patient’s maintenance dose was 600 mg q8wk (or 8 mg/kg for 
patients  with  a  body  weight  ≤  40  kg).  Other  dose  alternatives  were  considered  and  required  prior 
consultation  with  the  sponsor.  Samples  for  canakinumab  and  total  IL-1β  serum  measurements  were 
collected on days 1, 8, 29, 57, 113, 169, 225, 281, 337, 393, 449, 505, 561, 617, 673, and 729/end of 
study. 
The PK parameters of canakinumab were in line with the expected PK characteristics of a human IgG 
molecule. In brief, for adult patients, the mean serum clearance (CL) of canakinumab was 0.179 L/d with 
a low mean total volume of distribution (Vss = VD+VP) of 6.26 L. The absorption rate constant from the 
subcutaneous injection site for the two drug forms, Type C and D, were estimated to be 0.271 and 0.237 
day-1 respectively. In pediatric patients enrolled in this trial, mean CL and Vss values were 0.180 and 
0.0831 L/d, and 5.31 and 2.48 L, respectively for patients > 40 kg and patients with ≤40 kg. As expected, 
due to their smaller body weight, pediatric patients weighing ≤40 kg have total clearance and volume of 
distribution  lower  than  older  children  or  adults.  Total  IL-1β  concentrations  increased  following 
canakinumab dosing. The mean equilibrium dissociation constant for binding of canakinumab to IL-1β 
(KD) in adult patients was 1.71 nM, signifying potent in-vivo binding of canakinumab to IL-1β. The mean 
estimated production rate (RLI) and the clearance (CLL) of IL-1β for adult patients were 10.5 ng/d and 
12.7  L/day,  respectively.  The  parameters  associated  with  the  IL-1β  dynamics  and  the  binding  to 
canakinumab were similar between pediatric patients and the adult CAPS patients. The mean equilibrium 
dissociation constant for binding of canakinumab to IL-1β (KD) in pediatric patients > 40 kg and ≤40 kg 
were 1.74 and 1.60 respectively (compared to 1.71 nM in adults). The mean estimated production rate 
(RLI) and the clearance (CLL) of free IL-1β, for pediatric patients > 40 kg and ≤40 kg, were 9.85 ng/d and 
13.8 ng/d, and 13.6 and 11.9 L/day, respectively. The s.c. bioavailability of canakinumab (F) of Product 
Type C and Type D in the study population was estimated to be 75.5% and 62.9 %, respectively. 
CACZ885D2308 
This study was an open-label, efficacy and safety study of canakinumab administered for 6 months (24 
weeks) in Japanese patients with the following CAPS phenotypes: FCAS,MWS or NOMID, followed by a 
6-month extension phase; only the core study data were included in the original CSR while the second 
extension phase was ongoing. A second phase extension data (48 week) are provided. Subjects received 
150 mg or 2 mg/kg (if body weight was ≤ 40 kg) administered as a subcutaneous (s.c.) injection every 8 
weeks. Patients who did not achieve (or maintain) complete response following canakinumab injection in 
any treatment period may have received a dose adjustment to 300, 450, or 600 mg (4, 6, or 8 mg/kg s.c., 
if  body  weight  was  ≤  40  kg).  and  possibly  using  a  shorter  dosing  frequency,  if  required.  Scheduled 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic samples were at days 1, 8, 29, 57, 85, 113, 141, and 169. On 
day  1,  samples  were  collected  at  8  and  24  hours  post-dose.  Additional  samples  were  collected  if  the 
subject  had  to  be  dosed  before  the  scheduled  next  dose.  The  canakinumab  pharmacokinetics  and its 
binding to IL-1β in this study were analyzed and reported in a modeling which was based on a previously 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 13/84 
 
 
 
 
 
developed  population-based  PK-binding  model.  The  model  described  the  population  averages  and 
intersubject  variabilities  of  the  kinetic  and  binding  parameters  of  canakinumab  and  IL-1β  in  CAPS 
patients, and in other populations relative to CAPS. 
The subgroup of Japanese CAPS patients was compared to the greater CAPS population; after normalizing 
each subject’s value to the same weight, canakinumab clearance and distribution volumes were similar 
between Japanese and non-Japanese CAPS patients. In addition, parameters for the kinetics of IL-1β and 
its binding to canakinumab were comparable in both populations. 
CACZ885D2201 
This  study  was  an  open-label  study  to  investigate  the  safety,  tolerability,  efficacy,  PK  and  PD  of 
canakinumab in patients with NOMID. The primary  objective was to assess the proportion of patients 
experiencing  a  relapse  (CNS  relapse  and  inflammatory  relapse)  during  the  6-month  open-label 
administration of canakinumab, followed by an extension period of up to 2 years total duration. As the 
study was terminated early, not all patients completed the 2-year duration. Patients initially received 150 
mg or 300 mg canakinumab s.c. (2 mg/kg and 4 mg/kg if body weight was ≤ 40 kg). If patients failed to 
respond by Day 15, a second dose of 300 mg s.c. was administered and the patient’s maintenance dose 
was then 600 mg every 4 to 8 weeks (8 mg/kg if body weight was ≤ 40 kg). If patients responded to the 
initial dose but experienced a flare before week 8, then they were dose escalated to 450 mg every 4 to 8 
weeks. If they relapsed prior to the next dose, they were dose escalated to 600 mg every 4 to 8 weeks. 
Six (6) patients were dosed and completed the 6-month core treatment period of the study. All patients 
entered  the  extension  treatment  period.  Scheduled  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  samples 
were at days 1, 3, 8, 30 and study completion. The canakinumab concentrations collected from six NOMID 
patients were analyzed using the population-PK model. Based on previous experience with canakinumab 
pharmacokinetics,  covariates  were  included  in  the  model  parameters  to  reduce  the  unexplained 
variability between patients: weight (on clearance and the volumes of distribution), age (absorption rate 
constant,  Ka),  and  albumin  (clearance).  The  PK  parameters  of  canakinumab  were  in  line  with  the 
expected PK characteristics of a human IgG molecule. For NOMID patients in this trial, the mean apparent 
serum  clearance  (CL/F)  of  canakinumab  was  0.156  L/d  with  a  low  mean  total  apparent  volume  of 
distribution (Vss/F = V2/F+V3/F) of 8.32 L. The absorption rate constant from the subcutaneous injection 
site was estimated to be 0.473 day-1. Upon treatment with canakinumab, total observed IL-1β levels in 
serum were found to increase in all subjects indicating capture of circulating IL-1β by canakinumab. Also, 
total observed IL-1β levels in CSF were found to increase in all subjects for whom the data was collected, 
indicating capture of endogenous IL-1β by canakinumab within the CSF compartment, but at levels which 
are substantially lower than those achieved in serum. Canakinumab concentrations in the CSF ranged 
from 0 (i.e. below LLOQ) to 650 ng/mL. 
A summary of post-hoc estimates of PK parameters per individual CAPS study from the final population PK 
model are shown in the table below. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 14/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 Summary of individual parameters per individual CAPS study 
PK of the pooled CAPS population 
In  CAPS  patients,  for  a  typical  body  weight  of  70  kg  and  serum  albumin  of  43  g/L,  the  clearance  of 
canakinumab was 0.17 L/d and the volumes of distribution of the central and peripheral compartment 
were 3.5 L and 2.7 L (Vd=6.2L, sum of central and peripheral, compartments) respectively. The central 
volume would equate well with that of plasma and the ratio of the central and peripheral volumes suggest 
that approximately 44% of the drug distributed from the central compartment into the peripheral space. 
The estimated terminal half-life was 27 days in a 70 kg patient. An average time to steady state was 
approximately 137 days (5 half-lives). The degree of unexplained intersubject variation in the primary PK 
parameters was approximately 30% for clearance and the two volumes. 
Patients versus healthy subjects 
The clearance of canakinumab was not overly impacted by patient population or disease. There was little 
difference between the CAPS canakinumab clearance and that in the other patient populations; at most, 
there was an approximately 20% difference in rheumatoid arthritis (faster) and non-Japanese healthy 
volunteers (slower). 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 15/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gender 
No gender-related difference was apparent in any of the PK or IL-1β binding parameters. 
Ethnic origin 
Ethnicity (Japanese  versus non-Japanese,) showed no trends once the other covariates (age, weight) 
were taken into account. 
Age 
The CAPS patient population for the population PK-binding model included 7 subjects (out of 194) who 
were 2-3 years of age (i.e. 2 to ≤4 years), 62 subjects between 4-17 years, 113 subjects between 18-59 
years  and  12  subjects  60  years  or  older  (range:  60-91).  Based  on  the  population  PK-binding  model 
results, body weight on clearance and volume of distribution was a statistically significant covariate.  
Canakinumab  clearance  and  volume  of  distribution were  not  impacted  by  age  (see  table  below)  after 
correction for the subject’s body weight. 
The pharmacokinetics of canakinumab in paediatic patients 2-3 years of age was similar to paediatric 
patients 4 years of age and older (see table below). 
Table 6 Summary of individual parameters across baseline age populations 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 16/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The body-weight normalized canakinumab clearance did not show any trend when plotted versus age. 
The  slope  of  body-weight  normalized  canakinumab  clearance  was  not  statistically  different  from  0, 
nevertheless deviations are noted when mean body-weight normalized clearance values are compared 
between younger children and adults (see table above) or when patient groups with <40 kg and >40 kg 
body weigh are compared (see table below). These differences reflect the clearance versus body weight 
relation defined by an allometric equation with a power of 0.792± 0.0489, identified as a weight covariate 
on CLD in the model, and signifies faster body-weight normalized clearance in smaller children. However, 
it must be noted that both the mean and range of the body-weight normalized clearance values for the 
population <40 kg fall within the range of population >40 kg, which reflects the observed variation in the 
weight covariate. 
Therefore, relatively small pharmacokinetic differences cannot account for the observations that patients 
in  the  ≤  40  kg  group  more  often  require  increases  in  dose  to  achieve  optimal  therapeutic  response, 
compared to patients > 40 kg.  
Table 7 Summary  of  individual  parameters  across  baseline  age  populations  defined  on  the 
weight cut-off 
Canakinumab pharmacokinetics across CAPS phenotypes 
Individual parameter values divided by CAPS phenotype from all studies did not show large differences for 
pharmacokinetic  parameters,  although  the  NOMID  phenotype  appeared  to  have  slightly  higher 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 17/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bodyweight normalized clearance and volume, though with much overlap of the boxplots (see table and 
figure below).  
Figure 1 Individual parameter value by phenotype for CAPS patients (n = 193) 
Table 8 Summary of individual parameters in all CAPS patients by phenotype 
Once  corrected  for  the  bodyweight  effect  on  canakinumab  clearance  (weight  to  the  power  0.8)  and 
volume (weight to the power 0.9), no notable differences between phenotypes in canakinumab clearance 
or volume of distribution did appear.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 18/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other factors 
Covariates  for  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  the  same  as  in  the  previously  reported  CAPS 
PK-binding model: bodyweight on clearance and the two volumes of distribution, allometrically scaled 
with weight, plus serum albumin on clearance and age on the subcutaneous drug absorption rate, both 
with  a  negative  exponent.  A  discussion  of  these  covariates  and  their  relationships  with  the  PK  of 
canakinumab was provided with the initial MAA. Subcutaneous absorption rate was found to be slowing 
with age, with approximately a 1.5 fold decrease in the absorption rate as age doubles. 
It  was  noted  that  in  the  current  update  the  albumin  did  not  have  any  significant  impact  on  the  drug 
clearance. However it was kept for consistency and for its scientific relevance, since both albumin and IgG 
are  rescued  from  the  reticuloendothelial  endocytic-lysosome  degradation  pathway  by  binding  to  the 
neonatal Fc receptor, FcRn. 
Additional categorization of systemic drug exposure metrics (Cmax, Cmin and AUC) for pediatric (<18yrs) 
and adult population (≥18yrs) across various weight groups (≤40 kg, >40≤70 kg, ≥70 kg), using actual 
CAPS patient baseline characteristics is provided in the two tables below. 
Table 9 Summary of steady state exposure of canakinumab in CAPS patients for broader age 
(<18yrs,  >18yrs)  and  weight  range  (≤40  kg,  >40≤70  k,  ≥70  kg)  estimated  by 
population PK-binding model 
Table 10 Steady state exposure of typical subjects estimated by population PK-binding model 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 19/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 shows that steady state AUC exposure of a typical 3 year old CAPS patient is even 20% lower 
than in a 10 year old child (362 vs. 439 µg*day/mL).). The same holds true after the highest escalation 
doses in the respective groups (see table above). Both exposures are markedly (43%) lower than that in 
a 40 kg patient who receives the relatively higher 150 mg flat dose (445 vs. 776 µg*day/mL; Table 3-4).  
The observed differences in systemic exposures in subjects dosed on a body-weight basis (see table 10) 
are to some extent consistent with the observation of relatively higher bodyweight normalized clearance 
values  for  the  very  young  population,  however,  a  significant  part  of  differences  between  systemic 
exposures  arise  from  the  currently  approved  canakinumab  dosing  regimen  which  results  in  a  lower 
body-weight based dose in children ≤ 40 kg compared to the patients > 40 kg who receive a flat dose. 
This means that body-weight based dose is not constant in all patients (≤ 40 kg: 2 mg/kg; 40 - 70 kg 
receive the highest dose related to body weight (2 - 3.75 mg/kg) and > 70 kg the dose corresponds to < 
2 mg/kg). 
As already known, the predicted exposure of canakinumab in CAPS patients weighing < 40 kg is markedly 
(40-50%)  lower  than  the  exposure  in  the  group  40-70  kg.  The  exposure  declines  again  in  the  group 
weighing > 70 kg. The CHMP agrees that these differences between systemic exposures mainly arise from 
the currently approved canakinumab dosing regimen, and only to a minor part from a difference in weight 
normalized clearance.  
But the new predictions of exposure amongst the young children weighing < 40 kg (see table 10) show 
that the steady state exposure in a typical 3 year old/10 kg child is even lower (20%) than in a 10 year 
old/25 kg child, although dosing is body-weight-related in both cases. This is probably due to a slightly 
faster BW-normalized clearance in the very young children leading to lower canakinumab exposure. The 
differences in exposure between the groups are the same at the highest escalation doses 8 mg/kg or 600 
mg, respectively. This confirms dose proportionality.   
Pharmacodynamics 
In studies D2308 and D2201 plasma samples for pharmacodynamics measurements have been drawn. 
Total IL1ß-concentration measurements also in the very young children contributed to the PKPD modeling 
(see above, Fig 10-27).  
Unlike the canakinumab serum concentration profiles, greater accumulation of total IL-1β was observed 
when comparing the concentration profiles of children less than 4 years old with older patients. Based on 
this observation, the rates of IL-1β production and clearance, which govern IL-1β turnover, were further 
investigated. 
In order to understand whether the higher dose requirements observed in CAPS pediatric patients can be 
attributed to either pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic differences in the sub-population of patients, 
the  population-based  PK  IL-1β  binding  model  was  applied  as  a  tool  to  explore  the  significance  and 
contribution  of  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamics  factors  as  potential  explanatory  variables  of 
efficacy responses seen in CAPS clinical studies. 
The IL-1β turnover appears to be highly dependent upon the CAPS phenotype. In the CAPS population, 
the NOMID and MWS patients have greater production rates and clearances of IL-1β than FCAS; this was 
most pronounced for NOMID. It was noted that the turnover of IL-1β is higher in younger patients and 
governed  by  IL-1β  production  rate  (RLI)  and  clearance  (CLL),  with  the  effect  on  production 
predominating. Age did not appear to impact the canakinumab binding to IL-1β; the binding constant, KD 
did not show any trend. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 20/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Since patients below 4 years of age tend to have a NOMID phenotype (except for one MWS patient) and 
age also impacts IL-1β production rate, the interaction of both age and phenotype increases the effect 
(see figure below). 
Figure 2 Rate of ligand production with age and by phenotype (all CAPS studies, 
n=193) 
There are statistically significant differences in IL-1β production for the younger NOMID and MWS patient 
populations. This is rationalized on the basis of statistically significant model-fit improvements when both 
age  and  NOMID/MWS  disease  phenotypes  were  included  as  covariates  on  the  IL-1β  production 
parameter. Addition of the FCAS phenotype to the model, compared with NOMID/MWS, did not result in 
a  statistically  significant  improvement  of  the  model  fit,  suggesting  NOMID/MWS  disease  severity 
differences in relation to FCAS are reflected in significantly different IL-1β production rates. Secondly, the 
estimates for the slopes of the age versus IL-1β production parameter were significantly different from 
zero  for  NOMID  and  MWS  phenotypes,  demonstrating  that  age  has  a  statistically  significant  effect on 
IL-1β production rate (p<0.05), and indicating that the younger the patient, higher the IL-1β production 
rate. In addition, the NOMID and MWS are distinct with respect to the IL-1β production rate since the 
slope of the IL-1β production versus age regression line for NOMID is almost double that of MWS. The 
patient phenotype did not significantly affect IL-1β clearance; the effect of phenotype was confined to 
cytokine (IL-1β) production. 
In the age populations defined in the table below, rate of IL-1β production and clearance were higher for 
the patients aged 2-3 years than at all other ages (respectively from 2.4 to 0.12 ng/day/kg RLI and from 
1.1 to 0.2 L/day/kg CLL between patients younger than 4 years and patients older than 60). There was a 
4-fold difference in the rate of IL-1β production and an approximately 2-fold difference in the rate of IL-1β 
clearance between patients aged 2- 3 years and 4-11 years (from 2.4 to 0.6 ng/day/kg RLI and from 1.1 
to 0.6 L/day/kg CLL, respectively). Although the number of patients in each category was limited, the 
trend was obvious. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 21/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 Summary of IL-1ß clearance and production rate across baseline age populations 
Graphical analyses of clinical responses show that those patients who were escalated to the highest doses 
tended to have the higher rates of IL-1β production. Of the patients treated with 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, 
those with the highest rates of IL-1β production were the youngest patients, shown in figure 11 below 
(rightmost quadrant denoting 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose in <40 kg group); the 4 patients aged 2-3 years 
who were escalated to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg had the highest rates of IL-1β production in this highest dose 
level. The patients who did not achieve complete response at this highest dose also typically had the 
highest levels of IL-1β production (denoted as red dots). 
However, the separation was not complete, with some vertical overlap such that some patients could be 
controlled with lower doses even though they had high rates of IL-1β production. 
When  whole-body  averaged  steady-state  concentrations  of  IL-1β  (derived  from  IL-1β  clearance  and 
production  rate)  are  plotted  across  the  age  continuum,  separation  was  improved  indicating  that  the 
higher the circulating levels of IL-1β, the more likely it would be that a patient would need to be escalated 
or would fail to respond adequately. 
The ability of canakinumab to capture IL-1β could also be involved; the binding constant varies between 
patients,  presumably  due  to  the  monoclonal  antibody  having  to  compete  against  other  IL-1β  binding 
factors such as soluble receptors, which would also be acting to ameliorate the inflammatory effects of the 
cytokine. A higher KD (equating to a lower binding affinity) would thus suggest the patient already has 
some endogenous protection. When this is also incorporated to create an “activity” metric (ratio of the 
concentration  of  IL-1β  to  the  binding  dissociation  constant,  effectively  dimensionless)  the  separation 
becomes more complete. That said, there is still some vertical overlap between patients, suggesting there 
are other factors unaccounted for, perhaps cellular receptor numbers or other inflammatory mediators. 
However, this clearly shows that it is a combination of IL-1β turnover and canakinumab binding that tends 
to drive the need for higher doses to achieve an adequate response. 
Overall,  the  pharmacodynamic  response  data  suggest  that  patients  with  higher  disease  severity, 
including NOMID patients and younger patients may require higher doses to capture the available IL-1β 
and to drive an adequate response. For the younger patients, this is especially true for those in the 2-3 
years  age  group.  Based  on  this,  for  patients  aged  2  to  <4  years,  a  starting  dose  of  4  mg/kg  is 
recommended by the MAH, whereas patients 4 years and older would receive the currently approved 
starting dose of 2 mg/kg (or 150 mg for patients > 40 kg). 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 22/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure response-relationship 
Dose-response relationships 
Dose response–efficacy relationships were initially explored in CAPS patients in studies CACZ885A2102 
and CACZ885D2304 and were described in detail the initial MAA. The currently recommended dose of 
canakinumab is 150 mg for CAPS patients with body weight >40 kg, and 2 mg/kg for CAPS patients with 
body  weight  ≥15  kg  and  ≤40  kg  and  as  young  as  4  years  of  age.  In  patients  who  do  not  achieve  a 
satisfactory clinical response, a dose escalation to 300 mg or 4 mg/kg every 8 weeks can be considered. 
In  the  studies  newly  submitted  with  this  variation  application:  studies  D2201,  D2306  and  D2308, 
up-titration was permitted from 300 mg or 4 mg/kg to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg. In patients who did relapsed 
following a dose of 300 mg or 4 mg/kg, escalation to 450 mg or 6 mg/kg was permitted in studies D2201 
and D2308. 
The  newly  generated  clinical  data  allowed  for  greater  patient  numbers  of  the  NOMID  phenotype,  and 
young  patients  (2-3  years)  to  be  evaluated  as  pooled  data.  The  results  indicate  that  the  majority  of 
younger patients required a greater dose of canakinumab in order to obtain a complete response (57% 
achieved a complete response, with 6 of 7 patients dose-escalated). The overwhelming majority of these 
patients were of the NOMID phenotype (6 out of 7), the most severe of the CAPS spectrum. In the total 
population, 21 of 38 canakinumab-naïve NOMID patients required a dose escalation, with 74% (28 of 38 
patients) achieving a complete response regardless of dose. These results demonstrate that although the 
currently approved dose of canakinumab is efficacious for many patients, there is a sub-population of 
patients  (mainly  younger  patients  and  those  with  more  severe  disease)  for  whom  a  higher  dose  is 
required in order to obtain a complete response. 
Immunogenicity 
The  characterization  and  reporting  of  anti-canakinumab  antibodies,  including  previous  CAPS  studies 
CACZ885A2102,  CACZ885D2304  was  provided  in  the  initial  MAA.  As  reported,  none  of  the  adult  and 
pediatric subjects showed a canakinumab-induced immune response. 
Similarly to previous CAPS studies, anti-canakinumab serum antibodies in studies D2201, D2306 and 
D2308 were analyzed by surface plasmon resonance spectroscopy using a sensitive and validated binding 
assay. 
In study D2201, none of the 98 tested samples was confirmed to be positive. It should be noted that 
residual canakinumab drug in patients interferes with the immunogenicity assay (drug interference). In 
some  instances  high  drug  concentration  could  have  masked  the  detection  of  a  weak  or  mid 
immunogenicity  signal.  However,  none  of  the  PK  profiles  of  the  patients  indicated  the  presence  of 
immunogenicity. Additionally, no adverse events that might potentially be linked to immunogenicity were 
observed in any of the patients suggesting that no immunogenicity has been missed. 
In  study  D2306,  none  of  the  patients  tested  for  anti-ACZ885  antibodies  showed  a  positive  immune 
response. However, for 10 out of the 166 patients tested, the ability to detect immunogenicity may have 
been compromised due to high drug levels even in the samples taken at study completion. Therefore a 
weak immune response might not have been detected in 10 out of the 166 patients even if present. 
In study D2308, immunogenicity was detected in just one of the post-dose visits in 3 out of 19 patients 
during the core phase and none during the first extension phase. This immunogenicity was considered as 
a  transient  response,  as  for  all  three  patients  no  immunogenicity  was  detectable  in  the  samples  at 
time-points before and after these visits. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 23/84 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, canakinumab showed a low immunogenicity potential. For some patients, the ability to 
detect  immunogenicity  may  have  been  compromised  due  to  the  presence  of  high  drug  levels.  The 
relationship  between  immunogenicity,  pharmacokinetics,  IL-1β  target  capture,  safety  and  efficacy  is 
currently  being  studied  and  will  be  provided  in  the  integrated  IG  assessment  report  as  part  of  the 
pharmacovigilance  activities  to  monitor  the  potential  risk  of  immunogenicity/allergenicity  and  as 
described in the RMP. 
Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Sparse PK data from altogether N=46 children weighing < 40 kg (BW range 9.6-39.1 kg; age range 2-32 
y)  are  currently  available  and  have  contributed  to  the  population  PK  analysis  submitted  with  this 
application comprising a total number of 194 CAPS patients. Thereof, N=7 children were < 4 years of age 
(BW range 9.6-14 kg), including only one child at the age of 2 years and 6 children at the age of 3 years.  
Predictability of the final model for the canakinumab and IL-1ß concentrations observed in the age group 
of 2-4 years was acceptable. 
Covariates  for  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  the  same  as  in  the  previously  reported  CAPS 
PK-binding model: bodyweight on clearance and the two volumes of distribution, allometrically scaled 
with weight, plus serum albumin on clearance and age on the subcutaneous drug absorption rate, both 
with a negative exponent. Canakinumab clearance and volume of distribution were not impacted by age 
after correction for the subject’s body weight. Nevertheless, a trend for a faster body-weight normalized 
clearance in smaller children was observed. 
Altogether, there are only small differences in the PK features across the patient population.  
However, the predicted exposure of canakinumab in CAPS patients weighing < 40 kg is markedly (about 
40%) lower than the exposure in the group 40-70 kg. The exposure declines again in the group weighing 
>  70  kg.  These  differences  between  systemic  exposures  mainly  arise  from  the  currently  approved 
canakinumab dosing regimen.  The combination of a BW-related dose (2 mg/kg) for the light patients < 
40 kg (mainly children) and a flat dose (150 mg) for the heavier patients leads the unbalanced dosage 
regimen in relation to BW (see figure below). 
The few data from N=7 very young children < 4 years of age which have now been added to the CAPS 
population data pool lead to predictions of steady state levels which are even 20% lower than in a 10 year 
old/25  kg  child,  although  dosing  is  body-weight-related  in  both  groups.  This  is  probably  due  to  the 
observed slight increase in BW-normalized clearance in the very young children.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 24/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unlike the canakinumab serum concentration profiles, greater accumulation of total IL-1β in serum was 
observed when comparing the concentration profiles of children less than 4 years old with older patients. 
Using the PK binding model this could best be explained by a higher IL-1β production rate in younger 
patients, whereas age did not appear to impact the affinity of canakinumab binding to IL-1β. The IL-1β 
turnover also appeared to be highly dependent upon the CAPS phenotype with greater production rates in 
the NOMID phenotype. Since patients below 4 years of age tend to have a NOMID phenotype (except for 
one MWS patient) the interaction of both age and phenotype might increase the effect. 
The MAH now proposes to increase the starting dose for patients aged 2 to <4 years from 2 mg/kg to 4 
mg/kg. The proposal is justified by the observed dose escalation behavior in the clinical studies mainly in 
younger  patients  and  by  higher  rates  of  IL-1ß  production  and/or  higher  apparent  binding  constants 
between canakinumab and IL-1ß which may be the reason for the requirement of higher doses to capture 
the available IL-1β and to drive an adequate response.  
For the CHMP the most obvious reason for a lower efficacy in the very young patients appears to be the 
difference in systemic steady state canakinumab concentrations reached in the different age groups with 
the  lowest levels in  the  very  young  children.  Whether  higher  tissue  levels  of  IL-1ß  would  additionally 
demand even higher canakinumab levels in children than in adults - or in a specific phenotype – may be 
speculated but appears to be a separate issue.  
Therefore, the proposal to increase the starting dose for patients aged 2 to <4 years from 2 mg/kg to 4 
mg/kg is endorsed by the CHMP. 
However, according to the new proposal of the MAH the BW-related dose distribution would be as follows 
(see figure below): 
Following this proposal, only the very young children < 4 years of age (approximately weighing < 20 kg) 
will  receive  an  increased  starting  dose  of  4  mg/kg  which  would  approximately  correspond  to  the 
BW-related dose currently recommended for children weighing 41 kg (150 mg/41 kg = 3.7 mg/kg). From 
the figure above it becomes clear that the children in between (> 4 years of age and < 40 g BW) will still 
receive a much lower BW-related dose of 2 mg/kg.  
PK  analysis  has  shown  that  both  weight-normalized  CL  and  V  are  quite  constant  throughout  the 
population and are only marginally influenced by age, a BW-related dosage regimen for all patients would 
be  adequate  to  ensure  comparable  exposure  in  all  patients  irrespective  of  age.  However,  even  with 
BW-related  dosing,  exposure  will  slightly  increase  with  age  due  to  a  trend  to  higher  BW-normalized 
clearance or maybe to higher IL1ß production rate in the very young children or in a specific phenotype.  
According to the current steady state exposure predictions given and the proven dose proportionality for 
canakinumab, a doubling of the dose (4 mg/kg) for both the very young (2-3 y) and the children  > 3 
years  and  <40  kg  would  result  in    steady  state  AUC  exposures  of  about  720  and  880  µg*day/mL, 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 25/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respectively.  This  exposure  would  be  comparable  to  the  value  of  776  µg*day/mL  which  is  currently 
reached after the 150 mg dose in 40-70 kg patients. 
2.3.2.  Clinical efficacy 
To support this application, the MAH provides efficacy data from two phase III studies, D2306 and 2308 
(48-week data). These data were pooled for analysis in the target indication and population. They include 
seven children aged 2 to <4 years, and  35 patients receiving higher doses than currently licensed. The 
pooled analysis provides the primary basis for the assessment.  
In addition, supportive efficacy data was provided from newly submitted study D2201. Further to these 
studies,  the  CAPS  studies  A2102  and  2304  were  used  for  safety  data.  The  table  below  provides  an 
overview of all these studies. 
Table 12 Summary  of  all  clinical  studies  including  the  five  studies  providing  supportive 
efficacy and safety data in paediatric and adult patients with CAPS 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 26/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Some patients were included in more than one study. 
† Canakinumab (ACZ885) rescue medication was given to induce a complete response. 
** Number treated = Safety set in each study 
†† Ongoing until commercial sources are available (approved in Japan in September 2011). 
PK/PD = pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic, IA = interim analysis 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the MAH. The MAH has provided 
a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were  carried  out  in 
accordance with the ethical standard of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Main studies 
Study 2308 
Methods 
Study D2308 is an open-label, efficacy and safety study of canakinumab (anti-interleukin-1β monoclonal 
antibody)  administered  for  6  months  (24  weeks)  in  Japanese  patients  with  the  following 
cryopyrin-associated  periodic  syndromes:  Familial  Cold  Autoinflammatory  Syndrome,  Muckle-Wells 
Syndrome,  or  Neonatal  Onset  Multisystem  Inflammatory  Disease,  followed  by  an  extension  phase  to 
provide canakinumab to study patients until its approval in Japan. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 27/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study participants 
Inclusion criteria 
Patients eligible for inclusion in this study had to fulfill all of the following criteria: 
1.  Male and female patients at least 2 years of age at the time of the screening visit. 
2.  Patient’s informed consent for patients ≥ 20 years of age, or for patients <20 years of age, parent 
or  legal  guardian’s  written  informed  consent  and  child’s  assent  was  required  before  any 
assessment was performed. 
3.  At  study  entry,  patients  had  a  clinical  diagnosis  of  FCAS,  MWS  or  NOMID  and  required 
pharmacological intervention. At the time of screening, patients were either untreated or treated 
(i.e.  under  anakinra,  or  any  other  investigational  IL-1  blocking  therapy).  Prior  agreement 
between the Investigator and Novartis for study eligibility was required for patients who did not 
have a molecular diagnosis of NALP3 mutations available (either testing not performed, or testing 
performed  but  negative)  upon  study  entry.  For  those  patients  who  had  not  been  molecularly 
tested for NALP3 mutations, molecular testing was performed during the course of the study. 
4.  Presence, or history (prior to anakinra treatment when applicable), of at least 2 of the following 
clinical manifestations: 
• 
For NOMID patients: 
a. Typical NOMID urticarial rash 
b. Signs of central nervous system (CNS) involvement such as increased intracranial pressure (> 180 mm 
water)  and/or  papilledema  and/or  cerebral  spinal  fluid  pleiocytosis  (white  cell  count  >  6  cells/mm3) 
and/or stroke and/or seizures, and/or sensorineural hearing loss 
c.  Typical  arthropatic  changes  on  X-rays:  epiphysal  and/or  patellar  overgrowth  with  onset  of  NOMID 
symptoms before or at 6 months of age 
• 
For MWS patients: 
a. periodic fever 
b. headache/migraine 
c. arthralgia 
d. urticarial skin rash 
e. conjunctivitis 
f. myalgia 
g. sensorineural hearing impairment 
• 
For FCAS patients: 
a. urticarial skin rash 
b. fever/chills 
c. conjunctivitis 
d. joint pain 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 28/84 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  For patients under anakinra therapy, the anakinra treatment was discontinued the same day as 
the baseline visit. Last anakinra injection did not occur less than 6 hours before the canakinumab 
injection. 
6.  Patients  requiring  oral  steroids,  NSAIDs  and/or  disease-modifying  antirheumatic  drugs 
(DMARDs) were enrolled if they were on a stable dose (oral steroids: < 20 mg/day or ≤ 0.4 mg/kg 
prednisone  or  prednisone  equivalent,  whichever  applies)  for  at  least  4  weeks  prior  to  the 
screening visit. Steroid therapy could be tapered during treatment with canakinumab after the 
first canakinumab treatment cycle (time between 2 dosing visits: 8 weeks), at the discretion of 
the investigator. A canakinumab treatment cycle was defined as 8 weeks. 
7.  Able to communicate with the investigator and comply with the requirements of the study (for 
children the parent can assist when necessary). 
Treatment 
CAPS patients with a body weight ≤ 40 kg received an equivalent of 2 mg/kg administered s.c. per each 
injection, every 8 weeks. This was an open-label, single-treatment arm study. All patients were treated 
with active drug canakinumab. Patients with a body weight of > 40 kg received 150 mg of canakinumab 
administered s.c. per each injection. Patients with a body weight of ≤ 40 kg received an equivalent of 2 
mg/kg administered s.c. per each injection. 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  proportion  of  patients  who  were  free  of  relapse  at  week  24 
including those patients who have been up-titrated (as previously reported). 
Secondary objectives 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To assess the safety and tolerability of canakinumab. 
To assess the efficacy of canakinumab with respect to the treatment response (percentage of 
complete responder patients) by Day 15 for those patients who were not up-titrated and by Day 
29 for those patients who were up-titrated. 
To  assess  the  efficacy  of  canakinumab  with  respect  to  physician’s  global  assessment  of 
auto-inflammatory symptoms. 
To  assess  the  efficacy  of  canakinumab  with  respect  to  inflammatory  parameters  (CRP,  SAA) 
levels. 
To assess the percentage of patients experiencing a relapse during the entire study. 
To evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiling of canakinumab and 
assess the PK / PD relationships. 
To assess the clinical improvement (or resolution) with regards to: central nervous system (CNS) 
involvement,  eye  disease,  hearing  impairment,  skin  disease,  joint  disease,  fever,  and  kidney 
function. 
To assess the change in corticosteroids total daily dose. 
To assess the immunogenicity of canakinumab. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 29/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
This was a multi-center, open-label efficacy and safety study in Japanese patients with CAPS. Due to the 
extremely low prevalence in these indications, it was expected to enroll approximately 20 patients in this 
study. However, a minimum of 5 patients should have been enrolled. The number of patients depended 
on how many patients with FCAS, MWS, or NOMID were identified and enrolled prior to the end of the 
enrollment period. 
Randomisation and blinding 
This was an open-label, single-treatment arm study. 
Statistical methods 
The statistical analyses of this study were performed by the Novartis Integrated Information Sciences 
Department  or  a  designated  Contract  Research  Organization.  Data  summaries  were  presented. 
Continuous variables were summarized by mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, maximum, and 
number  of  patients  with  non  missing  data.  Categorical  variables  were  summarized  by  absolute 
frequencies and percentages. 
Results 
Participant flow 
The study enrolled a total of 19 CAPS patients (see table below). Eighteen patients (94.7%) completed 
both the 24 week core phase and first extension phase up to Week 48. One patient (5.3%) withdrew 
consent and therefore prematurely discontinued study treatment during the core phase prior to Week 24. 
No further patients discontinued during the first extension phase. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 30/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 Patients disposition (safety set) 
• 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol was amended to add central reading of audiograms by an independent reader and CSF-PK 
analysis. In addition, the amendment clarifies the handling of patients for the 24 week analysis and the 
patients who discontinued or completed the core phase but did not continue into the extension phase. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographics are summarized for the safety population in the table below. All patients were 
Asian (Japanese) and more male than female patients were treated in this study (63.2% versus 36.8%). 
Eleven patients (57.9%) below 16 years were enrolled (the youngest patients being 2 years old and 4 
patients were from 2 to 4 years of age) and 8 patients (42.1%) were 16 years and older. In all, 5 (26.3%) 
of the 19 patients weighed more than 40 kgs at baseline. Also, the mean BMI of the patients in the safety 
set was 17.56 kg/m2. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 31/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic summary by treatment group (Safety set) 
Background and disease characteristics at baseline are shown in the table below. Of the 19 patients, 12 
(63.2%)  were  diagnosed  with  NOMID  and  7  with  MWS  (36.8%).  Molecular  diagnosis  showed  that  17 
patients (89.5%) were positive for NALP3 mutations and 2 patients (10.5%) were mutation negative (one 
patient with MWS and NOMID respectively). Approximately half of the patients (n=10, 52.6%) had been 
previously treated with anakinra. Most patients (13 patients) presented with minimal to mild physician’s 
global  assessment  at  baseline,  with  2  patients  reported  as  absent,  3  patients  (15.8%)  reported  as 
moderate and 1 patient (5.3%) reported as severe. Most patients (11 patients) presented absent and 
minimal on skin assessment at baseline, with 3 with mild, 3 with moderate and 2 patients with severe skin 
assessment at baseline. At baseline, the mean and median C-reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid 
A (SAA) were above normal as expected (normal values: CRP < 1 mg/dL and SAA < 10 μg/mL). 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 32/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 Baseline disease characteristics by treatment group (Safety set) 
Outcomes and estimations 
Primary endpoint 
For the primary efficacy variable, the proportion of patients who do not experience a relapse (clinical and 
serological relapse) was evaluated at Week 24. Eighteen patients (94.7%) achieved complete response 
with some patients requiring either a dose and/or a frequency adjustment to attain a full clinical response. 
Fifteen patients (78.9%) achieved a completed response by Day 15 and a further 2 patients who were 
up-titrated by Day 29. One patient achieved a complete response by Day 148. One nonresponder patient, 
D2308-0003-00003, achieved clinical remission but the patient’s CRP and SAA values remained above 
normal  during  the  core  phase,  however  there  was  a  significant  decrease  in  the  patient’s  serological 
markers  by  Week  24  compared  to  baseline  Over  three-quarters  of  the  patients  (77.8%)  were  free  of 
relapse  at  Week  24  (see  table  below).  At  the  end  of  the  core  phase  (Week  24),  no  patient  reported 
moderate or severe physician’s global assessment or skin disease. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 33/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16 Relapse at week 24 (Full Analysis Set) 
Of the 12 NOMID patients who entered the study, 11 were complete responders by Week 24, including 9 
who  achieved  complete  response  by  Day  15,  1  patient  with  dose  adjustment  by  Day  29  and  1  who 
achieved complete response by Day 148.Three of these NOMID patients (27.3%) had relapse at Week 24, 
all of whom were 16 years of age or older and 2 of whom had a body weight of 40 kg or less. All 7 MWS 
patients were completed responders by Week 24. One of the MWS patients had relapse at Week 24 and 
was  aged  between  12  and  15  years  and  had  a  body  weight  of  40  kg  or  less.  One  additional  patient 
achieved a complete response after the 24 week analysis (Patient 0003- 00003), totaling 19 patients 
(100%) who had achieved complete response by Week 48, with 16 (84.2%) free of relapse at Week 48. 
Patient 0003-00003 achieved a complete response at Day 316. 
Study D2306 
Methods 
Study  D2306  is  an  open-label,  long-term  safety  and  efficacy  study  of  ACZ885  (anti-interleukin-  1β 
monoclonal  antibody)  administered 
for  at 
least  6  months 
in  patients  with  the 
following 
cryopyrin-associated  periodic  syndromes:  Familial  Cold  Autoinflammatory  Syndrome,  Muckle-Wells 
Syndrome,  or  Muckle-Wells  Syndrome  with  overlapping  symptoms  of  Neonatal  Onset  Multisystem 
Inflammatory Disease. 
Study participants 
Inclusion criteria 
Patients eligible for inclusion in this study had to fulfill all of the following criteria: 
1.  Male and female patients at least 4 years of age at the time of the screening visit 
2.  Patient’s informed consent for ≥ 18 years of age before any assessment was performed  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 34/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Parent  or  legal  guardian’s  written  informed  consent  and  child’s  assent,  if  appropriate,  were 
required before any assessment was performed for patients < 18 years of age 
4.  Patients with a diagnosis of FCAS, MWS, or MWS with overlapping symptoms of NOMID (very 
severe  MWS  patients,  including  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  symptoms,  could  have  been 
included only with prior agreement from Novartis). At study entry, new patients were to have 
symptoms requiring pharmacological intervention. At the time of screening, patients could either 
be  untreated  or  treated  (i.e.  under  canakinumab,  anakinra,  or  any  other  investigational  IL-1 
blocking therapy). Prior agreement between the Investigator and Novartis for study eligibility was 
required for patients who did not have a molecular diagnosis of NALP3 mutations available upon 
study entry. 
5.  For  patients  under  anakinra  therapy  or  any  other  investigational  IL-1  blocking  therapy,  these 
treatments were to be discontinued prior to the baseline visit. 
6.  Patients from study A2102 could enter this study upon signing informed consent irrespective of 
whether they were in remission or flaring. However, dosing at Visit 2 (Baseline Visit) could only 
occur if either 1) the patient was experiencing disease flare or 2) at least two months had elapsed 
from their last injection even in the absence of flare, whichever was earlier. 
7.  Patients who completed the D2304 study could enter this study upon signing informed consent. A 
patient  was  defined  as  completing  the  study  if  he/she  completed  the  D2304  study  up  to  and 
including Visit 15 (End of Study Visit). 
8.  Patients who discontinued from the Studies A2102 or D2304 and for whom in the Investigator’s 
judgment (with prior agreement from Novartis) continued treatment with canakinumab in this 
study was considered appropriate. 
9.  Body weight ≥ 15 kg. 
10. Ability to communicate with the investigator and comply with the requirements of the study (for 
children the parent could assist when necessary). 
Treatment 
The sponsor supplied the investigational drug (active canakinumab) in individual 6 mL glass vials each 
containing 150 mg canakinumab as lyophilized cake. Patients with a body weight of > 40 kg received 150 
mg of canakinumab administered s.c. per each injection. Patients with a body weight of ≥ 15 kg and ≤ 40 
kg received an equivalent of 2 mg/kg administered s.c. per each injection. 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
The primary objective was to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of canakinumab in patients who 
participated  in  the  A2102  or  D2304  studies  or  in  newly  identified  patients  with  the  following 
cryopyrin-associated  periodic  syndromes  (CAPS):  Familial  Cold  Autoinflammatory  Syndrome  (FCAS), 
Muckle-Wells  Syndrome  (MWS)  or  MWS  with  overlapping  symptoms  of  Neonatal  Onset  Multisystem 
Inflammatory Disease (NOMID). 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 35/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary objectives 
The secondary objectives were to assess: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the maintenance of response over time defined by the number of patients who did not relapse as 
determined  by  the  Physician’s  global  assessment  of  autoinflammatory  disease  activity, 
assessment of skin disease and inflammation markers (CRP and/or SAA) 
the  number  of  patients  who  required  a  dose  adjustment  or  an  administration  frequency 
adjustment,  with  subsequent  maintenance  of  response  over  time  as  determined  by  the 
Physician’s global assessment of autoinflammatory disease activity, assessment of skin disease 
and CRP and/or SAA 
the immunogenicity of canakinumab 
the pharmacokinetics (PK) of canakinumab, in particular, comparison of the new HSA- (without 
human serum albumin) drug formulation with previously used HSA+ formulation. 
the long-term effects of canakinumab on disease progression with regards to deafness, kidney 
function, neurological and ophthalmological symptoms and 
the long term maintenance of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) of canakinumab by using 
the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ©), Medical Outcome Short Form (36) Health Survey 
(SF-36®),  Functional  Assessment  of  Chronic  Illness  Therapy-Fatigue  (FACIT-Fatigue©),  and 
Child Health Questionnaire-Parent Form (CHQ-PF28©). 
Sample size 
This is a multi-center, open-label, single-arm safety study. There is no minimum requirement in terms of 
sample size. The study will include eligible subjects who complete the investigational ACZ885 studies 
(CACZ885A2102  &  CACZ885D2304)  or  newly  identified  patients  with  FCAS,  MWS,  and  MWS  with 
overlapping symptoms of NOMID. Due to the extremely low prevalence (with less than 1 in 1,000,000) in 
these indications, it is expected to enroll 60 to 80 patients. 
Randomisation and blinding 
This  is  an  open-label,  single-treatment  arm  study.  All  patients  were  treated  with  active  drug 
canakinumab. Patients who had signed informed consent and were eligible for this study were assigned to 
canakinumab treatment. 
Statistical methods 
The  data  were  analyzed  by  Novartis  personnel,  using  version  8.2  (or  higher)  of  the  SAS  statistical 
package.    For  the  primary  objective,  the  no  missing  value  imputation  technique  was  applied  in  this 
open-label, single-arm trial. For shift tables from baseline to respective visit, only patients with a valid 
baseline and post baseline measurement were included. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 36/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participants flow 
A  total  of  166  patients  received  canakinumab  treatment  in  this  study,  of  these  were  109 
canakinumab-naïve patients, 24 patients rolled over from study A2102, and 33 patients rolled over from 
study D2304. No patients from study D2201 entered this study. Overall, 30 patients were diagnosed with 
FCAS  (5  pediatric  patients  and  25  adults),  103  patients  with  MWS  (23  pediatric  and  80  adults),  32 
patients were categorized as NOMID (18 pediatric and 14 adults) and 1 patient (D2306-0022-00002) with 
cold  urticaria  was  reported  as  a  protocol  deviation.  Four  patients  who  discontinued  in  Part  I  of  study 
D2304  for  unsatisfactory  therapeutic  effect  were  enrolled  in  this  study  (D2306-0001-00010; 
D2306-0001-00011; [D2306-0501-00002]; D2306-0502-00001). After discontinuation in Part I of study 
D2304,  two  patients  (D2306-  0001-00010;  D2306-0001-00011)  returned  to  canakinumab  therapy  in 
study  A2102  and  subsequently  entered  this  study.  Both  patients  [D2306-0501-00002]  and 
D2306-0502-00001 discontinued during Part I of the D2304 study and entered D2306 about 9 months 
after discontinuing the D2304 study. The patient disposition is shown in table below. 
Table 17 Patient disposition – n (%) of patients 
Conduct of the study 
The study protocol was amended twice. The key features of the amendments are given below: 
Amendment 1 (released on 14-Feb-2008) was implemented to ensure that patients with severe renal 
insufficiency  (GFR  <  30  mL/min/1.73  m2)  or  planned  liver  transplantation  would  not  undergo 
administration  of  a  gadolinium  contrast  agent  for  the  performance  of  a  magnetic  resonance  imaging 
(MRI) evaluation. Gadolinium is contraindicated in such patients due to the risk of developing nephrogenic 
systemic fibrosis (NSF), a serious adverse reaction that may occur after exposure to the extracellular 
nonionic low osmolar gadolinium-based contrast agent gadodiamide. 
Amendment 2 (released on 02-Feb-2009) was implemented to lower the age range to include patients 3 
years of age or older, to allow for the inclusion of patients with Neonatal Onset Multisystem Inflammatory 
Disease  (canakinumab  naïve),  and  to  update  the  sample  size  in  the  protocol.  This  amendment  also 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 37/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provides clarifications and updates to the rescue medication section and visit schedule. Revised informed 
consents have been issued reflecting the changes highlighted above. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographics are summarized for the safety population in the table below. A total of 57 patients 
rolled-  over  from  either  study  A2102  (24)  or  study  D2304  (33)  and  109  canakinumab-naïve  patients 
received treatment in this study. Most patients were Caucasian and more female than male patients were 
treated in this study. Forty-seven patients below the age of 18 years were enrolled. The following age 
groups (≥ 3 - < 18, ≥ 18 - < 41 and ≥ 41 - < 75) were almost equally represented, with slightly more 
patients represented in the ≥ 18 - < 41 age group. 
For  pediatric  patients  are  presented  approximately  two-thirds  were  girls  and  the  median  age  of  all 
children  was  10  years  (min  3  years,  max  17  years).  The  majority  of  pediatric  patients  (38/47)  were 
canakinumab naïve, 5 patients rolled-over from study A2102 and 4 patients from study D2304. Most of 
the children were diagnosed with MWS (23/48.9%) and NOMID (18/38.3%). Six (12.8%) of the pediatric 
patients  were  mutation  negative  or  indeterminate.  No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  observed 
between these subgroups. 
Table 18 Demographics (Safety set) 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 38/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19 Background and disease characteristics at baseline for roll-over patients and 
canakinumab-naive patients (Safety set) 
• 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 39/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Table 20 Analysis sets 
Outcomes and estimations 
Primary endpoint 
A  total of  85  (78.0%)  canakinumab-naïve  patients  achieved  a  complete  response  as  assessed  by  the 
investigator  (Table 22).  An  analysis  based  on  calculated  complete  response  according  to  the  protocol 
defined criteria showed most patients (79 patients) achieved a complete response within 8 days (by Day 
9), 5 patients achieved a complete response between Day 10 and Day 21. One patient was not included 
in the calculated complete response due to missing inflammation marker values (CRP/SAA). Of the 141 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 40/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients who were included in the relapse assessment (according to the protocol defined criteria), 127 
(90%) had no relapse, while 14 (10%) regardless of whether they have been previously treated with 
canakinumab or were canakinumab-naïve had a relapse. The phenotypes of the patients were 2 FCAS, 9 
MWS, and 3. 
Table 21 Number (%) of patients with relapse and response assessment (Safety set) 
• 
There were 47 children (38 canakinumab-naïve and 9 roll-over) treated of whom 11 (23.4%) did not 
achieve a complete response. 
Table 22 Response to treatment – n(%) of ACZ885 naive patients (Safety set) 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Pooled efficacy summaries were provided for NOMID, MWS, FCAS and total CAPS for efficacy populations 
from two similar open-label uncontrolled CAPS trials (D2306 and D2308). The full analysis set (FAS) was 
used for efficacy assessments, and consisted of pooled efficacy data for 185 CAPS patients from these two 
studies. Of these 185 patients, 128 were canakinumab-naïve patients and 57 were rollover patients (i.e. 
they  had  previously  been  treated  with  canakinumab  in  studies  A2102  or  D2304,  and  subsequently 
entered study D2306).  
The treatment-naïve group was used for the primary efficacy assessment of complete response in the 
pooled analysis of studies D2306 and D2308. All patients from Studies A2102 and D2304 who rolled-over 
into Study D2306 were considered to be complete responders.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 41/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23 Studies used for efficacy pooling 
Efficacy evaluation 
Efficacy tables were presented by maximum dose category. Maximum dose category was the highest 
dose the patient received while in the study. All efficacy data was presented in a descriptive manner for 
the two pooled, uncontrolled, open-label trials (D2306 and D2308). 
Complete  response  was  defined  as  both  clinical  remission  (physician’s  global  assessment  of 
auto-inflammatory disease activity minimal or less, and assessment of skin disease minimal or less) and 
serological remission (serum CRP < 1 mg/dL and/or SAA < 10 μg/mL). All criteria were to have been 
fulfilled on the same day. 
Complete response was presented for the first time when the highest escalated dose was administered. 
Therefore, the date of entry into an individual patient’s highest dosing group was the starting day for 
calculating the days until achieving complete response. The complete response was assessed after one 
week for the first dose of 150 mg or 2 mg/kg and at one week after the 300 mg or 4 mg/kg dose if patients 
were dose escalated. However, when patients were dose escalated to 450 mg or 6 mg/kg, or to 600 mg 
or 8 mg/kg, complete response was assessed at the next scheduled visit (which was typically longer than 
one week after dose escalation). In study D2306, scheduled visits were every 8 weeks. In study D2308, 
scheduled visits were every 4 weeks. 
Definition of relapse 
For complete responders, relapse was defined as the following criteria (assessed on same day): 
• CRP and/or SAA value > 30 mg/L 
   AND 
• Physician global assessment of autoinflammatory disease activity > minimal 
  OR 
• Physician global assessment of autoinflammatory disease activity ≥ minimal and 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 42/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   assessment of skin disease > minimal 
For these assessments, performed for both canakinumab-naïve patients and roll-over patients who had 
been exposed to canakinumab in previous studies, Baseline represents the assessment prior to the first 
dose  in  study  D2306  or  study  D2308,  and  not  necessarily  the  assessment  prior  to  the  first  dose  of 
canakinumab  ever  received.  Day  8  assessments  were  only  performed  for  the  canakinumab-naïve 
patients, so Day 8 represents the patients’ response after the first dose of canakinumab ever received. 
Pooled data analyses sets 
Response by dose 
Of  the  42  canakinumab-naïve  patients  who  were  dose-escalated,  15  patients  obtained  a  complete 
response with a dose escalation to 300 mg or 4 mg/kg. Three of 12 patients receiving 450 mg or 6 mg/kg 
achieved  a  complete  response  (one  patient  had  missing  response  criteria)  and  of  the  16  patients 
dose-escalated to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, seven achieved a complete response (two patients with missing 
response criteria). 
Overall, 14 canakinumab-naïve patients (10.9%) did not achieve a complete response with 12 of these 
patients (9.4%) not achieving a complete response despite receiving either a dose and/or a frequency 
adjustment).  Five  additional  patients  had  missing  information  and  thus  clinical  response  could  not  be 
assessed. Seven of the 14 patients who did not achieve a complete response had received the highest 
dose of 600 mg or 8 mg/kg; five of these seven patients were of the NOMID phenotype, the other two had 
MWS. 
The  seven  patients  who  did  not  achieve  a  complete  response  at  the  highest  dose  demonstrated  an 
improvement in either clinical or serological criteria of response after treatment initiation. Of the seven 
patients who did not achieve a complete response at the highest dose, six showed an improvement in 
disease  symptoms  according  to  the  Investigator’s  assessment.  The  only  patient  who  did  not  show 
improvement  had  mild  Physician’s  Global  Assessment  scores  and  absent  skin  disease  at  Baseline,  no 
change at Day 8, and moderate Physician’s Global Assessment scores and absent skin disease at the End 
of Study. 
The  seven  remaining  patients  who  did  not  achieve  a  complete  response  but  who  did  not  receive  a 
dose-escalation either withdrew or completed the study shortly after a previous dose-escalation. 
Table 24 Response  to  treatment  by  dose  –  number  (%)  of  ACZ885  naïve  patients  (Full 
analysis set) 
CAPS Studies D2306 and D2308 (48-week data). 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 43/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Response to treatment is taken from the first treatment cycle after patient received the assigned dose level. N represents the number 
of patients who received this assigned dose at any time in either study 
*12 patients were dose-escalated to 450 mg or 6mg/kg and 10 were dose-escalated to 600 mg or   8mg/kg directly. 
†6 patients in D2308 were dose escalated from 450mg/6mg/kg to 600mg/8mg/kg. 
**Of the 16 patients, 6 had previously received 450 mg or 6mg/kg and 10 had previously received 300 mg or 4mg/kg. 
# running” total, so patients are counted more than once as dose escalates, so this percentage represents eventual response rate for 
the whole population post dose escalation 
Response by age 
Canakinumab was efficacious across all age groups. The table below shows the response to treatment by 
age group. In total, over 50% of patients in each age group attained a complete response. There were no 
clear patterns across age ranges, although the proportion of patients achieving complete response at 150 
mg or 2 mg/kg was substantially lower in the 2 to <4 year old patients. Regardless of dose, 57.1% of 2 
to <4 year olds achieved a complete response. In the 4-11 years age group, 86% of patients attained a 
complete response, and in the 12-17 years age group, 71% of patients had a complete response. A total 
of 92% of adults had a complete response. 
Of the seven patients aged 2 to <4 years, four required escalation to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, only one of 
whom achieved complete response at this dose. The remaining three patients all had a shorter dosing 
interval and therefore a higher dose than 8 mg/kg q8wk (doses of 4 mg/kg q1wk, 8 mg/kg q4wk and 4 
mg/kg approximately q1wk towards the end of the study). 
All four 2 to <4 year old patients receiving 600 mg or 8 mg/kg were of the NOMID phenotype. A greater 
proportion  of  patients  aged  2  to  <4  years  required  dose-escalation  than  in  any  other  age  group, 
suggesting a greater need for dose escalation and a greater starting dose in the youngest patients, and 
particularly in the youngest NOMID patients, results which are supported by pharmacodynamic data. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 44/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25 Response  to  treatment  by  dose  and  aged  –  number  (%)  of  ACZ885  naïve  patients 
(Full analysis set) 
Response by phenotype and weight 
Canakinumab was efficacious across all phenotypes. A complete response was obtained in the majority of 
NOMID (73.7%), MWS (88.3%) and FCAS (96.6%) patients, which may be consistent with NOMID being 
the more severe phenotype. 
The majority of MWS (73.3%) and FCAS (79.3%) patients obtained a complete response with doses of 
150 mg or 2 mg/kg, compared to 44.7% of NOMID patients. More NOMID patients (55.3%) also required 
dose escalations than MWS (25.0%) or FCAS (20.7%) patients. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 45/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore,  more  NOMID  patients  (28.9%)  were  escalated  to  the  highest  dose  than  MWS  (8.3%) 
patients.  No  FCAS  patients  were  escalated  to  the  highest  dose.  It  is  important  to  note  that  with  the 
opportunity  to  use  increased  doses  or  shorter  dosing  intervals,  even  the  most  severe  CAPS  patients 
achieve a complete clinical response, 74% of the time. Nine patients weighed less than 15 kg, the lower 
dosing weight limit in the current SmPC. Seven patients were of the NOMID phenotype, and two patients 
were of the MWS phenotype. Of these seven NOMID patients, six were 2 to <4 years and one was 4 years 
old. Four NOMID patients achieved a complete response whilst three did not. The four NOMID patients 
achieving a complete response were dosed as follows: two patients at 2 mg/kg, one patient at 4 mg/kg, 
and one patient at 8 mg/kg. Both MWS patients weighing less than 15 kg achieved complete responses. 
The 3 patients not achieving complete response were all 3-year-old Caucasian females with NOMID dosed 
at 600 mg or 8 mg/kg or higher, and all three completed the study. Although these 3 young patients did 
not  achieve  a  complete  response  according  to  the  protocol-defined  response  criteria,  they  all  showed 
improvement from baseline on their serological markers of inflammation (CRP and SAA) as well as clinical 
assessment of autoinflammatory disease. Seven of nine patients with a body weight below 15 kg were 
dosed above 2 mg/kg. 
Table 26 Pediatric CAPS patients (2-3 years olds) not achieving complete response 
Overall, 14 (10.9%) canakinumab-naive patients did not achieve a complete response at any dose; seven 
(18.4%) NOMID patients, five (8.3%) MWS patients and one (3.4%) FCAS patient. The remaining patient 
was incorrectly categorized as a CAPS patient and was subsequently diagnosed with cold urticaria. This 
patient (8 years of age) was recorded as a protocol deviation and was thereafter discontinued from the 
study (and is included in the ALL CAPS population but not by phenotype).  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 46/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27 Response  to  treatment  by  dose  and  phenotype  –  number  of  canakinumab-naïve 
patients (Full analysis set) 
Secondary efficacy results 
Time to complete response 
The time to complete response was evaluated in canakinumab naïve patients. Time to complete response 
was calculated from Day 1 of the patient’s maximum dose to the time of the complete response. Of the 
total population, 61.7% of patients achieved a complete response by Days 7 to ≤11. Over 90% of these 
patients achieved complete response at doses of 150 mg or 2 mg/kg. Patients who dose escalated (to 450 
mg or 6 mg/kg and 600 mg or 8 mg/kg) generally took a longer time to achieve complete response; 
however, the time to first assessment in patients at these doses was longer than in patients receiving 
lower  doses  in  accordance  with  the  study  assessment  schedule;  therefore,  the  results  should  be 
interpreted with caution. 
Time to complete response in patients in the 150 mg or 2 mg/kg, or with 300 mg or 4 mg/kg dose groups, 
was longer in pediatric patients than adults, especially in children under 12 years old. These children were 
also more frequently escalated to higher doses versus adults. 
A complete response was achieved by 74 out of 86 canakinumab-naïve patients who did not require dose 
escalation, by Days 7 to ≤11 across all phenotypes. Of the patients escalated to 300 mg or 4 mg/kg who 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 47/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
achieved a complete response, the majority (four of five NOMID patients, four of five FCAS patients, and 
two of five MWS patients) took at least eight weeks to achieve complete response following the first dose 
of their highest/assigned canakinumab dose. 
Table 28 Time to complete response by dose – canakinumab-naive patients (Full analysis set) 
Table 29 Time to complete response by dose and phenotype – number of canakinumab-naive 
patients (Full analysis set) 
Relapse and response assessment 
The table below summarizes the number and percent of all (rollover and canakinumab naïve) patients 
with relapse and response assessment. The upper portion of the table describes relapse in all patients, 
including those who did not achieve a complete response. Overall, 76.8% of the total patient population 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 48/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
did not relapse. This is a conservative estimate since patients without a complete response are included, 
and yet these patients were by default calculated as having a relapse as they could not be relapse-free. 
The second portion of the table shows relapse data for those patients who had previously achieved a 
complete  response  (“Patients  included  in  the  relapse  assessment”).  This  is  therefore  a  more  exact 
descriptor of relapse rates. In the patients in the 150 mg or 2 mg/kg dose group, 92.0% of patients were 
without  relapse.  The  percentage  of  relapse-free  patients  was  at  least  75%  in  all  dose  groups.  This 
indicates  that  even  for  those  patients  with  severe  disease  who  are  difficult  to  treat  and  require  dose 
escalation, efficacy is maintained at the higher dose. 
Table 30 Number  (%)  of  patients  with  relapse  and  response  assessment  by  dose  (Full 
analysis set) 
The percentage of patients who were relapse free was high and similar across the age groups. Of the four 
patients who achieved a complete response in the 2 to <4 years age group, 2 remained relapse-free. In 
the 4-11 years, 12-17 years, 18-59 years and ≥ 60 years age groups, approximately 90% of patients 
remained  relapse-free.  This  data  indicates  that  once  a  complete  response  through  canakinumab 
treatment  has  been  achieved  and  an  effective  dosing  level  set,  patients  are  able  to  maintain  a 
symptom-free clinical course. 
Relapse assessments by phenotype show almost all patients were relapse-free in the MWS and FCAS 
phenotypes (91.9% and 92.9% of patients, respectively, when only complete responders were included 
in the denominator), and over three-quarters of NOMID patients (78.1%,). These results echo those by 
dose, since the majority of patients treated with the highest dose were of the NOMID phenotype (69%), 
and approximately one-third of NOMID patients were treated with the highest dose. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 49/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physician’s Global Assessment of Autoinflammatory disease 
Canakinumab-naive patients in the 150 mg or 2 mg/kg to 450 mg or 6 mg/kg groups experienced a rapid 
reduction in disease activity by Day 8, categorized as absent to minimal symptoms (with the exception of 
1 MWS patient receiving a 300 mg or 4 mg/kg dose), ranging from 80 to 93% of patients. The proportion 
of patients with absent or minimal symptoms was markedly lower (43.8%) in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg 
group. However, all patients had received only 150 mg or 2 mg/kg at this timepoint, since it was prior to 
the time at which dose-escalation was permitted according to the protocol. Those patients receiving 600 
mg or 8 mg/kg doses saw substantial improvements by Week 4, when all patients had symptoms that 
were absent to minimal. These patients generally had sustained responses until End of Study (or Week 
48). At the End of Study visit (or Week 48), 68.2% of patients in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group had 
absent to minimal symptoms. This suggests that patients who subsequently required escalation to the 
highest dose had a greater disease severity. Children aged 2 to <4 years followed a similar pattern to the 
All  CAPS  population  taking  600  mg  or  8  mg/kg  (since  four  of  seven  2  to  <4  year  old  patients  were 
escalated  to  this  dose).  Disease  activity  was  minimal  to  severe  at  Baseline,  with  no  patients  having 
symptoms assessed as “absent” and 42.9% having minimal symptoms. Reductions in disease activity 
were evident by Day 8 as no patients had moderate to severe disease activity. However, the improvement 
in symptoms at Day 8 was less pronounced for these patients than for all older age groups, therefore, the 
higher  doses  required in  the  2  to  <4  year olds  compared  to  older patients  suggests  a  higher disease 
severity. 
Though the number of patients was small at weekly measurements, responses were generally sustained 
between absent to mild until the End of Study. 
The  number  of  patients  at  some  visits  was  small  within  certain  phenotypes  by  dose.  At  Day  8  in 
canakinumab-naive  patients,  the  greatest  response  was  in  the  FCAS  patients  (96.6%  had  absent  or 
minimal symptoms), higher than in MWS (81.7%) or NOMID (78.9%) patients.  
FCAS patients also showed the lowest disease activity throughout the study, with 92% having absent or 
minimal  symptoms  at  End  of  Study  (or  Week  48)  compared  to  85.1%  of  MWS  and  81.8%  of  NOMID 
patients. 
Assessment of skin disease 
Overall, rapid improvements in the assessment of skin disease were seen by Day 8 in the majority of 
canakinumab-naïve patients at any dose (94.5% of patients had absent to minimal skin disease). Most 
patients had sustained responses with 97.6% of patients having absent to minimal symptoms of skin 
disease at End of Study (or Week 48). At Day 8, slightly fewer patients in the highest dose group had 
absent or minimal symptoms (81.3%) than in patients in the lower dose groups (90 to 100%). As all 
patients had only received 150 mg or 2 mg/kg at this time, this suggests that patients who subsequently 
needed escalation to the highest dose had a slightly greater severity of skin disease. At the end of study, 
all patients in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group had absent or minimal skin disease, maintained from 
Week 36. After Week 24, no patients treated with the highest dose experienced moderate or severe skin 
disease. Therefore, even in those patients requiring treatment with the highest doses, a clear response to 
treatment with canakinumab was seen. Children aged 2 to <4 years had minimal to severe evidence of 
skin  disease  at  Baseline,  which  was  higher  baseline  disease  versus  other  age  groups.  The 
canakinumab-naïve patients saw a rapid reduction in symptoms of skin disease by Day 8, with sustained 
responses up until End of Study (or Week 48). The majority of children aged 2 to <4 years (85.7%) had 
absent symptoms at End of Study (or Week 48), and no patients in this age group had mild or worse 
symptoms at End of Study (or Week 48), demonstrating a clear response to canakinumab treatment with 
respect to skin disease in the youngest patients. 
C-reactive protein levels 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 50/84 
 
 
 
 
 
CRP is a serum protein which is found in elevated levels in response to chronic and acute inflammation. 
Levels fall in response to treatment or cessation of the inflammation. There was a rapid reduction in CRP 
at Week 1 to within the normal range for patients receiving the three lowest doses; patients in the 600 mg 
or 8 mg/kg group showed only small reductions (median change: -0.15 mg/L) at this timepoint (having 
received only 150 mg or 2 mg/kg). At the Week 8 visit, patients receiving doses of 150 mg or 2 mg/kg and 
300 mg or 4 mg/kg had sustained their median CRP reductions, while patients receiving higher doses had 
CRP levels which remained elevated. 
The median CRP levels at Week 8 were 3.10, 6.30, 17.40, and 12.65 mg/L for patients receiving 150 mg 
or 2 mg/kg, 300 mg or 4 mg/kg, 450 mg or 6 mg/kg, and 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, respectively. Though most 
patients at lower doses had rapid and sustained responses to canakinumab, patients taking 450 mg or 4 
mg/kg and 600 mg or 8 mg/kg doses took longer to achieve normal CRP values (as expected since they 
required  escalation  to  higher  doses),  although  they  demonstrated  median  CRP  reductions  overall. 
Variable minimum and maximum values in each dose group indicated some patients continued to fall 
outside of the reference range at each weekly visit, often with skewed distributions. 
At the End of Study, the median CRP levels were 2.70, 4.20, 3.70, and 9.15 mg/L for patients receiving 
150 mg or 2 mg/kg, 300 mg or 4 mg/kg, 450 mg or 6 mg/kg, and 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, respectively with 
an overall median of 3.05 mg/L, all within reference ranges (less than 10 mg/L). Although canakinumab 
lowered median CRP levels for most patients, 600 mg or 8 mg/kg was not sufficient to reduce CRP levels 
in all patients. No age subgroup analysis was performed for CRP due to the low patient numbers and high 
inter-patient variability. 
Serum amyloid A levels 
SAA is a serum protein which shows elevations in levels in response to inflammation. The median SAA 
levels at baseline were 15.05, 22.20, 54.65 and 26.35 mg/L for patients receiving 150 mg or 2 mg/kg, 
300 mg or 4 mg/kg, 450 mg or 6 mg/kg, and 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, respectively. At Week 1, there was little 
median  change  for  patients  receiving  the  highest  doses,  suggesting  more  severe  disease  or  more 
resistance to treatment in patients who subsequently required dose escalation to the highest doses. 
At the Week 8 visit, the median SAA levels were 6.30, 11.80, 20.35, and 39.95 mg/L for patients receiving 
150 mg or 2 mg/kg, 300 mg or 4 mg/kg, 450 mg or 6 mg/kg, and 600 mg or 8 mg/kg, respectively. 
Variations  in  minimum  and  maximum  values  at  each  visit  indicated  some  patients  continued  to  have 
values outside of the reference range, especially in those in the two highest dose groups. 
Patients taking 150 mg or 2 mg/kg generally sustained their reductions over the duration of the study, 
while patients taking higher doses had more difficulty achieving and sustaining SAA reductions. Median 
SAA levels in all dose groups at End of Study (or Week 48) were: 5.20, 6.60, 43.30, and 16.25 mg/L in 
patients from those treated with the lowest to highest doses respectively, with an overall median of 5.85 
mg/L. The median SAA remained elevated in patients treated with the two highest doses suggesting that 
these higher doses may not be sufficient to normalize SAA in some patients. No subgroup analysis by age 
was made for SAA in consideration of low patient numbers and high inter-patient variability. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No  clinical  studies  in  special  populations  were  performed  to  support  this  application.  Data  regarding 
patients aged 2 to <4 years has been described above as these patients form part of the studies and 
specific analyses have been conducted.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 51/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive study 
Study D2201 
The primary endpoint of the study was the proportion of patients experiencing a relapse (CNS relapse 
and/or inflammatory relapse) during 6-month open label administration of canakinumab in patients with 
NOMID. 
Complete remission consisted of inflammatory remission and CNS remission. 
Inflammatory (systemic) remission was defined as follows (all criteria to be fulfilled): 
• 
• 
Serum CRP AND SAA ≤ 10 mg/L AND 
daily diary score (mean score/week) ≤ 2 
CNS remission was defined as follows: 
• 
Headache score (from the daily diary, mean score/week) < 0.5 
AND, when a lumbar puncture was performed: 
• 
normal values of white blood cell (WBC) count (≤ 15 cells/mm3) in CSF 
For complete responders, relapse (flare) criteria included: 
• 
• 
Headache score (from the daily diary, mean score/week) ≥ 0.8 OR 
Daily diary score (mean score/week) ≥ 3 
Patients whose body weight was > 40 kg received canakinumab 150 mg or 300 mg as a s.c. injection, and 
patients  with  a  body  weight  ≤  40  kg  received  canakinumab  2  mg/kg  or  4  mg/kg  s.c.  Patients  were 
administered canakinumab every 4 to 8 weeks. Patients who did not attain full response could be treated 
with escalated doses of 450 mg s.c. (6 mg/kg) or 600 mg s.c. (8 mg/kg). All patients were dose escalated 
to 600 mg or 8 kg/mg by end of study. 
Response at 6 months 
At 6 months (after doses were increased to 300 mg or 600 mg) no patients were in complete remission. 
Systemic  remission  was  achieved  by  3  out  of  6  patients.  No  patients  achieved  CNS  remission  (when 
lumbar puncture data was included). 
The proportion of patients experiencing a relapse during the first 6 months of the study was 50% (3 out 
of 6 patients). However, since two patients never achieved complete remission, it can be concluded that 
three out of the four patients achieving remission experienced a relapse (75%). 
Response at 12 months 
At one year (at maximum dose level of 600 mg) complete remission was achieved by 1 patient. Systemic 
remission was achieved by 2 out of 3 patients with available data. CNS remission was achieved by 1 out 
of 2 patients with available data (including LP data). Three patients met CNS remission clinical criteria but 
did not have an LP. These patients had elevated CSF WBC counts at all timepoints. One patient was not 
in CNS remission at one year. 
One-year data are not available for one patient, as the study was terminated prior to their completion of 
this timepoint. 
At end of study (at maximum dose level of 600 mg and total time on drug ranging between seven months 
and two years) systemic remission was achieved by three out of  five patients, CNS remission by one 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 52/84 
 
 
 
 
 
patient, and complete remission by one patient. A detailed analysis of the disease state and the dose 
adjustments is illustrated by Figure 3, which shows patient-specific remission and relapse occurrences 
together with the dose regimen and visit schedule. Although the patient-reported clinical components 
shows remissions most of the time, no patient stayed constantly in full remission state as defined by the 
protocol. This was mainly driven by the laboratory test components of the remission criterion (serum CRP 
and SAA ≤ 10 mg/L, and CSF WBC count ≤ 15 cells/mm3). 
Figure 3 Dot plot of disease remission and relapse 
Observations  in  the  first  three  NOMID  patients  enrolled  indicated  that  the  initial  dose  of  150  mg  in 
patients > 40 kg and 2 mg/kg for children ≤ 40 kg was insufficient to fully control the symptoms of the 
disease such as headaches and muscle aches, conjunctivitis/anterior uveitis and elevation of the acute 
phase reactants. In two patients, the symptoms responded to dose increases of canakinumab. In order to 
decrease  the  risk  of  disease  flares  when  initiating  canakinumab,  initial  canakinumab  treatment  was 
increased to 300 mg (dose for patients > 40 kg) or 4 mg/kg (dose for children ≤ 40 kg). 
All the patients enrolled in the study required a dose increase up to 600 mg (four patients) or 8 mg/kg 
(two  patients).  Overall,  response  data  (patient’s  pain  assessment,  investigator’s  and  self/parent 
assessment of global disease activity) of the five patients showed canakinumab to be effective at these 
doses.  Serum  inflammatory  markers  (SAA  and  CRP)  normalized/decreased  following  canakinumab 
dosing.  However,  in  some  patients  CRP  and  SAA  levels  normalization  was  not  sustained  during  the 
8-week dosing interval and CRP and SAA levels tended to increase again at 8 weeks post-dose while they 
were normal 4 weeks post-dose. Sustained normalization of SAA is likely to have important implications 
for  the  long-term  outcome  of  patients  since  prolonged  elevation  of  SAA  levels  is  associated  with  the 
development of AA amyloidosis which severely impairs renal function. Therefore, the dosing interval was 
shortened to 4-8 weeks at the discretion of the investigator in order to fully control inflammation. At the 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 53/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
time of study completion, the dosing interval was reduced to every four weeks (five patients) or six weeks 
(one patient). Overall, response data of the six patients showed canakinumab to be effective at doses of 
600 mg or 8 mg/kg. Serum inflammatory markers (SAA and CRP) showed improved control on higher 
drug doses and all but one patient achieved serum inflammatory remission at the end of the study. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The design of the studies, which were newly submitted with the present application, was similar to those 
submitted with the initial MAA since the same restrictions applied, namely, a small patient population, 
very  young  patients  with  severe  disease  (most  patients  under  4  years  of  age  were  of  the  NOMID 
phenotype) and complete placebo controlled studies being considered unethical. 
In the pooled analysis of studies D2306 and D2308, treatment with canakinumab was shown to be highly 
effective as the majority of patients achieved complete responses; of all canakinumab-naïve patients (n 
= 128), 85.2% (n= 109)  achieved a complete response. Efficacy was demonstrated across all doses, 
phenotypes, and age groups. In patients requiring dose-escalation up to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose, 43.8% 
achieved a complete response. 
Of the patients who did not achieve a complete response at this dose, 6 of 7 did show a partial response 
with symptom improvement. Complete responses were achieved by the majority of patients within 7 to 
11 days, regardless of dose or phenotype whilst patients aged 2 to <4 years took longer to achieve a 
response. 
Of the 159 patients who achieved a complete response and were included in the relapse assessment, 142 
(89.3%) had no relapse,  while 17 (10.7%) relapsed, regardless of whether they  had been previously 
treated  with  canakinumab  or  were  canakinumab-naïve.  The  Physician’s  Global  Assessment  of 
Autoinflammatory  Disease  Activity  at  Day  8  in  canakinumab-naive  patients,  showed  the  greatest 
response in FCAS patients (96.6% had absent or minimal symptoms), with high response rates in MWS 
(81.7%) and NOMID (78.9%) patients. 
Subgroup analyses performed by phenotype and age revealed that: 
• 
• 
The  majority  of  FCAS  (96.6%),  MWS  (88.3%)  and  NOMID  patients  (73.7%)  achieved  a 
complete response. 
22 patients required a dose escalation above currently approved doses, 10 of whom subsequently 
obtained a complete response on higher doses – 3 of 12 patients escalated to 450 mg or 6 mg/kg 
and 7 of 16 patients escalated to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg. 
• 
Although pediatric patients aged 2 to <4 years had more difficulty achieving a complete response, 
probably due to greater disease severity, 57.1% achieved a complete response with 6 out of 7 
patients dose-escalated beyond 150 mg or 2 mg/kg. 
• 
Similar rates of MWS and FCAS patients were relapse-free (92.9% and 91.9%, respectively, of 
those  patients  with  a  complete  response),  while  fewer  NOMID  patients  were  relapse-free 
(78.1%), likely to be a result of greater disease severity in NOMID patients. 
• 
50% of patients aged 2 to <4 years were relapse-free, which was clinically meaningful, albeit a 
lower response rate compared with other patients (approximately 90% in older age groups). This 
difference is likely to be due to greater disease severity, since 6 of 7 patients in this age group 
were of the NOMID phenotype. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 54/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Patients  aged  2  to  <4  years  saw  an  improvement  in  their  symptoms  as  determined  by  the 
physician’s  global  assessment  of  autoinflammatory  disease,  however  the  degree  of 
improvement in this age group was less pronounced than for older patients. 
• 
Dose adjustments were performed more frequently in patients with more severe phenotypes and 
in pediatric patients. This is in line with the observation that the maximal (age-proportional) dose 
for each patient was highest in NOMID and pediatric patients, and the observation is supported by 
pharmacodynamic data 
• 
The ability to treat patients with doses of canakinumab greater than currently licensed resulted in 
an increase in  complete response rates overall (an  additional 10 patients), and particularly in 
those patients of the NOMID phenotype (6 of the 10). 
• 
Overall, patients aged 2 to <4 years responded to treatment with canakinumab with clinically 
measureable improvements in disease symptoms, albeit at higher doses than older patients. This 
suggests that these patients would benefit from a higher initial dose of canakinumab in order to 
obtain a maximal response at an early timepoint. 
A total of 7 pediatric patients aged 2 to <4 has been studied; 2 patients in study D2308 (Japanese) and 
5 patients in study D2306. 6 of the 7 patients in this age group were of the NOMID phenotype. All patients 
weighed  less  than  15kg.  All  but  one  patient  (female,  MWS/NOMID)  required  up-titration  to  doses  > 
2mg/kg q8w.   
Subject        (Gender) 
JPN/0001/00003  (F) 
CAPS-Type 
NOMID 
Age (y)  Weight (kg) 
3 
12.2 
JPN/0001/00004  (M) 
NOMID 
BEL/0050/00001  (F) 
NOMID 
2 
3 
9.6 
10.7 
DEU/0007/00001  (F) 
MWS/NOMID 
3 
12.2 
FRA/0010/00013  (F) 
MWS 
FRA/0014/00006  (F) 
MWS/NOMID 
FRA/0014/00007  (F) 
NOMID 
3 
3 
3 
14 
11.9 
12 
Dose-Regimen 
2mg/kg q8w -> 
4mg/kg q8w * 
2mg/kg q8w -> 
8mg/kg q8w * 
2mg/kg q4w ->  
8mg/kg  q4w -> 
12 mg/kg q4w -> 
4mg/kg weekly 
2mg/kg q4w -> 
4mg/kg q4w -> 
8.4mg/kg q3w 
4mg/kg q4w -> 
4mg/kg q8w * 
2mg/kg q4w -> 
2mg/kg q8w * 
2mg/kg -> 
4mg/kg q3w -> 
8mg/kg q4w -> 
12mg/kg q4w -> 
4mg/kg weekly 
*Patients who achieved complete response 
The  efficacy  data  provided  by  the  MAH  indicate  that  the  dosing  regimen  required  by  individual  CAPS 
patients may depend on factors like disease severity, phenotype, age and a combination of these factors. 
All but one patient aged 2-3 years required dose escalation; of these, four required dose escalation to 
8mg/kg or above (3 patients had shorter dosing intervals and therefore a higher dose than 8mg/kg q8w). 
However, 85.7% (6 of 7 patients) of these patients were of the NOMID phenotype whose need for higher 
doses may correspond to a generally greater disease severity in NOMID patients. Albeit dose escalation, 
fewer  patients  aged  2-3  years  achieved  complete  response  (57.1%)  vs  older  patients.  However, 
significant symptom improvement was achieved in all subjects treated, and 50% remained relapse-free 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 55/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
throughout the study period. This may suggest that patients of this age group, especially those of the 
NOMID phenotype, may benefit from higher initial and maintenance doses of canakinumab. 
Conclusion on clinical efficacy 
The available data supports the efficacy of treatment with canakinumab in CAPS patients aged 2 to <4. In 
these studies the majority of patients required dose-escalation, often up to 8 mg/kg. It is acknowledged 
that  the  amount  of  data  for  patients  2-3  year  of  age  is  limited  reflecting  the  rarity  of  the  condition; 
additional  data  will  be  generated  in  the  context  of  the  ongoing  registry.  The  results  show  that  these 
patients perform similarly to the NOMID population in terms of efficacy, which would be expected as six 
of seven patients aged 2 to <4 years were of the NOMID phenotype. Considering the overlap of the three 
CAPS subtypes which represent a continuum of diseases, and given that patients of the youngest age tend 
to present a more severe disease (NOMID), the validity of the data for the CAPS indication is supported. 
The analyses results from the studies included in this submission furthermore show that with increasing 
the starting dose and allowing dose escalation up to 600mg, or 8mg/kg respectively, clinical meaningful 
improvement was achieved across all age and weight subgroups.  
2.3.3.  Clinical safety 
Pooled safety summaries were provided for NOMID, MWS, FCAS, and total CAPS for the long-term safety 
population from 5 CAPS trials (A2102, D2304, D2306, D2201 and D2308). 
Table 31 Studies used for safety meta-analysis 
Table 32 Exposure of patients by maximum dose level (CAPS pooled safety population) 
Patient exposure 
The  All  CAPS  pooled  safety  population  included  194  patients,  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of 
canakinumab. The duration of exposure by time interval was comparable in All CAPS patients overall and 
between patients within each CAPS phenotype (NOMID, MWS, and FCAS) until approximately 24 weeks. 
The percentage of patients with a duration of exposure greater than 24 weeks was greatest in the MWS 
phenotype group, which is likely to be a result of the greater number of studies enrolling these patients 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 56/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(D2304 only enrolled MWS phenotype patients and had a duration of 48 weeks) and a longer duration of 
such studies. 
Over 50% of patients from all phenotypes were exposed to canakinumab for at least 48 weeks. The mean 
duration of exposure was 507.3 days in the All CAPS safety population ranging between 29-1884 days. 
Mean duration of exposure was similar between NOMID and FCAS patients, with a longer duration of 
exposure in MWS patients. 
The mean number of doses of study drug received by patients in the All CAPS pooled safety population 
was 9.3, ranging from a minimum of 1 dose to a maximum of 43 doses (Table 14.3-1.2). MWS patients 
had the greatest mean, median, and maximum number of doses, while FCAS patients had the fewest. 
However, this should be put in perspective of the limited number of patients in the FCAS group. 
Safety evaluation 
The safety population comprised all patients who received at least one dose of study drug. Safety tables 
were  presented  by  assigned  dose  level  for  the  pooled  analysis.  The  safety  data  was  pooled  on  an 
individual patient level on raw data because some patients were enrolled into more than one study (i.e. 
these patients were reported once). Subgroup analyses for age (at the time of the enrollment in the 
study), and dose level was performed for phenotypes and all CAPS patients. Summaries were provided 
for AEs and abnormal laboratory data. 
Safety assessments 
Safety assessments consisted of collecting all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), with 
their severity and relationship to study drug, and pregnancies. They included the regular monitoring of 
hematology,  blood  chemistry  and  urine  in  addition  to  regular  assessments  of  vital  signs,  physical 
condition and body weight 
Adverse events  
Almost all patients (94.3%) experienced at least one adverse event (AE) (see table below). The most 
commonly affected primary system organ class (SOC) in the All CAPS safety population was infections 
and infestations. 
The  most  frequently  reported  infections  were  nasopharyngitis,  rhinitis  and  upper  respiratory  tract 
infection (36.1%, 17.5% and 17.0% of patients, respectively), followed by gastroenteritis (12.4% of 
patients)  and  bronchitis  (11.3%  of  patients).  Other  commonly  affected  SOCs  in  order  of  decreasing 
frequency in the All CAPS safety population were: gastrointestinal disorders (mainly driven by events of 
diarrhea  (27/194,  13.9%),  nausea  (20/194,  10.3%),  and  abdominal  pain  and  abdominal  pain  upper 
(30/194, 15.5%)), musculoskeletal & connective tissue disorders (mainly driven by arthralgia (28/194, 
14.4%) and back pain (18/194, 9.3%)), nervous system disorders (mainly headache (46/194, 23.7%) 
and dizziness (10/194, 5.2%)), skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders (mainly acne (10/194, 5.2%), 
eczema (11/194, 5.7%), rash (9/194, 4.6%) and urticaria (10/194, 5.2%)), and respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal disorders (mainly oropharyngeal pain (24/194, 12.4%)). 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 57/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33 Incidence of AEs by primary SOC (CAPS pooled safety population) 
By phenotype 
The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  comparable  among  phenotypes.  MWS  and  NOMID  patients  had 
comparable  rates  of  infection  and  infestations  with  a  marginally  lower  incidence  reported  in  FCAS 
patients. A review of AEs did not yield any adverse event or event groups (including infections) to be 
associated to a specific phenotype, other than events which would be related to the underlying disease. 
It should be noted that severe arthropathy and early CNS inflammation are particular features of the 
NOMID phenotype, as is cochlear damage which may affect balance and result in dizziness. However, the 
causality of vertigo remains to be determined. In CAPS patients with a pre-existing history of vertigo, 
who have adapted over time, the prescription of an IL-1 antagonist can lead to a return of symptoms due 
to a reduction in cochlear inflammation. This improves as patient re-adapts to the reduced inflammation 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 58/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Goldbach-Mansky et al 2006). Since vertigo may be an event due to the underlying disease as well as 
due to the drug, it has been identified as a potential risk in the canakinumab Risk Management Plan. 
By age 
AEs were comparable among the different cohorts by phenotype and by age with no different patterns of 
AEs. There were small numbers of patients in some age groups by phenotype. 
AEs in the 2-3 years age group are separately shown in the table below in addition to the total population. 
Patients aged 2-3 years experienced a greater incidence AEs within the infections and infestations SOC, 
but there was no particular infection (preferred term) of note. The limited data for children aged 2-3 
years does not allow a firm conclusion regarding the incidence of infections AEs compared with the total 
population. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 59/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 34 AE by preferred term in the 2-3 years age group and total CAPS population (Safety 
population) 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 60/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By dose 
Events of the infections and infestations SOC were more frequently reported in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg 
dose  group  than  in  other  dose  groups,  although  there  was  no  specific  infection  event  driving  this. 
Gastrointestinal disorders, skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders and investigations were also more 
frequently reported for the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group than in other dose groups. 
Of the investigation AEs, elevations in CSF blood cell counts were only seen in the highest dose group 
which consisted primarily of NOMID patients. These patients are likely to have central nervous system 
inflammation due to the underlying CAPS phenotype, and these AEs were asymptomatic. 
Events which were more frequently reported for the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group than for the total 
population were ear pain, dry lip, vomiting, gastroenteritis, respiratory tract infection, upper respiratory 
tract infection, dizziness, cough, dry, skin, acne and a range of investigations. Of these events, there was 
one reported severe event (dizziness). 
Severity of AEs 
Most AEs were mild to moderate in severity throughout SOCs and across phenotypes with few severe 
AEs. Incidence rates were comparable and there were similar patterns of AEs across phenotypes. Few 
severe infections and infestations were reported in NOMID (n=3 [5.8%]), MWS (n=6 [5.5%]), or FCAS 
(n=1  [3.2%])  patients.  More  cardiac  disorders  (palpitations  and  tachycardia)  were  found  in  MWS 
patients than in other phenotypes: 4 (3.6%) mild, 1 (0.9%) moderate, and 1 (0.9%) severe. One (1.9%) 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 61/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
severe  cardiac  disorder  (sinoatrial  block)  was  reported  in  a  NOMID  patient.  Mild  gastrointestinal 
disorders were reported more frequently in MWS (n=44 [40.0%]) and NOMID (n=19 [36.5%]) patients 
than FCAS (n=2 [6.5%]) patients. Rates of moderate gastrointestinal disorders were comparable across 
phenotypes. Only one severe gastrointestinal disorder (diarrhoea) was reported in a MWS patient. 
Table 35 Severity of AEs by preferred trm (CAPS pooled safety population) 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
None  of  the  patients  in  the  studies  died;  26  (13.4%)  patients  experienced  an  SAE.  Few  patients 
discontinued due to AEs or SAEs. 
Table 36 Number of patients who died, experienced serious AEs, or discontinued due to AEs 
(CAPS pooled safety population) 
By age 
In general, the incidences of SAEs were similar in children 2-3 years (n=2 [28.6%]) and 4-11 year olds 
(n=7 [25.0%]), while older age groups reported a lower rate of SAEs. 
Few SAEs were reported in 2-3 year olds; one (16.7%) NOMID patient experienced 2 SAEs (bronchitis 
and H1N1 influenza) and one (100.0%) MWS patient experienced tonsillitis. 
In  4-11  year  olds,  two  (25.0%)  NOMID  patients  experienced  one  SAE  each  (pneumonia  and 
staphylococcal  infection)  and  five  (31.3%)  MWS  patients  experienced  9  SAEs  (vertigo,  pyrexia, 
abdominal  abscess,  appendicitis,  Epstein-Barr  virus  infection,  meningitis  mumps,  parovirus  infection, 
pneumonia,  and  sepsis).  The  severe  sepsis  event  was  reported  in  a  9  year  old  female  MWS  patient 
(D2306-0010-00014) and was reported by the investigator as being secondary to a moderate urinary 
tract infection. The investigator suspected this and the urinary tract infection of being study drug related. 
No treatment was administered for the sepsis. Both events resolved, but the patient discontinued from 
the study as a result of the urinary tract infection. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 62/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 12-17 year olds, 3 (8.8%) patients experienced SAEs; one (5.3%) NOMID patient (tonsillitis) and two 
(15.4%) MWS patients (chronic tonsillitis and nephrotic syndrome). 
In patients 18-59 years of age, 13 (11.5%) patients had SAEs; 3 (15.8%) NOMID patients (sinoatrial 
block, pain, lower respiratory tract infection, headache, depression) and 9 (12.5%) MWS patients (MWS, 
vertigo,  blindness  unilateral,  radicular  cyst,  cellulitis,  pneumonia,  exposure  via  father,  post  lumbar 
puncture  syndrome,  hepatitis  C  antibody  positive,  intraocular  pressure  increased,  transaminase 
increased,  carpal  tunnel  syndrome,  headache,  nerve  root  compression,  pregnancy,  miscarriage  of 
partner, and abortion induced). One (4.5%) FCAS patient had an abortion induced. 
One (8.3%) MWS patient ≥ 60 years had a SAE of forearm fracture. 
By dose 
In general, there was  no  clear direct correlation with increasing frequency of  SAEs by dose. Patients 
receiving  450  mg  or  6  mg/kg  had  the  highest  incidence  of  SAEs  overall  (n=3/7  [42.9%]).  Patients 
receiving the highest dose of 600 mg or 8 mg/kg did not experience a disproportionate rate of SAEs 
compared with those receiving lower doses. The number of patients escalated to higher doses was small 
within some phenotypes. 
The most frequently reported SOC in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group was infections and infestations 
(three events in two patients; H1N1 infection, bronchitis and staphylococcal infection,). Other SAEs were 
nerve root compressions, vertigo and headache. 
Table 37 Incidence of SAEs by dose and phenotype  
Opportunistic infections 
Using a broad search criterion for potential opportunistic infections, 43 (22.2%) possible patients were 
identified  for  the  All  CAPS  safety  population  and  at  comparable  rates  between  phenotypes  (19.2% 
[NOMID] to 23.6% [FCAS]). Most of the reported events were viral infectious disorders. 
The  incidence  of  potential  opportunistic  infections  was  greater  in  the  2-3  years  and  4-11  years  age 
groups as opposed to older children, or adults. Potential opportunistic infections were reported for four 
patients (57.1%) aged 2-3 years (Listing 14.3.2-2.2), as opposed to 21.4% of patients in the 4-11 years 
age group, 8.8% of patients aged 12-17 years and 22.2% of patients in the total CAPS population. In the 
2-3 years age group, there was one case of varicella (mild and not suspected of being study drug related 
in this unvaccinated patient), one viral infection (mild, not suspected of being study drug related), one 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 63/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient had both influenza and H1N1 infection (the former was mild and not suspected of being study 
drug related, the second was severe, and a SAE, but again, not suspected of being study drug related) 
and the fourth patient experienced molluscum contagiosum which was mild in severity and not suspected 
of being study drug related. All of these patients were of the NOMID phenotype, and three were in the 
600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group. 
Upon medical review of the events, none was confirmed to be an opportunistic infection. 
Immunogenicity/ allergenicity 
Immunogenecity/allergenicity related AEs occurred at a low rate in the All CAPS safety population, with 
12 cases (6.2%) retrieved under the SMQ narrow search: angioedema.  
Urticaria  occurred  in  4  (7.7%)  NOMID  patients  and  5  (4.5%)  MWS  patients.  There  was  one  (0.9%) 
incidence  each  of  pharyngeal  oedema  and  swelling  face  in  MWS  patients.  The  pharyngeal  oedema 
occurred  in  an  18  year  old  female  patient  in  the  150  mg  or  2  mg/kg  dose  group.  The  patient 
(D2306-0001-00007) had mild pharyngeal oedema suspected by the investigator of being study drug 
related. The event was treated with concomitant medication and lasted 13 days. The AE of face swelling 
was  reported  for  a  6  year  old  girl  in  the  600  mg  or  8  mg/kg  dose  group.  The  event  was  mild,  not 
suspected of being study drug related by the investigator, had a duration of 134 days, but no action was 
taken. 
The patient received 8 mg/kg canakinumab on the day the event commenced, and continued at the dose 
level for the remainder of the study (Study D2306). No FCAS patients experienced any of these AEs. 
One  patient  in  the  2-3  years  age  group  had  an  immunogenicity-related  AE  (mild  urticarial).  Three 
patients (10.7%) in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group had an immunogenicity-related AE (two cases of 
urticaria and one of swollen face). 
No patients in studies D2201 or D2306 tested positive for anti-ACZ885 antibodies. In three out of 19 
patients in study D2308, anti-drug antibodies were detected in one post-dose visit during the core phase 
(and at no visits in the first extension phase, up to 48 weeks). Of the three patients testing positive for 
antibodies, one experienced a concomitant AE; mild urticaria with a duration of two days. The patient has 
received subsequent canakinumab treatment and is ongoing in the study. This antibody production was 
therefore considered to be transient based upon the available data, with Study D2308 ongoing at the time 
of this submission. 
Severe injection site reactions 
There were no AEs reported in the All CAPS pooled safety population. 
Malignancies 
Three patients had events under the neoplasms, benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and 
plyps)  SOC.  These  events  were  cholesterin  granuloma  of  the  middle  ear,  choroid  plexus  papilloma, 
melanocytic naevus, and skin papilloma. None of these events were malignant. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Only 6 (3.1%) patients discontinued due to AEs in the CAPS pooled safety population. There were no 
discernable patterns in rates of discontinuations due to AEs across phenotypes in MWS (n=4 [3.6%]), 
NOMID (n=1 [1.9%]), or FCAS (n=1 [3.2%]) patients or by dose 150mg (n=3), 300 mg (n=1), or 450 
mg (n=2). 
By age 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 64/84 
 
 
 
 
 
No patients under 4 years of age discontinued from the studies as a result of an AE. One 9-year old 
patient discontinued due to a urinary tract infection (mild in severity and suspected by the investigator of 
being study drug related), and two 16 year olds discontinued, one because she was pregnant, the second 
as a result of proteinuria and nephrotic syndrome, both events were severe, but neither was suspected 
of being study drug related. 
By dose 
No patients in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group discontinued from the study as a result of an AE. Three 
patients in the 150 or 2 mg/kg dose group, one from the 300 mg or 4 mg/kg dose group, and two from 
the 450 mg or 6 mg/kg dose group discontinued due to adverse events. 
Table 38 Incidence of AEs leading to discontinuation of study treatment by phenotype (CAPS 
pooled safety population) 
SAEs leading to discontinuation 
Only 2 (1.8%) patients discontinued due to SAEs in the CAPS pooled safety population both MWS 
patients, due to MWS (patient D2306-0002-00001) and nephrotic syndrome (patient 
D2306-0012-00006). The patient reporting nephrotic syndrome also had a history of renal amyloidosis. 
Laboratory findings 
Hematology 
There were very few cases of clinically notable hematological abnormalities in the CAPS pooled safety 
population overall (see table below). The most frequently reported abnormality (12.6% of patients) was 
an elevated eosinophil count. Other abnormalities were very infrequent. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 65/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abnormalities were predominantly seen for the NOMID and MWS patients, and the only abnormalities 
seen  for  FCAS  patients  were  elevated  eosinophil  levels.  The  NOMID  and  MWS  groups  had  similar 
abnormality  profiles,  although  there  was  a  greater  incidence  of  elevated  eosinophils  in  the  NOMID 
treatment group. 
Table 39 Hematology:  Patients  with  clinically  notable  abnormalities,  newly  occurring 
post-baseline (CAPS pooled safety population) 
 By age 
There were too few cases of clinically notable abnormalities for an accurate comparison by age groups. 
Patients in the 2-3 years age group had the lowest incidence of hematological abnormalities. Notably 
high eosinophil counts were reported for 3 patients (42.9%) and notably low lymphocyte counts by 1 
patient (14.3%). There were no abnormalities based upon CTC grade in the youngest patients. 
In  the  4-11  years  age  group,  seven  patients  had  elevated  eosinophil  counts  (25.9%),  notably  low 
absolute  neutrophils  (≤  0.9  x  LLN)  were  reported  for  two  patients  (7.4%)  and  (<  1x109/L)  for  one 
patient (3.7%). A low white blood cell count was reported for one patient (3.7%) and a high WBC count 
for two patients (7.4%). There were no CTC grade 4 abnormalities in this age group, and only 1 patient 
had a grade 3 abnormality (a MWS patient had a grade 3 neutrophil count, <1.0 - 0.5 x 109/L). 
In adult age groups no hematological abnormality was reported for more than 10% of patients. 
By dose 
The pattern of clinically notable abnormalities was similar across the dose groups. There was a greater 
incidence of clinically notable abnormalities in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group, however the low 
patient numbers in this group, and high proportion of NOMID patients is likely to affect the results. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 66/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical chemistry 
Overall, there were low rates of clinically notable abnormalities (Table 40). The most commonly reported 
abnormalities  were  elevated  ALT,  AST,  alkaline  phosphatase  and  creatinine  clearance  decreased 
(13.0-13.5%). There were no transaminase elevations in conjunction with bilirubin elevations. 
Two patients (both in the MWS group) had ALT levels greater than 10 x the ULN and one of these also had 
an AST level greater than 10 x the ULN. This patient experienced the elevations for a single visit only, and 
at the subsequent visits values were within normal ranges. The second patient with an ALT level greater 
than 10 x the ULN concomitantly had an AST level 8 times the ULN. Values gradually decreased and for 
the  last  795  days  of  assessments,  the  patients  ALT  and  AST  levels  were  within  normal  ranges.  The 
patient had elevated ALT (greater than 5 x ULN) and AST (greater than 3 x ULN) levels at baseline. 
Abnormalities were generally comparable across phenotypes, although MWS tended to have a higher 
incidence for some abnormalities including elevated ALT and GGT. 
Table 40 Biochemistry and urianalysis: Patients with clinically notable abnormalities, newly 
occurring post-baseline (CAPS pooled safety population) 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 67/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By age 
There were few clinically notable abnormalities reported in 2-3 year olds. Furthermore, due to the nature 
of the disease, 6 of 7 patients were of NOMID phenotype, thus the data in this age group may be more 
representative  of  the  NOMID  phenotype  rather  than  the  CAPS  population  as  a  whole.  One  (16.7%) 
patient experienced an elevated ALT and an elevated AST, neither elevation was greater than 3 x ULN. 
One patient had an alkaline phosphatase level at least 2 x ULN but less than 3 x ULN, and 3 patients had 
positive dipsticks for protein. All events were reported for patients of the NOMID phenotype. 
In 4-11 year olds, there were low rates of clinically notable abnormalities and none in NOMID or FCAS 
patients. Of note, 2 MWS  patients each experienced GGT ≥ ULN.  In addition, one MWS patient each 
experienced elevated ALT > ULN and AST > ULN, and four patients had a clinically notable decrease in 
creatinine clearance. 
In 12-17 year olds, there were low rates of clinically notable abnormalities and none reported in FCAS 
patients. Of note, 2 NOMID patients experienced AST > ULN. There was also one NOMID patient each 
who experienced ALT > ULN, GGT ≥ULN, GGT ≥3 x ULN and GGT ≥5 x ULN. 7 patients had a decrease 
in creatinine clearance. 
In 18-59 year olds, overall there was an increased incidence of clinically notable abnormalities compared 
with children. In these adults, the MWS and NOMID phenotypes were quite comparable, although MWS 
patients  had  higher  incidence  rates  for  some  abnormalities.  In  FCAS  patients,  there  was  a  lower 
incidence of abnormalities overall. 
In patients, 60+ years, there were few abnormalities reported and numbers of patients were small. 
By dose 
In general, there was no clear relationship of clinically notable abnormalities with increasing doses and 
no disproportionate incidence of clinically notable abnormalities in patients receiving 600 mg or 8 mg/kg 
doses. In the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group three patients (10.7%) had alkaline phosphatase levels at 
least 2xULN, 1 patient had a GGT level at least 5 x ULN and 5 (18.5%) patients had a decrease in 
creatinine clearance. Three patients (10.7%) had ALT levels greater than the ULN and four (14.3%) had 
AST levels greater than the ULN, however no patients had transaminase levels greater than 3x ULN. Four 
patients (16.7%) had a positive urine dipstick test for protein. Abnormalities for NOMID patients in this 
dose group were at a similar incidence and severity to those for MWS patients. The incidence of clinically 
notable abnormalities was similar to the 150 mg or 2 mg/kg dose group, although the severity of 
abnormalities was less in the highest dose group. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Of  the  total  population  analyzed  (N=194),  94.3%  of  patients  experienced  at  least  one  adverse  event 
(hereof 42.8% which were suspected by the investigator to be study drug related); the majority of these 
events were mild and moderate in severity. No patients died in the CAPS pooled safety population while 
26 (13.4%) patients experienced an SAE. Overall, NOMID and MWS patients had comparable incidence 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 68/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rates of AEs and SAEs, with fewer FCAS patients reporting events, which is consistent with the disease 
continuum in CAPS. 
Few patients discontinued due to AEs or SAEs: only 6 (3.1%) patients discontinued due to AEs in the 
CAPS  pooled  safety  population  with  no  discernible  patterns  in  rates  of  discontinuations  across 
phenotypes. All events were single incidences. 2 patients discontinued due to SAEs, both MWS patients; 
one for Muckle-Wells syndrome and one for nephrotic syndrome. 
Safety results for patients aged 2-3 years were similar to the total population when taking into account 
a small sample size. AEs within the infections and infestations SOC were more frequently reported in the 
youngest age group, however all AEs were predominantly mild to moderate in severity and not suspected 
of being study drug related by the investigator. The most frequently reported AEs for patients aged 2-3 
years  were  nasopharyngitis  and  rhinitis.  Two  patients  in  the  2-3  years  age  group  experienced  three 
SAEs, however, no patients in this age group discontinued from studies. 
Patients in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group showed a similar safety profile to patients with a diagnosis 
of NOMID. This is probably because two thirds of patients receiving the highest dose were of the NOMID 
phenotype, although results are confounded by the small number of patients in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg 
dose  group.  Upper  respiratory  tract  infection,  cough,  arthralgia,  gastroenteritis  and  nasopharyngitis 
were the most frequently reported AEs for the higher dose group.The overall severity and relatedness of 
AEs to study drug (as reported by the investigator) were similar to the NOMID population. Five patients 
in the highest dose group experienced seven SAEs, but no patients discontinued due to AEs. 
Conclusion on clinical safety 
Based on the available data across all studies in CAPS patients, the safety profile in patients <4 years of 
age appears similar to the overall study population with no particular safety signal detected for younger 
age or higher dose groups. AEs within the infections and infestations SOC were more frequently reported 
in this age group, with nasopharyngitis and rhinitis being most frequently reported. Furthermore, patients 
in  the  600  mg  or  8  mg/kg  dose  group  showed  a  similar  safety  profile  to  patients  with  a  diagnosis  of 
NOMID.  Therefore,  it  is  concluded  by  the  CHMP  that  the  available  safety  data  supports  the  use  of 
canakinumab in paediatric patients in the age range 2-4 years, as well as the use of higher doses as 
proposed by the applicant. It is acknowledged that data is limited with regard to the application of high 
maintenance doses over longer treatment periods. The ongoing ß-Confident registry (CACZ885D2401) 
will  add  to  the  knowledge  through  generation  of  long-term  safety  data  of  canakinumab  treatment  in 
routine clinical practice. 
2.4.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated Risk Management Plan within this variation procedure which included a 
risk minimisation plan. 
Summary of the risk management plan  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 69/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 70/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 71/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the following changes to the Product Information (PI), to which the CHMP agreed (new 
text shown as underlined, deleted text as strikethrough): 
Section 4.1 Therapeutic indications of the SmPC 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 72/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ilaris is indicated for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in adults, 
adolescents and children aged 42 years and older with body wweight above 15kg with body weight of 
7.5 kg or above, including: 
− 
− 
Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria (FCU) 
presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
− 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration of the SmPC 
Adults, adolescents and children aged 4 years and older 
The recommended dose of Ilaris is 150 mg for CAPS patients with body weight > 40 kg and 2 mg/kg for 
CAPS patients with body weight ≥ 15 mg and < 40 kg. 
The recommended starting dose of Ilaris for CAPS patients is: 
Adults, adolescents and children ≥ 4 years of age: 
− 
− 
− 
Children 2 to < 4 years of age: 
− 
150 mg for patients with body weight > 40 kg 
2 mg/kg for patients with body weight ≥ 15 kg and ≤ 40 kg 
4 mg/kg for patients with body weight ≥ 7.5 kg and < 15 kg 
4 mg/kg for patients with body weight ≥ 7.5 kg 
This is administered every eight weeks as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. 
For patients with a starting dose of 150 mg or 2 mg/kg, Iif a satisfactory clinical response (resolution of 
rash and other generalised inflammatory symptoms) has not been achieved 7 days after treatment start, 
a second dose of Ilaris at 150 mg or 2 mg/kg can be considered. If a full treatment response is 
subsequently achieved, the intensified dosing regimen of 300 mg orand 4 mg/kg every 8 weeks should 
be maintained. If a satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved 7 days after this increased dose, 
a third dose of Ilaris at 300 mg or 4 mg/kg can be considered. If a full treatment response is subsequently 
achieved, maintaining the intensified dosing regimen of 600 mg or 8 mg/kg every 8 weeks should be 
considered, based on individual judgment. 
For patients with a starting dose of 4 mg/kg, if a satisfactory clinical response has not been achieved 
7 days after treatment start, a second dose of Ilaris 4 mg/kg can be considered. If a full treatment 
response is subsequently achieved, maintaining the intensified dosing regimen of 8 mg/kg every 8 weeks 
should be considered, based on individual judgment. 
Clinical experience with dosing at intervals of less than 4 weeks or at doses above 600 mg or 8 mg/kg is 
limited. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
Ilaris is not recommended for use in children below 42 years of age or with body weight below 15 kg due 
to a lack of clinical data. 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use of the SmPC 
Serious iInfections 
Infections, predominantly of the upper respiratory tract, in some instances serious, have been reported 
more frequently with Ilaris than with placebo. All infections responded to standard therapy. In 
canakinumab-treated patients with serious and systemic infections, a physiological inflammatory 
response was maintained as evidenced by concomitant C-reactive protein (CRP) elevation and fever. A 
blunted inflammatory response to infections cannot be excluded and increased vigilance is therefore 
recommended. Isolated cases of unusual or opportunistic infections have been reported during Ilaris 
treatment. However, the causal relationship of Ilaris to these events is unknown. No unusual or 
opportunistic infections were reported with Ilaris. 
It is unknown whether the use of interleukin-1 (IL-1) inhibitors such as Ilaris increases the risk of 
reactivation of tuberculosis or of opportunistic infections. Before initiation of therapy, all patients must be 
evaluated for both active and latent tuberculosis infection. Particularly in adult patients, this evaluation 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 73/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should include a detailed medical history. and aAppropriate screening tests (e.g. tuberculin skin test, 
interferon gamma release assay or chest X-ray) should be performed in all patients (local 
recommendations may apply). Patients must be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis 
during and after treatment with Ilaris. All patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs or 
symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis (e.g. persistent cough, weight loss, subfebrile temperature) appear 
during Ilaris therapy. In the event of conversion from a negative to a positive PPD test, especially in 
high-risk patients, alternative means of screening for a tuberculosis infection should be considered. 
Neutropenia 
Neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count [ANC] < 1.5 x 109/l) has been observed with medicinal products 
that inhibit IL-1, including Ilaris commonly with another medicinal product that inhibits IL-1 used in a 
patient population (rheumatoid arthritis) other than CAPS. Neutropenia was observed commonly in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (not an approved use) who were administered Ilaris subcutaneously in 
clinical studies. Treatment with Ilaris should not be initiated in patients with neutropenia. It is 
recommended that neutrophil counts be assessed prior to initiating treatment, after 1 to 2 months, and 
periodically thereafter while receiving Ilaris. If a patient becomes neutropenic the ANC should be 
monitored closely and treatment discontinuation should be considered. 
Malignancies 
Malignancy events have been reported in patients treated with Ilaris during clinical development. The risk 
for the development of malignancies with anti-interleukin (IL)-1 therapy is unknown. A potential risk 
cannot be excluded in patients treated with Ilaris. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Cases suggestive of hypersensitivity reactions with Ilaris therapy have been reported in clinical trials. The 
majority of these events were mild in severity. During clinical development of Ilaris in over 2,300 patients, 
nNo anaphylactoid or anaphylactic reactions have beenwere reported. However, the risk of severe 
hypersensitivity reactions, which is not uncommon for injectable proteins, cannot be excluded (see 
section 4.3). 
Hepatic function 
Rare, mMild, transient and asymptomatic cases of elevations of serum transaminases or bilirubin have 
been reported in clinical trials (see section 4.8). 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects of the SmPC 
Summary of the safety profile 
Approximately 830 Over 2,300 subjects have been treated with Ilaris, including approximately 
250 children (aged 2 to 17 years) in blinded and open-label clinical trials in patients with CAPS, patients 
with other IL-1 beta mediated diseases, and healthy volunteers. Safety data from 104 CAPS patients is 
available. A total of 10 serious adverse reactions that were considered by the investigator as related to 
treatment were reported during the clinical programme in CAPS, of which tThe most frequent adverse 
drug reactions eventswere infections (e.g. (3) and vertigo (2). The most frequently reported adverse 
events included upper respiratory tract infections and nasopharyngitis). The majority of the events were 
mild to moderate across all CAPS studies. Dose and duration of treatment have no impact on the type or 
frequency of adverse events. No impact on the type or frequency of adverse drug reactions was seen with 
longer-term treatment. 
Cases suggestive of hypersensitivity reactions with Ilaris therapy have been reported in patients treated 
with canakinumab in clinical trials (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
A total of 104194 adult and paediatric CAPS patients (including FCAS/FCU, MWS, and NOMID/CINCA) 
have received Ilaris in clinical trials. The safety of canakinumabIlaris compared with placebo was 
investigated in a pivotal phase III trial that consisted of an 8-week, open-label period (Part I), a 24-week, 
randomised, double-blind and placebo-controlled withdrawal period (Part II), and a 16-week open label 
period on canakinumabIlaris (Part III). All patients were treated with Ilaris 150 mg subcutaneous or 
2 mg/kg if body weight was ≥ 15 kg and ≤ 40 kg. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 74/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Tabulated summary of reported adverse drug reactions from pivotal CAPS clinical 
trial 
Part I 
canakinumab
Ilaris  
Nn=35 
n(%) 
Part II 
canakinumab
Ilaris  
Nn =15 
n(%) 
canakinuma
bIlaris  
Nn =16 
n(%) 
Part III 
canakinuma
bIlaris  
Nn =31 
n(%) 
4 (11.4%) 
0 
Infections and infestations 
Very common  Nasopharyngitis 
Common 
Urinary tract 
infection 
Upper respiratory 
tract infection 
Viral infection 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Very common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Vertigo 
1 (2.9%) 
3 (8.6%) 
2 (5.8%) 
3 (8.6%) 
Injection site 
reaction# 
5 (33.3%) 
2 (13.3%) 
3 (18.8%) 
0 
4 (12.9%) 
1 (3.2%) 
1 ( 6.7%) 
1 (6.3%) 
1 (3.2%) 
2 (13.3%) 
3 (18.8%) 
1 (3.2%) 
0 
0 
3 (9.7%) 
2 (13.3%) 
1 (6.3%) 
1 (3.2%) 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
# Solicited through physician questionnaires 
* All events resolved despite continued treatment with Ilaris. 
Dizziness/vertigo 
3 (8.6%) 
0 
0 
3 (9.7%) 
Cases suggestive of hypersensitivity reactions with Ilaris therapy have been reported in patients treated 
with canakinumab in clinical trials. The majority of these events were mild in severity. No anaphylactoid 
or anaphylactic reactions have been reported. 
During clinical trials with canakinumabIlaris mean values for haemoglobin increased and decreasedthose 
for white blood cell, neutrophils and platelets decreased. These changes were potentially due to a 
decrease in inflammation and not considered to be of clinical relevance. 
Elevations of transaminases have been observed rarely in CAPS patients. 
Asymptomatic and mild elevations of serum bilirubin have been observed in CAPS patients treated 
with canakinumabIlaris without concomitant elevations of transaminases. 
In the long-term, open-label studies with dose escalation, events of infections (gastroenteritis, 
respiratory tract infection, upper respiratory tract infection), vomiting and dizziness were more frequently 
reported in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group than in other dose groups. 
Paediatric population 
Twenty threeThere arewere 69s paediatric CAPS patients (42-17 years of age) included in the studies. 
Overall, there were no clinically meaningful differences in the safety and tolerability profile of Ilaris in 
paediatric patients compared to the overall CAPS population (comprised of adult and pediatric patients, 
N=194), demonstrated similar efficacy and safety to adult patients. Specificallyincluding, the overall 
frequency and severity of infectious episodes in paediatric patients were comparable to that in the adult 
population. Infections of the upper respiratory tract waswere the most frequently reported infection 
events. 
Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties of the SmPC 
Sustained efficacy for more than 3 years was observed for the initial four patients with continued 
administration of canakinumab. 
Two open-label, uncontrolled, long-term phase III studies were performed. One was a safety, tolerability, 
and efficacy study of canakinumab in patients with CAPS. The total treatment duration ranged from 
6 months to 2 years. The other was an open-label study with canakinumab to evaluate the efficacy and 
safety in Japanese CAPS patients for 24 weeks, with an extension phase up to 48 weeks. The primary 
objective was to assess the proportion of patients who were free of relapse at week 24, including those 
patients whose dose was increased. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 75/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pooled efficacy analysis for these two studies, 65.6% of patients who had not previously been 
treated with canakinumab achieved complete response at 150 mg or 2 mg/kg, while 85.2% of patients 
achieved complete response at any dose. Of the patients treated with 600 mg or 8 mg/kg (or even 
higher), 43.8% achieved complete response. Fewer patients aged 2 to < 4 years achieved complete 
response (57.1%) than older paediatric and adult patients. Of the patients who had achieved a complete 
response, 89.3% maintained response without relapsing. 
Experience from individual patients who achieved a complete response following dose escalation to 
600 mg (8 mg/kg) every 8 weeks suggests that a higher dose may be beneficial in patients not achieving 
complete response or not maintaining complete response with the recommended doses (150 mg or 
2 mg/kg for patients ≥ 15 kg and ≤ 40 kg). An increased dose was administered more frequently to 
patients aged 2 to < 4 years and to patients with NOMID/CINCA symptoms compared with FCAS or MWS. 
No antibodies to canakinumab have been detected in CAPS patients treated with canakinumab. 
Paediatric population 
The CAPS trials with canakinumabIlaris included a total of 2369 paediatric patients with an age range 
from 42 to 17 years (approximately half of them treated on an mg/kg basis). Overall, there were no 
clinically meaningful differences in the efficacy, safety and tolerability profile of canakinumabIlaris in 
paediatric patients was comparablecompared to adult patientsthe overall CAPS population. The majority 
of paediatric patients achieved improvement in clinical symptoms and objective markers of inflammation 
(e.g. SAA and CRP). 
Immunogenicity 
No anaphylactic reactions were observed in patients treated with Ilaris. 
Antibodies against Ilaris were observed in approximately 1.5% of the patients treated with Ilaris for 
CAPS. 
Section 5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties of the SmPC 
The peak serum canakinumab concentration (Cmax) occurred approximately 7 days following single 
subcutaneous administration of 150 mg in adult CAPS patients. The mean terminal half-life was 26 days. 
Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis in the CAPS population, including children from of 
42 years of age, the absolute bioavailability of subcutaneously administered canakinumab was estimated 
to be 7066%. The clearance (CL) and distribution volume (Vss) of canakinumab varied according to body 
weight. and They were estimated to be 0.17 l/day and 6.012 litres, respectively, in a typical CAPS patient 
of body weight 70 kg. 
The expected accumulation ratio was 1.3-fold following 6 months of subcutaneous administration of 
150 mg canakinumab every 8 weeks. Exposure parameters (such as AUC and Cmax) increased in 
proportion to dose over the dose range of 0.30 to 10.0 mg/kg given as intravenous infusion or from 150 
to 600 mg as subcutaneous injection. Predicted steady-state exposure values were slightly higher in the 
weight category 40-70 kg compared to the weight categories < 40 kg and > 70 kg. 
Paediatric population 
Peak concentrations of canakinumab occurred between 2 to 7 days following single subcutaneous 
administration of canakinumab 150 mg or 2 mg/kg in paediatric patients. The terminal half-life ranged 
from 22.9 to 25.7 days, similar to the pharmacokinetic properties observed in adults. Based on the 
population pharmacokinetic modelling analysis, the pharmacokinetics of canakinumab in children aged 2 
to < 4 years were similar to those in patients 4 years of age and older. 
Section 5.3 Preclinical safety data of the SmPC 
Since canakinumab binds to marmoset (C. jacchus) and human IL-1 beta with a similar affinity, the safety 
of canakinumab has been studied in the marmoset. No undesirable effects of canakinumab were seen 
following twice weekly administration to marmosets for up to 26 weeks or in an embryofoetal 
developmental toxicity study in pregnant marmosets. Plasma concentrations that are well tolerated in 
animals are in excess of at least 42-fold (Cmax) and 78-fold (Cavg) the plasma concentrations in paediatric 
CAPS patients (body weight 10 kg) treated with clinical doses of canakinumab up to 8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously every 8 weeks, at exposure in excess of human clinical levels. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 76/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. What Ilaris is and what it is used for of the PL 
What Ilaris is 
Ilaris is intended for treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS). It belongs to a group 
of medicines called interleukin inhibitors. The active substance in Ilaris is canakinumab, a monoclonal 
antibody. It blocks the activity of a substance called interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) in the body, which is 
present at increased levels in inflammatory diseases such as CAPS. 
What Ilaris is used for 
Ilaris is used in adults, adolescents and children aged 42 years and older with body weight above 15 kg of 
7.5 kg or above to treat the following auto-inflammatory diseases, which are collectively known as 
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS): 
− 
− 
Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), also called Chronic Infantile 
Neurological, Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
Severe forms of Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) / Familial Cold Urticaria (FCU) 
presenting with signs and symptoms beyond cold-induced urticarial skin rash. 
− 
Ilaris belongs to a group of medicines called interleukin inhibitors. The active substance in Ilaris is 
canakinumab, a fully-human monoclonal antibody. It blocks the activity of a substance called 
interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta). In patients with CAPS, the body produces excessive amounts of IL-1 beta. 
This may lead to symptoms such as fever, headache, fatigue, skin rash, or painful joints and muscles. By 
blocking the activity of IL-1 beta, canakinumab leads to an improvement in these symptoms. 
Section 2. What you need to know before you use Ilaris of the PL 
Warning and precautionsTake special care with Ilaris 
Talk to your doctor bBefore using Ilaris, tell you doctor if any of the following applies to you: 
− 
if you currently have an infection or if you have had repeated a history of recurring infections or a 
condition such as a known low level of white blood cells which makes you more likelyvulnerable 
to get infections. 
if you have or have ever had tuberculosis or direct contact with a person with an active tuberculosis 
infection. Your doctor may want to check whether you have tuberculosis using specific test. 
if you have signs of an allergic reaction such as difficulty breathing, nausea, dizziness, skin rash. 
if you have palpitations or low blood pressure. 
if you have signs of liver disorders such as yellow skin and eyes, nausea, loss of appetite, 
darkcoloured urine and light-coloured stools. 
if you need to have anyrequire vaccinations. You are advised to avoid being vaccinated 
with a certain type of vaccineation (also called a live vaccines) while being treated with Ilaris (see 
also “Using oOther medicines (including vaccines) and Ilaris”). 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
During treatment with Ilaris, tell your doctor immediately if you experience any of the 
following symptoms: 
prolonged fever (i.e. fever lasting longer than 3 days) or any other symptoms possibly related to an 
infection, such as prolonged cough, prolonged headache or localised redness, warmth or swelling of your 
skin. 
signs of an allergic reaction such as difficulty breathing, nausea, dizziness, skin rash, palpitations or low 
blood pressure. 
signs of liver disorders such as yellow skin and eyes, nausea, loss of appetite, dark-coloured urine and 
light-coloured stools. 
Children and adolescents 
Ilaris is not recommended for children younger than 42 years of age or who weigh less than 15 kg. 
Section 3. How to use Ilaris of the PL 
How much Ilaris to use 
The recommended starting dose of Ilaris is: 
Adults, adolescents and children aged 4 years or more 
− 
− 
150 mg for patients with body weight more than 40 kg 
2 mg/kg for patients with body weight of 15 kg or more, up to a maximum of 40 kg for patients 
aged 4 yhears and above 
4 mg/kg for patients with body weight of 7.5 kg or more, but below 15 kg 
− 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 77/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children aged 2 or 3 years 
− 
4 mg/kg for patients with body weight of 7.5 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Ilaris for CAPS patients is: 
− 
− 
150 mg for patients with body weight of more than 40 kg. 
2 mg/kg for patients with body weight between 15 kg and 40 kg. 
Ilaris is injected every 8 weeks as a single dose via subcutaneous injections as a single dose every 8 
weeks. 
If you have not responded sufficiently to treatment after 7 days, your doctor may consider giving you a 
repeat dose of 150 mg or 2 mg/kg. If you respond sufficiently to After this, your treatment will 
continue with this to receive this higher dose of 300 mg or 4 mg/kg every 8 weeks. If you do not respond 
sufficiently to the repeat dose, a third dose of Ilaris at 300 mg or 4 mg/kg can be considered, and if you 
respond sufficiently to that, your treatment  may continue at 600 mg and 8 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 
For patients given a starting dose of 4 mg/kg who have not responded sufficiently after 7 days, a second 
dose of 4 mg/kg can be considered. If the patient responds sufficiently to this, treatment may be 
continued with 8 mg/kg every 8 weeks. 
Section 4. Possible side effects of the PL 
Potentially serious side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
− 
Prolonged fever (i.e. fever lasting longer than 3 days) or any other symptoms that might be 
due possibly related to an infection. These include such ascough, prolonged headache or localised 
redness, warmth or swelling of your skin. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
− 
− 
Fever, sore throat due to infections. 
Feeling dizzy, spinning sensation. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
− 
Allergic reactions with rash and itching and possibly also hives, difficulty breathing or swallowing, 
dizziness, unusual awareness of your heart beat (palpitations) or low blood pressure. 
Persistent cough, weight loss and low grade fever, which could be signs of a tuberculosis infection. 
− 
Other side effects of Ilaris include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)side effects: 
− 
Combination of sore throat, runny nose, blocked nose, sneezing, cough, fever 
(nasopharyngitis). Spinning sensation (vertigo). 
Painful and frequent urination with or without fever (urinary tract infection). 
Injection site reaction (such as redness, swelling, warmth and itching). 
− 
− 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Being sick (vomiting). 
Abnormal levels of triglycerides in your blood (lipid metabolism disorder). 
Abnormal liver function test results (transaminases increased). 
High level of bilirubin in the blood, with or without yellow skin and eyes (hyperbilirubinaemia). 
Skin reaction at the place where the injection was inserted, such as redness, swelling, feeling of 
warmth or itching. 
Feeling weak (asthenia), tiredness. 
Back pain. 
Sore throat and nose (nasopharyngitis). 
− 
− 
- 
Potential side effects: 
These side effects could potentially occur but have either not been reported as a side effect with Ilaris or 
have been reported rarely during the use of Ilaris but seem to be unrelated to Ilaris. 
− 
Signs of an allergic reaction such as difficulty breathing, nausea, dizziness, skin rash, palpitations 
or low blood pressure. If you experience any of these symptoms, tell your doctor immediately. 
Signs of liver disorders such as yellow skin and eyes, nausea, loss of appetite, dark-coloured urine 
and light-coloured stools. 
− 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 78/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes  were  also  made  to  the  PI  to  bring  it  in  line  with  the  current  Agency/QRD  template,  SmPC 
guideline  and  other  relevant  guideline(s)  [e.g.  Excipients  guideline,  storage  conditions,  Braille,  etc…], 
which were reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Canakinumab was initially approved for the treatment of CAPS in patients aged 4 and above, at a dose of 
150 mg for CAPS patients with a body weight greater than 40 kg, and 2 mg/kg for patients with a body 
weight of between 15 and 40 kg every 8 weeks (q8wk). Based on current recommendations, dosing can 
be increased to 300 mg or 4 mg/kg q8wk in patients for whom a satisfactory clinical response (resolution 
of rash and other generalized inflammatory symptoms) has not been achieved. However, patients can 
manifest symptoms earlier than 4 years of age, particularly those of the NOMID phenotype, and some 
patients do not achieve sufficient clinical response with currently recommended dosing regimens.  
Efficacy data provided by the MAH as part of this variation application showed that the dosing regimen 
required  by  individual  CAPS  patients  depend  on  factors  like  disease  severity,  phenotype,  age  and  a 
combination of these factors. The submitted data demonstrated that patients in the lowest weight group 
require higher canakinumab doses in order to achieve sufficient clinical improvement (all but one of the 7 
patients  aged  2-3  years  included  required  dose  escalation;  of  these,  four  required  dose  escalation  to 
8mg/kg or above). 
With increasing the starting dose and allowing dose escalation up to 600mg, or 8mg/kg respectively, 
clinical meaningful improvement was achieved across all age and weight subgroups. Nearly all paediatric 
patients aged 2-3 years old achieved minimal or absence of skin disease, with a higher proportion of 
patients in the >40kg subgroup being able to achieve and maintain complete response. 50% of patients 
remained relapse-free throughout the study period. This suggests that patients benefit from higher initial 
and  maintenance  doses  of  canakinumab.  Although  the  proposed  dosing  regimen  led  to  lower  drug 
exposure in the group of children >4 years of age and ≤ 40 kg, this theoretical under-dosing was not 
accompanied by decreased efficacy in the respective studies. In fact, 50% of subjects of this age group 
already achieved complete response following administration of 2mg/kg canakinumab. Another 50% of 
patients  in  this  age  group  required  dose-escalation,  and  all  of  them  achieved  complete  response 
afterwards. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The amount of data for patients 2-3 year of age is quite limited, which is accepted given the rarity of the 
condition. Additional data will be generated through the ongoing registry, which is already a condition to 
this marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. Moreover, 85.7% (6 of 7) of patients in 
this  age  group  were  of  the  NOMID  phenotype,  whose  need  for  higher  doses  may  correspond  to  a 
generally greater disease severity. However, considering the overlap of the three CAPS subtypes which 
represent a continuum of diseases, and given that patients of the youngest age tend to present a more 
severe disease, the approach to recommend an increased starting dose for all CAPS patients <4 years of 
age, irrespective of the CAPS subtype, is considered by the CHMP as scientifically justified. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 79/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Safety assessments were conducted for all patients who received at least one dose of study drug. More 
NOMID  patients  experienced  AEs  and  SAEs  than  MWS  and  FCAS  patients,  which  was  due  to  the 
underlying  disease  severity.  Thereby,  safety  results  for  patients  <4  years  of  age  were  similar  to  the 
overall study population with no particular safety signal detected for younger age or higher dose groups. 
AEs within the infections and infestations SOC were more frequently reported in this age group, with 
nasopharyngitis and rhinitis being most frequently reported. All AEs were mild to moderate in severity 
and not suspected of being study drug related by the investigator and this was supported by the CHMP. 
Two  patients  in  the  2-3  years  age  group  experienced  three  SAEs  (bronchitis,  H1N1  influenza,  and 
tonsillitis). No patients in this age group discontinued from treatment due to AEs. 
Patients in the 600 mg or 8 mg/kg dose group showed a similar safety profile to patients with a diagnosis 
of NOMID. Hereby, two thirds of patients receiving the highest dose were of the NOMID phenotype. Upper 
respiratory  tract  infection,  cough,  arthralgia,  gastroenteritis  and  nasopharyngitis  were  the  most 
frequently reported AEs for the higher dose group. Five patients in the highest dose group experienced 
seven SAEs (H1N1 infection, bronchitis, staphylococcal infection, nerve root compressions, vertigo and 
headache), but no patients discontinued treatment due to AEs. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Further more, only limited data is available with regard to the application of high maintenance doses over 
longer treatment periods. It is noted though that a high maintenance dose may not always be feasible in 
clinical practice because of the risk of infections, and that it may also not be necessary to increase the 
dosing  in  certain  patients  with  a  better  prognosis  than  NOMID.  The  ongoing  ß-Confident  registry 
(CACZ885D2401) will add to the knowledge through generation of long-term safety data of canakinumab 
treatment in routine clinical practice.  
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
Given the severity of symptoms (fever, fatigue, arthralgia, myalgia, urticarial rash, neutrophilia, chronic 
headaches) and the long term complications that may evolve during the course of the disease, such as 
sensori-neural  hearing  loss,  amyloidosis,  conjunctivitis/uveitis,  arthropathy  (CNS),  papilledema,  and 
aseptic meningitis, effective treatment that may stabilize the condition should be available as early as the 
diagnosis  of  CAPS  has  been  confirmed.  Therefore,  the  extension  of  the  age  range  to  the  very  young 
patients (<4 years) is addressing an unmet medical need, especially since patients in this age group tend 
to present with more severe symptoms (NOMID phenotype). Moreover, the PK/PD analyses submitted 
with this variation application can be considered supportive for an increased starting dose of 4 mg/kg in 
this group of children. Minimal or absence of disease and the maintenance of a clinical response, which is 
the therapeutic goal of treatment with canakinumab, was not achieved with lower doses in patients of this 
age. 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 80/84 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose escalation up to 600mg or 8mg/kg resulted in significant symptom improvement in subjects that 
had not achieved clinical improvement with lower doses, and 50% of all patients remained relapse-free 
throughout the study period. These response rates are considered of clinical relevance. 
Slightly higher AE/SAE frequencies have been observed with increasing doses. However, the analyses of 
the safety data pooled did not reveal a substantial change of the overall safety profile.  
Benefit-risk balance 
The efficacy results are considered clinically significant by the CHMP. Moreover, the inclusion of patients 
of 2-3 years of age is addressing an unmet medical need. Although some uncertainties remains due to 
small  patient  numbers,  which  is  reflecting  the  rarity  of  the  condition,  the  safety  analyses  have  not 
revealed a change in the overall safety profile with increasing the starting and maintenance doses and the 
extension of the age range to children 2-3 years of age. 
Therefore the benefit-risk balance of canakinumab for the treatment of CAPS in patients aged 2 years old 
and above is considered to be positive and also the benefit-risk balance of canakinumab in treatment of 
CAPS with the newly proposed higher dosing regimen remains positive. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The extension of the age range for which canakinumab can be used to patients aged 2 to <4 years with 
a body weight of at least 7.5 kg is supported by the CHMP. Although data are available only for a limited 
number of patients in this age group, analyses revealed that treatment with canakinumab was effective 
and  well  tolerated  in  children  <  4  years  of  age.  Patients  in  this  group  unanimously  required  doses  > 
2mg/kg to achieve sufficient clinical response. Therefore, the recommendation to treat children 2-4 years 
with <15 kg bodyweight with an increased starting dose of 4 mg/kg is considered scientifically justified. 
The  MAH  demonstrated  that  in  patients  who  did  not  achieve  satisfactory  clinical  response,  with  the 
increased dosing regimen with doses up to 600mg or to 8mg/kg, canakinumab resulted in significant 
symptom improvement, and did not change the overall safety profile. Therefore, the MAHs proposal to 
update the SmPC in order to increase the maximum dose up to 600 mg or to 8 mg/kg q8wk, in patients 
who do not achieve satisfactory clinical response is deemed appropriate by the CHMP. It is noted that 
limited data is available to support the strict recommendation of the maximal maintenance dose. A high 
maintenance dose may not always be feasible in clinical practice because of the risk of infections and it 
may also not be needed in all patients with a better prognosis than NOMID. As data are sparse, the MAH 
will further follow-up high maintenance dose within the registry and observational study CACZ885D2401 
(as a secondary objective as stated in the protocol) which is a condition to the marketing authorisation. 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the following 
change: 
Variation(s) accepted 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Update  of  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.4,  4.8,  5.1,  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  SmPC:  extension  of  indication  for  the 
treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome (CAPS) in patients aged 2 to <4 years of age and to 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 81/84 
 
 
 
 
 
increase the maximum dose to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg every 8 weeks. Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Package 
Leaflet are updated accordingly. 
In  addition,  the  MAH  took  the  opportunity  to  include  minor  editorial  changes  in  the  SmPC  and  in  the 
Package Leaflet. 
Furthermore, the PI is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version 8. 
The  requested  variation  proposed  amendments  to  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The  marketing  authorisation  holder  shall  submit  periodic  safety  update  reports  for  this  product  in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP shall be submitted annually until renewal. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the same 
time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
Whenever  the  risk  management  system  is  modified,  especially  as  the  result  of  new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  shall  ensure  that,  prior  to  launch,  all  physicians  who  are 
expected to prescribe/use Ilaris are provided with a physician information pack containing the following: 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
Physician information 
Patient Alert Card 
The physician information should contain the following key messages: 
The  risk  of  serious  infections,  including  opportunistic  bacterial,  viral  and  fungal  infections  in  patients 
treated with Ilaris; 
The risk of acute injection-related reactions; 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 82/84 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The need to instruct patients on proper techniques for self-administration when the patient is 
willing and capable to do so, and guidance for Health Care Professionals on how to report administration 
errors; 
The  identified  or  potential  risk  of  immunogenicity  that  might  lead  to  immune-mediated 
symptoms; 
For  chronic  therapy,  the  need  for  Health  Care  Professionals  to  perform  an  annual  clinical 
assessment of patients regarding a potential increased risk for the development of malignancies; 
The  need  to  measure  neutrophil  counts  prior  to  initiating  treatment,  after  1  to  2 months  and 
periodically thereafter while receiving Ilaris as treatment with Ilaris should not be initiated in patients with 
neutropenia; 
The need to monitor patients for changes in their lipid profiles; 
The unknown safety of Ilaris in pregnant and lactating women, thus the need for physicians to 
discuss this risk with patients if they become or plan to become pregnant; 
The proper patient management as regards the interaction with vaccination; 
The possibility to include patients in the registry study to facilitate the collection of long term 
efficacy and safety data; 
The role and use of patient alert card. 
Specific Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for the marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Area1 
Clinical 
SO 1 
Description 
Due date2 
The  MAH  is  requested  to  provide  reports  on  the  ß-Confident 
Annually 
registry (CACZ885D2401), which was designed to provide data 
within 
the 
on  long-term  safety  and  effectiveness  of  Ilaris  treatment  in 
annual 
paediatric and adult patients in routine clinical practice. In these 
re-assessment 
reports  the  MAH  is  requested  to  specifically  assess  cases  for 
whom  there  is  a  loss  of  efficacy  (patients  reported  to  have 
discontinued 
Ilaris 
for 
lack-of-therapeutic 
response) 
to 
determine whether this is due to changes over time in PK/PD or 
antibody development (where data is available) or in whom a 
dose  adjustment  has  led  to  improved  therapeutic  response 
(patients  with  a  dose  up  titration  without  discontinuation  for 
lack-of-therapeutic response). 
The MAH is required to provide updates on the recruitment rates 
and  any  intermediary  results  annually  within  the  annual 
re-assessment. 
The  patients  should  be  included  in  the  Registry  until  both 
following  conditions  are  met:  5 years  recruitment  period  and 
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 83/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200 patients included. 
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Update  of  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.4,  4.8,  5.1,  5.2  and  5.3  of  the  SmPC:  extension  of  indication  for  the 
treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome (CAPS) in patients aged 2 to <4 years of age and to 
increase the maximum dose to 600 mg or 8 mg/kg every 8 weeks. Sections 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Package 
Leaflet are updated accordingly. 
In  addition,  the  MAH  took  the  opportunity  to  include  minor  editorial  changes  in  the  SmPC  and  in  the 
Package Leaflet. 
Furthermore, the PI is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version 8. 
The  requested  variation  proposed  amendments  to  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Summary 
Please refer to the Scientific Discussion Ilaris/H/C/001109/II/21 for further information.  
Assessment report  
DOC_REF_ID  
Page 84/84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
