ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Dark yellow to brownish orange round film-coated tablets with a score line on one side. The tablet is 
debossed with “IT” and “1” at each side of the score line. The diameter of the film-coated tablet is 
approximately 9 mm. 
The tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
Dark yellow to brownish orange oblong film-coated tablets with a score line on one side. The tablet is 
debossed with “IT” and “4” at each side of the score line. The length of the film-coated tablet is 
approximately 20 mm and the width is approximately 10 mm. 
The tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Imatinib Teva is indicated for the treatment of  
• 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) positive 
(Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not 
considered as the first line of treatment. 
adult and paediatric patients with Ph+ CML in chronic phase after failure of interferon-alpha 
therapy, or in accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) integrated with chemotherapy. 
adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ ALL as monotherapy. 
adult patients with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD) associated with 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) gene re-arrangements. 
adult patients with advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic 
leukaemia (CEL) with FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The effect of imatinib on the outcome of bone marrow transplantation has not been determined. 
Imatinib Teva is indicated for  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
the treatment of adult patients with Kit (CD 117) positive unresectable and/or metastatic 
malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). 
the adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse following resection 
of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. Patients who have a low or very low risk of recurrence should 
not receive adjuvant treatment. 
the treatment of adult patients with unresectable dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) and 
adult patients with recurrent and/or metastatic DFSP who are not eligible for surgery. 
In adult and paediatric patients, the effectiveness of imatinib is based on overall haematological and 
cytogenetic response rates and progression-free survival in CML, on haematological and cytogenetic 
response rates in Ph+ ALL, MDS/MPD, on haematological response rates in HES/CEL and on 
objective response rates in adult patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST and DFSP and on 
recurrence-free survival in adjuvant GIST. The experience with imatinib in patients with MDS/MPD 
associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements is very limited (see section 5.1). Except in newly 
diagnosed chronic phase CML, there are no controlled trials demonstrating a clinical benefit or 
increased survival for these diseases. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with 
haematological malignancies and malignant sarcomas, as appropriate. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
For doses of 400 mg and above (see dose recommendation below) a 400 mg film-coated tablet is 
available. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
For doses other than 400 mg and 800 mg (see dose recommendation below) a 100 mg film-coated 
tablet is available. 
Posology for CML in adult patients 
The recommended dosage of Imatinib Teva is 400 mg/day for adult patients in chronic phase CML. 
Chronic phase CML is defined when all of the following criteria are met: blasts < 15% in blood and 
bone marrow, peripheral blood basophils < 20%, platelets > 100 x 109/l. 
The recommended dosage of Imatinib Teva is 600 mg/day for adult patients in accelerated phase. 
Accelerated phase is defined by the presence of any of the following: blasts ≥ 15% but < 30% in 
blood or bone marrow, blasts plus promyelocytes ≥ 30% in blood or bone marrow (providing < 30% 
blasts), peripheral blood basophils ≥ 20%, platelets < 100 x 109/l unrelated to therapy. 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 600 mg/day for adult patients in blast crisis. Blast crisis is 
defined as blasts ≥ 30% in blood or bone marrow or extramedullary disease other than 
hepatosplenomegaly. 
Treatment duration: In clinical trials, treatment with imatinib was continued until disease progression. 
The effect of stopping treatment after the achievement of a complete cytogenetic response has not 
been investigated. 
Dose increases from 400 mg to 600 mg or 800 mg in patients with chronic phase disease, or from 
600 mg to a maximum of 800 mg (given as 400 mg twice daily) in patients with accelerated phase or 
blast crisis may be considered in the absence of severe adverse drug reaction and severe 
non-leukaemia-related neutropenia or thrombocytopenia in the following circumstances: disease 
progression (at any time); failure to achieve a satisfactory haematological response after at least 
3 months of treatment; failure to achieve a cytogenetic response after 12 months of treatment; or loss 
of a previously achieved haematological and/or cytogenetic response. Patients should be monitored 
closely following dose escalation given the potential for an increased incidence of adverse reactions at 
higher dosages. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology for CML in children 
Dosing for children should be on the basis of body surface area (mg/m2). The dose of 340 mg/m2 daily 
is recommended for children with chronic phase CML and advanced phase CML (not to exceed the 
total dose of 800 mg). Treatment can be given as a once daily dose or alternatively the daily dose may 
be split into two administrations – one in the morning and one in the evening. The dose 
recommendation is currently based on a small number of paediatric patients (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
There is no experience with the treatment of children below 2 years of age. 
Dose increases from 340 mg/m2 daily to 570 mg/m2 daily (not to exceed the total dose of 800 mg) may 
be considered in children in the absence of severe adverse drug reaction and severe 
non-leukaemia-related neutropenia or thrombocytopenia in the following circumstances: disease 
progression (at any time); failure to achieve a satisfactory haematological response after at least 
3 months of treatment; failure to achieve a cytogenetic response after 12 months of treatment; or loss 
of a previously achieved haematological and/or cytogenetic response. Patients should be monitored 
closely following dose escalation given the potential for an increased incidence of adverse reactions at 
higher dosages. 
Posology for Ph+ ALL in adult patients 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 600 mg/day for adult patients with Ph+ ALL. 
Haematological experts in the management of this disease should supervise the therapy throughout all 
phases of care. 
Treatment schedule: On the basis of the existing data, imatinib has been shown to be effective and safe 
when administered at 600 mg/day in combination with chemotherapy in the induction phase, the 
consolidation and maintenance phases of chemotherapy (see section 5.1) for adult patients with newly 
diagnosed Ph+ ALL. The duration of imatinib therapy can vary with the treatment programme 
selected, but generally longer exposures to imatinib have yielded better results. 
For adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ALL imatinib monotherapy at 600 mg/day is safe, 
effective and can be given until disease progression occurs. 
Posology for Ph+ ALL in children 
Dosing for children should be on the basis of body surface area (mg/m2). The dose of 340 mg/m2 daily 
is recommended for children with Ph+ ALL (not to exceed the total dose of 600 mg). 
Posology for MDS/MPD 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 400 mg/day for adult patients with MDS/MPD.  
Treatment duration: In the only clinical trial performed up to now, treatment with imatinib was 
continued until disease progression (see section 5.1). At the time of analysis, the treatment duration 
was a median of 47 months (24 days - 60 months). 
Posology for HES/CEL 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 100 mg/day for adult patients with HES/CEL. 
Dose increase from 100 mg to 400 mg may be considered in the absence of adverse drug reactions if 
assessments demonstrate an insufficient response to therapy.  
Treatment should be continued as long as the patient continues to benefit.  
Posology for GIST 
The recommended dose of imatinib is 400 mg/day for adult patients with unresectable and/or 
metastatic malignant GIST. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limited data exist on the effect of dose increases from 400 mg to 600 mg or 800 mg in patients 
progressing at the lower dose (see section 5.1). 
Treatment duration: In clinical trials in GIST patients, treatment with imatinib was continued until 
disease progression. At the time of analysis, the treatment duration was a median of 7 months (7 days 
to 13 months). The effect of stopping treatment after achieving a response has not been investigated. 
The recommended dose of imatinib is 400 mg/day for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients 
following resection of GIST. Optimal treatment duration is not yet established. Length of treatment in 
the clinical trial supporting this indication was 36 months (see section 5.1). 
Posology for DFSP 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 800 mg/day for adult patients with DFSP. 
Dose adjustment for adverse reactions 
Non-haematological adverse reactions 
If a severe non-haematological adverse reaction develops with imatinib use, treatment must be 
withheld until the event has resolved. Thereafter, treatment can be resumed as appropriate depending 
on the initial severity of the event. 
If elevations in bilirubin > 3 x institutional upper limit of normal (IULN) or in liver 
transaminases > 5 x IULN occur, imatinib should be withheld until bilirubin levels have returned to 
< 1.5 x IULN and transaminase levels to < 2.5 x IULN. Treatment with imatinib may then be 
continued at a reduced daily dose. In adults the dose should be reduced from 400 mg to 300 mg or 
from 600 mg to 400 mg or from 800 mg to 600 mg, and in children from 340 to 260 mg/m2/day. 
Haematological adverse reactions 
Dose reduction or treatment interruption for severe neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are 
recommended as indicated in the table below. 
Dose adjustments for neutropenia and thrombocytopenia: 
HES/CEL 
(starting dose 100 mg) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
Chronic phase CML, 
MDS/MPD and GIST 
(starting dose 400 mg) 
HES/CEL 
(at dose 400 mg) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
Paediatric chronic phase CML 
(at dose 340 mg/m2) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
5 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at previous dose 
(i.e. before severe adverse 
reaction). 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at previous dose 
(i.e. before severe adverse 
reaction). 
3.  In the event of recurrence of 
ANC < 1.0 x109/l and/or 
platelets < 50 x 109/l, repeat 
step 1 and resume imatinib 
at reduced dose of 300 mg. 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at previous dose 
(i.e. before severe adverse 
reaction). 
3.  In the event of recurrence of 
ANC < 1.0 x109/l and/or 
platelets < 50 x 109/l, repeat 
step 1 and resume imatinib 
at reduced dose of 
260 mg/m2. 
1.  Check whether cytopenia is 
related to leukaemia (marrow 
aspirate or biopsy). 
2.  If cytopenia is unrelated to 
leukaemia, reduce dose of 
imatinib to 400 mg. 
3.  If cytopenia persists for 
2 weeks, reduce further to 
300 mg. 
4.  If cytopenia persists for 
4 weeks and is still unrelated 
to leukaemia, stop imatinib 
until ANC ≥ 1 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 20 x 109/l, then 
resume treatment at 300 mg. 
1.  Check whether cytopenia is 
related to leukaemia (marrow 
aspirate or biopsy). 
2.  If cytopenia is unrelated to 
leukaemia, reduce dose of 
imatinib to 260 mg/m2. 
3.  If cytopenia persists for 
2 weeks, reduce further to 
200 mg/m2. 
4.  If cytopenia persists for 
4 weeks and is still unrelated 
to leukaemia, stop Imatinib 
until ANC ≥ 1 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 20 x 109/l, then 
resume treatment at 
200 mg/m2. 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at 600 mg. 
3.  In the event of recurrence of 
ANC < 1.0 x109/l and/or 
platelets < 50 x 109/l, repeat 
step 1 and resume imatinib 
at reduced dose of 400 mg. 
Accelerated phase CML and 
blast crisis and Ph+ ALL 
(starting dose 600 mg) 
a ANC < 0.5 x 109/l 
and/or 
platelets < 10 x 109/l 
Paediatric accelerated phase 
CML and blast crisis 
(starting dose 340 mg/m2) 
a ANC < 0.5 x 109/l 
and/or 
platelets < 10 x 109/l 
DFSP 
(at dose 800 mg) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
ANC = absolute neutrophil count 
a occurring after at least one month of treatment 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
6 
 
 
There is no experience in children with CML below 2 years of age and with Ph+ALL below 1 year of 
age (see section 5.1). There is very limited experience in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and 
HES/CEL. 
The safety and efficacy of imatinib in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and HES/CEL aged less 
than 18 years of age have not been established in clinical trials. Currently available published data are 
summarised in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Hepatic insufficiency 
Imatinib is mainly metabolised through the liver. Patients with mild, moderate or severe liver 
dysfunction should be given the minimum recommended dose of 400 mg daily. The dose can be 
reduced if not tolerated (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2). 
Liver dysfunction classification: 
Liver dysfunction 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
ULN = upper limit of normal for the institution 
AST = aspartate aminotransferase 
Liver function tests 
Total bilirubin: = 1.5 ULN 
AST: >ULN (can be normal or < ULN if total 
bilirubin is > ULN) 
Total bilirubin: > 1.5-3.0 ULN 
AST: any 
Total bilirubin: > 3-10 ULN 
AST: any 
Renal insufficiency 
Patients with renal dysfunction or on dialysis should be given the minimum recommended dose of 
400 mg daily as starting dose. However, in these patients caution is recommended. The dose can be 
reduced if not tolerated. If tolerated, the dose can be increased for lack of efficacy (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Elderly 
Imatinib pharmacokinetics has not been specifically studied in the elderly. No significant age-related 
pharmacokinetic differences have been observed in adult patients in clinical trials which included over 
20% of patients age 65 and older. No specific dose recommendation is necessary in the elderly. 
Method of administration 
The prescribed dose should be administered orally with a meal and a large glass of water to minimise 
the risk of gastrointestinal irritations. Doses of 400 mg or 600 mg should be administered once daily, 
whereas a daily dose of 800 mg should be administered as 400 mg twice a day, in the morning and in 
the evening. 
For patients unable to swallow the film-coated tablets, the tablets may be dispersed in a glass of still 
water or apple juice. The required number of tablets should be placed in the appropriate volume of 
beverage (approximately 50 ml for a 100 mg tablet, and 200 ml for a 400 mg tablet) and stirred with a 
spoon. The suspension should be administered immediately after complete disintegration of the 
tablet(s). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When imatinib is co-administered with other medicinal products, there is a potential for drug 
interactions. Caution should be used when taking imatinib with protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, 
certain macrolides, CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window (e.g. cyclosporine, 
pimozide, tacrolimus, sirolimus, ergotamine, diergotamine, fentanyl, alfentanil, terfenadine, 
bortezomib, docetaxel, quinidine) or warfarin and other coumarin derivatives (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of imatinib and medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 (e.g. dexamethasone, 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital or Hypericum perforatum, also known as St. 
John’s Wort) may significantly reduce exposure to imatinib, potentially increasing the risk of 
therapeutic failure. Therefore, concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers and imatinib should be 
avoided (see section 4.5). 
Hypothyroidism 
Clinical cases of hypothyroidism have been reported in thyroidectomy patients undergoing 
levothyroxine replacement during treatment with imatinib (see section 4.5). Thyroid-stimulating 
hormone (TSH) levels should be closely monitored in such patients. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Metabolism of imatinib is mainly hepatic, and only 13% of excretion is through the kidneys. In 
patients with hepatic dysfunction (mild, moderate or severe), peripheral blood counts and liver 
enzymes should be carefully monitored (see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2). It should be noted that GIST 
patients may have hepatic metastases which could lead to hepatic impairment. 
Cases of liver injury, including hepatic failure and hepatic necrosis, have been observed with imatinib. 
When imatinib is combined with high dose chemotherapy regimens, an increase in serious hepatic 
reactions has been detected. Hepatic function should be carefully monitored in circumstances where 
imatinib is combined with chemotherapy regimens also known to be associated with hepatic 
dysfunction (see sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Fluid retention 
Occurrences of severe fluid retention (pleural effusion, oedema, pulmonary oedema, ascites, 
superficial oedema) have been reported in approximately 2.5% of newly diagnosed CML patients 
taking imatinib. Therefore, it is highly recommended that patients be weighed regularly. An 
unexpected rapid weight gain should be carefully investigated and if necessary appropriate supportive 
care and therapeutic measures should be undertaken. In clinical trials, there was an increased incidence 
of these events in the elderly and those with a prior history of cardiac disease. Therefore, caution 
should be exercised in patients with cardiac dysfunction. 
Patients with cardiac disease 
Patients with cardiac disease, risk factors for cardiac failure or history of renal failure should be 
monitored carefully, and any patient with signs or symptoms consistent with cardiac or renal failure 
should be evaluated and treated. 
In patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) with occult infiltration of HES cells within the 
myocardium, isolated cases of cardiogenic shock/left ventricular dysfunction have been associated 
with HES cell degranulation upon the initiation of imatinib therapy. The condition was reported to be 
reversible with the administration of systemic steroids, circulatory support measures and temporarily 
withholding imatinib. As cardiac adverse events have been reported uncommonly with imatinib, a 
careful assessment of the benefit/risk of imatinib therapy should be considered in the HES/CEL 
population before treatment initiation. 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases with PDGFR gene re-arrangements could be associated 
with high eosinophil levels. Evaluation by a cardiology specialist, performance of an echocardiogram 
and determination of serum troponin should therefore be considered in patients with HES/CEL, and in 
patients with MDS/MPD associated with high eosinophil levels before imatinib is administered. If 
either is abnormal, follow-up with a cardiology specialist and the prophylactic use of systemic steroids 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1-2 mg/kg) for one to two weeks concomitantly with imatinib should be considered at the initiation of 
therapy. 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhage 
In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST, both gastrointestinal and 
intra-tumoural haemorrhages were reported (see section 4.8). Based on the available data, no 
predisposing factors (e.g. tumour size, tumour location, coagulation disorders) have been identified 
that place patients with GIST at a higher risk of either type of haemorrhage. Since increased 
vascularity and propensity for bleeding is a part of the nature and clinical course of GIST, standard 
practices and procedures for the monitoring and management of haemorrhage in all patients should be 
applied. 
In addition, gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE), a rare cause of gastrointestinal haemorrhage, has 
been reported in post-marketing experience in patients with CML, ALL and other diseases (see section 
4.8). When needed, discontinuation of Imatinib Teva treatment may be considered. 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Due to the possible occurrence of tumour lysis syndrome (TLS), correction of clinically significant 
dehydration and treatment of high uric acid levels are recommended prior to initiation of imatinib (see 
section 4.8). 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who are chronic carriers of this virus has occurred after these 
patients received BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Some cases resulted in acute hepatic failure or 
fulminant hepatitis leading to liver transplantation or a fatal outcome. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Imatinib Teva. Experts in 
liver disease and in the treatment of hepatitis B should be consulted before treatment is initiated in 
patients with positive hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease) and for patients who 
test positive for HBV infection during treatment. Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Imatinib 
Teva should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy 
and for several months following termination of therapy (see section 4.8). 
Phototoxicity 
Exposure to direct sunlight should be avoided or minimised due to the risk of phototoxicity associated 
with imatinib treatment. Patients should be instructed to use measures such as protective clothing and 
sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF). 
Thrombotic microangiopathy 
BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been associated with thrombotic microangiopathy 
(TMA), including individual case reports for Imatinib Teva (see section 4.8). If laboratory or clinical 
findings associated with TMA occur in a patient receiving Imatinib Teva , treatment should be 
discontinued and thorough evaluation for TMA, including ADAMTS13 activity and anti-
ADAMTS13-antibody determination, should be completed. If anti-ADAMTS13-antibody is elevated 
in conjunction with low ADAMTS13 activity, treatment with Imatinib Teva should not be resumed. 
Laboratory tests 
Complete blood counts must be performed regularly during therapy with imatinib. Treatment of CML 
patients with imatinib has been associated with neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. However, the 
occurrence of these cytopenias is likely to be related to the stage of the disease being treated and they 
were more frequent in patients with accelerated phase CML or blast crisis as compared to patients with 
chronic phase CML. Treatment with imatinib may be interrupted or the dose may be reduced, as 
recommended in section 4.2. 
Liver function (transaminases, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase) should be monitored regularly in 
patients receiving imatinib. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with impaired renal function, imatinib plasma exposure seems to be higher than that in 
patients with normal renal function, probably due to an elevated plasma level of 
alpha-acid glycoprotein (AGP), an imatinib-binding protein, in these patients. Patients with renal 
impairment should be given the minimum starting dose. Patients with severe renal impairment should 
be treated with caution. The dose can be reduced if not tolerated (see section 4.2 and 5.2). 
Long-term treatment with imatinib may be associated with a clinically significant decline in renal 
function. Renal function should, therefore, be evaluated prior to the start of imatinib therapy and 
closely monitored during therapy, with particular attention to those patients exhibiting risk factors for 
renal dysfunction. If renal dysfunction is observed, appropriate management and treatment should be 
prescribed in accordance with standard treatment guidelines. 
Paediatric population 
There have been case reports of growth retardation occurring in children and pre-adolescents receiving 
imatinib. In an observational study in the CML paediatric population, a statistically significant 
decrease (but of uncertain clinical relevance) in median height standard deviation scores after 12 and 
24 months of treatment was reported in two small subsets irrespective of pubertal status or gender. 
Close monitoring of growth in children under imatinib treatment is recommended (see section 4.8). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Active substances that may increase imatinib plasma concentrations 
Substances that inhibit the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP3A4 activity (e.g. protease inhibitors 
such as indinavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, nelfinavir, boceprevir; azole 
antifungals including ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole; certain macrolides such 
as erythromycin, clarithromycin and telithromycin) could decrease metabolism and increase imatinib 
concentrations. There was a significant increase in exposure to imatinib (the mean Cmax and AUC of 
imatinib rose by 26% and 40%, respectively) in healthy subjects when it was co-administered with a 
single dose of ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor). Caution should be taken when administering 
imatinib with inhibitors of the CYP3A4 family. 
Active substances that may decrease imatinib plasma concentrations 
Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 activity (e.g. dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
rifampicin, phenobarbital, fosphenytoin, primidone or Hypericum perforatum, also known as St. 
John’s Wort) may significantly reduce exposure to imatinib, potentially increasing the risk of 
therapeutic failure. Pretreatment with multiple doses of rifampicin 600 mg followed by a single 
400 mg dose of imatinib resulted in decrease in Cmax and AUC(0-∞) by at least 54% and 74%, of the 
respective values without rifampicin treatment. Similar results were observed in patients with 
malignant gliomas treated with imatinib while taking enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic medicinal 
products (EIAEDs) such as carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and phenytoin. The plasma AUC for 
imatinib decreased by 73% compared to patients not on EIAEDs. Concomitant use of rifampicin or 
other strong CYP3A4 inducers and imatinib should be avoided. 
Active substances that may have their plasma concentration altered by imatinib 
Imatinib increases the mean Cmax and AUC of simvastatin (CYP3A4 substrate) 2- and 3.5-fold, 
respectively, indicating an inhibition of the CYP3A4 by imatinib. Therefore, caution is recommended 
when administering imatinib with CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window (e.g. 
cyclosporine, pimozide, tacrolimus, sirolimus, ergotamine, diergotamine, fentanyl, alfentanil, 
terfenadine, bortezomib, docetaxel and quinidine). Imatinib may increase plasma concentration of 
other CYP3A4 metabolised drugs (e.g. triazolo-benzodiazepines, dihydropyridine calcium channel 
blockers, certain HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, i.e. statins, etc.). 
Because of known increased risks of bleeding in conjunction with the use of imatinib (e.g. 
haemorrhage), patients who require anticoagulation should receive low-molecular-weight or standard 
heparin, instead of coumarin derivatives such as warfarin. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro imatinib inhibits the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 activity at concentrations similar 
to those that affect CYP3A4 activity. Imatinib at 400 mg twice daily had an inhibitory effect on 
CYP2D6-mediated metoprolol metabolism, with metoprolol Cmax and AUC being increased by 
approximately 23% (90%CI [1.16-1.30]). Dose adjustments do not seem to be necessary when 
imatinib is co-administrated with CYP2D6 substrates, however caution is advised for 
CYP2D6 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window such as metoprolol. In patients treated with 
metoprolol clinical monitoring should be considered. 
In vitro, imatinib inhibits paracetamol O-glucuronidation with Ki value of 58.5 micromol/l. This 
inhibition has not been observed in vivo after the administration of imatinib 400 mg and paracetamol 
1000 mg. Higher doses of imatinib and paracetamol have not been studied. 
Caution should therefore be exercised when using high doses of imatinib and paracetamol 
concomitantly. 
In thyroidectomy patients receiving levothyroxine, the plasma exposure to levothyroxine may be 
decreased when imatinib is co-administered (see section 4.4). Caution is therefore recommended. 
However, the mechanism of the observed interaction is presently unknown. 
In Ph+ ALL patients, there is clinical experience of co-administering imatinib with chemotherapy (see 
section 5.1), but drug-drug interactions between imatinib and chemotherapy regimens are not well 
characterised. Imatinib adverse events, i.e. hepatotoxicity, myelosuppression or others, may increase 
and it has been reported that concomitant use with L-asparaginase could be associated with increased 
hepatotoxicity (see section 4.8). Therefore, the use of imatinib in combination requires special 
precaution. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must be advised to use effective contraception during treatment and 
for at least 15 days after stopping treatment with Imatinib Teva. 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data on the use of imatinib in pregnant women. There have been post-marketing 
reports of spontaneous abortions and infant congenital anomalies from women who have taken 
imatinib. Studies in animals have however shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3) and the 
potential risk for the foetus is unknown. Imatinib should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary. If it is used during pregnancy, the patient must be informed of the potential risk to the 
foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
There is limited information on imatinib distribution on human milk. Studies in two breast-feeding 
women revealed that both imatinib and its active metabolite can be distributed into human milk. The 
milk plasma ratio studied in a single patient was determined to be 0.5 for imatinib and 0.9 for the 
metabolite, suggesting greater distribution of the metabolite into the milk. Considering the combined 
concentration of imatinib and the metabolite and the maximum daily milk intake by infants, the total 
exposure would be expected to be low (~10% of a therapeutic dose). However, since the effects of 
low-dose exposure of the infant to imatinib are unknown, women should not breast-feed during 
treatment and for at least 15 days after stopping treatment with Imatinib Teva. 
Fertility 
In non-clinical studies, the fertility of male and female rats was not affected, although effects on 
reproductive parameters were observed (see section 5.3). Studies on patients receiving imatinib and its 
effect on fertility and gametogenesis have not been performed. Patients who are concerned about their 
fertility on imatinib treatment should consult with their physician. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Patients should be advised that they may experience undesirable effects such as dizziness, blurred 
vision or somnolence during treatment with imatinib. Therefore, caution should be recommended 
when driving a car or operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Patients with advanced stages of malignancies may have numerous confounding medical conditions 
that make causality of adverse reactions difficult to assess due to the variety of symptoms related to 
the underlying disease, its progression, and the co-administration of numerous medicinal products. 
In clinical trials in CML, drug discontinuation for drug-related adverse reactions was observed in 2.4% 
of newly diagnosed patients, 4% of patients in late chronic phase after failure of interferon therapy, 
4% of patients in accelerated phase after failure of interferon therapy and 5% of blast crisis patients 
after failure of interferon therapy. In GIST the study drug was discontinued for drug-related adverse 
reactions in 4% of patients. 
The adverse reactions were similar in all indications, with two exceptions. There was more 
myelosuppression seen in CML patients than in GIST, which is probably due to the underlying 
disease. In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST, 7 (5%) patients experienced 
CTC grade 3/4 GI bleeds (3 patients), intra-tumoural bleeds (3 patients) or both (1 patient). GI tumour 
sites may have been the source of the GI bleeds (see section 4.4). GI and tumoural bleeding may be 
serious and sometimes fatal. The most commonly reported (≥ 10%) drug-related adverse reactions in 
both settings were mild nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, fatigue, myalgia, muscle cramps 
and rash. Superficial oedemas were a common finding in all studies and were described primarily as 
periorbital or lower limb oedemas. However, these oedemas were rarely severe and may be managed 
with diuretics, other supportive measures, or by reducing the dose of imatinib. 
When imatinib was combined with high dose chemotherapy in Ph+ ALL patients, transient liver 
toxicity in the form of transaminase elevation and hyperbilirubinaemia were observed. Considering the 
limited safety database, the adverse events thus far reported in children are consistent with the known 
safety profile in adult patients with Ph+ ALL. The safety database for children with Ph+ALL is very 
limited though no new safety concerns have been identified. 
Miscellaneous adverse reactions such as pleural effusion, ascites, pulmonary oedema and rapid weight 
gain with or without superficial oedema may be collectively described as “fluid retention”. These 
reactions can usually be managed by withholding imatinib temporarily and with diuretics and other 
appropriate supportive care measures. However, some of these reactions may be serious or life-
threatening and several patients with blast crisis died with a complex clinical history of pleural 
effusion, congestive heart failure and renal failure. There were no special safety findings in paediatric 
clinical trials. 
Adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported as more than an isolated case are listed below, by system organ class and 
by frequency. Frequency categories are defined using the following convention: very common 
(≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), 
very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of frequency, the most 
frequent first. 
Adverse reactions and their frequencies are reported in Table 1. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1  Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon 
Herpes zoster, herpes simplex, nasopharyngitis, pneumonia1, sinusitis, 
cellulitis, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, urinary tract 
infection, gastroenteritis, sepsis 
Fungal infection 
Hepatitis B reactivation* 
Rare 
Not known 
Neoplasm benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Rare 
Not known 
Immune system disorders 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Tumour haemorrhage/tumour necrosis* 
Anaphylactic shock* 
Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia 
Pancytopenia, febrile neutropenia  
Thrombocythaemia, lymphopenia, bone marrow depression, eosinophilia, 
lymphadenopathy  
Haemolytic anaemia, thrombotic microangiopathy 
Rare 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Anorexia 
Common 
Hypokalaemia, increased appetite, hypophosphataemia, decreased 
Uncommon 
appetite, dehydration, gout, hyperuricaemia, hypercalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, hyponatraemia 
Hyperkalaemia, hypomagnesaemia 
Rare 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Vascular disorders4 
Common 
Uncommon 
Insomnia 
Depression, libido decreased, anxiety 
Confusional state 
Headache2 
Dizziness, paraesthesia, taste disturbance, hypoaesthesia 
Migraine, somnolence, syncope, peripheral neuropathy, memory 
impairment, sciatica, restless leg syndrome, tremor, cerebral haemorrhage 
Increased intracranial pressure, convulsions, optic neuritis 
Cerebral oedema* 
Eyelid oedema, lacrimation increased, conjunctival haemorrhage, 
conjunctivitis, dry eye, blurred vision 
Eye irritation, eye pain, orbital oedema, scleral haemorrhage, retinal 
haemorrhage, blepharitis, macular oedema 
Cataract, glaucoma, papilloedema 
Vitreous haemorrhage* 
Vertigo, tinnitus, hearing loss 
Palpitations, tachycardia, cardiac failure congestive3, pulmonary oedema 
Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, 
angina pectoris, pericardial effusion 
Pericarditis*, cardiac tamponade* 
Flushing, haemorrhage 
Hypertension, haematoma, subdural haematoma, peripheral coldness, 
hypotension, Raynaud’s phenomenon 
13 
 
Thrombosis/embolism* 
Not known 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Dyspnoea, epistaxis, cough  
Pleural effusion5, pharyngolaryngeal pain, pharyngitis 
Pleuritic pain, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary 
haemorrhage 
Acute respiratory failure11*, interstitial lung disease* 
Not known 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, dyspepsia, abdominal pain6 
Flatulence, abdominal distension, gastro-oesophageal reflux, constipation, 
dry mouth, gastritis 
Stomatitis, mouth ulceration, gastrointestinal haemorrhage7, eructation, 
melaena, oesophagitis, ascites, gastric ulcer, haematemesis, cheilitis, 
dysphagia, pancreatitis 
Colitis, ileus, inflammatory bowel disease 
Ileus/intestinal obstruction*, gastrointestinal perforation*, diverticulitis*, 
gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE)* 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Increased hepatic enzymes 
Hyperbilirubinaemia, hepatitis, jaundice 
Hepatic failure8, hepatic necrosis 
Periorbital oedema, dermatitis/eczema/rash 
Pruritus, face oedema, dry skin, erythema, alopecia, night sweats, 
photosensitivity reaction  
Rash pustular, contusion, sweating increased, urticaria, ecchymosis, 
increased tendency to bruise, hypotrichosis, skin hypopigmentation, 
dermatitis exfoliative, onychoclasis, folliculitis, petechiae, psoriasis, 
purpura, skin hyperpigmentation, bullous eruptions, panniculitis12 
Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet’s syndrome), nail 
discolouration, angioneurotic oedema, rash vesicular, erythema 
multiforme, leucocytoclastic vasculitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, acute 
generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), pemphigus* 
Palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome*, lichenoid keratosis*, lichen 
planus*, toxic epidermal necrolysis*, drug rash with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS)*, pseudoporphyria* 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
Muscle spasm and cramps, musculoskeletal pain including myalgia9, 
arthralgia, bone pain10 
Joint swelling 
Joint and muscle stiffness, osteonecrosis* 
Muscular weakness, arthritis, rhabdomyolysis/myopathy 
Growth retardation in children* 
Renal pain, haematuria, renal failure acute, urinary frequency increased 
Renal failure chronic 
Gynaecomastia, erectile dysfunction, menorrhagia, menstruation 
irregular, sexual dysfunction, nipple pain, breast enlargement, scrotal 
oedema 
Haemorrhagic corpus luteum/haemorrhagic ovarian cyst 
Rare 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Fluid retention and oedema, fatigue 
Weakness, pyrexia, anasarca, chills, rigors 
14 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Chest pain, malaise 
Weight increased 
Weight decreased 
Blood creatinine increased, blood creatine phosphokinase increased, 
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase 
increased 
Blood amylase increased 
* 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
These types of reactions have been reported mainly from post-marketing experience with 
imatinib. This includes spontaneous case reports as well as serious adverse events from ongoing 
studies, the expanded access programmes, clinical pharmacology studies and exploratory 
studies in unapproved indications. Because these reactions are reported from a population of 
uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal 
relationship to imatinib exposure. 
Pneumonia was reported most commonly in patients with transformed CML and in patients with 
GIST. 
Headache was the most common in GIST patients. 
On a patient-year basis, cardiac events including congestive heart failure were more commonly 
observed in patients with transformed CML than in patients with chronic CML. 
Flushing was most common in GIST patients and bleeding (haematoma, haemorrhage) was 
most common in patients with GIST and with transformed CML (CML-AP and CML-BC). 
Pleural effusion was reported more commonly in patients with GIST and in patients with 
transformed CML (CML-AP and CML-BC) than in patients with chronic CML. 
6+7  Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal haemorrhage were most commonly observed in GIST 
8 
9 
patients. 
Some fatal cases of hepatic failure and of hepatic necrosis have been reported. 
Musculoskeletal pain during treatment with imatinib or after discontinuation has been observed 
in post-marketing. 
10  Musculoskeletal pain and related events were more commonly observed in patients with CML 
than in GIST patients. 
Fatal cases have been reported in patients with advanced disease, severe infections, severe 
neutropenia and other serious concomitant conditions. 
Including erythema nodosum. 
11 
12 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Hepatitis B reactivation has been reported in association with BCR-ABL TKIs. Some cases resulted in 
acute hepatic failure or fulminant hepatitis leading to liver transplantation or a fatal outcome (see section 
4.4). 
Laboratory test abnormalities 
Haematology 
In CML, cytopenias, particularly neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, have been a consistent finding in 
all studies, with the suggestion of a higher frequency at high doses ≥ 750 mg (phase I study). 
However, the occurrence of cytopenias was also clearly dependent on the stage of the disease, the 
frequency of grade 3 or 4 neutropenias (ANC < 1.0 x 109/l) and thrombocytopenias 
(platelet count < 50 x 109/l) being between 4 and 6 times higher in blast crisis and accelerated phase 
(59-64% and 44-63% for neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, respectively) as compared to newly 
diagnosed patients in chronic phase CML (16.7% neutropenia and 8.9% thrombocytopenia). In newly 
diagnosed chronic phase CML grade 4 neutropenia (ANC < 0.5 x 109/l) and thrombocytopenia 
(platelet count < 10 x 109/l) were observed in 3.6% and < 1% of patients, respectively. The median 
duration of the neutropenic and thrombocytopenic episodes usually ranged from 2 to 3 weeks, and 
from 3 to 4 weeks, respectively. These events can usually be managed with either a reduction of the 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
dose or an interruption of treatment with imatinib, but can in rare cases lead to permanent 
discontinuation of treatment. In paediatric CML patients the most frequent toxicities observed were 
grade 3 or 4 cytopenias involving neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and anaemia. These generally occur 
within the first several months of therapy. 
In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST, grade 3 and 4 anaemia was reported 
in 5.4% and 0.7% of patients, respectively, and may have been related to gastrointestinal or intra-
tumoural bleeding in at least some of these patients. Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia was seen in 7.5% and 
2.7% of patients, respectively, and grade 3 thrombocytopenia in 0.7% of patients. No patient 
developed grade 4 thrombocytopenia. The decreases in white blood cell (WBC) and neutrophil counts 
occurred mainly during the first six weeks of therapy, with values remaining relatively stable 
thereafter. 
Biochemistry 
Severe elevation of transaminases (<5%) or bilirubin (<1%) was seen in CML patients and was 
usually managed with dose reduction or interruption (the median duration of these episodes was 
approximately one week). Treatment was discontinued permanently because of liver laboratory 
abnormalities in less than 1% of CML patients. In GIST patients (study B2222), 6.8% of grade 3 or 4 
ALT (alanine aminotransferase) elevations and 4.8% of grade 3 or 4 AST (aspartate aminotransferase) 
elevations were observed. Bilirubin elevation was below 3%. 
There have been cases of cytolytic and cholestatic hepatitis and hepatic failure; in some of them 
outcome was fatal, including one patient on high dose paracetamol. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Experience with doses higher than the recommended therapeutic dose is limited. Isolated cases of 
imatinib overdose have been reported spontaneously and in the literature. In the event of overdose the 
patient should be observed and appropriate symptomatic treatment given. Generally the reported 
outcome in these cases was “improved” or “recovered”. Events that have been reported at different 
dose ranges are as follows: 
Adult population 
1200 mg to 1600 mg (duration varying between 1 to 10 days): Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, 
erythema, oedema, swelling, fatigue, muscle spasms, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, abdominal 
pain, headache, decreased appetite. 
1800 mg to 3200 mg (as high as 3200 mg daily for 6 days): Weakness, myalgia, increased creatine 
phosphokinase, increased bilirubin, gastrointestinal pain.  
6400 mg (single dose): One case reported in the literature of one patient who experienced nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain, pyrexia, facial swelling, decreased neutrophil count, increased 
transaminases. 
8 g to 10 g (single dose): Vomiting and gastrointestinal pain have been reported. 
Paediatric population 
One 3-year-old male exposed to a single dose of 400 mg experienced vomiting, diarrhoea and anorexia 
and another 3-year-old male exposed to a single dose of 980 mg experienced decreased white blood 
cell count and diarrhoea. 
In the event of overdose, the patient should be observed and appropriate supportive treatment given. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors, ATC code: 
L01EA01 
Mechanism of action 
Imatinib is a small molecule protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor that potently inhibits the activity of the 
Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase (TK), as well as several receptor TKs: Kit, the receptor for stem cell factor 
(SCF) coded for by the c-Kit proto-oncogene, the discoidin domain receptors (DDR1 and DDR2), the 
colony stimulating factor receptor (CSF-1R) and the platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and 
beta (PDGFR-alpha and PDGFR-beta). Imatinib can also inhibit cellular events mediated by activation 
of these receptor kinases. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Imatinib is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor which potently inhibits the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase at 
the in vitro, cellular and in vivo levels. The compound selectively inhibits proliferation and induces 
apoptosis in Bcr-Abl positive cell lines as well as fresh leukaemic cells from Philadelphia 
chromosome positive CML and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) patients. 
In vivo the compound shows anti-tumour activity as a single agent in animal models using Bcr-Abl 
positive tumour cells. 
Imatinib is also an inhibitor of the receptor tyrosine kinases for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), 
PDGF-R, and stem cell factor (SCF), c-Kit, and inhibits PDGF- and SCF- mediated cellular events. In 
vitro, imatinib inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) 
cells, which express an activating kit mutation. Constitutive activation of the PDGF receptor or the 
Abl protein tyrosine kinases as a consequence of fusion to diverse partner proteins or constitutive 
production of PDGF have been implicated in the pathogenesis of MDS/MPD, HES/CEL and DFSP. 
Imatinib inhibits signalling and proliferation of cells driven by dysregulated PDGFR and Abl kinase 
activity. 
Clinical studies in chronic myeloid leukaemia 
The effectiveness of imatinib is based on overall haematological and cytogenetic response rates and 
progression-free survival. Except in newly diagnosed chronic phase CML, there are no controlled 
trials demonstrating a clinical benefit, such as improvement in disease-related symptoms or increased 
survival. 
Three large, international, open-label, non-controlled phase II studies were conducted in patients with 
Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) CML in advanced, blast or accelerated phase disease, other 
Ph+ leukaemias or with CML in the chronic phase but failing prior interferon-alpha (IFN) therapy. 
One large, open-label, multicentre, international randomised phase III study has been conducted in 
patients with newly diagnosed Ph+ CML. In addition, children have been treated in two phase I 
studies and one phase II study. 
In all clinical studies 38-40% of patients were ≥ 60 years of age and 10-12% of patients were ≥ 70 
years of age. 
Chronic phase, newly diagnosed 
This phase III study in adult patients compared treatment with either single-agent imatinib or a 
combination of interferon-alpha (IFN) plus cytarabine (Ara-C). Patients showing lack of response 
(lack of complete haematological response (CHR) at 6 months, increasing WBC, no major 
cytogenetic response (MCyR) at 24 months), loss of response (loss of CHR or MCyR) or severe 
intolerance to treatment were allowed to cross over to the alternative treatment arm. In the imatinib 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arm, patients were treated with 400 mg daily. In the IFN arm, patients were treated with a target dose 
of IFN of 5 MIU/m2/day subcutaneously in combination with subcutaneous Ara-C 20 mg/m2/day for 
10 days/month. 
A total of 1.106 patients were randomised, 553 to each arm. Baseline characteristics were well 
balanced between the two arms. Median age was 51 years (range 18–70 years), with 21.9% of 
patients ≥ 60 years of age. There were 59% males and 41% females; 89.9% caucasian and 4.7% black 
patients. Seven years after the last patient had been recruited, the median duration of first-line treatment 
was 82 and 8 months in the imatinib and IFN arms, respectively. The median duration of second-line 
treatment with imatinib was 64 months. Overall, in patients receiving first-line imatinib, the average 
daily dose delivered was 406 ±76 mg. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study is progression-free 
survival. Progression was defined as any of the following events: progression to accelerated phase or 
blast crisis, death, loss of CHR or MCyR, or in patients not achieving a CHR an increasing WBC 
despite appropriate therapeutic management. Major cytogenetic response, haematological response, 
molecular response (evaluation of minimal residual disease), time to accelerated phase or blast crisis 
and survival are main secondary endpoints. Response data are shown in Table 2. 
Table  2  Response  in newly diagnosed  CML  Study  (84-month  data) 
(Best response rates) 
Haematological response 
CHR rate n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Cytogenetic response 
Major response n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Complete CyR n (%) 
Partial CyR n (%) 
Imatinib 
n=553 
534 (96.6%)* 
[94.7%, 97.9%] 
490 (88.6%)* 
[85.7%, 91.1%] 
456 (82.5%)* 
34 (6.1%) 
IFN+Ara-C 
n=553 
313 (56.6%)* 
[52.4%, 60.8%] 
129 (23.3%)* 
[19.9%, 27.1%] 
64 (11.6%)* 
65 (11.8%) 
153/305=50.2% 
73/104=70.2% 
102/116=87.9% 
Molecular response** 
Major response at 12 months (%) 
Major response at 24 months (%) 
Major response at 84 months (%) 
* p<0.001, Fischer’s exact test 
** molecular response percentages are based on available samples 
Haematological response criteria (all responses to be confirmed after ≥ 4 weeks): 
WBC < 10 x 109/l, platelet < 450 x 109/l, myelocyte+metamyelocyte < 5% in blood, no blasts and 
promyelocytes in blood, basophils < 20%, no extramedullary involvement 
Cytogenetic  response criteria: complete (0% Ph+ metaphases), partial (1–35%), minor (36–
65%) or minimal (66–95%). A major response (0–35%) combines both complete and partial 
responses. Major molecular response criteria: in the peripheral blood reduction of ≥ 3 
logarithms in the amount of Bcr-Abl transcripts (measured by real-time quantitative reverse 
transcriptase PCR assay) over a standardised baseline. 
8/83=9.6% 
3/12=25% 
3/4=75% 
Rates of complete haematological response, major cytogenetic response and complete cytogenetic 
response on first-line treatment were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier approach, for which 
non-responses were censored at the date of last examination. Using this approach, the estimated 
cumulative response rates for first-line treatment with imatinib improved from 12 months of therapy 
to 84 months of therapy as follows: CHR from 96.4% to 98.4% and CCyR from 69.5% to 87.2%, 
respectively. 
With 7 years follow-up, there were 93 (16.8%) progression events in the imatinib arm: 37 (6.7%) 
involving progression to accelerated phase/blast crisis, 31 (5.6%) loss of MCyR, 15 (2.7%) loss of 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHR or increase in WBC, and 10 (1.8%) CML unrelated deaths. In contrast, there were 165 (29.8%) 
events in the IFN+Ara-C arm, of which 130 occurred during first-line treatment with IFN+Ara-C. 
The estimated rate of patients free of progression to accelerated phase or blast crisis at 84 months 
was significantly higher in the imatinib arm compared to the IFN arm (92.5% versus 85.1%, 
p<0.001). The annual rate of progression to accelerated phase or blast crisis decreased with time on 
therapy and was less than 1% annually in the fourth and fifth years. The estimated rate of 
progression-free survival at 84 months was 81.2% in the imatinib arm and 60.6% in the control arm 
(p<0.001). The yearly rates of progression of any type for imatinib also decreased over time. 
A total of 71 (12.8%) and 85 (15.4%) patients died in the imatinib and IFN+Ara-C groups, 
respectively. At 84 months the estimated overall survival is 86.4% (83, 90) vs. 83.3% (80, 87) in the 
randomised imatinib and the IFN+Ara-C groups, respectively (p=0.073, log-rank test). This 
time-to-event endpoint is strongly affected by the high crossover rate from IFN+Ara-C to imatinib. 
The effect of imatinib treatment on survival in chronic phase, newly diagnosed CML has been 
further examined in a retrospective analysis of the above reported imatinib data with the primary 
data from another Phase III study using IFN+Ara-C (n=325) in an identical regimen. In this 
retrospective analysis, the superiority of imatinib over IFN+Ara-C in overall survival was 
demonstrated (p<0.001); within 42 months, 47 (8.5%) imatinib patients and 63 (19.4%) IFN+Ara-C 
patients had died. 
The degree of cytogenetic response and molecular response had a clear effect on long-term 
outcomes in patients on imatinib. Whereas an estimated 96% (93%) of patients with CCyR (PCyR) 
at 12 months were free of progression to accelerated phase/blast crisis at 84 months, only 81% of 
patients without MCyR at 12 months were free of progression to advanced CML at 84 months 
(p<0.001 overall, p=0.25 between CCyR and PCyR). For patients with reduction in Bcr-Abl 
transcripts of at least 3 logarithms at 12 months, the probability of remaining free from progression 
to accelerated phase/blast crisis was 99% at 84 months. Similar findings were found based on a 
18-months landmark analysis. 
In this study, dose escalations were allowed from 400 mg daily to 600 mg daily, then from 600 mg 
daily to 800 mg daily. After 42 months of follow-up, 11 patients experienced a confirmed loss 
(within 4 weeks) of their cytogenetic response. Of these 11 patients, 4 patients escalated up to 
800 mg daily, 2 of whom regained a cytogenetic response (1 partial and 1 complete, the latter also 
achieving a molecular response), while of the 7 patients who did not escalate the dose, only one 
regained a complete cytogenetic response. The percentage of some adverse reactions was higher in 
the 40 patients in whom the dose was increased to 800 mg daily compared to the population of 
patients before dose increase (n=551). The more frequent adverse reactions included gastrointestinal 
haemorrhages, conjunctivitis and elevation of transaminases or bilirubin. Other adverse reactions 
were reported with lower or equal frequency. 
Chronic phase, Interferon failure 
532 adult patients were treated at a starting dose of 400 mg. The patients were distributed in three 
main categories: haematological failure (29%), cytogenetic failure (35%), or intolerance to 
interferon (36%). Patients had received a median of 14 months of prior IFN therapy at doses 
≥ 25 x 106 IU/week and were all in late chronic phase, with a median time from diagnosis of 32 
months. The primary efficacy variable of the study was the rate of major cytogenetic response 
(complete plus partial response, 0 to 35% Ph+ metaphases in the bone marrow). 
In this study 65% of the patients achieved a major cytogenetic response that was complete in 53% 
(confirmed 43%) of patients (Table 3). A complete haematological response was achieved in 95% 
of patients. 
Accelerated phase 
235 adult patients with accelerated phase disease were enrolled. The first 77 patients were started at 
400 mg, the protocol was subsequently amended to allow higher dosing and the remaining 158 patients 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were started at 600 mg. 
The primary efficacy variable was the rate of haematological response, reported as either complete 
haematological response, no evidence of leukaemia (i.e. clearance of blasts from the marrow and 
the blood, but without a full peripheral blood recovery as for complete responses), or return to 
chronic phase CML. A confirmed haematological response was achieved in 71.5% of patients 
(Table 3). Importantly, 27.7% of patients also achieved a major cytogenetic response, which was 
complete in 20.4% (confirmed 16%) of patients. For the patients treated at 600 mg, the current 
estimates for median progression-free-survival and overall survival were 22.9 and 42.5 months, 
respectively. 
Myeloid blast crisis 
260 patients with myeloid blast crisis were enrolled. 95 (37%) had received prior chemotherapy for 
treatment of either accelerated phase or blast crisis (“pretreated patients”) whereas 165 (63%) had not 
(“untreated patients”). The first 37 patients were started at 400 mg, the protocol was subsequently 
amended to allow higher dosing and the remaining 223 patients were started at 600 mg. 
The primary efficacy variable was the rate of haematological response, reported as either complete 
haematological response, no evidence of leukaemia, or return to chronic phase CML using the same 
criteria as for the study in accelerated phase. In this study, 31% of patients achieved a haematological 
response (36% in previously untreated patients and 22% in previously treated patients). The rate of 
response was also higher in the patients treated at 600 mg (33%) as compared to the patients treated at 
400 mg (16%, p=0.0220). The current estimate of the median survival of the previously untreated and 
treated patients was 7.7 and 4.7 months, respectively. 
Lymphoid blast crisis 
A limited number of patients were enrolled in phase I studies (n=10). The rate of haematological 
response was 70% with a duration of 2-3 months. 
Table 3  Response in adult CML studies 
Study 0110 
37-month data 
Chronic phase, 
IFN failure 
(n=532) 
95% (92.3–96.3) 
95% 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Study 0109 
40.5-month data 
Accelerated phase 
(n=235) 
Study 0102 
38-month data 
Myeloid blast 
crisis 
(n=260) 
% of patients (CI95%) 
71% (65.3–77.2) 
42% 
31% (25.2–36.8) 
8% 
12% 
17% 
5% 
18% 
65% (61.2–69.5) 
53% 
(43%) [38.6–47.2] 
12% 
28% (22.0–33.9) 
20% 
(16%) [11.3–21.0] 
7% 
15% (11.2–20.4) 
7% 
(2%) [0.6–4.4] 
8% 
Haematological response1 
Complete 
haematological response 
(CHR) 
No evidence of leukaemia 
(NEL) 
Return to chronic phase 
Major cytogenetic response2 
Complete 
(Confirmed3) [95% 
CI] Partial 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Haematological response criteria (all responses to be confirmed after ≥ 4 weeks): 
CHR: Study 0110 [WBC < 10 x 109/l, platelets < 450 x 109/l, myelocyte+metamyelocyte < 5% 
in blood, no blasts and promyelocytes in blood, basophils < 20%, no extramedullary 
involvement] and in studies 0102 and 0109 [ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l, platelets ≥ 100 x 109/l, 
no blood blasts, BM blasts < 5% and no extramedullary disease] 
NEL   Same criteria as for CHR but ANC ≥ 1 x 109/l and platelets ≥ 20 x 109/l (0102 and 
0109 only) 
RTC   < 15% blasts BM and PB, < 30% blasts+promyelocytes in BM and PB, < 20% basophils in 
PB, no extramedullary disease other than spleen and liver (only for 0102 and 
0109). BM = bone marrow, PB = peripheral blood 
2 Cytogenetic  response criteria: 
A major response combines both complete and partial responses: complete (0% Ph+ 
metaphases), partial (1–35%) 
3 Complete cytogenetic response confirmed by a second bone marrow cytogenetic evaluation 
performed at least one month after the initial bone marrow study. 
Paediatric population 
A total of 26 paediatric patients of age < 18 years with either chronic phase CML (n=11) or CML in 
blast crisis or Ph+ acute leukaemias (n=15) were enrolled in a dose-escalation phase I trial. This was a 
population of heavily pretreated patients, as 46% had received prior BMT and 73% a prior multi-agent 
chemotherapy. Patients were treated at doses of imatinib of 260 mg/m2/day (n=5), 340 mg/m2/day 
(n=9), 440 mg/m2/day (n=7) and 570 mg/m2/day (n=5). Out of 9 patients with chronic phase CML and 
cytogenetic data available, 4 (44%) and 3 (33%) achieved a complete and partial cytogenetic response, 
respectively, for a rate of MCyR of 77%. 
A total of 51 paediatric patients with newly diagnosed and untreated CML in chronic phase have been 
enrolled in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm phase II trial. Patients were treated with imatinib 
340 mg/m2/day, with no interruptions in the absence of dose limiting toxicity. Imatinib treatment 
induces a rapid response in newly diagnosed paediatric CML patients with a CHR of 78% after 
8 weeks of therapy. The high rate of CHR is accompanied by the development of a complete 
cytogenetic response (CCyR) of 65% which is comparable to the results observed in adults. 
Additionally, partial cytogenetic response (PCyR) was observed in 16% for a MCyR of 81%. The 
majority of patients who achieved a CCyR developed the CCyR between months 3 and 10 with a 
median time to response based on the Kaplan-Meier estimate of 5.6 months. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
imatinib in all subsets of the paediatric population in Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl translocation)-
positive chronic myeloid leukaemia (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Clinical studies in Ph+ ALL 
Newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL 
In a controlled study (ADE10) of imatinib versus chemotherapy induction in 55 newly diagnosed 
patients aged 55 years and over, imatinib used as single agent induced a significantly higher rate of 
complete haematological response than chemotherapy (96.3% vs. 50%; p=0.0001). When salvage 
therapy with imatinib was administered in patients who did not respond or who responded poorly to 
chemotherapy, it resulted in 9 patients (81.8%) out of 11 achieving a complete haematological 
response. This clinical effect was associated with a higher reduction in bcr-abl transcripts in the 
imatinib-treated patients than in the chemotherapy arm after 2 weeks of therapy (p=0.02). All patients 
received imatinib and consolidation chemotherapy (see Table 4) after induction and the levels of 
bcr-abl transcripts were identical in the two arms at 8 weeks. As expected on the basis of the study 
design, no difference was observed in remission duration, disease-free survival or overall survival, 
although patients with complete molecular response and remaining in minimal residual disease had a 
better outcome in terms of both remission duration (p=0.01) and disease-free survival (p=0.02). 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results observed in a population of 211 newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL patients in four uncontrolled 
clinical studies (AAU02, ADE04, AJP01 and AUS01) are consistent with the results described above. 
Imatinib in combination with chemotherapy induction (see Table 4) resulted in a complete 
haematological response rate of 93% (147 out of 158 evaluable patients) and in a major cytogenetic 
response rate of 90% (19 out of 21 evaluable patients). The complete molecular response rate was 
48% (49 out of 102 evaluable patients). Disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) 
constantly exceeded 1 year and were superior to historical control (DFS p<0.001; OS p<0.0001) in 
two studies (AJP01 and AUS01).  
Table 4  Chemotherapy regimen used in combination with imatinib 
Study ADE10 
Prephase 
Remission induction 
Consolidation therapy I, III, V 
Consolidation therapy II, IV 
 oral, days 6-7, 13-16;  
 oral, days 1-5;  
 i.v., days 3, 4, 5;  
DEX 10 mg/m2
CP 200 mg/m2
MTX 12 mg intrathecal, day 1 
DEX 10 mg/m2
VCR 1 mg i.v., days 7, 14;  
IDA 8 mg/m2
CP 500 mg/m2
Ara-C 60 mg/m2
MTX 500 mg/m2
6-MP 25 mg/m2
Ara-C 75 mg/m2
VM26 60 mg/m2
 i.v., days 22-25, 29-32 
 i.v. (24 h), days 1, 15;  
 oral, days 1-20  
 i.v. (1 h), days 1-5;  
 i.v. (1 h), days 1-5  
 i.v. (0.5 h), days 7, 8, 14, 15;  
 i.v.(1 h) day 1;  
Study AAU02 
Induction therapy (de novo Ph+ ALL)  Daunorubicin 30 mg/m2
 i.v., days 1-3, 15-16;  
Consolidation (de novo Ph+ ALL) 
Study ADE04 
Prephase 
Induction therapy I 
Induction therapy II 
Consolidation therapy 
Study AJP01 
Induction therapy 
 oral, days 1-7, 15-21;  
VCR 2 mg total dose i.v., days 1, 8, 15, 22;  
CP 750 mg/m2
 i.v., days 1, 8;  
Prednisone 60 mg/m2
IDA 9 mg/m2
 oral, days 1-28;  
MTX 15 mg intrathecal, days 1, 8, 15, 22;  
Ara-C 40 mg intrathecal, days 1, 8, 15, 22;  
Methylprednisolone 40 mg intrathecal, days 1, 8, 15, 22  
Ara-C 1,000 mg/m2/12 h i.v.(3 h), days 1-4;  
Mitoxantrone 10 mg/m2
MTX 15 mg intrathecal, day 1;  
Methylprednisolone 40 mg intrathecal, day 1  
 i.v. days 3-5;  
 oral, days 1-5;  
 i.v., days 3-5;  
DEX 10 mg/m2
CP 200 mg/m2
MTX 15 mg intrathecal, day 1  
DEX 10 mg/m2
 oral, days 1-5;  
VCR 2 mg i.v., days 6, 13, 20;  
Daunorubicin 45 mg/m2
CP 1 g/m2
Ara-C 75 mg/m2
6-MP 60 mg/m2
DEX 10 mg/m2
Vindesine 3 mg/m2
MTX 1.5 g/m2
Etoposide 250 mg/m2
Ara-C 2x 2 g/m2
 i.v. (24 h), day 1;  
 i.v. (1 h), days 26, 46;  
 i.v., days 6-7, 13-14  
 i.v. (1 h), days 28-31, 35-38, 42-45;  
 oral, days 26-46  
 oral, days 1-5;  
 i.v., day 1;  
 i.v. (1 h) days 4-5;  
 i.v. (3 h, q 12 h), day 5  
CP 1.2 g/m2 i.v. (3 h), day 1;  
Daunorubicin 60 mg/m2
Vincristine 1.3 mg/m2
 i.v. (1 h), days 1-3;  
 i.v., days 1, 8, 15, 21;  
22 
 
 
Consolidation therapy 
Maintenance 
Study AUS01 
Induction-consolidation therapy 
Maintenance 
Prednisolone 60 mg/m2/day oral  
Alternating chemotherapy course: high dose 
chemotherapy with MTX 1 g/m2
Ara-C 2 g/m2
VCR 1.3 g/m2
Prednisolone 60 mg/m2
 i.v. (q 12 h), days 2-3, for 4 cycles  
 i.v., day 1;  
 oral, days 1-5  
 i.v. (24 h), day 1, and 
Hyper-CVAD regimen: CP 300 mg/m2 i.v. (3 h, q 12 h), 
days 1-3;  
Vincristine 2 mg i.v., days 4, 11;  
Doxorubicine 50 mg/m2 i.v. (24 h), day 4;  
DEX 40 mg/day on days 1-4 and 11-14, alternated with 
MTX 1 g/m2 i.v. (24 h), day 1, Ara-C 1 g/m2 i.v. (2 h, q 12 
h), days 2-3 (total of 8 courses) 
VCR 2 mg i.v. monthly for 13 months;  
Prednisolone 200 mg oral, 5 days per month for 13 months 
All treatment regimens include administration of steroids for CNS prophylaxis. 
Ara-C: cytosine arabinoside; CP: cyclophosphamide; DEX: dexamethasone; MTX: methotrexate; 6-
MP: 6-mercaptopurine VM26: Teniposide; VCR: vincristine; IDA: idarubicine; i.v.: intravenous  
Paediatric population 
In study I2301, a total of 93 paediatric, adolescent and young adult patients (from 1 to 22 years old) 
with Ph+ ALL were enrolled in an open-label, multicentre, sequential cohort, non-randomized phase 
III trial, and were treated with imatinib (340 mg/m2/day) in combination with intensive chemotherapy 
after induction therapy. Imatinib was administered intermittently in cohorts 1-5, with increasing 
duration and earlier start of imatinib from cohort to cohort; cohort 1 receiving the lowest intensitiy and 
cohort 5 receiving the highest intensity of imatinib (longest duration in days with continuous daily 
imatinib dosing during the first chemotherapy treatment courses). Continuous daily exposure to 
imatinib early in the course of treatment in combination with chemotherapy in cohort 5-patients 
(n=50) improved the 4-year event-free survival (EFS) compared to historical controls (n=120), who 
received standard chemotherapy without imatinib (69.6% vs. 31.6%, respectively). The estimated 
4-year OS in cohort 5-patients was 83.6% compared to 44.8% in the historical controls. 20 out of the 
50 (40%) patients in cohort 5 received haematopoietic stem cell transplant. 
Table 5  Chemotherapy regimen used in combination with imatinib in study I2301 
Consolidation block 1 
(3 weeks) 
Consolidation block 2 
(3 weeks) 
Reinduction block 1 
(3 weeks) 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1-5 
Ifosfamide (1.8 g/m2/day, IV): days 1-5 
MESNA (360 mg/m2/dose q3h, x 8 doses/day, IV): days 1-5 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 6-15 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
IT Methotrexate (age-adjusted): day 1 ONLY 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): day 8, 15 
Methotrexate (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): day 1 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: 
Days 2 and 3 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): day 1 
ARA-C (3 g/m2/dose q 12 h x 4, IV): days 2 and 3 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 4-13 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 8, and 15 
DAUN (45 mg/m2/day bolus, IV): days 1 and 2 
CPM (250 mg/m2/dose q12h x 4 doses, IV): days 3 and 4 
PEG-ASP (2500 IUnits/m2, IM): day 4 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 5-14 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 15 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-7 and 15-21 
23 
 
 
 
Intensification block 1 
(9 weeks) 
Reinduction block 2 
(3 weeks) 
Intensification block 2 
(9 weeks) 
Maintenance 
(8-week cycles) 
Cycles 1–4 
Maintenance 
(8-week cycles) 
Cycle 5 
Maintenance 
(8-week cycles) 
Cycles 6-12 
Methotrexate (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): days 1 and 15 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: days 2, 3, 16, and 17 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 22 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
CPM (300 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
MESNA (150 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 27-36 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
ARA-C (3 g/m2, q12h, IV): days 43, 44 
L-ASP (6000 IUnits/m2, IM): day 44 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 8 and 15 
DAUN (45 mg/m2/day bolus, IV): days 1 and 2 
CPM (250 mg/m2/dose q12h x 4 doses, iv): Days 3 and 4 
PEG-ASP (2500 IUnits/m2, IM): day 4 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 5-14 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 15 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-7 and 15-21 
Methotrexate (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): days 1 and 15 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: days 2, 3, 16, and 17 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 22 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
CPM (300 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
MESNA (150 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 27-36 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
ARA-C (3 g/m2, q12h, IV): days 43, 44 
L-ASP (6000 IUnits/m2, IM): day 44 
MTX (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): day 1 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: days 2 and 3 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1, 29 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2, IV): days 1, 29 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day PO): days 1-5; 29-33 
6-MP (75 mg/m2/day, PO): days 8-28 
Methotrexate (20 mg/m2/week, PO): days 8, 15, 22 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2, IV): days 29-33 
CPM (300 mg/m2, IV): days 29-33 
MESNA IV days 29-33 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 34-43 
Cranial irradiation (Block 5 only) 
12 Gy in 8 fractions for all patients that are CNS1 and CNS2 at 
diagnosis 
18 Gy in 10 fractions for patients that are CNS3 at diagnosis 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 29 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-5; 29-33 
6-MP (75 mg/m2/day, PO): days 11-56 (Withhold 6-MP during the 6-
10 days of cranial irradiation beginning on day 1 of Cycle 5. Start 6-MP 
the 1st day after cranial irradiation completion.) 
Methotrexate (20 mg/m2/week, PO): days 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 29 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-5; 29-33 
6-MP (75 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-56 
Methotrexate (20 mg/m2/week, PO): days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50 
G-CSF = granulocyte colony stimulating factor, VP-16 = etoposide, MTX = methotrexate, IV = 
intravenous, SC = subcutaneous, IT = intrathecal, PO = oral, IM = intramuscular, ARA-C = 
cytarabine, CPM = cyclophosphamide, VCR = vincristine, DEX = dexamethasone, DAUN = 
daunorubicin, 6-MP = 6-mercaptopurine, E.Coli L-ASP = L-asparaginase, PEG-ASP = PEG 
24 
asparaginase, MESNA= 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate sodium, iii= or until MTX level is < 0.1 μM, q6h 
= every 6 hours, Gy= Gray 
Study AIT07 was a multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase II/III study that included 128 patients 
(1 to < 18 years) treated with imatinib in combination with chemotherapy. Safety data from this study 
seem to be in line with the safety profile of imatinib in Ph+ ALL patients. 
Relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL 
When imatinib was used as single agent in patients with relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL, it resulted, in 
the 53 out of 411 patients evaluable for response, in a haematological response rate of 30% (9% 
complete) and a major cytogenetic response rate of 23%. (Of note, out of the 411 patients, 353 were 
treated in an expanded access program without primary response data collected.) The median time to 
progression in the overall population of 411 patients with relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL ranged from 
2.6 to 3.1 months, and median overall survival in the 401 evaluable patients ranged from 4.9 to 9 
months. The data was similar when re-analysed to include only those patients age 55 or older. 
Clinical studies in MDS/MPD 
Experience with imatinib in this indication is very limited and is based on haematological and 
cytogenetic response rates. There are no controlled trials demonstrating a clinical benefit or increased 
survival. One open label, multicentre, phase II clinical trial (study B2225) was conducted testing 
imatinib in diverse populations of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases associated with 
Abl, Kit or PDGFR protein tyrosine kinases. This study included 7 patients with MDS/MPD who were 
treated with imatinib 400 mg daily. Three patients presented a complete haematological response 
(CHR) and one patient experienced a partial haematological response (PHR). At the time of the 
original analysis, three of the four patients with detected PDGFR gene rearrangements developed 
haematological response (2 CHR and 1 PHR). The age of these patients ranged from 20 to 72 years. 
An observational registry (study L2401) was conducted to collect long-term safety and efficacy data in 
patients suffering from myeloproliferative neoplasms with PDGFR- β rearrangement and who were 
treated with imatinib. The 23 patients enrolled in this registry received imatinib at a median daily dose 
of 264 mg (range: 100 to 400 mg) for a median duration of 7.2 years (range 0.1 to 12.7 years). Due to 
the observational nature of this registry, haematologic, cytogenetic and molecular assessment data 
were available for 22, 9 and 17 of the 23 enrolled patients, respectively. When assuming 
conservatively that patients with missing data were non-responders, CHR was observed in 20/23 
(87%) patients, CCyR in 9/23 (39.1%) patients, and MR in 11/23 (47.8%) patients, respectively. When 
the response rate is calculated from patients with at least one valid assessment, the response rate for 
CHR, CCyR and MR was 20/22 (90.9%), 9/9 (100%) and 11/17 (64.7%), respectively. 
In addition a further 24 patients with MDS/MPD were reported in 13 publications. 21 patients were 
treated with imatinib 400 mg daily, while the other 3 patients received lower doses. In eleven patients 
PDGFR gene rearrangements was detected, 9 of them achieved a CHR and 1 PHR. The age of these 
patients ranged from 2 to 79 years. In a recent publication updated information from 6 of these 11 
patients revealed that all these patients remained in cytogenetic remission (range 32-38 months). The 
same publication reported long term follow-up data from 12 MDS/MPD patients with PDGFR gene 
rearrangements (5 patients from study B2225). These patients received imatinib for a median of 47 
months (range 24 days – 60 months). In 6 of these patients follow-up now exceeds 4 years. Eleven 
patients achieved rapid CHR; ten had complete resolution of cytogenetic abnormalities and a decrease 
or disappearance of fusion transcripts as measured by RT-PCR. Haematological and cytogenetic 
responses have been sustained for a median of 49 months (range 19-60) and 47 months (range 16-59), 
respectively. The overall survival is 65 months since diagnosis (range 25-234). Imatinib administration 
to patients without the genetic translocation generally results in no improvement. 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with MDS/MPD. Five (5) patients with MDS/MPD 
associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements were reported in 4 publications. The age of these 
patients ranged from 3 months to 4 years and imatinib was given at dose 50 mg daily or doses ranging 
from 92.5 to 340 mg/m2 daily. All patients achieved complete haematological response, cytogenetic 
response and/or clinical response. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in HES/CEL 
One open-label, multicentre, phase II clinical trial (study B2225) was conducted testing imatinib in 
diverse populations of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases associated with Abl, Kit or 
PDGFR protein tyrosine kinases. In this study, 14 patients with HES/CEL were treated with 100 mg to 
1,000 mg of imatinib daily. A further 162 patients with HES/CEL, reported in 35 published case 
reports and case series received imatinib at doses from 75 mg to 800 mg daily. Cytogenetic 
abnormalities were evaluated in 117 of the total population of 176 patients. In 61 of these 117 patients 
FIP1L1-PDGFRα fusion kinase was identified. An additional four HES patients were found to be 
FIP1L1-PDGFRα-positive in other 3 published reports. All 65 FIP1L1-PDGFRα fusion kinase 
positive patients achieved a CHR sustained for months (range from 1+ to 44+ months censored at the 
time of the reporting). As reported in a recent publication 21 of these 65 patients also achieved 
complete molecular remission with a median follow-up of 28 months (range 13-67 months). The age 
of these patients ranged from 25 to 72 years. Additionally, improvements in symptomatology and 
other organ dysfunction abnormalities were reported by the investigators in the case reports. 
Improvements were reported in cardiac, nervous, skin/subcutaneous tissue, 
respiratory/thoracic/mediastinal, musculoskeletal/connective tissue/vascular, and gastrointestinal 
organ systems. 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with HES/CEL. Three (3) patients with HES and 
CEL associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements were reported in 3 publications. The age of these 
patients ranged from 2 to 16 years and imatinib was given at dose 300 mg/m2 daily or doses ranging 
from 200 to 400 mg daily. All patients achieved complete haematological response, complete 
cytogenetic response and/or complete molecular response. 
Clinical studies in unresectable and/or metastatic GIST 
One phase II, open-label, randomised, uncontrolled multinational study was conducted in patients with 
unresectable or metastatic malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). In this study 
147 patients were enrolled and randomised to receive either 400 mg or 600 mg orally once daily for up 
to 36 months. These patients ranged in age from 18 to 83 years old and had a pathologic diagnosis of 
Kit-positive malignant GIST that was unresectable and/or metastatic. Immunohistochemistry was 
routinely performed with Kit antibody (A-4502, rabbit polyclonal antiserum, 1:100; DAKO 
Corporation, Carpinteria, CA) according to analysis by an avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method 
after antigen retrieval. 
The primary evidence of efficacy was based on objective response rates. Tumours were required to be 
measurable in at least one site of disease, and response characterisation based on Southwestern 
Oncology Group (SWOG) criteria. Results are provided in Table 6. 
Table 6  Best tumour response in trial STIB2222 (GIST) 
Best response 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Stable disease 
Progressive disease 
Not evaluable 
Unknown 
All doses (n=147) 
400 mg (n=73) 
600 mg (n=74) 
n (%) 
1 (0.7) 
98 (66.7) 
23 (15.6) 
18 (12.2) 
5 (3.4) 
2 (1.4) 
There were no differences in response rates between the two dose groups. A significant number of 
patients who had stable disease at the time of the interim analysis achieved a partial response with 
longer treatment (median follow-up 31 months). Median time to response was 13 weeks (95% C.I. 12–
23). Median time to treatment failure in responders was 122 weeks (95% C.I 106–147), while in the 
overall study population it was 84 weeks (95% C.I 71–109). The median overall survival has not been 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reached. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for survival after 36-month follow-up is 68%. 
In two clinical studies (study B2222 and an intergroup study S0033) the daily dose of imatinib was 
escalated to 800 mg in patients progressing at the lower daily doses of 400 mg or 600 mg. The daily 
dose was escalated to 800 mg in a total of 103 patients; 6 patients achieved a partial response and 21 
stabilisation of their disease after dose escalation for an overall clinical benefit of 26%. From the 
safety data available, escalating the dose to 800 mg daily in patients progressing at lower doses of 400 
mg or 600 mg daily does not seem to affect the safety profile of imatinib. 
Clinical studies in adjuvant GIST 
In the adjuvant setting, imatinib was investigated in a multicentre, double-blind, long-term, placebo- 
controlled phase III study (Z9001) involving 773 patients. The ages of these patients ranged from 18 
to 91 years. Patients were included who had a histological diagnosis of primary GIST expressing Kit 
protein by immunochemistry and a tumour size ≥ 3 cm in maximum dimension, with complete gross 
resection of primary GIST within 14-70 days prior to registration. After resection of primary GIST, 
patients were randomised to one of the two arms: imatinib at 400 mg/day or matching placebo for one 
year. 
The primary endpoint of the study was recurrence-free survival (RFS), defined as the time from date 
of randomisation to the date of recurrence or death from any cause. 
Imatinib significantly prolonged RFS, with 75% of patients being recurrence-free at 38 months in the 
imatinib group vs. 20 months in the placebo group (95% CIs, [30 - non-estimable]; [14 - non-
estimable], respectively); (hazard ratio = 0.398 [0.259-0.610], p<0.0001). At one year the overall RFS 
was significantly better for imatinib (97.7%) vs. placebo (82.3%), (p<0.0001). The risk of recurrence 
was thus reduced by approximately 89% as compared with placebo (hazard ratio = 0.113 [0.049-
0.264]). 
The risk of recurrence in patients after surgery of their primary GIST was retrospectively assessed 
based on the following prognostic factors: tumour size, mitotic index, tumour location. Mitotic index 
data were available for 556 of the 713 intention-to-treat (ITT) population. The results of subgroup 
analyses according to the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Armed Forces 
Institute of Pathology (AFIP) risk classifications are shown in Table 7. No benefit was observed in the 
low and very low risk groups. No overall survival benefit has been observed. 
Table 7  Summary of Z9001 trial RFS analyses by NIH and AFIP risk classifications 
Risk 
criteria 
Risk Level 
% of 
patients 
No. of events / 
No. of patients 
imatinib vs placebo 
Overall hazard 
ratio (95%CI)* 
RFS rates (%) 
12 month 
24 month 
NIH 
AFIP 
Low 
Intermediate 
High 
Very Low 
Low 
Moderate 
High 
29.5 
25.7 
44.8 
20.7 
25.0 
24.6 
29.7 
0/86 vs. 2/90 
4/75 vs. 6/78 
21/140 vs. 51/127 
0/52 vs. 2/63 
2/70 vs. 0/69 
2/70 vs. 11/67 
16/84 vs. 39/81 
N.E. 
0.59 (0.17; 2.10) 
0.29 (0.18; 0.49) 
N.E. 
N.E. 
0.16 (0.03; 0.70) 
0.27 (0.15; 0.48) 
* Full follow-up period; NE – Not estimable 
imatinib 
vs placebo 
100 vs. 98.7 
100 vs. 94.8 
94.8 vs. 64.0 
100 vs. 98.1 
100 vs. 100 
97.9 vs. 90.8 
98.7 vs. 56.1 
imatinib 
vs placebo 
100 vs. 95.5 
97.8 vs. 89.5 
80.7 vs. 46.6 
100 vs. 93.0 
97.8 vs. 100 
97.9 vs. 73.3 
79.9 vs. 41.5 
A second multicentre, open label phase III study (SSG XVIII/AIO) compared 400 mg/day imatinib 12 
months treatment vs. 36 months treatment in patients after surgical resection of GIST and one of the 
following: tumour diameter > 5 cm and mitotic count > 5/50 high power fields (HPF); or tumour 
diameter > 10 cm and any mitotic count or tumour of any size with mitotic count > 10/50 HPF or 
tumours ruptured into the peritoneal cavity. There were a total of 397 patients consented and 
randomised to the study (199 patients on 12-month arm and 198 patients on 36-month arm), median 
age was 61 years (range 22 to 84 years). The median time of follow-up was 54 months (from date of 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomisation to data cut-off), with a total of 83 months between the first patient randomised and the 
cut-off date. 
The primary endpoint of the study was recurrence-free survival (RFS), defined as the time from date 
of randomisation to the date of recurrence or death from any cause. 
Thirty-six (36) months of imatinib treatment significantly prolonged RFS compared to 12 months of 
imatinib treatment (with overall Hazard Ratio (HR) = 0.46 [0.32, 0.65], p<0.0001) (Table 8, Figure 1). 
In addition, thirty-six (36) months of imatinib treatment significantly prolonged overall survival (OS) 
compared to 12 months of imatinib treatment (HR = 0.45 [0.22, 0.89], p=0.0187) (Table 8, Figure 2). 
Longer duration of the treatment (> 36 months) may delay the onset of further recurrences; however 
the impact of this finding on the overall survival remains unknown. 
The total number of deaths were 25 for the 12-month treatment arm and 12 for the 36-month treatment 
arm. 
Treatment with imatinib for 36 months was superior to treatment for 12 months in the ITT analysis, 
i.e. including the entire study population. In a planned subgroup analysis by mutation type, the HR for 
RFS for 36 months of treatment for patients with mutations of exon 11 was 0.35 [95% CI: 0.22, 0.56]. 
No conclusions can be drawn for other less common mutation subgroups due to the low number of 
observed events. 
Table 8 
12-month and 36-month imatinib treatment (SSGXVIII/AIO Trial) 
RFS 
12 months 
24 months 
36 months 
48 months 
60 months 
Survival 
36 months 
48 months 
60 months 
12-month treatment arm 
%(CI) 
93.7 (89.2-96.4) 
75.4 (68.6-81.0) 
60.1 (52.5-66.9) 
52.3 (44.0-59.8) 
47.9 (39.0-56.3) 
36-month treatment arm 
%(CI) 
95.9 (91.9-97.9) 
90.7 (85.6-94.0) 
86.6 (80.8-90.8) 
78.3 (70.8-84.1) 
65.6 (56.1-73.4) 
94.0 (89.5-96.7) 
87.9 (81.1-92.3) 
81.7 (73.0-87.8) 
96.3 (92.4-98.2) 
95.6 (91.2-97.8) 
92.0 (85.3-95.7) 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Kaplan-Meier estimates for primary recurrence-free survival endpoint (ITT 
population) 
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
e
c
n
e
r
r
u
c
e
r
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
P < 0.0001 
Hazard ratio 0.46 
(95% Cl, 0.32-0.65) 
—— 
----- 
│││ 
(1) Imatinib 12 MO: 
(2) Imatinib 36 MO: 
Censored observations 
 N 
199 
198 
      Evt 
84 
50 
Cen 
115 
148 
Survival time in months 
At-risk : Events 
(1)  199:0 
(2)  198:0 
182:8 
189:5 
177:12  163:25 
181:11 
184:8 
137:46  105:65  88:72 
173:18  152:22  133:25 
61:77 
49:81  36:83 
102:29  82:35  54:46 
27:84 
39:47 
14:84  10:84  2:84 
21:49  8:50 
0:50   
0:84 
Figure 2  Kaplan-Meier estimates for overall survival (ITT population) 
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
P = 0.019 
Hazard ratio 0.45 
(95% Cl, 0.22-0.89) 
—— 
----- 
│││ 
(1) Imatinib 12 MO: 
(2) Imatinib 36 MO: 
Censored observations 
 N 
199 
198 
       Evt 
25 
12 
Cen 
174 
186 
Survival time in months 
At-risk : Events 
(1)  199:0 
(2)  198:0 
190:2 
196:0 
188:2 
192:0 
183:6 
187:4 
176:8 
184:5 
156:10  140:11  105:14  87:18  64:22 
100:8  76:10 
119:8 
164:7 
152:7 
46:23 
56:11 
27:25  20:25  2:25 
31:11  13:12  0:12   
0:25 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with c-Kit positive GIST. Seventeen (17) patients 
with GIST (with or without Kit and PDGFR mutations) were reported in 7 publications. The age of 
these patients ranged from 8 to 18 years and imatinib was given in both adjuvant and metastatic 
settings at doses ranging from 300 to 800 mg daily. The majority of paediatric patients treated for 
GIST lacked data confirming c-kit or PDGFR mutations which may have led to mixed clinical 
outcomes. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in DFSP 
One phase II, open label, multicentre clinical trial (study B2225) was conducted including 12 patients 
with DFSP treated with imatinib 800 mg daily. The age of the DFSP patients ranged from 23 to 75 
years; DFSP was metastatic, locally recurrent following initial resective surgery and not considered 
amenable to further resective surgery at the time of study entry. The primary evidence of efficacy was 
based on objective response rates. Out of the 12 patients enrolled, 9 responded, one completely and 8 
partially. Three of the partial responders were subsequently rendered disease free by surgery. The 
median duration of therapy in study B2225 was 6.2 months, with a maximum duration of 24.3 months. 
A further 6 DFSP patients treated with imatinib were reported in 5 published case reports, their ages 
ranging from 18 months to 49 years. The adult patients reported in the published literature were 
treated with either 400 mg (4 cases) or 800 mg (1 case) imatinib daily. Five (5) patients responded, 3 
completely and 2 partially. The median duration of therapy in the published literature ranged between 
4 weeks and more than 20 months. The translocation t(17:22)[(q22:q13)], or its gene product, was 
present in nearly all responders to imatinib treatment. 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with DFSP. Five (5) patients with DFSP and 
PDGFR gene re-arrangements were reported in 3 publications. The age of these patients ranged from 
newborn to 14 years and imatinib was given at dose 50 mg daily or doses ranging from 400 to 
520 mg/m2 daily. All patients achieved partial and/or complete response. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetics of imatinib 
The pharmacokinetics of imatinib have been evaluated over a dosage range of 25 to 1,000 mg. Plasma 
pharmacokinetic profiles were analysed on day 1 and on either day 7 or day 28, by which time plasma 
concentrations had reached steady state. 
Absorption 
Mean absolute bioavailability for imatinib is 98%. There was high between-patient variability in 
plasma imatinib AUC levels after an oral dose. When given with a high-fat meal, the rate of 
absorption of imatinib was minimally reduced (11% decrease in Cmax and prolongation of tmax by 
1.5 h), with a small reduction in AUC (7.4%) compared to fasting conditions. The effect of prior 
gastrointestinal surgery on drug absorption has not been investigated. 
Distribution 
At clinically relevant concentrations of imatinib, binding to plasma proteins was approximately 95% 
on the basis of in vitro experiments, mostly to albumin and alpha-acid-glycoprotein, with little binding 
to lipoprotein. 
Biotransformation 
The main circulating metabolite in humans is the N-demethylated piperazine derivative, which shows 
similar in vitro potency to the parent. The plasma AUC for this metabolite was found to be only 16% 
of the AUC for imatinib. The plasma protein binding of the N-demethylated metabolite is similar to 
that of the parent compound. 
Imatinib and the N-demethyl metabolite together accounted for about 65% of the circulating 
radioactivity (AUC(0-48h)). The remaining circulating radioactivity consisted of a number of minor 
metabolites. 
The in vitro results showed that CYP3A4 was the major human P450 enzyme catalysing the 
biotransformation of imatinib. Of a panel of potential comedications (acetaminophen, aciclovir, 
allopurinol, amphotericin, cytarabine, erythromycin, fluconazole, hydroxyurea, norfloxacin, 
penicillin V) only erythromycin (IC50 50 μM) and fluconazole (IC50 118 μM) showed inhibition of 
imatinib metabolism which could have clinical relevance. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imatinib was shown in vitro to be a competitive inhibitor of marker substrates for CYP2C9, CYP2D6 
and CYP3A4/5. Ki values in human liver microsomes were 27, 7.5 and 7.9 µmol/l, respectively. 
Maximal plasma concentrations of imatinib in patients are 2-4 µmol/l, consequently an inhibition of 
CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A4/5-mediated metabolism of co-administered drugs is possible. Imatinib did 
not interfere with the biotransformation of 5-fluorouracil, but it inhibited paclitaxel metabolism as a 
result of competitive inhibition of CYP2C8 (Ki = 34.7 μM). This Ki value is far higher than the 
expected plasma levels of imatinib in patients; consequently no interaction is expected upon 
co-administration of either 5-fluorouracil or paclitaxel and imatinib. 
Elimination 
Based on the recovery of compound(s) after an oral 14C-labelled dose of imatinib, approximately 81% 
of the dose was recovered within 7 days in faeces (68% of dose) and urine (13% of dose). Unchanged 
imatinib accounted for 25% of the dose (5% urine, 20% faeces), the remainder being metabolites. 
Plasma pharmacokinetics 
Following oral administration in healthy volunteers, the t½ was approximately 18 h, suggesting that 
once-daily dosing is appropriate. The increase in mean AUC with increasing dose was linear and dose 
proportional in the range of 25-1,000 mg imatinib after oral administration. There was no change in 
the kinetics of imatinib on repeated dosing, and accumulation was 1.5-2.5-fold at steady state when 
dosed once daily. 
Pharmacokinetics in GIST patients 
In patients with GIST steady-state exposure was 1.5-fold higher than that observed for CML patients 
for the same dosage (400 mg daily). Based on preliminary population pharmacokinetic analysis in 
GIST patients, there were three variables (albumin, WBC and bilirubin) found to have a statistically 
significant relationship with imatinib pharmacokinetics. Decreased values of albumin caused a 
reduced clearance (CL/f); and higher levels of WBC led to a reduction of CL/f. However, these 
associations are not sufficiently pronounced to warrant dose adjustment. In this patient population, the 
presence of hepatic metastases could potentially lead to hepatic insufficiency and reduced metabolism. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis in CML patients, there was a small effect of age on the 
volume of distribution (12% increase in patients > 65 years old). This change is not thought to be 
clinically significant. The effect of bodyweight on the clearance of imatinib is such that for a patient 
weighing 50 kg the mean clearance is expected to be 8.5 l/h, while for a patient weighing 100 kg the 
clearance will rise to 11.8 l/h. These changes are not considered sufficient to warrant dose adjustment 
based on kg bodyweight. There is no effect of gender on the kinetics of imatinib. 
Pharmacokinetics in paediatric population 
As in adult patients, imatinib was rapidly absorbed after oral administration in paediatric patients in 
both phase I and phase II studies. Dosing in children at 260 and 340 mg/m2/day achieved the same 
exposure, respectively, as doses of 400 mg and 600 mg in adult patients. The comparison of AUC(0-24) 
on day 8 and day 1 at the 340 mg/m2/day dose level revealed a 1.7-fold drug accumulation after 
repeated once-daily dosing. 
Based on pooled population pharmacokinetic analysis in paediatric patients with haematological 
disorders (CML, Ph+ALL, or other haematological disorders treated with imatinib), clearance of 
imatinib increases with increasing body surface area (BSA). After correcting for the BSA effect, other 
demographics such as age, body weight and body mass index did not have clinically significant effects 
on the exposure of imatinib. The analysis confirmed that exposure of imatinib in paediatric patients 
receiving 260 mg/m2 once daily (not exceeding 400 mg once daily) or 340 mg/m2 once daily (not 
exceeding 600 mg once daily) were similar to those in adult patients who received imatinib 400 mg or 
600 mg once daily. 
Organ function impairment 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imatinib and its metabolites are not excreted via the kidney to a significant extent. Patients with mild 
and moderate impairment of renal function appear to have a higher plasma exposure than patients with 
normal renal function. The increase is approximately 1.5 to 2-fold, corresponding to a 1.5-fold 
elevation of plasma AGP, to which imatinib binds strongly. The free drug clearance of imatinib is 
probably similar between patients with renal impairment and those with normal renal function, since 
renal excretion represents only a minor elimination pathway for imatinib (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Although the results of pharmacokinetic analysis showed that there is considerable inter-subject 
variation, the mean exposure to imatinib did not increase in patients with varying degrees of liver 
dysfunction as compared to patients with normal liver function (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The preclinical safety profile of imatinib was assessed in rats, dogs, monkeys and rabbits. 
Multiple dose toxicity studies revealed mild to moderate haematological changes in rats, dogs and 
monkeys, accompanied by bone marrow changes in rats and dogs. 
The liver was a target organ in rats and dogs. Mild to moderate increases in transaminases and slight 
decreases in cholesterol, triglycerides, total protein and albumin levels were observed in both species. 
No histopathological changes were seen in rat liver. Severe liver toxicity was observed in dogs treated 
for 2 weeks, with elevated liver enzymes, hepatocellular necrosis, bile duct necrosis, and bile duct 
hyperplasia. 
Renal toxicity was observed in monkeys treated for 2 weeks, with focal mineralisation and dilation of 
the renal tubules and tubular nephrosis. Increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine were 
observed in several of these animals. In rats, hyperplasia of the transitional epithelium in the renal 
papilla and in the urinary bladder was observed at doses ≥ 6 mg/kg in the 13-week study, without 
changes in serum or urinary parameters. An increased rate of opportunistic infections was observed 
with chronic imatinib treatment. 
In a 39-week monkey study, no NOAEL (no observed adverse effect level) was established at the 
lowest dose of 15 mg/kg, approximately one-third the maximum human dose of 800 mg based on 
body surface. Treatment resulted in worsening of normally suppressed malarial infections in these 
animals. 
Imatinib was not considered genotoxic when tested in an in vitro bacterial cell assay (Ames test), an in 
vitro mammalian cell assay (mouse lymphoma) and an in vivo rat micronucleus test. Positive 
genotoxic effects were obtained for imatinib in an in vitro mammalian cell assay (Chinese hamster 
ovary) for clastogenicity (chromosome aberration) in the presence of metabolic activation. Two 
intermediates of the manufacturing process, which are also present in the final product, are positive for 
mutagenesis in the Ames assay. One of these intermediates was also positive in the mouse lymphoma 
assay. 
In a study of fertility, in male rats dosed for 70 days prior to mating, testicular and epididymal weights 
and percent motile sperm were decreased at 60 mg/kg, approximately equal to the maximum clinical 
dose of 800 mg/day, based on body surface area. This was not seen at doses ≤ 20 mg/kg. A slight to 
moderate reduction in spermatogenesis was also observed in the dog at oral doses ≥ 30 mg/kg. When 
female rats were dosed 14 days prior to mating and through to gestational day 6, there was no effect on 
mating or on number of pregnant females. At a dose of 60 mg/kg, female rats had significant 
post-implantation foetal loss and a reduced number of live foetuses. This was not seen at 
doses ≤ 20 mg/kg. 
In an oral pre- and postnatal development study in rats, red vaginal discharge was noted in the 
45 mg/kg/day group on either day 14 or day 15 of gestation. At the same dose, the number of stillborn 
pups as well as those dying between postpartum days 0 and 4 was increased. In the F1 offspring, at the 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
same dose level, mean body weights were reduced from birth until terminal sacrifice and the number 
of litters achieving criterion for preputial separation was slightly decreased. F1 fertility was not 
affected, while an increased number of resorptions and a decreased number of viable foetuses was 
noted at 45 mg/kg/day. The no observed effect level (NOEL) for both the maternal animals and the F1 
generation was 15 mg/kg/day (one quarter of the maximum human dose of 800 mg). 
Imatinib was teratogenic in rats when administered during organogenesis at doses ≥ 100 mg/kg, 
approximately equal to the maximum clinical dose of 800 mg/day, based on body surface area. 
Teratogenic effects included exencephaly or encephalocele, absent/reduced frontal and absent parietal 
bones. These effects were not seen at doses ≤ 30 mg/kg. 
No new target organs were identified in the rat juvenile development toxicology study (day 10 to 70 
postpartum) with respect to the known target organs in adult rats. In the juvenile toxicology study, 
effects upon growth, delay in vaginal opening and preputial separation were observed at 
approximately 0.3 to 2 times the average paediatric exposure at the highest recommended dose of 
340 mg/m2. In addition, mortality was observed in juvenile animals (around weaning phase) at 
approximately 2 times the average paediatric exposure at the highest recommended dose of 
340 mg/m2. 
In the 2-year rat carcinogenicity study administration of imatinib at 15, 30 and 60 mg/kg/day resulted 
in a statistically significant reduction in the longevity of males at 60 mg/kg/day and females at 
≥30 mg/kg/day. Histopathological examination of decedents revealed cardiomyopathy (both sexes), 
chronic progressive nephropathy (females) and preputial gland papilloma as principal causes of death 
or reasons for sacrifice. Target organs for neoplastic changes were the kidneys, urinary bladder, 
urethra, preputial and clitoral gland, small intestine, parathyroid glands, adrenal glands and 
non-glandular stomach. 
Papilloma/carcinoma of the preputial/clitoral gland were noted from 30 mg/kg/day onwards, 
representing approximately 0.5 or 0.3 times the human daily exposure (based on AUC) at 400 mg/day 
or 800 mg/day, respectively, and 0.4 times the daily exposure in children (based on AUC) at 
340 mg/m2/day. The no observed effect level (NOEL) was 15 mg/kg/day. The renal 
adenoma/carcinoma, the urinary bladder and urethra papilloma, the small intestine adenocarcinomas, 
the parathyroid glands adenomas, the benign and malignant medullary tumours of the adrenal glands 
and the non-glandular stomach papillomas/carcinomas were noted at 60 mg/kg/day, representing 
approximately 1.7 or 1 times the human daily exposure (based on AUC) at 400 mg/day or 800 mg/day, 
respectively, and 1.2 times the daily exposure in children (based on AUC) at 340 mg/m2/day. The no 
observed effect level (NOEL) was 30 mg/kg/day. 
The mechanism and relevance of these findings in the rat carcinogenicity study for humans are not yet 
clarified. 
Non-neoplastic lesions not identified in earlier preclinical studies were the cardiovascular system, 
pancreas, endocrine organs and teeth. The most important changes included cardiac hypertrophy and 
dilatation, leading to signs of cardiac insufficiency in some animals. 
The active substance imatinib demonstrates an environmental risk for sediment organisms. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Calcium hydrogen phosphate 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tablet coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed 
Macrogol 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/PE/PVdC/PE/PVC//Al blisters 
OPA/Al/PVC//Al blisters 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
Pack sizes of 60 or 120 film-coated tablets in blisters. 
Pack sizes of 20x1, 60x1, 120x1 or 180x1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
Pack sizes of 30 or 90 film-coated tablets in blisters.  
Pack sizes of 30x1 or 90x1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6.  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/808/001-020 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of first authorisation: 08 January 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 18 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
35 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 100 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 400 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
Non transparent orange capsules with black marking 7629 on capsule body and black marking TEVA 
on capsule cap. The content of the capsule is white to light yellow granulated powder. 
The length of the capsule is from 19.1 mm to 19.7 mm and the width is 6.91 mm. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
Non transparent orange capsules with black marking 7630 on capsule body and black marking TEVA 
on capsule cap. The content of the capsule is white to light yellow granulated powder. 
The length of the capsule is from 23.0 mm to 23.6 mm and the width is 8.53 mm. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Imatinib Teva is indicated for the treatment of  
• 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) positive 
(Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not 
considered as the first line of treatment. 
adult and paediatric patients with Ph+ CML in chronic phase after failure of interferon-alpha 
therapy, or in accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
adult and paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph+ ALL) integrated with chemotherapy. 
adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ ALL as monotherapy. 
adult patients with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD) associated with 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR) gene re-arrangements. 
adult patients with advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic 
leukaemia (CEL) with FIP1L1-PDGFRα rearrangement. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The effect of imatinib on the outcome of bone marrow transplantation has not been determined. 
Imatinib Teva is indicated for  
• 
the treatment of adult patients with Kit (CD 117) positive unresectable and/or metastatic 
malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
the adjuvant treatment of adult patients who are at significant risk of relapse following resection 
of Kit (CD117)-positive GIST. Patients who have a low or very low risk of recurrence should 
not receive adjuvant treatment. 
the treatment of adult patients with unresectable dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) and 
adult patients with recurrent and/or metastatic DFSP who are not eligible for surgery. 
In adult and paediatric patients, the effectiveness of imatinib is based on overall haematological and 
cytogenetic response rates and progression-free survival in CML, on haematological and cytogenetic 
response rates in Ph+ ALL, MDS/MPD, on haematological response rates in HES/CEL and on 
objective response rates in adult patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST and DFSP and on 
recurrence-free survival in adjuvant GIST. The experience with imatinib in patients with MDS/MPD 
associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements is very limited (see section 5.1). Except in newly 
diagnosed chronic phase CML, there are no controlled trials demonstrating a clinical benefit or 
increased survival for these diseases. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with 
haematological malignancies and malignant sarcomas, as appropriate. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
For doses of 400 mg and above (see dose recommendation below) a 400 mg hard capsule is available. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
For doses other than 400 mg and 800 mg (see dose recommendation below) a 100 mg hard capsule is 
available. 
Posology for CML in adult patients 
The recommended dosage of Imatinib Teva is 400 mg/day for adult patients in chronic phase CML. 
Chronic phase CML is defined when all of the following criteria are met: blasts < 15% in blood and 
bone marrow, peripheral blood basophils < 20%, platelets > 100 x 109/l. 
The recommended dosage of Imatinib Teva is 600 mg/day for adult patients in accelerated phase. 
Accelerated phase is defined by the presence of any of the following: blasts ≥ 15% but < 30% in 
blood or bone marrow, blasts plus promyelocytes ≥ 30% in blood or bone marrow (providing < 30% 
blasts), peripheral blood basophils ≥ 20%, platelets < 100 x 109/l unrelated to therapy. 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 600 mg/day for adult patients in blast crisis. Blast crisis is 
defined as blasts ≥ 30% in blood or bone marrow or extramedullary disease other than 
hepatosplenomegaly. 
Treatment duration: In clinical trials, treatment with imatinib was continued until disease progression. 
The effect of stopping treatment after the achievement of a complete cytogenetic response has not 
been investigated. 
Dose increases from 400 mg to 600 mg or 800 mg in patients with chronic phase disease, or from 
600 mg to a maximum of 800 mg (given as 400 mg twice daily) in patients with accelerated phase or 
blast crisis may be considered in the absence of severe adverse drug reaction and severe 
non-leukaemia-related neutropenia or thrombocytopenia in the following circumstances: disease 
progression (at any time); failure to achieve a satisfactory haematological response after at least 
3 months of treatment; failure to achieve a cytogenetic response after 12 months of treatment; or loss 
of a previously achieved haematological and/or cytogenetic response. Patients should be monitored 
closely following dose escalation given the potential for an increased incidence of adverse reactions at 
higher dosages. 
Posology for CML in children 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosing for children should be on the basis of body surface area (mg/m2). The dose of 340 mg/m2 daily 
is recommended for children with chronic phase CML and advanced phase CML (not to exceed the 
total dose of 800 mg). Treatment can be given as a once daily dose or alternatively the daily dose may 
be split into two administrations – one in the morning and one in the evening. The dose 
recommendation is currently based on a small number of paediatric patients (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
There is no experience with the treatment of children below 2 years of age. 
Dose increases from 340 mg/m2 daily to 570 mg/m2 daily (not to exceed the total dose of 800 mg) may 
be considered in children in the absence of severe adverse drug reaction and severe 
non-leukaemia-related neutropenia or thrombocytopenia in the following circumstances: disease 
progression (at any time); failure to achieve a satisfactory haematological response after at least 
3 months of treatment; failure to achieve a cytogenetic response after 12 months of treatment; or loss 
of a previously achieved haematological and/or cytogenetic response. Patients should be monitored 
closely following dose escalation given the potential for an increased incidence of adverse reactions at 
higher dosages. 
Posology for Ph+ ALL in adult patients 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 600 mg/day for adult patients with Ph+ ALL. 
Haematological experts in the management of this disease should supervise the therapy throughout all 
phases of care. 
Treatment schedule: On the basis of the existing data, imatinib has been shown to be effective and safe 
when administered at 600 mg/day in combination with chemotherapy in the induction phase, the 
consolidation and maintenance phases of chemotherapy (see section 5.1) for adult patients with newly 
diagnosed Ph+ ALL. The duration of imatinib therapy can vary with the treatment programme 
selected, but generally longer exposures to imatinib have yielded better results. 
For adult patients with relapsed or refractory Ph+ALL imatinib monotherapy at 600 mg/day is safe, 
effective and can be given until disease progression occurs. 
Posology for Ph+ ALL in children 
Dosing for children should be on the basis of body surface area (mg/m2). The dose of 340 mg/m2 daily 
is recommended for children with Ph+ ALL (not to exceed the total dose of 600 mg). 
Posology for MDS/MPD 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 400 mg/day for adult patients with MDS/MPD. 
Treatment duration: In the only clinical trial performed up to now, treatment with imatinib was 
continued until disease progression (see section 5.1). At the time of analysis, the treatment duration 
was a median of 47 months (24 days - 60 months). 
Posology for HES/CEL 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 100 mg/day for adult patients with HES/CEL. 
Dose increase from 100 mg to 400 mg may be considered in the absence of adverse drug reactions if 
assessments demonstrate an insufficient response to therapy. 
Treatment should be continued as long as the patient continues to benefit. 
Posology for GIST 
The recommended dose of imatinib is 400 mg/day for adult patients with unresectable and/or 
metastatic malignant GIST. 
Limited data exist on the effect of dose increases from 400 mg to 600 mg or 800 mg in patients 
progressing at the lower dose (see section 5.1). 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment duration: In clinical trials in GIST patients, treatment with imatinib was continued until 
disease progression. At the time of analysis, the treatment duration was a median of 7 months (7 days 
to 13 months). The effect of stopping treatment after achieving a response has not been investigated. 
The recommended dose of imatinib is 400 mg/day for the adjuvant treatment of adult patients 
following resection of GIST. Optimal treatment duration is not yet established. Length of treatment in 
the clinical trial supporting this indication was 36 months (see section 5.1). 
Posology for DFSP 
The recommended dose of Imatinib Teva is 800 mg/day for adult patients with DFSP. 
Dose adjustment for adverse reactions 
Non-haematological adverse reactions 
If a severe non-haematological adverse reaction develops with imatinib use, treatment must be 
withheld until the event has resolved. Thereafter, treatment can be resumed as appropriate depending 
on the initial severity of the event. 
If elevations in bilirubin > 3 x institutional upper limit of normal (IULN) or in liver 
transaminases > 5 x IULN occur, imatinib should be withheld until bilirubin levels have returned to 
< 1.5 x IULN and transaminase levels to < 2.5 x IULN. Treatment with imatinib may then be 
continued at a reduced daily dose. In adults the dose should be reduced from 400 mg to 300 mg or 
from 600 mg to 400 mg or from 800 mg to 600 mg, and in children from 340 to 260 mg/m2/day. 
Haematological adverse reactions 
Dose reduction or treatment interruption for severe neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are 
recommended as indicated in the table below. 
Dose adjustments for neutropenia and thrombocytopenia: 
HES/CEL 
(starting dose 100 mg) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
Chronic phase CML, 
MDS/MPD and GIST 
(starting dose 400 mg) 
HES/CEL 
(at dose 400 mg)  
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
Paediatric chronic phase CML 
(at dose 340 mg/m2) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
39 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at previous dose 
(i.e. before severe adverse 
reaction). 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at previous dose 
(i.e. before severe adverse 
reaction). 
3.  In the event of recurrence of 
ANC < 1.0 x109/l and/or 
platelets < 50 x 109/l, repeat 
step 1 and resume imatinib 
at reduced dose of 300 mg. 
1.  Stop imatinib until ANC ≥ 
1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at previous dose 
(i.e. before severe adverse 
reaction). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  In the event of recurrence of 
ANC < 1.0 x109/l and/or 
platelets < 50 x 109/l, repeat 
step 1 and resume imatinib 
at reduced dose of 
260 mg/m2. 
1.  Check whether cytopenia is 
related to leukaemia 
(marrow aspirate or biopsy). 
2.  If cytopenia is unrelated to 
leukaemia, reduce dose of 
imatinib to 400 mg. 
3.  If cytopenia persists for 
2 weeks, reduce further to 
300 mg. 
4.  If cytopenia persists for 
4 weeks and is still 
unrelated to leukaemia, stop 
imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 20 x 109/l, then 
resume treatment at 300 mg. 
1.  Check whether cytopenia is 
related to leukaemia 
(marrow aspirate or biopsy). 
2.  If cytopenia is unrelated to 
leukaemia, reduce dose of 
imatinib to 260 mg/m2. 
3.  If cytopenia persists for 
2 weeks, reduce further to 
200 mg/m2. 
4.  If cytopenia persists for 
4 weeks and is still 
unrelated to leukaemia, stop 
Imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 20 x 109/l, then 
resume treatment at 
200 mg/m2. 
1.  Stop imatinib until 
ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l and 
platelets ≥ 75 x 109/l. 
2.  Resume treatment with 
imatinib at 600 mg. 
3.  In the event of recurrence of 
ANC < 1.0 x109/l and/or 
platelets < 50 x 109/l, repeat 
step 1 and resume imatinib 
at reduced dose of 400 mg. 
Accelerated phase CML and 
blast crisis and Ph+ ALL 
(starting dose 600 mg) 
a ANC < 0.5 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 10 x 109/l 
Paediatric accelerated phase 
CML and blast crisis 
(starting dose 340 mg/m2) 
a ANC < 0.5 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 10 x 109/l 
DFSP 
(at dose 800 mg) 
ANC < 1.0 x 109/l  
and/or  
platelets < 50 x 109/l 
ANC = absolute neutrophil count 
a occurring after at least one month of treatment 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
40 
 
 
There is no experience in children with CML below 2 years of age and with Ph+ALL below 1 year of 
age (see section 5.1). There is very limited experience in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and 
HES/CEL. 
The safety and efficacy of imatinib in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and HES/CEL aged less 
than 18 years of age have not been established in clinical trials. Currently available published data are 
summarised in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Hepatic insufficiency 
Imatinib is mainly metabolised through the liver. Patients with mild, moderate or severe liver 
dysfunction should be given the minimum recommended dose of 400 mg daily. The dose can be 
reduced if not tolerated (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2). 
Liver dysfunction classification: 
Liver dysfunction 
Mild 
Moderate 
Severe 
ULN = upper limit of normal for the institution 
AST = aspartate aminotransferase 
Liver function tests 
Total bilirubin: = 1.5 ULN 
AST: >ULN (can be normal or < ULN if total 
bilirubin is > ULN) 
Total bilirubin: > 1.5-3.0 ULN 
AST: any 
Total bilirubin: > 3-10 ULN 
AST: any 
Renal insufficiency 
Patients with renal dysfunction or on dialysis should be given the minimum recommended dose of 
400 mg daily as starting dose. However, in these patients caution is recommended. The dose can be 
reduced if not tolerated. If tolerated, the dose can be increased for lack of efficacy (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Elderly 
Imatinib pharmacokinetics has not been specifically studied in the elderly. No significant age-related 
pharmacokinetic differences have been observed in adult patients in clinical trials which included over 
20% of patients age 65 and older. No specific dose recommendation is necessary in the elderly. 
Method of administration 
The prescribed dose should be administered orally with a meal and a large glass of water to minimise 
the risk of gastrointestinal irritations. Doses of 400 mg or 600 mg should be administered once daily, 
whereas a daily dose of 800 mg should be administered as 400 mg twice a day, in the morning and in 
the evening. For patients (children) unable to swallow the capsules, their content may be diluted in a 
glass of either still water or apple juice. Since studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity, and 
the potential risk for the human foetus is unknown, women of child-bearing potential who open 
capsules should be advised to handle the contents with caution and avoid skin-eye contact or 
inhalation (see section 4.6). Hands should be washed immediately after handling open capsules. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
When imatinib is co-administered with other medicinal products, there is a potential for drug 
interactions. Caution should be used when taking imatinib with protease inhibitors, azole antifungals, 
certain macrolides, CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window (e.g. cyclosporine, 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pimozide, tacrolimus, sirolimus, ergotamine, diergotamine, fentanyl, alfentanil, terfenadine, 
bortezomib, docetaxel, quinidine) or warfarin and other coumarin derivatives (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of imatinib and medicinal products that induce CYP3A4 (e.g. dexamethasone, 
phenytoin, carbamazepine, rifampicin, phenobarbital or Hypericum perforatum, also known as St. 
John’s Wort) may significantly reduce exposure to imatinib, potentially increasing the risk of 
therapeutic failure. Therefore, concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers and imatinib should be 
avoided (see section 4.5). 
Hypothyroidism 
Clinical cases of hypothyroidism have been reported in thyroidectomy patients undergoing 
levothyroxine replacement during treatment with imatinib (see section 4.5). Thyroid-stimulating 
hormone (TSH) levels should be closely monitored in such patients. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Metabolism of imatinib is mainly hepatic, and only 13% of excretion is through the kidneys. In 
patients with hepatic dysfunction (mild, moderate or severe), peripheral blood counts and liver 
enzymes should be carefully monitored (see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2). It should be noted that GIST 
patients may have hepatic metastases which could lead to hepatic impairment. 
Cases of liver injury, including hepatic failure and hepatic necrosis, have been observed with imatinib. 
When imatinib is combined with high dose chemotherapy regimens, an increase in serious hepatic 
reactions has been detected. Hepatic function should be carefully monitored in circumstances where 
imatinib is combined with chemotherapy regimens also known to be associated with hepatic 
dysfunction (see sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Fluid retention 
Occurrences of severe fluid retention (pleural effusion, oedema, pulmonary oedema, ascites, 
superficial oedema) have been reported in approximately 2.5% of newly diagnosed CML patients 
taking imatinib. Therefore, it is highly recommended that patients be weighed regularly. An 
unexpected rapid weight gain should be carefully investigated and if necessary appropriate supportive 
care and therapeutic measures should be undertaken. In clinical trials, there was an increased incidence 
of these events in the elderly and those with a prior history of cardiac disease. Therefore, caution 
should be exercised in patients with cardiac dysfunction. 
Patients with cardiac disease 
Patients with cardiac disease, risk factors for cardiac failure or history of renal failure should be 
monitored carefully, and any patient with signs or symptoms consistent with cardiac or renal failure 
should be evaluated and treated. 
In patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) with occult infiltration of HES cells within the 
myocardium, isolated cases of cardiogenic shock/left ventricular dysfunction have been associated 
with HES cell degranulation upon the initiation of imatinib therapy. The condition was reported to be 
reversible with the administration of systemic steroids, circulatory support measures and temporarily 
withholding imatinib. As cardiac adverse events have been reported uncommonly with imatinib, a 
careful assessment of the benefit/risk of imatinib therapy should be considered in the HES/CEL 
population before treatment initiation. 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases with PDGFR gene re-arrangements could be associated 
with high eosinophil levels. Evaluation by a cardiology specialist, performance of an echocardiogram 
and determination of serum troponin should therefore be considered in patients with HES/CEL, and in 
patients with MDS/MPD associated with high eosinophil levels before imatinib is administered. If 
either is abnormal, follow-up with a cardiology specialist and the prophylactic use of systemic steroids 
(1-2 mg/kg) for one to two weeks concomitantly with imatinib should be considered at the initiation of 
therapy. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhage 
In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST, both gastrointestinal and 
intra-tumoural haemorrhages were reported (see section 4.8). Based on the available data, no 
predisposing factors (e.g. tumour size, tumour location, coagulation disorders) have been identified 
that place patients with GIST at a higher risk of either type of haemorrhage. Since increased 
vascularity and propensity for bleeding is a part of the nature and clinical course of GIST, standard 
practices and procedures for the monitoring and management of haemorrhage in all patients should be 
applied. 
In addition, gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE), a rare cause of gastrointestinal haemorrhage, has 
been reported in post-marketing experience in patients with CML, ALL and other diseases (see section 
4.8). When needed, discontinuation of Imatinib Teva treatment may be considered. 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Due to the possible occurrence of tumour lysis syndrome (TLS), correction of clinically significant 
dehydration and treatment of high uric acid levels are recommended prior to initiation of imatinib (see 
section 4.8). 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who are chronic carriers of this virus has occurred after these 
patients received BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Some cases resulted in acute hepatic failure or 
fulminant hepatitis leading to liver transplantation or a fatal outcome. Patients should be tested for 
HBV infection before initiating treatment with Imatinib Teva. Experts in liver disease and in the 
treatment of hepatitis B should be consulted before treatment is initiated in patients with positive 
hepatitis B serology (including those with active disease) and for patients who test positive for HBV 
infection during treatment. Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Imatinib Teva should be 
closely monitored for signs and symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several 
months following termination of therapy (see section 4.8). 
Phototoxicity 
Exposure to direct sunlight should be avoided or minimised due to the risk of phototoxicity associated 
with imatinib treatment. Patients should be instructed to use measures such as protective clothing and 
sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF). 
Thrombotic microangiopathy 
BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been associated with thrombotic microangiopathy 
(TMA), including individual case reports for Imatinib Teva (see section 4.8). If laboratory or clinical 
findings associated with TMA occur in a patient receiving Imatinib Teva , treatment should be 
discontinued and thorough evaluation for TMA, including ADAMTS13 activity and anti-
ADAMTS13-antibody determination, should be completed. If anti-ADAMTS13-antibody is elevated 
in conjunction with low ADAMTS13 activity, treatment with Imatinib Teva should not be resumed. 
Laboratory tests 
Complete blood counts must be performed regularly during therapy with imatinib. Treatment of CML 
patients with imatinib has been associated with neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. However, the 
occurrence of these cytopenias is likely to be related to the stage of the disease being treated and they 
were more frequent in patients with accelerated phase CML or blast crisis as compared to patients with 
chronic phase CML. Treatment with imatinib may be interrupted or the dose may be reduced, as 
recommended in section 4.2. 
Liver function (transaminases, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase) should be monitored regularly in 
patients receiving imatinib. 
In patients with impaired renal function, imatinib plasma exposure seems to be higher than that in 
patients with normal renal function, probably due to an elevated plasma level of 
alpha-acid glycoprotein (AGP), an imatinib-binding protein, in these patients. Patients with renal 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impairment should be given the minimum starting dose. Patients with severe renal impairment should 
be treated with caution. The dose can be reduced if not tolerated (see section 4.2 and 5.2). 
Long-term treatment with imatinib may be associated with a clinically significant decline in renal 
function. Renal function should, therefore, be evaluated prior to the start of imatinib therapy and 
closely monitored during therapy, with particular attention to those patients exhibiting risk factors for 
renal dysfunction. If renal dysfunction is observed, appropriate management and treatment should be 
prescribed in accordance with standard treatment guidelines. 
Paediatric population 
There have been case reports of growth retardation occurring in children and pre-adolescents receiving 
imatinib. In an observational study in the CML paediatric population, a statistically significant 
decrease (but of uncertain clinical relevance) in median height standard deviation scores after 12 and 
24 months of treatment was reported in two small subsets irrespective of pubertal status or gender. 
Close monitoring of growth in children under imatinib treatment is recommended (see section 4.8). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Active substances that may increase imatinib plasma concentrations 
Substances that inhibit the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP3A4 activity (e.g. protease inhibitors 
such as indinavir, lopinavir/ritonavir, ritonavir, saquinavir, telaprevir, nelfinavir, boceprevir; azole 
antifungals including ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole; certain macrolides such 
as erythromycin, clarithromycin and telithromycin) could decrease metabolism and increase imatinib 
concentrations. There was a significant increase in exposure to imatinib (the mean Cmax and AUC of 
imatinib rose by 26% and 40%, respectively) in healthy subjects when it was co-administered with a 
single dose of ketoconazole (a CYP3A4 inhibitor). Caution should be taken when administering 
imatinib with inhibitors of the CYP3A4 family. 
Active substances that may decrease imatinib plasma concentrations 
Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 activity (e.g. dexamethasone, phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
rifampicin, phenobarbital, fosphenytoin, primidone or Hypericum perforatum, also known as St. 
John’s Wort) may significantly reduce exposure to imatinib, potentially increasing the risk of 
therapeutic failure. Pretreatment with multiple doses of rifampicin 600 mg followed by a single 
400 mg dose of imatinib resulted in decrease in Cmax and AUC(0-∞) by at least 54% and 74%, of the 
respective values without rifampicin treatment. Similar results were observed in patients with 
malignant gliomas treated with imatinib while taking enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic medicinal 
products (EIAEDs) such as carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and phenytoin. The plasma AUC for 
imatinib decreased by 73% compared to patients not on EIAEDs. Concomitant use of rifampicin or 
other strong CYP3A4 inducers and imatinib should be avoided. 
Active substances that may have their plasma concentration altered by imatinib 
Imatinib increases the mean Cmax and AUC of simvastatin (CYP3A4 substrate) 2- and 3.5-fold, 
respectively, indicating an inhibition of the CYP3A4 by imatinib. Therefore, caution is recommended 
when administering imatinib with CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window (e.g. 
cyclosporine, pimozide, tacrolimus, sirolimus, ergotamine, diergotamine, fentanyl, alfentanil, 
terfenadine, bortezomib, docetaxel and quinidine). Imatinib may increase plasma concentration of 
other CYP3A4 metabolised drugs (e.g. triazolo-benzodiazepines, dihydropyridine calcium channel 
blockers, certain HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, i.e. statins, etc.). 
Because of known increased risks of bleeding in conjunction with the use of imatinib (e.g. 
haemorrhage), patients who require anticoagulation should receive low-molecular-weight or standard 
heparin, instead of coumarin derivatives such as warfarin. 
In vitro imatinib inhibits the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP2D6 activity at concentrations similar 
to those that affect CYP3A4 activity. Imatinib at 400 mg twice daily had an inhibitory effect on 
CYP2D6-mediated metoprolol metabolism, with metoprolol Cmax and AUC being increased by 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 23% (90%CI [1.16-1.30]). Dose adjustments do not seem to be necessary when 
imatinib is co-administrated with CYP2D6 substrates, however caution is advised for 
CYP2D6 substrates with a narrow therapeutic window such as metoprolol. In patients treated with 
metoprolol clinical monitoring should be considered. 
In vitro, imatinib inhibits paracetamol O-glucuronidation with Ki value of 58.5 micromol/l. This 
inhibition has not been observed in vivo after the administration of imatinib 400 mg and paracetamol 
1000 mg. Higher doses of imatinib and paracetamol have not been studied. 
Caution should therefore be exercised when using high doses of imatinib and paracetamol 
concomitantly. 
In thyroidectomy patients receiving levothyroxine, the plasma exposure to levothyroxine may be 
decreased when imatinib is co-administered (see section 4.4). Caution is therefore recommended. 
However, the mechanism of the observed interaction is presently unknown. 
In Ph+ ALL patients, there is clinical experience of co-administering imatinib with chemotherapy (see 
section 5.1), but drug-drug interactions between imatinib and chemotherapy regimens are not well 
characterised. Imatinib adverse events, i.e. hepatotoxicity, myelosuppression or others, may increase 
and it has been reported that concomitant use with L-asparaginase could be associated with increased 
hepatotoxicity (see section 4.8). Therefore, the use of imatinib in combination requires special 
precaution. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must be advised to use effective contraception during treatment and 
for at least 15 days after stopping treatment with Imatinib Teva. 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data on the use of imatinib in pregnant women. There have been post-marketing 
reports of spontaneous abortions and infant congenital anomalies from women who have taken 
imatinib. Studies in animals have however shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3) and the 
potential risk for the foetus is unknown. Imatinib should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary. If it is used during pregnancy, the patient must be informed of the potential risk to the 
foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
There is limited information on imatinib distribution on human milk. Studies in two breast-feeding 
women revealed that both imatinib and its active metabolite can be distributed into human milk. The 
milk plasma ratio studied in a single patient was determined to be 0.5 for imatinib and 0.9 for the 
metabolite, suggesting greater distribution of the metabolite into the milk. Considering the combined 
concentration of imatinib and the metabolite and the maximum daily milk intake by infants, the total 
exposure would be expected to be low (~10% of a therapeutic dose). However, since the effects of 
low-dose exposure of the infant to imatinib are unknown, women should not breast-feed during 
treatment and for at least 15 days after stopping treatment with Imatinib Teva. 
Fertility 
In non-clinical studies, the fertility of male and female rats was not affected, although effects on 
reproductive parameters were observed (see section 5.3). Studies on patients receiving imatinib and its 
effect on fertility and gametogenesis have not been performed. Patients who are concerned about their 
fertility on imatinib treatment should consult with their physician. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should be advised that they may experience undesirable effects such as dizziness, blurred 
vision or somnolence during treatment with imatinib. Therefore, caution should be recommended 
when driving a car or operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Patients with advanced stages of malignancies may have numerous confounding medical conditions 
that make causality of adverse reactions difficult to assess due to the variety of symptoms related to 
the underlying disease, its progression, and the co-administration of numerous medicinal products. 
In clinical trials in CML, drug discontinuation for drug-related adverse reactions was observed in 2.4% 
of newly diagnosed patients, 4% of patients in late chronic phase after failure of interferon therapy, 
4% of patients in accelerated phase after failure of interferon therapy and 5% of blast crisis patients 
after failure of interferon therapy. In GIST the study drug was discontinued for drug-related adverse 
reactions in 4% of patients. 
The adverse reactions were similar in all indications, with two exceptions. There was more 
myelosuppression seen in CML patients than in GIST, which is probably due to the underlying 
disease. In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST, 7 (5%) patients experienced 
CTC grade 3/4 GI bleeds (3 patients), intra-tumoural bleeds (3 patients) or both (1 patient). GI tumour 
sites may have been the source of the GI bleeds (see section 4.4). GI and tumoural bleeding may be 
serious and sometimes fatal. The most commonly reported (≥ 10%) drug-related adverse reactions in 
both settings were mild nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, fatigue, myalgia, muscle cramps 
and rash. Superficial oedemas were a common finding in all studies and were described primarily as 
periorbital or lower limb oedemas. However, these oedemas were rarely severe and may be managed 
with diuretics, other supportive measures, or by reducing the dose of imatinib. 
When imatinib was combined with high dose chemotherapy in Ph+ ALL patients, transient liver 
toxicity in the form of transaminase elevation and hyperbilirubinaemia were observed. Considering the 
limited safety database, the adverse events thus far reported in children are consistent with the known 
safety profile in adult patients with Ph+ ALL. The safety database for children with Ph+ALL is very 
limited though no new safety concerns have been identified. 
Miscellaneous adverse reactions such as pleural effusion, ascites, pulmonary oedema and rapid weight 
gain with or without superficial oedema may be collectively described as “fluid retention”. These 
reactions can usually be managed by withholding imatinib temporarily and with diuretics and other 
appropriate supportive care measures. However, some of these reactions may be serious or life-
threatening and several patients with blast crisis died with a complex clinical history of pleural 
effusion, congestive heart failure and renal failure. There were no special safety findings in paediatric 
clinical trials. 
Adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported as more than an isolated case are listed below, by system organ class and 
by frequency. Frequency categories are defined using the following convention: very common 
(≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), 
very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of frequency, the most 
frequent first. 
Adverse reactions and their frequencies are reported in Table 1. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1  Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon 
Herpes zoster, herpes simplex, nasopharyngitis, pneumonia1, sinusitis, 
cellulitis, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, urinary tract 
infection, gastroenteritis, sepsis 
Fungal infection 
Rare 
Not known: 
Hepatitis B reactivation* 
Neoplasm benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Rare 
Not known 
Immune system disorders 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia 
Pancytopenia, febrile neutropenia  
Thrombocythaemia, lymphopenia, bone marrow depression, 
eosinophilia, lymphadenopathy  
Haemolytic anaemia, thrombotic microangiopathy 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Tumour haemorrhage/tumour necrosis* 
Anaphylactic shock* 
Rare 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Anorexia 
Hypokalaemia, increased appetite, hypophosphataemia, decreased 
appetite, dehydration, gout, hyperuricaemia, hypercalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, hyponatraemia 
Hyperkalaemia, hypomagnesaemia 
Rare 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Vascular disorders4 
Common 
Insomnia 
Depression, libido decreased, anxiety 
Confusional state 
Headache2 
Dizziness, paraesthesia, taste disturbance, hypoaesthesia 
Migraine, somnolence, syncope, peripheral neuropathy, memory 
impairment, sciatica, restless leg syndrome, tremor, cerebral 
haemorrhage 
Increased intracranial pressure, convulsions, optic neuritis 
Cerebral oedema* 
Eyelid oedema, lacrimation increased, conjunctival haemorrhage, 
conjunctivitis, dry eye, blurred vision 
Eye irritation, eye pain, orbital oedema, scleral haemorrhage, retinal 
haemorrhage, blepharitis, macular oedema 
Cataract, glaucoma, papilloedema 
Vitreous haemorrhage* 
Vertigo, tinnitus, hearing loss 
Palpitations, tachycardia, cardiac failure congestive3, pulmonary oedema 
Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, 
angina pectoris, pericardial effusion 
Pericarditis*, cardiac tamponade* 
Flushing, haemorrhage 
47 
 
Uncommon 
Hypertension, haematoma, subdural haematoma, peripheral coldness, 
hypotension, Raynaud’s phenomenon 
Thrombosis/embolism* 
Not known 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Dyspnoea, epistaxis, cough  
Pleural effusion5, pharyngolaryngeal pain, pharyngitis 
Pleuritic pain, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary 
haemorrhage 
Acute respiratory failure11*, interstitial lung disease* 
Not known 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, dyspepsia, abdominal pain6 
Flatulence, abdominal distension, gastro-oesophageal reflux, 
constipation, dry mouth, gastritis 
Stomatitis, mouth ulceration, gastrointestinal haemorrhage7, eructation, 
melaena, oesophagitis, ascites, gastric ulcer, haematemesis, cheilitis, 
dysphagia, pancreatitis 
Colitis, ileus, inflammatory bowel disease 
Ileus/intestinal obstruction*, gastrointestinal perforation*, diverticulitis*, 
gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE)* 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Increased hepatic enzymes 
Hyperbilirubinaemia, hepatitis, jaundice 
Hepatic failure8, hepatic necrosis 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Periorbital oedema, dermatitis/eczema/rash 
Pruritus, face oedema, dry skin, erythema, alopecia, night sweats, 
photosensitivity reaction  
Rash pustular, contusion, sweating increased, urticaria, ecchymosis, 
increased tendency to bruise, hypotrichosis, skin hypopigmentation, 
dermatitis exfoliative, onychoclasis, folliculitis, petechiae, psoriasis, 
purpura, skin hyperpigmentation, bullous eruptions, panniculitis12 
Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet’s syndrome), nail 
discolouration, angioneurotic oedema, rash vesicular, erythema 
multiforme, leucocytoclastic vasculitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, 
acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), pemphigus* 
Palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome*, lichenoid keratosis*, lichen 
planus*, toxic epidermal necrolysis*, drug rash with eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms (DRESS)*, pseudoporphyria* 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Muscle spasm and cramps, musculoskeletal pain including myalgia9, 
arthralgia, bone pain10 
Joint swelling 
Joint and muscle stiffness, osteonecrosis* 
Muscular weakness, arthritis, rhabdomyolysis/myopathy 
Growth retardation in children* 
Renal pain, haematuria, renal failure acute, urinary frequency increased 
Renal failure chronic 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
Gynaecomastia, erectile dysfunction, menorrhagia, menstruation 
irregular, sexual dysfunction, nipple pain, breast enlargement, scrotal 
oedema 
Haemorrhagic corpus luteum/haemorrhagic ovarian cyst 
Rare 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
48 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Fluid retention and oedema, fatigue 
Weakness, pyrexia, anasarca, chills, rigors 
Chest pain, malaise 
Weight increased 
Weight decreased 
Blood creatinine increased, blood creatine phosphokinase increased, 
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood alkaline phosphatase 
increased 
Blood amylase increased 
* 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
These types of reactions have been reported mainly from post-marketing experience with 
imatinib. This includes spontaneous case reports as well as serious adverse events from ongoing 
studies, the expanded access programmes, clinical pharmacology studies and exploratory 
studies in unapproved indications. Because these reactions are reported from a population of 
uncertain size, it is not always possible to reliably estimate their frequency or establish a causal 
relationship to imatinib exposure. 
Pneumonia was reported most commonly in patients with transformed CML and in patients with 
GIST. 
Headache was the most common in GIST patients. 
On a patient-year basis, cardiac events including congestive heart failure were more commonly 
observed in patients with transformed CML than in patients with chronic CML. 
Flushing was most common in GIST patients and bleeding (haematoma, haemorrhage) was 
most common in patients with GIST and with transformed CML (CML-AP and CML-BC). 
Pleural effusion was reported more commonly in patients with GIST and in patients with 
transformed CML (CML-AP and CML-BC) than in patients with chronic CML. 
6+7  Abdominal pain and gastrointestinal haemorrhage were most commonly observed in GIST 
8 
9 
patients. 
Some fatal cases of hepatic failure and of hepatic necrosis have been reported. 
Musculoskeletal pain during treatment with imatinib or after discontinuation has been observed 
in post-marketing. 
10  Musculoskeletal pain and related events were more commonly observed in patients with CML 
than in GIST patients. 
Fatal cases have been reported in patients with advanced disease, severe infections, severe 
neutropenia and other serious concomitant conditions. 
Including erythema nodosum. 
11 
12 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Hepatitis B reactivation has been reported in association with BCR-ABL TKIs. Some cases resulted in 
acute hepatic failure or fulminant hepatitis leading to liver transplantation or a fatal outcome (see section 
4.4). 
Laboratory test abnormalities 
Haematology 
In CML, cytopenias, particularly neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, have been a consistent finding in 
all studies, with the suggestion of a higher frequency at high doses ≥ 750 mg (phase I study). 
However, the occurrence of cytopenias was also clearly dependent on the stage of the disease, the 
frequency of grade 3 or 4 neutropenias (ANC < 1.0 x 109/l) and thrombocytopenias 
(platelet count < 50 x 109/l) being between 4 and 6 times higher in blast crisis and accelerated phase 
(59-64% and 44-63% for neutropenia and thrombocytopenia, respectively) as compared to newly 
diagnosed patients in chronic phase CML (16.7% neutropenia and 8.9% thrombocytopenia). In newly 
diagnosed chronic phase CML grade 4 neutropenia (ANC < 0.5 x 109/l) and thrombocytopenia 
(platelet count < 10 x 109/l) were observed in 3.6% and < 1% of patients, respectively. The median 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
duration of the neutropenic and thrombocytopenic episodes usually ranged from 2 to 3 weeks, and 
from 3 to 4 weeks, respectively. These events can usually be managed with either a reduction of the 
dose or an interruption of treatment with imatinib, but can in rare cases lead to permanent 
discontinuation of treatment. In paediatric CML patients the most frequent toxicities observed were 
grade 3 or 4 cytopenias involving neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and anaemia. These generally occur 
within the first several months of therapy. 
In the study in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST, grade 3 and 4 anaemia was reported 
in 5.4% and 0.7% of patients, respectively, and may have been related to gastrointestinal or intra-
tumoural bleeding in at least some of these patients. Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia was seen in 7.5% and 
2.7% of patients, respectively, and grade 3 thrombocytopenia in 0.7% of patients. No patient 
developed grade 4 thrombocytopenia. The decreases in white blood cell (WBC) and neutrophil counts 
occurred mainly during the first six weeks of therapy, with values remaining relatively stable 
thereafter. 
Biochemistry 
Severe elevation of transaminases (<5%) or bilirubin (<1%) was seen in CML patients and was 
usually managed with dose reduction or interruption (the median duration of these episodes was 
approximately one week). Treatment was discontinued permanently because of liver laboratory 
abnormalities in less than 1% of CML patients. In GIST patients (study B2222), 6.8% of grade 3 or 4 
ALT (alanine aminotransferase) elevations and 4.8% of grade 3 or 4 AST (aspartate aminotransferase) 
elevations were observed. Bilirubin elevation was below 3%. 
There have been cases of cytolytic and cholestatic hepatitis and hepatic failure; in some of them 
outcome was fatal, including one patient on high dose paracetamol. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Experience with doses higher than the recommended therapeutic dose is limited. Isolated cases of 
imatinib overdose have been reported spontaneously and in the literature. In the event of overdose the 
patient should be observed and appropriate symptomatic treatment given. Generally the reported 
outcome in these cases was “improved” or “recovered”. Events that have been reported at different 
dose ranges are as follows: 
Adult population 
1200 mg to 1600 mg (duration varying between 1 to 10 days): Nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, 
erythema, oedema, swelling, fatigue, muscle spasms, thrombocytopenia, pancytopenia, abdominal 
pain, headache, decreased appetite. 
1800 mg to 3200 mg (as high as 3200 mg daily for 6 days): Weakness, myalgia, increased creatine 
phosphokinase, increased bilirubin, gastrointestinal pain. 
6400 mg (single dose): One case reported in the literature of one patient who experienced nausea, 
vomiting, abdominal pain, pyrexia, facial swelling, decreased neutrophil count, increased 
transaminases. 
8 g to 10 g (single dose): Vomiting and gastrointestinal pain have been reported. 
Paediatric population 
One 3-year-old male exposed to a single dose of 400 mg experienced vomiting, diarrhoea and anorexia 
and another 3-year-old male exposed to a single dose of 980 mg experienced decreased white blood 
cell count and diarrhoea. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of overdose, the patient should be observed and appropriate supportive treatment given. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase inhibitors, ATC code: 
L01EA01 
Mechanism of action 
Imatinib is a small molecule protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor that potently inhibits the activity of the 
Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase (TK), as well as several receptor TKs: Kit, the receptor for stem cell factor 
(SCF) coded for by the c-Kit proto-oncogene, the discoidin domain receptors (DDR1 and DDR2), the 
colony stimulating factor receptor (CSF-1R) and the platelet-derived growth factor receptors alpha and 
beta (PDGFR-alpha and PDGFR-beta). Imatinib can also inhibit cellular events mediated by activation 
of these receptor kinases. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Imatinib is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor which potently inhibits the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase at 
the in vitro, cellular and in vivo levels. The compound selectively inhibits proliferation and induces 
apoptosis in Bcr-Abl positive cell lines as well as fresh leukaemic cells from Philadelphia 
chromosome positive CML and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) patients. 
In vivo the compound shows anti-tumour activity as a single agent in animal models using Bcr-Abl 
positive tumour cells. 
Imatinib is also an inhibitor of the receptor tyrosine kinases for platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), 
PDGF-R, and stem cell factor (SCF), c-Kit, and inhibits PDGF- and SCF- mediated cellular events. In 
vitro, imatinib inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) 
cells, which express an activating kit mutation. Constitutive activation of the PDGF receptor or the 
Abl protein tyrosine kinases as a consequence of fusion to diverse partner proteins or constitutive 
production of PDGF have been implicated in the pathogenesis of MDS/MPD, HES/CEL and DFSP. 
Imatinib inhibits signalling and proliferation of cells driven by dysregulated PDGFR and Abl kinase 
activity. 
Clinical studies in chronic myeloid leukaemia 
The effectiveness of imatinib is based on overall haematological and cytogenetic response rates and 
progression-free survival. Except in newly diagnosed chronic phase CML, there are no controlled 
trials demonstrating a clinical benefit, such as improvement in disease-related symptoms or increased 
survival. 
Three large, international, open-label, non-controlled phase II studies were conducted in patients with 
Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) CML in advanced, blast or accelerated phase disease, other 
Ph+ leukaemias or with CML in the chronic phase but failing prior interferon-alpha (IFN) therapy. 
One large, open-label, multicentre, international randomised phase III study has been conducted in 
patients with newly diagnosed Ph+ CML. In addition, children have been treated in two phase I 
studies and one phase II study. 
In all clinical studies 38-40% of patients were ≥ 60 years of age and 10-12% of patients were ≥ 70 
years of age. 
Chronic phase, newly diagnosed 
This phase III study in adult patients compared treatment with either single-agent imatinib or a 
combination of interferon-alpha (IFN) plus cytarabine (Ara-C). Patients showing lack of response 
(lack of complete haematological response (CHR) at 6 months, increasing WBC, no major 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cytogenetic response (MCyR) at 24 months), loss of response (loss of CHR or MCyR) or severe 
intolerance to treatment were allowed to cross over to the alternative treatment arm. In the imatinib 
arm, patients were treated with 400 mg daily. In the IFN arm, patients were treated with a target dose 
of IFN of 5 MIU/m2/day subcutaneously in combination with subcutaneous Ara-C 20 mg/m2/day for 
10 days/month. 
A total of 1.106 patients were randomised, 553 to each arm. Baseline characteristics were well 
balanced between the two arms. Median age was 51 years (range 18–70 years), with 21.9% of 
patients ≥ 60 years of age. There were 59% males and 41% females; 89.9% caucasian and 4.7% black 
patients. Seven years after the last patient had been recruited, the median duration of first-line treatment 
was 82 and 8 months in the imatinib and IFN arms, respectively. The median duration of second-line 
treatment with imatinib was 64 months. Overall, in patients receiving first-line imatinib, the average 
daily dose delivered was 406 ±76 mg. The primary efficacy endpoint of the study is progression-free 
survival. Progression was defined as any of the following events: progression to accelerated phase or 
blast crisis, death, loss of CHR or MCyR, or in patients not achieving a CHR an increasing WBC 
despite appropriate therapeutic management. Major cytogenetic response, haematological response, 
molecular response (evaluation of minimal residual disease), time to accelerated phase or blast crisis 
and survival are main secondary endpoints. Response data are shown in Table 2. 
Table  2  Response  in newly diagnosed  CML  Study  (84-month  data) 
(Best response rates) 
Haematological response 
CHR rate n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Cytogenetic response 
Major response n (%) 
[95% CI] 
Complete CyR n (%) 
Partial CyR n (%) 
Imatinib 
n=553 
534 (96.6%)* 
[94.7%, 97.9%] 
490 (88.6%)* 
[85.7%, 91.1%] 
456 (82.5%)* 
34 (6.1%) 
IFN+Ara-C 
n=553 
313 (56.6%)* 
[52.4%, 60.8%] 
129 (23.3%)* 
[19.9%, 27.1%] 
64 (11.6%)* 
65 (11.8%) 
153/305=50.2% 
73/104=70.2% 
102/116=87.9% 
Molecular response** 
Major response at 12 months (%) 
Major response at 24 months (%) 
Major response at 84 months (%) 
* p<0.001, Fischer’s exact test 
** molecular response percentages are based on available samples 
Haematological response criteria (all responses to be confirmed after ≥ 4 weeks): 
WBC < 10 x 109/l, platelet < 450 x 109/l, myelocyte+metamyelocyte < 5% in blood, no blasts and 
promyelocytes in blood, basophils < 20%, no extramedullary involvement 
Cytogenetic  response criteria: complete (0% Ph+ metaphases), partial (1–35%), minor (36–
65%) or minimal (66–95%). A major response (0–35%) combines both complete and partial 
responses. Major molecular response criteria: in the peripheral blood reduction of ≥ 3 
logarithms in the amount of Bcr-Abl transcripts (measured by real-time quantitative reverse 
transcriptase PCR assay) over a standardised baseline. 
8/83=9.6% 
3/12=25% 
3/4=75% 
Rates of complete haematological response, major cytogenetic response and complete cytogenetic 
response on first-line treatment were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier approach, for which non- 
responses were censored at the date of last examination. Using this approach, the estimated 
cumulative response rates for first-line treatment with imatinib improved from 12 months of therapy 
to 84 months of therapy as follows: CHR from 96.4% to 98.4% and CCyR from 69.5% to 87.2%, 
respectively. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With 7 years follow-up, there were 93 (16.8%) progression events in the imatinib arm: 37 (6.7%) 
involving progression to accelerated phase/blast crisis, 31 (5.6%) loss of MCyR, 15 (2.7%) loss of 
CHR or increase in WBC, and 10 (1.8%) CML unrelated deaths. In contrast, there were 165 (29.8%) 
events in the IFN+Ara-C arm, of which 130 occurred during first-line treatment with IFN+Ara-C. 
The estimated rate of patients free of progression to accelerated phase or blast crisis at 84 months 
was significantly higher in the imatinib arm compared to the IFN arm (92.5% versus 85.1%, 
p<0.001). The annual rate of progression to accelerated phase or blast crisis decreased with time on 
therapy and was less than 1% annually in the fourth and fifth years. The estimated rate of 
progression-free survival at 84 months was 81.2% in the imatinib arm and 60.6% in the control arm 
(p<0.001). The yearly rates of progression of any type for imatinib also decreased over time. 
A total of 71 (12.8%) and 85 (15.4%) patients died in the imatinib and IFN+Ara-C groups, 
respectively. At 84 months the estimated overall survival is 86.4% (83, 90) vs. 83.3% (80, 87) in the 
randomised imatinib and the IFN+Ara-C groups, respectively (p=0.073, log-rank test). This time-to-
event endpoint is strongly affected by the high crossover rate from IFN+Ara-C to imatinib. The 
effect of imatinib treatment on survival in chronic phase, newly diagnosed CML has been further 
examined in a retrospective analysis of the above reported imatinib data with the primary data from 
another Phase III study using IFN+Ara-C (n=325) in an identical regimen. In this retrospective 
analysis, the superiority of imatinib over IFN+Ara-C in overall survival was demonstrated 
(p<0.001); within 42 months, 47 (8.5%) imatinib patients and 63 (19.4%) IFN+Ara-C patients had 
died. 
The degree of cytogenetic response and molecular response had a clear effect on long-term 
outcomes in patients on imatinib. Whereas an estimated 96% (93%) of patients with CCyR (PCyR) 
at 12 months were free of progression to accelerated phase/blast crisis at 84 months, only 81% of 
patients without MCyR at 12 months were free of progression to advanced CML at 84 months 
(p<0.001 overall, p=0.25 between CCyR and PCyR). For patients with reduction in Bcr-Abl 
transcripts of at least 3 logarithms at 12 months, the probability of remaining free from progression 
to accelerated phase/blast crisis was 99% at 84 months. Similar findings were found based on a 18-
months landmark analysis. 
In this study, dose escalations were allowed from 400 mg daily to 600 mg daily, then from 600 mg 
daily to 800 mg daily. After 42 months of follow-up, 11 patients experienced a confirmed loss 
(within 4 weeks) of their cytogenetic response. Of these 11 patients, 4 patients escalated up to 
800 mg daily, 2 of whom regained a cytogenetic response (1 partial and 1 complete, the latter also 
achieving a molecular response), while of the 7 patients who did not escalate the dose, only one 
regained a complete cytogenetic response. The percentage of some adverse reactions was higher in 
the 40 patients in whom the dose was increased to 800 mg daily compared to the population of 
patients before dose increase (n=551). The more frequent adverse reactions included gastrointestinal 
haemorrhages, conjunctivitis and elevation of transaminases or bilirubin. Other adverse reactions 
were reported with lower or equal frequency. 
Chronic phase, Interferon failure 
532 adult patients were treated at a starting dose of 400 mg. The patients were distributed in three 
main categories: haematological failure (29%), cytogenetic failure (35%), or intolerance to 
interferon (36%). Patients had received a median of 14 months of prior IFN therapy at doses 
≥ 25 x 106 IU/week and were all in late chronic phase, with a median time from diagnosis of 32 
months. The primary efficacy variable of the study was the rate of major cytogenetic response 
(complete plus partial response, 0 to 35% Ph+ metaphases in the bone marrow). 
In this study 65% of the patients achieved a major cytogenetic response that was complete in 53% 
(confirmed 43%) of patients (Table 3). A complete haematological response was achieved in 95% 
of patients. 
Accelerated phase 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
235 adult patients with accelerated phase disease were enrolled. The first 77 patients were started at 
400 mg, the protocol was subsequently amended to allow higher dosing and the remaining 158 patients 
were started at 600 mg. 
The primary efficacy variable was the rate of haematological response, reported as either complete 
haematological response, no evidence of leukaemia (i.e. clearance of blasts from the marrow and 
the blood, but without a full peripheral blood recovery as for complete responses), or return to 
chronic phase CML. A confirmed haematological response was achieved in 71.5% of patients 
(Table 3). Importantly, 27.7% of patients also achieved a major cytogenetic response, which was 
complete in 20.4% (confirmed 16%) of patients. For the patients treated at 600 mg, the current 
estimates for median progression-free-survival and overall survival were 22.9 and 42.5 months, 
respectively. 
Myeloid blast crisis 
260 patients with myeloid blast crisis were enrolled. 95 (37%) had received prior chemotherapy for 
treatment of either accelerated phase or blast crisis (“pretreated patients”) whereas 165 (63%) had not 
(“untreated patients”). The first 37 patients were started at 400 mg, the protocol was subsequently 
amended to allow higher dosing and the remaining 223 patients were started at 600 mg. 
The primary efficacy variable was the rate of haematological response, reported as either complete 
haematological response, no evidence of leukaemia or return to chronic phase CML using the same 
criteria as for the study in accelerated phase. In this study, 31% of patients achieved a haematological 
response (36% in previously untreated patients and 22% in previously treated patients). The rate of 
response was also higher in the patients treated at 600 mg (33%) as compared to the patients treated at 
400 mg (16%, p=0.0220). The current estimate of the median survival of the previously untreated and 
treated patients was 7.7 and 4.7 months, respectively. 
Lymphoid blast crisis 
A limited number of patients were enrolled in phase I studies (n=10). The rate of haematological 
response was 70% with a duration of 2-3 months. 
Table 3  Response in adult CML studies 
Study 0110 
37-month data 
Chronic phase, 
IFN failure 
(n=532) 
95% (92.3–96.3) 
95% 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Study 0109 
40.5-month data 
Accelerated phase 
(n=235) 
Study 0102 
38-month data 
Myeloid blast 
crisis 
(n=260) 
% of patients (CI95%) 
71% (65.3–77.2) 
42% 
31% (25.2–36.8) 
8% 
12% 
17% 
5% 
18% 
65% (61.2–69.5) 
53% 
(43%) [38.6–47.2] 
12% 
28% (22.0–33.9) 
20% 
(16%) [11.3–21.0] 
7% 
15% (11.2–20.4) 
7% 
(2%) [0.6–4.4] 
8% 
Haematological response1 
Complete 
haematological response 
(CHR) 
No evidence of leukaemia 
(NEL) 
Return to chronic phase 
Major cytogenetic response2 
Complete 
(Confirmed3) [95% 
CI] Partial 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Haematological response criteria (all responses to be confirmed after ≥ 4 weeks): 
CHR: Study 0110 [WBC < 10 x 109/l, platelets < 450 x 109/l, myelocyte+metamyelocyte < 5% 
in blood, no blasts and promyelocytes in blood, basophils < 20%, no extramedullary 
involvement] and in studies 0102 and 0109 [ANC ≥ 1.5 x 109/l, platelets ≥ 100 x 109/l, 
no blood blasts, BM blasts < 5% and no extramedullary disease] 
NEL   Same criteria as for CHR but ANC ≥ 1 x 109/l and platelets ≥ 20 x 109/l (0102 and 
0109 only) 
RTC   < 15% blasts BM and PB, < 30% blasts+promyelocytes in BM and PB, < 20% basophils in 
PB, no extramedullary disease other than spleen and liver (only for 0102 and 
0109). BM = bone marrow, PB = peripheral blood 
2 Cytogenetic  response criteria: 
A major response combines both complete and partial responses: complete (0% Ph+ 
metaphases), partial (1–35%) 
3 Complete cytogenetic response confirmed by a second bone marrow cytogenetic evaluation 
performed at least one month after the initial bone marrow study. 
Paediatric population 
A total of 26 paediatric patients of age < 18 years with either chronic phase CML (n=11) or CML in 
blast crisis or Ph+ acute leukaemias (n=15) were enrolled in a dose-escalation phase I trial. This was a 
population of heavily pretreated patients, as 46% had received prior BMT and 73% a prior multi-agent 
chemotherapy. Patients were treated at doses of imatinib of 260 mg/m2/day (n=5), 340 mg/m2/day 
(n=9), 440 mg/m2/day (n=7) and 570 mg/m2/day (n=5). Out of 9 patients with chronic phase CML and 
cytogenetic data available, 4 (44%) and 3 (33%) achieved a complete and partial cytogenetic response, 
respectively, for a rate of MCyR of 77%. 
A total of 51 paediatric patients with newly diagnosed and untreated CML in chronic phase have been 
enrolled in an open-label, multicentre, single-arm phase II trial. Patients were treated with imatinib 
340 mg/m2/day, with no interruptions in the absence of dose limiting toxicity. Imatinib treatment 
induces a rapid response in newly diagnosed paediatric CML patients with a CHR of 78% after 
8 weeks of therapy. The high rate of CHR is accompanied by the development of a complete 
cytogenetic response (CCyR) of 65% which is comparable to the results observed in adults. 
Additionally, partial cytogenetic response (PCyR) was observed in 16% for a MCyR of 81%. The 
majority of patients who achieved a CCyR developed the CCyR between months 3 and 10 with a 
median time to response based on the Kaplan-Meier estimate of 5.6 months. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
imatinib in all subsets of the paediatric population in Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl translocation)-
positive chronic myeloid leukaemia (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
Clinical studies in Ph+ ALL 
Newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL 
In a controlled study (ADE10) of imatinib versus chemotherapy induction in 55 newly diagnosed 
patients aged 55 years and over, imatinib used as single agent induced a significantly higher rate of 
complete haematological response than chemotherapy (96.3% vs. 50%; p=0.0001). When salvage 
therapy with imatinib was administered in patients who did not respond or who responded poorly to 
chemotherapy, it resulted in 9 patients (81.8%) out of 11 achieving a complete haematological 
response. This clinical effect was associated with a higher reduction in bcr-abl transcripts in the 
imatinib-treated patients than in the chemotherapy arm after 2 weeks of therapy (p=0.02). All patients 
received imatinib and consolidation chemotherapy (see Table 4) after induction and the levels of 
bcr-abl transcripts were identical in the two arms at 8 weeks. As expected on the basis of the study 
design, no difference was observed in remission duration, disease-free survival or overall survival, 
although patients with complete molecular response and remaining in minimal residual disease had a 
better outcome in terms of both remission duration (p=0.01) and disease-free survival (p=0.02). 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results observed in a population of 211 newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL patients in four uncontrolled 
clinical studies (AAU02, ADE04, AJP01 and AUS01) are consistent with the results described above. 
Imatinib in combination with chemotherapy induction (see Table 4) resulted in a complete 
haematological response rate of 93% (147 out of 158 evaluable patients) and in a major cytogenetic 
response rate of 90% (19 out of 21 evaluable patients). The complete molecular response rate was 
48% (49 out of 102 evaluable patients). Disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) 
constantly exceeded 1 year and were superior to historical control (DFS p<0.001; OS p<0.0001) in 
two studies (AJP01 and AUS01).  
Table 4  Chemotherapy regimen used in combination with imatinib 
Study ADE10 
Prephase 
Remission induction 
Consolidation therapy I, III, V 
Consolidation therapy II, IV 
Study AAU02  
Induction therapy (de novo Ph+ 
ALL) 
Consolidation (de novo Ph+ ALL) 
Study ADE04 
Prephase 
Induction therapy I 
Induction therapy II 
Consolidation therapy 
Study AJP01 
Induction therapy 
 oral, days 6-7, 13-16;  
DEX 10 mg/m2
 oral, days 1-5;  
CP 200 mg/m2 i.v., days 3, 4, 5;  
MTX 12 mg intrathecal, day 1  
DEX 10 mg/m2
VCR 1 mg i.v., days 7, 14;  
IDA 8 mg/m2
CP 500 mg/m2
Ara-C 60 mg/m2
MTX 500 mg/m2
6-MP 25 mg/m2
Ara-C 75 mg/m2
VM26 60 mg/m2
 i.v., days 22-25, 29-32  
 i.v. (24 h), days 1, 15;  
 oral, days 1-20  
 i.v. (1 h), days 1-5;  
 i.v. (1 h), days 1-5  
 i.v. (0.5 h), days 7, 8, 14, 15;  
 i.v.(1 h) day 1;  
 i.v., days 1-3, 15-16;  
 oral, days 1-7, 15-21;  
Daunorubicin 30 mg/m2
VCR 2 mg total dose i.v., days 1, 8, 15, 22;  
CP 750 mg/m2 i.v., days 1, 8;  
Prednisone 60 mg/m2
IDA 9 mg/m2
 oral, days 1-28;  
MTX 15 mg intrathecal, days 1, 8, 15, 22;  
Ara-C 40 mg intrathecal, days 1, 8, 15, 22;  
Methylprednisolone 40 mg intrathecal, days 1, 8, 15, 22  
Ara-C 1,000 mg/m2/12 h i.v.(3 h), days 1-4;  
Mitoxantrone 10 mg/m2 i.v. days 3-5;  
MTX 15 mg intrathecal, day 1;  
Methylprednisolone 40 mg intrathecal, day 1  
 oral, days 1-5;  
 i.v., days 3-5;  
DEX 10 mg/m2
CP 200 mg/m2
MTX 15 mg intrathecal, day 1  
DEX 10 mg/m2
 oral, days 1-5;  
VCR 2 mg i.v., days 6, 13, 20;  
Daunorubicin 45 mg/m2
CP 1 g/m2
Ara-C 75 mg/m2
6-MP 60 mg/m2
DEX 10 mg/m2
Vindesine 3 mg/m2
MTX 1.5 g/m2
Etoposide 250 mg/m2
Ara-C 2x 2 g/m2
 i.v. (24 h), day 1;  
 i.v. (1 h), days 26, 46;  
 i.v., days 6-7, 13-14  
 i.v. (1 h), days 28-31, 35-38, 42-45;  
 oral, days 26-46  
 oral, days 1-5;  
 i.v., day 1;  
 i.v. (1 h) days 4-5;  
 i.v. (3 h, q 12 h), day 5  
 i.v. (3 h), day 1;  
CP 1.2 g/m2
Daunorubicin 60 mg/m2
Vincristine 1.3 mg/m2
 i.v. (1 h), days 1-3;  
 i.v., days 1, 8, 15, 21;  
56 
 
 
Consolidation therapy 
Maintenance 
Study AUS01 
Induction-consolidation therapy 
Maintenance 
Prednisolone 60 mg/m2/day oral  
Alternating chemotherapy course: high dose 
chemotherapy with MTX 1 g/m2 i.v. (24 h), day 1, and 
Ara-C 2 g/m2
 i.v. (q 12 h), days 2-3, for 4 cycles  
VCR 1.3 g/m2
 i.v., day 1;  
Prednisolone 60 mg/m2 oral, days 1-5  
Hyper-CVAD regimen: CP 300 mg/m2 i.v. (3 h, q 12 h), 
days 1-3;  
Vincristine 2 mg i.v., days 4, 11;  
Doxorubicine 50 mg/m2 i.v. (24 h), day 4;  
DEX 40 mg/day on days 1-4 and 11-14, alternated with 
MTX 1 g/m2 i.v. (24 h), day 1,  
Ara-C 1 g/m2 i.v. (2 h, q 12 h), days 2-3 (total of 8 
courses) 
VCR 2 mg i.v. monthly for 13 months;  
Prednisolone 200 mg oral, 5 days per month for 13 
months 
All treatment regimens include administration of steroids for CNS prophylaxis. 
Ara-C: cytosine arabinoside; CP: cyclophosphamide; DEX: dexamethasone; MTX: methotrexate; 
6-MP: 6-mercaptopurine VM26: Teniposide; VCR: vincristine; IDA: idarubicine; i.v.: intravenous  
Paediatric population 
In study I2301, a total of 93 paediatric, adolescent and young adult patients (from 1 to 22 years old) 
with Ph+ ALL were enrolled in an open-label, multicentre, sequential cohort, non-randomized phase 
III trial, and were treated with imatinib (340 mg/m2/day) in combination with intensive chemotherapy 
after induction therapy. Imatinib was administered intermittently in cohorts 1-5, with increasing 
duration and earlier start of imatinib from cohort to cohort; cohort 1 receiving the lowest intensitiy and 
cohort 5 receiving the highest intensity of imatinib (longest duration in days with continuous daily 
imatinib dosing during the first chemotherapy treatment courses). Continuous daily exposure to 
imatinib early in the course of treatment in combination with chemotherapy in cohort 5-patients 
(n=50) improved the 4-year event-free survival (EFS) compared to historical controls (n=120), who 
received standard chemotherapy without imatinib (69.6% vs. 31.6%, respectively). The estimated 
4-year OS in cohort 5-patients was 83.6% compared to 44.8% in the historical controls. 20 out of the 
50 (40%) patients in cohort 5 received haematopoietic stem cell transplant. 
Table 5  Chemotherapy regimen used in combination with imatinib in study I2301 
Consolidation block 1 
(3 weeks) 
Consolidation block 2 
(3 weeks) 
Reinduction block 1 
(3 weeks) 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1-5 
Ifosfamide (1.8 g/m2/day, IV): days 1-5 
MESNA (360 mg/m2/dose q3h, x 8 doses/day, IV): days 1-5 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 6-15 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
IT Methotrexate (age-adjusted): day 1 ONLY 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): day 8, 15 
Methotrexate (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): day 1 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: 
Days 2 and 3 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): day 1 
ARA-C (3 g/m2/dose q 12 h x 4, IV): days 2 and 3 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 4-13 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 8, and 15 
DAUN (45 mg/m2/day bolus, IV): days 1 and 2 
CPM (250 mg/m2/dose q12h x 4 doses, IV): days 3 and 4 
PEG-ASP (2500 IUnits/m2, IM): day 4 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 5-14 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
57 
 
 
 
Intensification block 1 
(9 weeks) 
Reinduction block 2 
(3 weeks) 
Intensification block 2 
(9 weeks) 
Maintenance 
(8-week cycles) 
Cycles 1–4 
Maintenance 
(8-week cycles) 
Cycle 5 
Maintenance 
(8-week cycles) 
Cycles 6-12 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 15 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-7 and 15-21 
Methotrexate (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): days 1 and 15 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: days 2, 3, 16, and 17 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 22 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
CPM (300 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
MESNA (150 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 27-36 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
ARA-C (3 g/m2, q12h, IV): days 43, 44 
L-ASP (6000 IUnits/m2, IM): day 44 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 8 and 15 
DAUN (45 mg/m2/day bolus, IV): days 1 and 2 
CPM (250 mg/m2/dose q12h x 4 doses, iv): Days 3 and 4 
PEG-ASP (2500 IUnits/m2, IM): day 4 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 5-14 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 15 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-7 and 15-21 
Methotrexate (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): days 1 and 15 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: days 2, 3, 16, and 17 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1 and 22 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
CPM (300 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
MESNA (150 mg/m2/day, IV): days 22-26 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 27-36 or until ANC > 1500 post nadir 
ARA-C (3 g/m2, q12h, IV): days 43, 44 
L-ASP (6000 IUnits/m2, IM): day 44 
MTX (5 g/m2 over 24 hours, IV): day 1 
Leucovorin (75 mg/m2 at hour 36, IV; 15 mg/m2 IV or PO q6h x 6 
doses)iii: days 2 and 3 
Triple IT therapy (age-adjusted): days 1, 29 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2, IV): days 1, 29 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day PO): days 1-5; 29-33 
6-MP (75 mg/m2/day, PO): days 8-28 
Methotrexate (20 mg/m2/week, PO): days 8, 15, 22 
VP-16 (100 mg/m2, IV): days 29-33 
CPM (300 mg/m2, IV): days 29-33 
MESNA IV days 29-33 
G-CSF (5 μg/kg, SC): days 34-43 
Cranial irradiation (Block 5 only) 
12 Gy in 8 fractions for all patients that are CNS1 and CNS2 at 
diagnosis 
18 Gy in 10 fractions for patients that are CNS3 at diagnosis 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 29 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-5; 29-33 
6-MP (75 mg/m2/day, PO): days 11-56 (Withhold 6-MP during the 6-
10 days of cranial irradiation beginning on day 1 of Cycle 5. Start 6-MP 
the 1st day after cranial irradiation completion.) 
Methotrexate (20 mg/m2/week, PO): days 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50 
VCR (1.5 mg/m2/day, IV): days 1, 29 
DEX (6 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-5; 29-33 
6-MP (75 mg/m2/day, PO): days 1-56 
Methotrexate (20 mg/m2/week, PO): days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50 
G-CSF = granulocyte colony stimulating factor, VP-16 = etoposide, MTX = methotrexate, IV = 
intravenous, SC = subcutaneous, IT = intrathecal, PO = oral, IM = intramuscular, ARA-C = 
58 
cytarabine, CPM = cyclophosphamide, VCR = vincristine, DEX = dexamethasone, DAUN = 
daunorubicin, 6-MP = 6-mercaptopurine, E.Coli L-ASP = L-asparaginase, PEG-ASP = PEG 
asparaginase, MESNA= 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate sodium, iii= or until MTX level is < 0.1 μM, q6h 
= every 6 hours, Gy= Gray 
Study AIT07 was a multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase II/III study that included 128 patients 
(1 to < 18 years) treated with imatinib in combination with chemotherapy. Safety data from this study 
seem to be in line with the safety profile of imatinib in Ph+ ALL patients. 
Relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL 
When imatinib was used as single agent in patients with relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL, it resulted, in 
the 53 out of 411 patients evaluable for response, in a haematological response rate of 30% (9% 
complete) and a major cytogenetic response rate of 23%. (Of note, out of the 411 patients, 353 were 
treated in an expanded access program without primary response data collected.) The median time to 
progression in the overall population of 411 patients with relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL ranged from 
2.6 to 3.1 months, and median overall survival in the 401 evaluable patients ranged from 4.9 to 9 
months. The data was similar when re-analysed to include only those patients age 55 or older. 
Clinical studies in MDS/MPD 
Experience with imatinib in this indication is very limited and is based on haematological and 
cytogenetic response rates. There are no controlled trials demonstrating a clinical benefit or increased 
survival. One open label, multicentre, phase II clinical trial (study B2225) was conducted testing 
imatinib in diverse populations of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases associated with 
Abl, Kit or PDGFR protein tyrosine kinases. This study included 7 patients with MDS/MPD who were 
treated with imatinib 400 mg daily. Three patients presented a complete haematological response 
(CHR) and one patient experienced a partial haematological response (PHR). At the time of the 
original analysis, three of the four patients with detected PDGFR gene rearrangements developed 
haematological response (2 CHR and 1 PHR). The age of these patients ranged from 20 to 72 years. 
An observational registry (study L2401) was conducted to collect long-term safety and efficacy data in 
patients suffering from myeloproliferative neoplasms with PDGFR- β rearrangement and who were 
treated with imatinib. The 23 patients enrolled in this registry received imatinib at a median daily dose 
of 264 mg (range: 100 to 400 mg) for a median duration of 7.2 years (range 0.1 to 12.7 years). Due to 
the observational nature of this registry, haematologic, cytogenetic and molecular assessment data 
were available for 22, 9 and 17 of the 23 enrolled patients, respectively. When assuming 
conservatively that patients with missing data were non-responders, CHR was observed in 20/23 
(87%) patients, CCyR in 9/23 (39.1%) patients, and MR in 11/23 (47.8%) patients, respectively. When 
the response rate is calculated from patients with at least one valid assessment, the response rate for 
CHR, CCyR and MR was 20/22 (90.9%), 9/9 (100%) and 11/17 (64.7%), respectively. 
In addition a further 24 patients with MDS/MPD were reported in 13 publications. 21 patients were 
treated with imatinib 400 mg daily, while the other 3 patients received lower doses. In eleven patients 
PDGFR gene rearrangements was detected, 9 of them achieved a CHR and 1 PHR. The age of these 
patients ranged from 2 to 79 years. In a recent publication updated information from 6 of these 11 
patients revealed that all these patients remained in cytogenetic remission (range 32-38 months). The 
same publication reported long term follow-up data from 12 MDS/MPD patients with PDGFR gene 
rearrangements (5 patients from study B2225). These patients received imatinib for a median of 47 
months (range 24 days – 60 months). In 6 of these patients follow-up now exceeds 4 years. Eleven 
patients achieved rapid CHR; ten had complete resolution of cytogenetic abnormalities and a decrease 
or disappearance of fusion transcripts as measured by RT-PCR. Haematological and cytogenetic 
responses have been sustained for a median of 49 months (range 19-60) and 47 months (range 16-59), 
respectively. The overall survival is 65 months since diagnosis (range 25-234). Imatinib administration 
to patients without the genetic translocation generally results in no improvement. 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with MDS/MPD. Five (5) patients with MDS/MPD 
associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements were reported in 4 publications. The age of these 
patients ranged from 3 months to 4 years and imatinib was given at dose 50 mg daily or doses ranging 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from 92.5 to 340 mg/m2 daily. All patients achieved complete haematological response, cytogenetic 
response and/or clinical response. 
Clinical studies in HES/CEL 
One open-label, multicentre, phase II clinical trial (study B2225) was conducted testing imatinib in 
diverse populations of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases associated with Abl, Kit or 
PDGFR protein tyrosine kinases. In this study, 14 patients with HES/CEL were treated with 100 mg to 
1,000 mg of imatinib daily. A further 162 patients with HES/CEL, reported in 35 published case 
reports and case series received imatinib at doses from 75 mg to 800 mg daily. Cytogenetic 
abnormalities were evaluated in 117 of the total population of 176 patients. In 61 of these 117 patients 
FIP1L1-PDGFRα fusion kinase was identified. An additional four HES patients were found to be 
FIP1L1-PDGFRα-positive in other 3 published reports. All 65 FIP1L1-PDGFRα fusion kinase 
positive patients achieved a CHR sustained for months (range from 1+ to 44+ months censored at the 
time of the reporting). As reported in a recent publication 21 of these 65 patients also achieved 
complete molecular remission with a median follow-up of 28 months (range 13-67 months). The age 
of these patients ranged from 25 to 72 years. Additionally, improvements in symptomatology and 
other organ dysfunction abnormalities were reported by the investigators in the case reports. 
Improvements were reported in cardiac, nervous, skin/subcutaneous tissue, 
respiratory/thoracic/mediastinal, musculoskeletal/connective tissue/vascular, and gastrointestinal 
organ systems. 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with HES/CEL. Three (3) patients with HES and 
CEL associated with PDGFR gene re-arrangements were reported in 3 publications. The age of these 
patients ranged from 2 to 16 years and imatinib was given at dose 300 mg/m2 daily or doses ranging 
from 200 to 400 mg daily. All patients achieved complete haematological response, complete 
cytogenetic response and/or complete molecular response. 
Clinical studies in unresectable and/or metastatic GIST 
One phase II, open-label, randomised, uncontrolled multinational study was conducted in patients with 
unresectable or metastatic malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). In this study 
147 patients were enrolled and randomised to receive either 400 mg or 600 mg orally once daily for up 
to 36 months. These patients ranged in age from 18 to 83 years old and had a pathologic diagnosis of 
Kit-positive malignant GIST that was unresectable and/or metastatic. Immunohistochemistry was 
routinely performed with Kit antibody (A-4502, rabbit polyclonal antiserum, 1:100; DAKO 
Corporation, Carpinteria, CA) according to analysis by an avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex method 
after antigen retrieval. 
The primary evidence of efficacy was based on objective response rates. Tumours were required to be 
measurable in at least one site of disease, and response characterisation based on Southwestern 
Oncology Group (SWOG) criteria. Results are provided in Table 6. 
Table 6  Best tumour response in trial STIB2222 (GIST) 
Best response 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Stable disease 
Progressive disease 
Not evaluable 
Unknown 
All doses (n=147) 
400 mg (n=73) 
600 mg (n=74) 
n (%) 
1 (0.7) 
98 (66.7) 
23 (15.6) 
18 (12.2) 
5 (3.4) 
2 (1.4) 
There were no differences in response rates between the two dose groups. A significant number of 
patients who had stable disease at the time of the interim analysis achieved a partial response with 
longer treatment (median follow-up 31 months). Median time to response was 13 weeks (95% C.I. 12– 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23). Median time to treatment failure in responders was 122 weeks (95% C.I 106–147), while in the 
overall study population it was 84 weeks (95% C.I 71–109). The median overall survival has not been 
reached. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for survival after 36-month follow-up is 68%. 
In two clinical studies (study B2222 and an intergroup study S0033) the daily dose of imatinib was 
escalated to 800 mg in patients progressing at the lower daily doses of 400 mg or 600 mg. The daily 
dose was escalated to 800 mg in a total of 103 patients; 6 patients achieved a partial response and 21 
stabilisation of their disease after dose escalation for an overall clinical benefit of 26%. From the 
safety data available, escalating the dose to 800 mg daily in patients progressing at lower doses of 400 
mg or 600 mg daily does not seem to affect the safety profile of imatinib. 
Clinical studies in adjuvant GIST 
In the adjuvant setting, imatinib was investigated in a multicentre, double-blind, long-term, placebo- 
controlled phase III study (Z9001) involving 773 patients. The ages of these patients ranged from 18 
to 91 years. Patients were included who had a histological diagnosis of primary GIST expressing Kit 
protein by immunochemistry and a tumour size ≥ 3 cm in maximum dimension, with complete gross 
resection of primary GIST within 14-70 days prior to registration. After resection of primary GIST, 
patients were randomised to one of the two arms: imatinib at 400 mg/day or matching placebo for one 
year. 
The primary endpoint of the study was recurrence-free survival (RFS), defined as the time from date 
of randomisation to the date of recurrence or death from any cause. 
Imatinib significantly prolonged RFS, with 75% of patients being recurrence-free at 38 months in the 
imatinib group vs. 20 months in the placebo group (95% CIs, [30 - non-estimable]; [14 - non-
estimable], respectively); (hazard ratio = 0.398 [0.259-0.610], p<0.0001). At one year the overall RFS 
was significantly better for imatinib (97.7%) vs. placebo (82.3%), (p<0.0001). The risk of recurrence 
was thus reduced by approximately 89% as compared with placebo (hazard ratio = 0.113 [0.049-
0.264]). 
The risk of recurrence in patients after surgery of their primary GIST was retrospectively assessed 
based on the following prognostic factors: tumour size, mitotic index, tumour location. Mitotic index 
data were available for 556 of the 713 intention-to-treat (ITT) population. The results of subgroup 
analyses according to the United States National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Armed Forces 
Institute of Pathology (AFIP) risk classifications are shown in Table 7. No benefit was observed in the 
low and very low risk groups. No overall survival benefit has been observed. 
Table 7  Summary of Z9001 trial RFS analyses by NIH and AFIP risk classifications 
Risk 
criteria 
Risk Level 
% of 
patients 
No. of events / 
No. of patients 
imatinib vs placebo 
Overall hazard 
ratio (95%CI)* 
RFS rates (%) 
12 month 
24 month 
NIH 
AFIP 
Low 
Intermediate 
High 
Very Low 
Low 
Moderate 
High 
29.5 
25.7 
44.8 
20.7 
25.0 
24.6 
29.7 
0/86 vs. 2/90 
4/75 vs. 6/78 
21/140 vs. 51/127 
0/52 vs. 2/63 
2/70 vs. 0/69 
2/70 vs. 11/67 
16/84 vs. 39/81 
N.E. 
0.59 (0.17; 2.10) 
0.29 (0.18; 0.49) 
N.E. 
N.E. 
0.16 (0.03; 0.70) 
0.27 (0.15; 0.48) 
* Full follow-up period; NE – Not estimable 
imatinib 
vs placebo 
100 vs. 98.7 
100 vs. 94.8 
94.8 vs. 64.0 
100 vs. 98.1 
100 vs. 100 
97.9 vs. 90.8 
98.7 vs. 56.1 
imatinib 
vs placebo 
100 vs. 95.5 
97.8 vs. 89.5 
80.7 vs. 46.6 
100 vs. 93.0 
97.8 vs. 100 
97.9 vs. 73.3 
79.9 vs. 41.5 
A second multicentre, open label phase III study (SSG XVIII/AIO) compared 400 mg/day imatinib 12 
months treatment vs. 36 months treatment in patients after surgical resection of GIST and one of the 
following: tumour diameter > 5 cm and mitotic count > 5/50 high power fields (HPF); or tumour 
diameter > 10 cm and any mitotic count or tumour of any size with mitotic count > 10/50 HPF or 
tumours ruptured into the peritoneal cavity. There were a total of 397 patients consented and 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised to the study (199 patients on 12-month arm and 198 patients on 36-month arm), median 
age was 61 years (range 22 to 84 years). The median time of follow-up was 54 months (from date of 
randomisation to data cut-off), with a total of 83 months between the first patient randomised and the 
cut-off date. 
The primary endpoint of the study was recurrence-free survival (RFS), defined as the time from date 
of randomisation to the date of recurrence or death from any cause. 
Thirty-six (36) months of imatinib treatment significantly prolonged RFS compared to 12 months of 
imatinib treatment (with overall Hazard Ratio (HR) = 0.46 [0.32, 0.65], p<0.0001) (Table 8, Figure 1). 
In addition, thirty-six (36) months of imatinib treatment significantly prolonged overall survival (OS) 
compared to 12 months of imatinib treatment (HR = 0.45 [0.22, 0.89], p=0.0187) (Table 8, Figure 2). 
Longer duration of the treatment (> 36 months) may delay the onset of further recurrences; however 
the impact of this finding on the overall survival remains unknown. 
The total number of deaths were 25 for the 12-month treatment arm and 12 for the 36-month treatment 
arm. 
Treatment with imatinib for 36 months was superior to treatment for 12 months in the ITT analysis, 
i.e. including the entire study population. In a planned subgroup analysis by mutation type, the HR for 
RFS for 36 months of treatment for patients with mutations of exon 11 was 0.35 [95% CI: 0.22, 0.56]. 
No conclusions can be drawn for other less common mutation subgroups due to the low number of 
observed events. 
Table 8 
12-month and 36-month imatinib treatment (SSGXVIII/AIO Trial) 
RFS 
12 months 
24 months 
36 months 
48 months 
60 months 
Survival 
36 months 
48 months 
60 months 
12-month treatment arm 
%(CI) 
93.7 (89.2-96.4) 
75.4 (68.6-81.0) 
60.1 (52.5-66.9) 
52.3 (44.0-59.8) 
47.9 (39.0-56.3) 
36-month treatment arm 
%(CI) 
95.9 (91.9-97.9) 
90.7 (85.6-94.0) 
86.6 (80.8-90.8) 
78.3 (70.8-84.1) 
65.6 (56.1-73.4) 
94.0 (89.5-96.7) 
87.9 (81.1-92.3) 
81.7 (73.0-87.8) 
96.3 (92.4-98.2) 
95.6 (91.2-97.8) 
92.0 (85.3-95.7) 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Kaplan-Meier estimates for primary recurrence-free survival endpoint (ITT 
population) 
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
e
c
n
e
r
r
u
c
e
r
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
P < 0.0001 
Hazard ratio 0.46 
(95% Cl, 0.32-0.65) 
—— 
----- 
│││ 
(1) Imatinib 12 MO: 
(2) Imatinib 36 MO: 
Censored observations 
 N 
199 
198 
      Evt 
84 
50 
Cen 
115 
148 
Survival time in months 
At-risk : Events 
(1)  199:0 
(2)  198:0 
182:8 
189:5 
177:12  163:25 
181:11 
184:8 
137:46  105:65  88:72 
173:18  152:22  133:25 
61:77 
49:81  36:83 
102:29  82:35  54:46 
27:84 
39:47 
14:84  10:84  2:84 
21:49  8:50 
0:50   
0:84 
Figure 2  Kaplan-Meier estimates for overall survival (ITT population) 
l
i
a
v
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
P = 0.019 
Hazard ratio 0.45 
(95% Cl, 0.22-0.89) 
—— 
----- 
│││ 
(1) Imatinib 12 MO: 
(2) Imatinib 36 MO: 
Censored observations 
 N 
199 
198 
       Evt 
25 
12 
Cen 
174 
186 
Survival time in months 
At-risk : Events 
(1)  199:0 
(2)  198:0 
190:2 
196:0 
188:2 
192:0 
183:6 
187:4 
176:8 
184:5 
156:10  140:11  105:14  87:18  64:22 
100:8  76:10 
119:8 
164:7 
152:7 
46:23 
56:11 
27:25  20:25  2:25 
31:11  13:12  0:12   
0:25 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with c-Kit positive GIST. Seventeen (17) patients 
with GIST (with or without Kit and PDGFR mutations) were reported in 7 publications. The age of 
these patients ranged from 8 to 18 years and imatinib was given in both adjuvant and metastatic 
settings at doses ranging from 300 to 800 mg daily. The majority of paediatric patients treated for 
GIST lacked data confirming c-kit or PDGFR mutations which may have led to mixed clinical 
outcomes. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in DFSP 
One phase II, open label, multicentre clinical trial (study B2225) was conducted including 12 patients 
with DFSP treated with imatinib 800 mg daily. The age of the DFSP patients ranged from 23 to 75 
years; DFSP was metastatic, locally recurrent following initial resective surgery and not considered 
amenable to further resective surgery at the time of study entry. The primary evidence of efficacy was 
based on objective response rates. Out of the 12 patients enrolled, 9 responded, one completely and 8 
partially. Three of the partial responders were subsequently rendered disease free by surgery. The 
median duration of therapy in study B2225 was 6.2 months, with a maximum duration of 24.3 months. 
A further 6 DFSP patients treated with imatinib were reported in 5 published case reports, their ages 
ranging from 18 months to 49 years. The adult patients reported in the published literature were 
treated with either 400 mg (4 cases) or 800 mg (1 case) imatinib daily. Five (5) patients responded, 3 
completely and 2 partially. The median duration of therapy in the published literature ranged between 
4 weeks and more than 20 months. The translocation t(17:22)[(q22:q13)], or its gene product, was 
present in nearly all responders to imatinib treatment. 
There are no controlled trials in paediatric patients with DFSP. Five (5) patients with DFSP and 
PDGFR gene re-arrangements were reported in 3 publications. The age of these patients ranged from 
newborn to 14 years and imatinib was given at dose 50 mg daily or doses ranging from 400 to 
520 mg/m2 daily. All patients achieved partial and/or complete response. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Pharmacokinetics of imatinib 
The pharmacokinetics of imatinib have been evaluated over a dosage range of 25 to 1,000 mg. Plasma 
pharmacokinetic profiles were analysed on day 1 and on either day 7 or day 28, by which time plasma 
concentrations had reached steady state. 
Absorption 
Mean absolute bioavailability for the capsule formulation is 98%. There was high between-patient 
variability in plasma imatinib AUC levels after an oral dose. When given with a high-fat meal, the rate 
of absorption of imatinib was minimally reduced (11% decrease in Cmax and prolongation of tmax by 
1.5 h), with a small reduction in AUC (7.4%) compared to fasting conditions. The effect of prior 
gastrointestinal surgery on drug absorption has not been investigated. 
Distribution 
At clinically relevant concentrations of imatinib, binding to plasma proteins was approximately 95% 
on the basis of in vitro experiments, mostly to albumin and alpha-acid-glycoprotein, with little binding 
to lipoprotein.  
Biotransformation 
The main circulating metabolite in humans is the N-demethylated piperazine derivative, which shows 
similar in vitro potency to the parent. The plasma AUC for this metabolite was found to be only 16% 
of the AUC for imatinib. The plasma protein binding of the N-demethylated metabolite is similar to 
that of the parent compound. 
Imatinib and the N-demethyl metabolite together accounted for about 65% of the circulating 
radioactivity (AUC(0-48h)). The remaining circulating radioactivity consisted of a number of minor 
metabolites. 
The in vitro results showed that CYP3A4 was the major human P450 enzyme catalysing the 
biotransformation of imatinib. Of a panel of potential comedications (acetaminophen, aciclovir, 
allopurinol, amphotericin, cytarabine, erythromycin, fluconazole, hydroxyurea, norfloxacin, 
penicillin V) only erythromycin (IC50 50 μM) and fluconazole (IC50 118 μM) showed inhibition of 
imatinib metabolism which could have clinical relevance. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imatinib was shown in vitro to be a competitive inhibitor of marker substrates for CYP2C9, CYP2D6 
and CYP3A4/5. Ki values in human liver microsomes were 27, 7.5 and 7.9 µmol/l, respectively. 
Maximal plasma concentrations of imatinib in patients are 2-4 µmol/l, consequently an inhibition of 
CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A4/5-mediated metabolism of co-administered drugs is possible. Imatinib did 
not interfere with the biotransformation of 5-fluorouracil, but it inhibited paclitaxel metabolism as a 
result of competitive inhibition of CYP2C8 (Ki = 34.7 μM). This Ki value is far higher than the 
expected plasma levels of imatinib in patients; consequently no interaction is expected upon 
co-administration of either 5-fluorouracil or paclitaxel and imatinib. 
Elimination 
Based on the recovery of compound(s) after an oral 14C-labelled dose of imatinib, approximately 81% 
of the dose was recovered within 7 days in faeces (68% of dose) and urine (13% of dose). Unchanged 
imatinib accounted for 25% of the dose (5% urine, 20% faeces), the remainder being metabolites. 
Plasma pharmacokinetics 
Following oral administration in healthy volunteers, the t½ was approximately 18 h, suggesting that 
once-daily dosing is appropriate. The increase in mean AUC with increasing dose was linear and dose 
proportional in the range of 25-1,000 mg imatinib after oral administration. There was no change in 
the kinetics of imatinib on repeated dosing, and accumulation was 1.5-2.5-fold at steady state when 
dosed once daily. 
Pharmacokinetics in GIST patients 
In patients with GIST steady-state exposure was 1.5-fold higher than that observed for CML patients 
for the same dosage (400 mg daily). Based on preliminary population pharmacokinetic analysis in 
GIST patients, there were three variables (albumin, WBC and bilirubin) found to have a statistically 
significant relationship with imatinib pharmacokinetics. Decreased values of albumin caused a 
reduced clearance (CL/f); and higher levels of WBC led to a reduction of CL/f. However, these 
associations are not sufficiently pronounced to warrant dose adjustment. In this patient population, the 
presence of hepatic metastases could potentially lead to hepatic insufficiency and reduced metabolism. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis in CML patients, there was a small effect of age on the 
volume of distribution (12% increase in patients > 65 years old). This change is not thought to be 
clinically significant. The effect of bodyweight on the clearance of imatinib is such that for a patient 
weighing 50 kg the mean clearance is expected to be 8.5 l/h, while for a patient weighing 100 kg the 
clearance will rise to 11.8 l/h. These changes are not considered sufficient to warrant dose adjustment 
based on kg bodyweight. There is no effect of gender on the kinetics of imatinib. 
Pharmacokinetics in paediatric population 
As in adult patients, imatinib was rapidly absorbed after oral administration in paediatric patients in 
both phase I and phase II studies. Dosing in children at 260 and 340 mg/m2/day achieved the same 
exposure, respectively, as doses of 400 mg and 600 mg in adult patients. The comparison of AUC(0-24) 
on day 8 and day 1 at the 340 mg/m2/day dose level revealed a 1.7-fold drug accumulation after 
repeated once-daily dosing. 
Based on pooled population pharmacokinetic analysis in paediatric patients with haematological 
disorders (CML, Ph+ALL, or other haematological disorders treated with imatinib), clearance of 
imatinib increases with increasing body surface area (BSA). After correcting for the BSA effect, other 
demographics such as age, body weight and body mass index did not have clinically significant effects 
on the exposure of imatinib. The analysis confirmed that exposure of imatinib in paediatric patients 
receiving 260 mg/m2 once daily (not exceeding 400 mg once daily) or 340 mg/m2 once daily (not 
exceeding 600 mg once daily) were similar to those in adult patients who received imatinib 400 mg or 
600 mg once daily. 
Organ function impairment 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imatinib and its metabolites are not excreted via the kidney to a significant extent. Patients with mild 
and moderate impairment of renal function appear to have a higher plasma exposure than patients with 
normal renal function. The increase is approximately 1.5 to 2-fold, corresponding to a 1.5-fold 
elevation of plasma AGP, to which imatinib binds strongly. The free drug clearance of imatinib is 
probably similar between patients with renal impairment and those with normal renal function, since 
renal excretion represents only a minor elimination pathway for imatinib (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).  
Although the results of pharmacokinetic analysis showed that there is considerable inter-subject 
variation, the mean exposure to imatinib did not increase in patients with varying degrees of liver 
dysfunction as compared to patients with normal liver function (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The preclinical safety profile of imatinib was assessed in rats, dogs, monkeys and rabbits. 
Multiple dose toxicity studies revealed mild to moderate haematological changes in rats, dogs and 
monkeys, accompanied by bone marrow changes in rats and dogs. 
The liver was a target organ in rats and dogs. Mild to moderate increases in transaminases and slight 
decreases in cholesterol, triglycerides, total protein and albumin levels were observed in both species. 
No histopathological changes were seen in rat liver. Severe liver toxicity was observed in dogs treated 
for 2 weeks, with elevated liver enzymes, hepatocellular necrosis, bile duct necrosis, and bile duct 
hyperplasia. 
Renal toxicity was observed in monkeys treated for 2 weeks, with focal mineralisation and dilation of 
the renal tubules and tubular nephrosis. Increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine were 
observed in several of these animals. In rats, hyperplasia of the transitional epithelium in the renal 
papilla and in the urinary bladder was observed at doses ≥ 6 mg/kg in the 13-week study, without 
changes in serum or urinary parameters. An increased rate of opportunistic infections was observed 
with chronic imatinib treatment. 
In a 39-week monkey study, no NOAEL (no observed adverse effect level) was established at the 
lowest dose of 15 mg/kg, approximately one-third the maximum human dose of 800 mg based on 
body surface. Treatment resulted in worsening of normally suppressed malarial infections in these 
animals. 
Imatinib was not considered genotoxic when tested in an in vitro bacterial cell assay (Ames test), an in 
vitro mammalian cell assay (mouse lymphoma) and an in vivo rat micronucleus test. Positive 
genotoxic effects were obtained for imatinib in an in vitro mammalian cell assay (Chinese hamster 
ovary) for clastogenicity (chromosome aberration) in the presence of metabolic activation. Two 
intermediates of the manufacturing process, which are also present in the final product, are positive for 
mutagenesis in the Ames assay. One of these intermediates was also positive in the mouse lymphoma 
assay. 
In a study of fertility, in male rats dosed for 70 days prior to mating, testicular and epididymal weights 
and percent motile sperm were decreased at 60 mg/kg, approximately equal to the maximum clinical 
dose of 800 mg/day, based on body surface area. This was not seen at doses ≤ 20 mg/kg. A slight to 
moderate reduction in spermatogenesis was also observed in the dog at oral doses ≥ 30 mg/kg. When 
female rats were dosed 14 days prior to mating and through to gestational day 6, there was no effect on 
mating or on number of pregnant females. At a dose of 60 mg/kg, female rats had significant post-
implantation foetal loss and a reduced number of live foetuses. This was not seen at doses ≤ 20 mg/kg. 
In an oral pre- and postnatal development study in rats, red vaginal discharge was noted in the 
45 mg/kg/day group on either day 14 or day 15 of gestation. At the same dose, the number of stillborn 
pups as well as those dying between postpartum days 0 and 4 was increased. In the F1 offspring, at the 
same dose level, mean body weights were reduced from birth until terminal sacrifice and the number 
of litters achieving criterion for preputial separation was slightly decreased. F1 fertility was not 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
affected, while an increased number of resorptions and a decreased number of viable foetuses was 
noted at 45 mg/kg/day. The no observed effect level (NOEL) for both the maternal animals and the F1 
generation was 15 mg/kg/day (one quarter of the maximum human dose of 800 mg). 
Imatinib was teratogenic in rats when administered during organogenesis at doses ≥ 100 mg/kg, 
approximately equal to the maximum clinical dose of 800 mg/day, based on body surface area. 
Teratogenic effects included exencephaly or encephalocele, absent/reduced frontal and absent parietal 
bones. These effects were not seen at doses ≤ 30 mg/kg. 
No new target organs were identified in the rat juvenile development toxicology study (day 10 to 70 
postpartum) with respect to the known target organs in adult rats. In the juvenile toxicology study, 
effects upon growth, delay in vaginal opening and preputial separation were observed at 
approximately 0.3 to 2 times the average paediatric exposure at the highest recommended dose of 
340 mg/m2. In addition, mortality was observed in juvenile animals (around weaning phase) at 
approximately 2 times the average paediatric exposure at the highest recommended dose of 
340 mg/m2. 
In the 2-year rat carcinogenicity study administration of imatinib at 15, 30 and 60 mg/kg/day resulted 
in a statistically significant reduction in the longevity of males at 60 mg/kg/day and females at 
≥30 mg/kg/day. Histopathological examination of decedents revealed cardiomyopathy (both sexes), 
chronic progressive nephropathy (females) and preputial gland papilloma as principal causes of death 
or reasons for sacrifice. Target organs for neoplastic changes were the kidneys, urinary bladder, 
urethra, preputial and clitoral gland, small intestine, parathyroid glands, adrenal glands and non-
glandular stomach. 
Papilloma/carcinoma of the preputial/clitoral gland were noted from 30 mg/kg/day onwards, 
representing approximately 0.5 or 0.3 times the human daily exposure (based on AUC) at 400 mg/day 
or 800 mg/day, respectively, and 0.4 times the daily exposure in children (based on AUC) at 
340 mg/m2/day. The no observed effect level (NOEL) was 15 mg/kg/day. The renal 
adenoma/carcinoma, the urinary bladder and urethra papilloma, the small intestine adenocarcinomas, 
the parathyroid glands adenomas, the benign and malignant medullary tumours of the adrenal glands 
and the non-glandular stomach papillomas/carcinomas were noted at 60 mg/kg/day, representing 
approximately 1.7 or 1 times the human daily exposure (based on AUC) at 400 mg/day or 800 mg/day, 
respectively, and 1.2 times the daily exposure in children (based on AUC) at 340 mg/m2/day. The no 
observed effect level (NOEL) was 30 mg/kg/day. 
The mechanism and relevance of these findings in the rat carcinogenicity study for humans are not yet 
clarified. 
Non-neoplastic lesions not identified in earlier preclinical studies were the cardiovascular system, 
pancreas, endocrine organs and teeth. The most important changes included cardiac hypertrophy and 
dilatation, leading to signs of cardiac insufficiency in some animals. 
The active substance imatinib demonstrates an environmental risk for sediment organisms. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Mannitol 
Crospovidone 
Magnesium stearate 
Silica colloidal, anhydrous 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide, yellow (E172) 
Iron oxide, red (E172) 
Printing ink 
Shellac 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Propylene glycol 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/PE/PVdC/PE/PVC//Al blisters 
OPA/Al/PVC//Al blisters 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
Pack sizes of 60 or 120, hard capsules in blisters. 
Pack sizes of 20x1, 60x1, 120x1 or 180x1 hard capsules in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
Pack sizes of 30 or 90 hard capsules in blisters. 
Pack sizes of 30x1 or 90x1 hard capsules in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/808/021-040 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 08 January 2013 
Date of latest renewal: 18 September 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravská 29, c.p. 305 
CZ-74770 Opava - Komárov  
Czech Republic 
Merckle GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Str. 3, 89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z.o.o 
ul. Mogilska 80. 31-546, Krakow 
Poland 
TEVA Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13, 4042 Debrecen 
Hungary 
TEVA PHARMA S.L.U. 
C/C, n. 4, Poligono Industrial Malpica, 50016 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5, 2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
PLIVA Croatia Ltd. 
Prilaz baruna Filipovica 25 
10000 Zagreb 
Croatia 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
• 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
• 
Not applicable. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
imatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 100 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
20x1 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
60x1 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
120x1 film-coated tablets 
180x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/808/001    20 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/002    60 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/003    60 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/004    120 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/005    120 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/006    180 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/007    20 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/008    60 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/009    60 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/010    120 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/011    120 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/012    180 x 1 film-coated tablets  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
imatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
imatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
30 film-coated tablets 
30x1 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
90x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/808/013    30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/014    30 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/015    90 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/016    90 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/017    30 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/018    30 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/019    90 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/12/808/020    90 x 1 film-coated tablets  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
imatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
imatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 100 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Capsule, hard 
20x1 hard capsules 
60 hard capsules 
60x1 hard capsules 
120 hard capsules 
120x1 hard capsules 
180x1 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/808/021    20 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/022    60 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/023    60 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/024    120 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/025    120 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/026    180 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/027    20 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/028    60 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/029    60 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/030    120 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/031    120 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/032    180 x 1 hard capsules  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
imatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Outer carton 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
imatinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains 400 mg of imatinib (as mesilate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Capsule, hard 
30 hard capsules 
30x1 hard capsules 
90 hard capsules 
90x1 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/12/808/033    30 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/034    30 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/035    90 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/036    90 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/037    30 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/038    30 x 1 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/039    90 hard capsules 
EU/1/12/808/040    90 x 1 hard capsules  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
imatinib 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets 
imatinib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Imatinib Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Imatinib Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
Imatinib Teva is a medicine containing an active substance called imatinib. This medicine works by 
inhibiting the growth of abnormal cells in the diseases listed below. These include some types of 
cancer. 
Imatinib Teva is a treatment for adults and children for: 
- 
Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white 
cells usually help the body to fight infection. Chronic myeloid leukaemia is a form of leukaemia 
in which certain abnormal white cells (named myeloid cells) start growing out of control. 
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph-positive ALL). 
Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white cells usually help the body to fight 
infection. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is a form of leukaemia in which certain abnormal 
white cells (named lymphoblasts) start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells.  
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for adults for: 
- 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD). These are a group of blood 
diseases in which some blood cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL). These 
are blood diseases in which some blood cells (named eosinophils) start growing out of control. 
Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). GIST is a cancer of the stomach and bowels. It 
arises from uncontrolled cell growth of the supporting tissues of these organs. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP). DFSP is a cancer of the tissue beneath the skin 
in which some cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these 
cells. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
In the rest of this leaflet, we will use the abbreviations when talking about these diseases. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions about how Imatinib Teva works or why this medicine has been prescribed 
for you, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
Imatinib Teva will only be prescribed to you by a doctor with experience in medicines to treat blood 
cancers or solid tumours. 
Follow all your doctor’s instructions carefully, even if they differ from the general information 
contained in this leaflet. 
Do not take Imatinib Teva 
- 
if you are allergic to imatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If this applies to you, tell your doctor without taking Imatinib Teva. 
If you think you may be allergic but are not sure, ask your doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva: 
- 
- 
- 
if you have or have ever had a liver, kidney or heart problem. 
if you are taking the medicine levothyroxine because your thyroid has been removed. 
if you have ever had or might now have a hepatitis B infection. This is because Imatinib Teva 
could cause hepatitis B to become active again, which can be fatal in some cases. Patients will 
be carefully checked by their doctor for signs of this infection before treatment is started. 
if you experience bruising, bleeding, fever, fatigue and confusion when taking Imatinib Teva, 
contact your doctor. This may be a sign of damage to blood vessels known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy (TMA). 
- 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva. 
You may become more sensitive to the sun while taking Imatinib Teva. It is important to cover sun-
exposed areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF). These precautions are 
also applicable to children. 
During treatment with Imatinib Teva, tell your doctor straight away if you put on weight very 
quickly. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
While you are taking Imatinib Teva your doctor will regularly check whether the medicine is working. 
You will also have blood tests and be weighed regularly. 
Children and adolescents 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for children and adolescents with CML. There is no experience in 
children with CML below 2 years of age. There is limited experience in children with Ph-positive 
ALL and very limited experience in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and HES/CEL. 
Some children and adolescents taking Imatinib Teva may have slower than normal growth. The doctor 
will monitor the growth at regular visits. 
Other medicines and Imatinib Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription (such as paracetamol) and including 
herbal medicines (such as St. John’s Wort). Some medicines can interfere with the effect of Imatinib 
Teva when taken together. They may increase or decrease the effect of Imatinib Teva, either leading to 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased side effects or making Imatinib Teva less effective. Imatinib Teva may do the same to some 
other medicines. 
Tell your doctor if you are using medicines that prevent the formation of blood clots. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
- 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imatinib Teva is not recommended during pregnancy unless clearly necessary as it may harm 
your baby. Your doctor will discuss with you the possible risks of taking Imatinib Teva during 
pregnancy. 
Women who might become pregnant are advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
and for 15 days after ending treatment. 
Do not breast-feed during the treatment with Imatinib Teva and for 15 days after ending 
treatment, as it may harm your baby. 
Patients who are concerned about their fertility while taking Imatinib Teva are advised to 
consult with their doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or drowsy or get blurred vision while taking this medicine. If this happens, do not 
drive or use any tools or machines until you are feeling well again. 
3.  How to take Imatinib Teva 
Your doctor has prescribed Imatinib Teva because you suffer from a serious condition. Imatinib Teva 
can help you to fight this condition. 
However, always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. It is 
important that you do this as long as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse tells you to. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Do not stop taking Imatinib Teva unless your doctor tells you to. If you are not able to take the 
medicine as your doctor prescribed or you feel you do not need it anymore, contact your doctor 
straight away. 
How much Imatinib Teva to take 
Use in adults  
Your doctor will tell you exactly how many tablets of Imatinib Teva to take.  
- 
- 
If you are being treated for CML: 
Depending on your condition the usual starting dose is either 400 mg or 600 mg: 
- 
- 
400 mg to be taken as 4 tablets once a day, 
600 mg to be taken as 6 tablets once a day. 
If you are being treated for GIST: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 4 tablets once a day. 
For CML and GIST, your doctor may prescribe a higher or lower dose depending on how you respond 
to the treatment. If your daily dose is 800 mg (8 tablets), you should take 4 tablets in the morning and 
4 tablets in the evening. 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for Ph-positive ALL: 
The starting dose is 600 mg to be taken as 6 tablets once a day. 
If you are being treated for MDS/MPD: 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 4 tablets once a day. 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for HES/CEL: 
The starting dose is 100 mg, to be taken as 1 tablet once a day. Your doctor may decide to 
increase the dose to 400 mg, to be taken as 4 tablets once a day, depending on how you respond 
to treatment. 
If you are being treated for DFSP: 
The dose is 800 mg per day (8 tablets), to be taken as 4 tablets in the morning and 4 tablets in 
the evening. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The doctor will tell you how many tablets of Imatinib Teva to give to your child. The amount of 
Imatinib Teva given will depend on your child’s condition, body weight and height. The total daily 
dose in children and adolescents must not exceed 800 mg with CML and 600 mg with Ph+ALL. The 
treatment can either be given to your child as a once-daily dose or alternatively the daily dose can be 
split into two administrations (half in the morning and half in the evening). 
When and how to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
Take Imatinib Teva with a meal. This will help protect you from stomach problems when 
taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swallow the tablets whole with a large glass of water. 
- 
If you are unable to swallow the tablets, you can dissolve them in a glass of still water or apple juice: 
• 
• 
• 
Use about 50 ml for each 100 mg tablet. 
Stir with a spoon until the tablets have completely dissolved. 
Once the tablet has dissolved, drink everything in the glass straight away. Traces of the 
dissolved tablets may be left behind in the glass. 
The tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
How long to take Imatinib Teva 
Keep taking Imatinib Teva every day for as long as your doctor tells you. 
If you take more Imatinib Teva than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many tablets, talk to your doctor straight away. You may require 
medical attention. Take the medicine pack with you. 
If you forget to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However if it is nearly time for the next 
dose, skip the missed dose. 
Then continue with your normal schedule. 
Do not take a double dose to make up a forgotten dose. 
- 
- 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. They are 
usually mild to moderate. 
Some side effects may be serious. Tell your doctor straight away if you get any of the following: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) or common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Rapid weight gain. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Signs of infection such as fever, severe chills, sore throat or mouth ulcers. Imatinib Teva can 
reduce the number of white blood cells, so you might get infections more easily. 
Unexpected bleeding or bruising (when you have not hurt yourself). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) or rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Chest pain, irregular heart rhythm (signs of heart problems). 
Cough, having difficulty breathing or painful breathing (signs of lung problems). 
Feeling light-headed, dizzy or fainting (signs of low blood pressure). 
Feeling sick (nausea), with loss of appetite, dark-coloured urine, yellow skin or eyes (signs of 
liver problems). 
Rash, red skin with blisters on the lips, eyes, skin or mouth, peeling skin, fever, raised red or 
purple skin patches, itching, burning sensation, pustular eruption (signs of skin problems). 
Severe abdominal pain, blood in your vomit, stools or urine, black stools (signs of 
gastrointestinal disorders). 
Severely decreased urine output, feeling thirsty (signs of kidney problems). 
Feeling sick (nausea) with diarrhoea and vomiting, abdominal pain or fever (signs of bowel 
problems). 
Severe headache, weakness or paralysis of limbs or face, difficulty speaking, sudden loss of 
consciousness (signs of nervous system problems such as bleeding or swelling in skull/brain). 
Pale skin, feeling tired and breathlessness and having dark urine (signs of low levels of red 
blood cells). 
Eye pain or deterioration in vision, bleeding in the eyes. 
Pain in bones or joints (signs of osteonecrosis). 
Blisters on skin or mucous membranes (signs of pemphigus). 
Numb or cold toes and fingers (signs of Raynaud’s syndrome). 
Sudden swelling and redness of the skin (signs of a skin infection called cellulitis). 
Difficulty hearing. 
Muscle weakness and spasms with an abnormal heart rhythm (signs of changes in the amount of 
potassium in your blood). 
Bruising. 
Stomach pain with feeling sick (nausea). 
Muscle spasms with a fever, red-brown urine, pain or weakness in your muscles (signs of 
muscle problems). 
Pelvic pain sometimes with nausea and vomiting, with unexpected vaginal bleeding, feeling 
dizzy or fainting due to low blood pressure (signs of problems with your ovaries or womb). 
Nausea, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat, clouding of urine, tiredness and/or joint 
discomfort associated with abnormal laboratory test results (e.g. high potassium, uric acid and 
calcium levels and low phosphorous levels in the blood). 
Blood clots in small blood vessels (thrombotic microangiopathy). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Combination of a widespread severe rash, feeling sick, fever, high level of certain white blood 
cells or yellow skin or eyes (signs of jaundice) with breathlessness, chest pain/discomfort, 
severely decreased urine output and feeling thirsty etc. (signs of a treatment-related allergic 
reaction). 
Chronic renal failure. 
Recurrence (reactivation) of hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past (a 
liver infection). 
• 
• 
If you get any of the above, tell your doctor straight away. 
Other side effects may include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Headache or feeling tired. 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea or indigestion. 
Rash. 
Muscle cramps or joint, muscle or bone pain, during treatment with Imatinib Teva or after you 
have stopped taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swelling such as round your ankles or puffy eyes. 
• 
•  Weight gain. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Anorexia, weight loss or a disturbed sense of taste. 
Feeling dizzy or weak. 
Difficulty in sleeping (insomnia). 
Discharge from the eye with itching, redness and swelling (conjunctivitis), watery eyes or 
having blurred vision. 
Nose bleeds. 
Pain or swelling in your abdomen, flatulence, heartburn or constipation. 
Itching. 
Unusual hair loss or thinning. 
Numbness of the hands or feet. 
Mouth ulcers. 
Joint pain with swelling. 
Dry mouth, dry skin or dry eye. 
Decreased or increased skin sensitivity. 
Hot flushes, chills or night sweats. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Cough, runny or stuffy nose, feeling of heaviness or pain on pressing the area above the eyes or 
on the sides of the nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, sore throat, with or without headache (signs 
of upper respiratory tract infection). 
Severe headache felt as a throbbing pain or pulsing sensation, usually on one side of the head 
and often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light or sound (signs of migraine). 
Flu-like symptoms (influenza). 
Pain or burning sensation while passing urine, increased body temperature, pain in groin or 
pelvic area, red- or brown-coloured or cloudy urine (signs of urinary tract infection). 
Pain and swelling of your joints (signs of arthralgia). 
A constant feeling of sadness and loss of interest, which stops you carrying out your normal 
activities (signs of depression). 
A feeling of apprehension and worry along with physical symptoms such as pounding heart, 
sweating, trembling, dry mouth (signs of anxiety). 
Sleepiness/drowsiness/excessive sleep. 
Trembling or shaky movements (tremor). 
Memory impairment. 
Overwhelming urge to move the legs (restless leg syndrome). 
Hearing noises (e.g. ringing, humming) in the ears that have no external source (tinnitus). 
High blood pressure (hypertension). 
Burping/belching. 
Inflammation of the lips. 
Difficulty swallowing. 
Increased sweating. 
Skin discolouration. 
Brittle nails. 
Red bumps or white-headed pimples around the roots of the hair, possibly with pain, itching or 
burning sensation (signs of inflammation of the hair follicles, also called folliculitis). 
Skin rash with flaking or peeling (exfoliative dermatitis). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
92 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Breast enlargement (may occur in men or women). 
Dull pain and/or feeling of heaviness in the testicles or lower abdomen, pain during urination, 
sexual intercourse or ejaculation, blood in urine (signs of oedema of the testicles). 
Inability to get or keep an erection (erectile dysfunction). 
Heavy or irregular menstrual periods. 
Difficulty achieving/maintaining sexual arousal. 
Decreased sexual desire. 
Nipple pain. 
Generally feeling unwell (malaise). 
Viral infection such as cold sore. 
Lower back pain resulting from kidney disorder. 
Increased frequency of passing urine. 
Increase in appetite. 
Pain or burning sensation in upper abdomen and/or chest (heartburn), nausea, vomiting, acid 
reflux, feeling of fullness and bloating, black-coloured stools (signs of stomach ulcer). 
Joint and muscle stiffness. 
Abnormal laboratory test results. 
Painful red lumps on the skin, skin pain, skin reddening (inflammation of fatty tissue under the 
skin). 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Confusion. 
Nail discolouration. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Reddening and/or swelling on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet which may be 
accompanied by tingling sensation and burning pain. 
• 
Painful and/or blistering skin lesions. 
• 
Slowing of growth in children and adolescents. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Imatinib Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Imatinib Teva contains 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is imatinib (as mesilate). 
Each film-coated tablet of Imatinib Teva contains 100 mg imatinib (as mesilate). 
The other ingredients are calcium hydrogen phosphate, crospovidone and magnesium stearate. 
The tablet coating is made of polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, macrogol, iron oxide 
yellow (E172), talc, titanium dioxide (E171) and iron oxide red (E172). 
What Imatinib Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets are dark yellow to brownish orange round film-coated 
tablets with a score line on one side. The tablet is debossed with “IT” and “1” at each side of the score 
line. The tablets are approximately 9 mm in diameter. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets are available in pack sizes of 60 or 120 film-coated tablets 
in blisters. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg film-coated tablets are available in pack sizes of 20x1, 60x1, 120x1 or 
180x1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravska 29, c.p. 305 
74770 Opava-Komarov 
Czech Republic 
TEVA PHARMA, S.L.U. 
C/C, n. 4, Poligono Industrial Malpica 
50016 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Merckle GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Str. 3, 89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80, 31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5,  
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
PLIVA Croatia Ltd. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prilaz baruna Filipovica 25 
10000 Zagreb 
Croatia 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
AbZ-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140205 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets 
imatinib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Imatinib Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Imatinib Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
Imatinib Teva is a medicine containing an active substance called imatinib. This medicine works by 
inhibiting the growth of abnormal cells in the diseases listed below. These include some types of 
cancer. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Imatinib Teva is a treatment for adults and children for: 
- 
Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white 
cells usually help the body to fight infection. Chronic myeloid leukaemia is a form of leukaemia 
in which certain abnormal white cells (named myeloid cells) start growing out of control. 
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph-positive ALL). 
Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white cells usually help the body to fight 
infection. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is a form of leukaemia in which certain abnormal 
white cells (named lymphoblasts) start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells. 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for adults for: 
- 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD). These are a group of blood 
diseases in which some blood cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL). These 
are blood diseases in which some blood cells (named eosinophils) start growing out of control. 
Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). GIST is a cancer of the stomach and bowels. It 
arises from uncontrolled cell growth of the supporting tissues of these organs. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP). DFSP is a cancer of the tissue beneath the skin 
in which some cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these 
cells. 
In the rest of this leaflet, we will use the abbreviations when talking about these diseases. 
If you have any questions about how Imatinib Teva works or why this medicine has been prescribed 
for you, ask your doctor. 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
Imatinib Teva will only be prescribed to you by a doctor with experience in medicines to treat blood 
cancers or solid tumours. 
Follow all your doctor’s instructions carefully, even if they differ from the general information 
contained in this leaflet. 
Do not take Imatinib Teva 
- 
if you are allergic to imatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
If this applies to you, tell your doctor without taking Imatinib Teva. 
If you think you may be allergic but are not sure, ask your doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva: 
- 
- 
- 
if you have or have ever had a liver, kidney or heart problem. 
if you are taking the medicine levothyroxine because your thyroid has been removed. 
if you have ever had or might now have a hepatitis B infection. This is because Imatinib Teva 
could cause hepatitis B to become active again, which can be fatal in some cases. Patients will 
be carefully checked by their doctor for signs of this infection before treatment is started. 
if you experience bruising, bleeding, fever, fatigue and confusion when taking Imatinib Teva, 
contact your doctor. This may be a sign of damage to blood vessels known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy (TMA). 
- 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva. 
You may become more sensitive to the sun while taking Imatinib Teva. It is important to cover sun-
exposed areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF). These precautions are 
also applicable to children. 
During treatment with Imatinib Teva, tell your doctor straight away if you put on weight very 
quickly. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
While you are taking Imatinib Teva your doctor will regularly check whether the medicine is working. 
You will also have blood tests and be weighed regularly. 
Children and adolescents 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for children and adolescents with CML. There is no experience in 
children with CML below 2 years of age. There is limited experience in children with Ph-positive 
ALL and very limited experience in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and HES/CEL. 
Some children and adolescents taking Imatinib Teva may have slower than normal growth. The doctor 
will monitor the growth at regular visits. 
Other medicines and Imatinib Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription (such as paracetamol) and including 
herbal medicines (such as St. John’s Wort). Some medicines can interfere with the effect of Imatinib 
Teva when taken together. They may increase or decrease the effect of Imatinib Teva, either leading to 
increased side effects or making Imatinib Teva less effective. Imatinib Teva may do the same to some 
other medicines. 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor if you are using medicines that prevent the formation of blood clots. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
- 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imatinib Teva is not recommended during pregnancy unless clearly necessary as it may harm 
your baby. Your doctor will discuss with you the possible risks of taking Imatinib Teva during 
pregnancy. 
Women who might become pregnant are advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
and for 15 days after ending treatment. 
Do not breast-feed during the treatment with Imatinib Teva and for 15 days after ending 
treatment, as it may harm your baby. 
Patients who are concerned about their fertility while taking Imatinib Teva are advised to 
consult with their doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or drowsy or get blurred vision while taking this medicine. If this happens, do not 
drive or use any tools or machines until you are feeling well again.  
3.  How to take Imatinib Teva 
Your doctor has prescribed Imatinib Teva because you suffer from a serious condition. Imatinib Teva 
can help you to fight this condition. 
However, always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. It is 
important that you do this as long as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse tells you to. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Do not stop taking Imatinib Teva unless your doctor tells you to. If you are not able to take the 
medicine as your doctor prescribed or you feel you do not need it anymore, contact your doctor 
straight away.  
How much Imatinib Teva to take 
Use in adults 
Your doctor will tell you exactly how many tablets of Imatinib Teva to take. 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for CML: 
Depending on your condition the usual starting dose is either 400 mg or 600 mg: 
- 
- 
400 mg to be taken as 1 tablet once a day, 
600 mg to be taken as 1 tablet of 400 mg plus 2 tablets of 100 mg or as 1 ½ tablets of 
400 mg once a day. 
If you are being treated for GIST: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 1 tablet once a day. 
For CML and GIST, your doctor may prescribe a higher or lower dose depending on how you respond 
to the treatment. If your daily dose is 800 mg (2 tablets), you should take one tablet in the morning and 
a second tablet in the evening. 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for Ph-positive ALL: 
The starting dose is 600 mg to be taken as 1 tablet of 400 mg plus 2 tablets of 100 mg or as 1 ½ 
tablets of 400 mg once a day.  
If you are being treated for MDS/MPD: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 1 tablet once a day. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for HES/CEL: 
The starting dose is 100 mg, to be taken as 1 tablet of 100 mg once a day. Your doctor may 
decide to increase the dose to 400 mg, to be taken as 1 tablet of 400 mg once a day, depending 
on how you respond to treatment. 
If you are being treated for DFSP: 
The dose is 800 mg per day (2 tablets), to be taken as 1 tablet in the morning and a second tablet 
in the evening. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The doctor will tell you how many tablets of Imatinib Teva to give to your child. The amount of 
Imatinib Teva given will depend on your child’s condition, body weight and height. The total daily 
dose in children and adolescents must not exceed 800 mg with CML and 600 mg with Ph+ALL. The 
treatment can either be given to your child as a once-daily dose or alternatively the daily dose can be 
split into two administrations (half in the morning and half in the evening). 
When and how to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
Take Imatinib Teva with a meal. This will help protect you from stomach problems when 
taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swallow the tablets whole with a large glass of water. 
- 
If you are unable to swallow the tablets, you can dissolve them in a glass of still water or apple juice: 
• 
• 
• 
Use about 200 ml for each 400 mg tablet. 
Stir with a spoon until the tablets have completely dissolved. 
Once the tablet has dissolved, drink everything in the glass straight away. Traces of the 
dissolved tablets may be left behind in the glass. 
The tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
How long to take Imatinib Teva 
Keep taking Imatinib Teva every day for as long as your doctor tells you. 
If you take more Imatinib Teva than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many tablets, talk to your doctor straight away. You may require 
medical attention. Take the medicine pack with you. 
If you forget to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However if it is nearly time for the next 
dose, skip the missed dose. 
Then continue with your normal schedule. 
Do not take a double dose to make up a forgotten dose. 
- 
- 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. They are 
usually mild to moderate.  
Some side effects may be serious. Tell your doctor straight away if you get any of the following: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) or common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Rapid weight gain. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
• 
Signs of infection such as fever, severe chills, sore throat or mouth ulcers. Imatinib Teva can 
reduce the number of white blood cells, so you might get infections more easily. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Unexpected bleeding or bruising (when you have not hurt yourself). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) or rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Chest pain, irregular heart rhythm (signs of heart problems). 
Cough, having difficulty breathing or painful breathing (signs of lung problems). 
Feeling light-headed, dizzy or fainting (signs of low blood pressure). 
Feeling sick (nausea), with loss of appetite, dark-coloured urine, yellow skin or eyes (signs of 
liver problems). 
Rash, red skin with blisters on the lips, eyes, skin or mouth, peeling skin, fever, raised red or 
purple skin patches, itching, burning sensation, pustular eruption (signs of skin problems). 
Severe abdominal pain, blood in your vomit, stools or urine, black stools (signs of 
gastrointestinal disorders). 
Severely decreased urine output, feeling thirsty (signs of kidney problems). 
Feeling sick (nausea) with diarrhoea and vomiting, abdominal pain or fever (signs of bowel 
problems). 
Severe headache, weakness or paralysis of limbs or face, difficulty speaking, sudden loss of 
consciousness (signs of nervous system problems such as bleeding or swelling in skull/brain). 
Pale skin, feeling tired and breathlessness and having dark urine (signs of low levels of red 
blood cells). 
Eye pain or deterioration in vision, bleeding in the eyes. 
Pain in bones or joints (signs of osteonecrosis). 
Blisters on skin or mucous membranes (signs of pemphigus). 
Numb or cold toes and fingers (signs of Raynaud’s syndrome). 
Sudden swelling and redness of the skin (signs of a skin infection called cellulitis). 
Difficulty hearing. 
Muscle weakness and spasms with an abnormal heart rhythm (signs of changes in the amount of 
potassium in your blood). 
Bruising. 
Stomach pain with feeling sick (nausea). 
Muscle spasms with a fever, red-brown urine, pain or weakness in your muscles (signs of 
muscle problems). 
Pelvic pain sometimes with nausea and vomiting, with unexpected vaginal bleeding, feeling 
dizzy or fainting due to low blood pressure (signs of problems with your ovaries or womb).  
Nausea, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat, clouding of urine, tiredness and/or joint 
discomfort associated with abnormal laboratory test results (e.g. high potassium, uric acid and 
calcium levels and low phosphorous levels in the blood). 
Blood clots in small blood vessels (thrombotic microangiopathy). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Combination of a widespread severe rash, feeling sick, fever, high level of certain white blood 
cells or yellow skin or eyes (signs of jaundice) with breathlessness, chest pain/discomfort, 
severely decreased urine output and feeling thirsty etc. (signs of a treatment-related allergic 
reaction). 
Chronic renal failure. 
Recurrence (reactivation) of hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past (a 
liver infection). 
• 
• 
If you get any of the above, tell your doctor straight away. 
Other side effects may include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
Headache or feeling tired. 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea or indigestion. 
Rash. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Muscle cramps or joint, muscle or bone pain, during treatment with Imatinib Teva or after you 
have stopped taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swelling such as round your ankles or puffy eyes. 
• 
•  Weight gain. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Anorexia, weight loss or a disturbed sense of taste. 
Feeling dizzy or weak. 
Difficulty in sleeping (insomnia). 
Discharge from the eye with itching, redness and swelling (conjunctivitis), watery eyes or 
having blurred vision. 
Nose bleeds. 
Pain or swelling in your abdomen, flatulence, heartburn or constipation. 
Itching. 
Unusual hair loss or thinning. 
Numbness of the hands or feet. 
Mouth ulcers. 
Joint pain with swelling. 
Dry mouth, dry skin or dry eye. 
Decreased or increased skin sensitivity. 
Hot flushes, chills or night sweats. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Cough, runny or stuffy nose, feeling of heaviness or pain on pressing the area above the eyes or 
on the sides of the nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, sore throat, with or without headache (signs 
of upper respiratory tract infection). 
Severe headache felt as a throbbing pain or pulsing sensation, usually on one side of the head 
and often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light or sound (signs of migraine). 
Flu-like symptoms (influenza). 
Pain or burning sensation while passing urine, increased body temperature, pain in groin or 
pelvic area, red- or brown-coloured or cloudy urine (signs of urinary tract infection). 
Pain and swelling of your joints (signs of arthralgia). 
A constant feeling of sadness and loss of interest, which stops you carrying out your normal 
activities (signs of depression). 
A feeling of apprehension and worry along with physical symptoms such as pounding heart, 
sweating, trembling, dry mouth (signs of anxiety). 
Sleepiness/drowsiness/excessive sleep. 
Trembling or shaky movements (tremor). 
Memory impairment. 
Overwhelming urge to move the legs (restless leg syndrome). 
Hearing noises (e.g. ringing, humming) in the ears that have no external source (tinnitus). 
High blood pressure (hypertension). 
Burping/belching. 
Inflammation of the lips. 
Difficulty swallowing. 
Increased sweating. 
Skin discolouration. 
Brittle nails. 
Red bumps or white-headed pimples around the roots of the hair, possibly with pain, itching or 
burning sensation (signs of inflammation of the hair follicles, also called folliculitis). 
Skin rash with flaking or peeling (exfoliative dermatitis). 
Breast enlargement (may occur in men or women). 
Dull pain and/or feeling of heaviness in the testicles or lower abdomen, pain during urination, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
102 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
sexual intercourse or ejaculation, blood in urine (signs of oedema of the testicles). 
Inability to get or keep an erection (erectile dysfunction). 
Heavy or irregular menstrual periods. 
Difficulty achieving/maintaining sexual arousal. 
Decreased sexual desire. 
Nipple pain. 
Generally feeling unwell (malaise). 
Viral infection such as cold sore. 
Lower back pain resulting from kidney disorder. 
Increased frequency of passing urine. 
Increase in appetite. 
Pain or burning sensation in upper abdomen and/or chest (heartburn), nausea, vomiting, acid 
reflux, feeling of fullness and bloating, black-coloured stools (signs of stomach ulcer). 
Joint and muscle stiffness. 
Abnormal laboratory test results. 
Painful red lumps on the skin, skin pain, skin reddening (inflammation of fatty tissue under the 
skin). 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Confusion. 
Nail discolouration. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Reddening and/or swelling on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet which may be 
accompanied by tingling sensation and burning pain. 
• 
Painful and/or blistering skin lesions. 
• 
Slowing of growth in children and adolescents. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Imatinib Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imatinib Teva contains 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is imatinib (as mesilate). 
Each film-coated tablet of Imatinib Teva contains 400 mg imatinib (as mesilate). 
The other ingredients are calcium hydrogen phosphate, crospovidone and magnesium stearate. 
The tablet coating is made of polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, macrogol, iron oxide 
yellow (E172), talc, titanium dioxide (E171) and iron oxide red (E172). 
What Imatinib Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets are dark yellow to brownish orange oblong film-coated 
tablets with a score line on one side. The tablet is debossed with “IT” and “4” at each side of the score 
line. The tablets are approximately 20 mm long and 10 mm wide. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets are available in pack sizes of 30 or 90 film-coated tablets in 
blisters. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg film-coated tablets are available in pack sizes of 30x1or 90x1 film-coated 
tablets in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravska 29, c.p. 305 
74770 Opava-Komarov 
Czech Republic 
TEVA PHARMA, S.L.U. 
C/C, n. 4, Poligono Industrial Malpica 
50016 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Merckle GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Str. 3, 89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80, 31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5,  
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
PLIVA Croatia Ltd. 
Prilaz baruna Filipovica 25 
10000 Zagreb 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Croatia 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
AbZ-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140205 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules 
imatinib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Imatinib Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Imatinib Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
Imatinib Teva is a medicine containing an active substance called imatinib. This medicine works by 
inhibiting the growth of abnormal cells in the diseases listed below. These include some types of 
cancer. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Imatinib Teva is a treatment for adults and children for: 
- 
Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white 
cells usually help the body to fight infection. Chronic myeloid leukaemia is a form of leukaemia 
in which certain abnormal white cells (named myeloid cells) start growing out of control. 
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph-positive ALL). 
Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white cells usually help the body to fight 
infection. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is a form of leukaemia in which certain abnormal 
white cells (named lymphoblasts) start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells. 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for adults for: 
- 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD). These are a group of blood 
diseases in which some blood cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL). These 
are blood diseases in which some blood cells (named eosinophils) start growing out of control. 
Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). GIST is a cancer of the stomach and bowels. It 
arises from uncontrolled cell growth of the supporting tissues of these organs. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP). DFSP is a cancer of the tissue beneath the skin 
in which some cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these 
cells. 
In the rest of this leaflet, we will use the abbreviations when talking about these diseases. 
If you have any questions about how Imatinib Teva works or why this medicine has been prescribed 
for you, ask your doctor. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
Imatinib Teva will only be prescribed to you by a doctor with experience in medicines to treat blood 
cancers or solid tumours. 
Follow all your doctor’s instructions carefully, even if they differ from the general information 
contained in this leaflet. 
Do not take Imatinib Teva 
- 
if you are allergic to imatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If this applies to you, tell your doctor without taking Imatinib Teva. 
If you think you may be allergic but are not sure, ask your doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva: 
- 
- 
- 
if you have or have ever had a liver, kidney or heart problem. 
if you are taking the medicine levothyroxine because your thyroid has been removed. 
if you have ever had or might now have a hepatitis B infection. This is because Imatinib Teva 
could cause hepatitis B to become active again, which can be fatal in some cases. Patients will 
be carefully checked by their doctor for signs of this infection before treatment is started. 
if you experience bruising, bleeding, fever, fatigue and confusion when taking Imatinib Teva, 
contact your doctor. This may be a sign of damage to blood vessels known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy (TMA). 
- 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva. 
You may become more sensitive to the sun while taking Imatinib Teva. It is important to cover sun-
exposed areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF). These precautions are 
also applicable to children. 
During treatment with Imatinib Teva, tell your doctor straight away if you put on weight very 
quickly. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
While you are taking Imatinib Teva your doctor will regularly check whether the medicine is working. 
You will also have blood tests and be weighed regularly. 
Children and adolescents 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for children and adolescents with CML. There is no experience in 
children with CML below 2 years of age. There is limited experience in children with Ph-positive 
ALL and very limited experience in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and HES/CEL. 
Some children and adolescents taking Imatinib Teva may have slower than normal growth. The doctor 
will monitor the growth at regular visits. 
Other medicines and Imatinib Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription (such as paracetamol) and including 
herbal medicines (such as St. John’s Wort). Some medicines can interfere with the effect of Imatinib 
Teva when taken together. They may increase or decrease the effect of Imatinib Teva, either leading to 
increased side effects or making Imatinib Teva less effective. Imatinib Teva may do the same to some 
other medicines. 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor if you are using medicines that prevent the formation of blood clots. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
- 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
Imatinib Teva is not recommended during pregnancy unless clearly necessary as it may harm 
your baby. Your doctor will discuss with you the possible risks of taking Imatinib Teva during 
pregnancy.  
Women who might become pregnant are advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
and for 15 days after ending treatment.  
Do not breast-feed during the treatment with Imatinib Teva and for 15 days after ending 
treatment, as it may harm your baby. 
Patients who are concerned about their fertility while taking Imatinib Teva are advised to 
consult with their doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or drowsy or get blurred vision while taking this medicine. If this happens, do not 
drive or use any tools or machines until you are feeling well again.  
3.  How to take Imatinib Teva 
Your doctor has prescribed Imatinib Teva because you suffer from a serious condition. Imatinib Teva 
can help you to fight this condition. 
However, always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. It is 
important that you do this as long as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse tells you to. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Do not stop taking Imatinib Teva unless your doctor tells you to. If you are not able to take the 
medicine as your doctor prescribed or you feel you do not need it anymore, contact your doctor 
straight away. 
How much Imatinib Teva to take 
Use in adults 
Your doctor will tell you exactly how many capsules of Imatinib Teva to take. 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for CML: 
Depending on your condition the usual starting dose is either 400 mg or 600 mg: 
- 
- 
400 mg to be taken as 4 capsules once a day, 
600 mg to be taken as 6 capsules once a day. 
If you are being treated for GIST: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 4 capsules once a day. 
For CML and GIST, your doctor may prescribe a higher or lower dose depending on how you respond 
to the treatment. If your daily dose is 800 mg (8 capsules), you should take 4 capsules in the morning 
and 4 capsules in the evening. 
- 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for Ph-positive ALL: 
The starting dose is 600 mg to be taken as 6 capsules once a day. 
If you are being treated for MDS/MPD: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 4 capsules once a day. 
If you are being treated for HES/CEL: 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The starting dose is 100 mg, to be taken as 1 capsule once a day. Your doctor may decide to 
increase the dose to 400 mg, to be taken as 4 capsules once a day, depending on how you 
respond to treatment. 
- 
If you are being treated for DFSP: 
The dose is 800 mg per day (8 capsules), to be taken as 4 capsules in the morning and 4 
capsules in the evening. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The doctor will tell you how many capsules of Imatinib Teva to give to your child. The amount of 
Imatinib Teva given will depend on your child’s condition, body weight and height. The total daily 
dose in children and adolescents must not exceed 800 mg with CML and 600 mg with Ph+ALL. The 
treatment can either be given to your child as a once-daily dose or alternatively the daily dose can be 
split into two administrations (half in the morning and half in the evening). 
When and how to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
Take Imatinib Teva with a meal. This will help protect you from stomach problems when 
taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swallow the capsules whole with a large glass of water. Do not open or crush the capsules 
unless you have difficulty in swallowing (e.g. in children). 
If you are unable to swallow the capsules, you can open them up and pour the powder into a 
glass of still water or apple juice. 
If you are a woman who is pregnant or might get pregnant and are trying to open the capsules, 
you should handle the contents with caution in order to avoid skin-eye contact or inhalation. 
You should wash your hands immediately after opening the capsules. 
How long to take Imatinib Teva 
Keep taking Imatinib Teva every day for as long as your doctor tells you. 
If you take more Imatinib Teva than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may require 
medical attention. Take the medicine pack with you. 
If you forget to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However if it is nearly time for the next 
dose, skip the missed dose. 
Then continue with your normal schedule. 
Do not take a double dose to make up a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. They are 
usually mild to moderate. 
Some side effects may be serious. Tell your doctor straight away if you get any of the following: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) or common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Rapid weight gain. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
• 
Signs of infection such as fever, severe chills, sore throat or mouth ulcers. Imatinib Teva can 
reduce the number of white blood cells, so you might get infections more easily. 
Unexpected bleeding or bruising (when you have not hurt yourself). 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) or rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
Chest pain, irregular heart rhythm (signs of heart problems). 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Cough, having difficulty breathing or painful breathing (signs of lung problems). 
Feeling light-headed, dizzy or fainting (signs of low blood pressure). 
Feeling sick (nausea), with loss of appetite, dark-coloured urine, yellow skin or eyes (signs of 
liver problems). 
Rash, red skin with blisters on the lips, eyes, skin or mouth, peeling skin, fever, raised red or 
purple skin patches, itching, burning sensation, pustular eruption (signs of skin problems). 
Severe abdominal pain, blood in your vomit, stools or urine, black stools (signs of 
gastrointestinal disorders). 
Severely decreased urine output, feeling thirsty (signs of kidney problems). 
Feeling sick (nausea) with diarrhoea and vomiting, abdominal pain or fever (signs of bowel 
problems). 
Severe headache, weakness or paralysis of limbs or face, difficulty speaking, sudden loss of 
consciousness (signs of nervous system problems such as bleeding or swelling in skull/brain). 
Pale skin, feeling tired and breathlessness and having dark urine (signs of low levels of red 
blood cells). 
Eye pain or deterioration in vision, bleeding in the eyes. 
Pain in bones or joints (signs of osteonecrosis). 
Blisters on skin or mucous membranes (signs of pemphigus). 
Numb or cold toes and fingers (signs of Raynaud’s syndrome). 
Sudden swelling and redness of the skin (signs of a skin infection called cellulitis). 
Difficulty hearing. 
Muscle weakness and spasms with an abnormal heart rhythm (signs of changes in the amount of 
potassium in your blood). 
Bruising. 
Stomach pain with feeling sick (nausea). 
Muscle spasms with a fever, red-brown urine, pain or weakness in your muscles (signs of 
muscle problems). 
Pelvic pain sometimes with nausea and vomiting, with unexpected vaginal bleeding, feeling 
dizzy or fainting due to low blood pressure (signs of problems with your ovaries or womb). 
Nausea, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat, clouding of urine, tiredness and/or joint 
discomfort associated with abnormal laboratory test results (e.g. high potassium, uric acid and 
calcium levels and low phosphorous levels in the blood). 
Blood clots in small blood vessels (thrombotic microangiopathy). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Combination of a widespread severe rash, feeling sick, fever, high level of certain white blood 
cells or yellow skin or eyes (signs of jaundice) with breathlessness, chest pain/discomfort, 
severely decreased urine output and feeling thirsty etc. (signs of a treatment-related allergic 
reaction). 
Chronic renal failure. 
Recurrence (reactivation) of hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past (a 
liver infection). 
• 
• 
If you get any of the above, tell your doctor straight away. 
Other side effects may include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Headache or feeling tired. 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea or indigestion. 
Rash. 
Muscle cramps or joint, muscle or bone pain, during treatment with Imatinib Teva or after you 
have stopped taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swelling such as round your ankles or puffy eyes. 
• 
•  Weight gain. 
111 
 
 
 
 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Anorexia, weight loss or a disturbed sense of taste. 
Feeling dizzy or weak. 
Difficulty in sleeping (insomnia). 
Discharge from the eye with itching, redness and swelling (conjunctivitis), watery eyes or 
having blurred vision. 
Nose bleeds. 
Pain or swelling in your abdomen, flatulence, heartburn or constipation. 
Itching. 
Unusual hair loss or thinning. 
Numbness of the hands or feet. 
Mouth ulcers. 
Joint pain with swelling. 
Dry mouth, dry skin or dry eye. 
Decreased or increased skin sensitivity. 
Hot flushes, chills or night sweats. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Cough, runny or stuffy nose, feeling of heaviness or pain on pressing the area above the eyes or 
on the sides of the nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, sore throat, with or without headache (signs 
of upper respiratory tract infection). 
Severe headache felt as a throbbing pain or pulsing sensation, usually on one side of the head 
and often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light or sound (signs of migraine). 
Flu-like symptoms (influenza). 
Pain or burning sensation while passing urine, increased body temperature, pain in groin or 
pelvic area, red- or brown-coloured or cloudy urine (signs of urinary tract infection). 
Pain and swelling of your joints (signs of arthralgia). 
A constant feeling of sadness and loss of interest, which stops you carrying out your normal 
activities (signs of depression). 
A feeling of apprehension and worry along with physical symptoms such as pounding heart, 
sweating, trembling, dry mouth (signs of anxiety). 
Sleepiness/drowsiness/excessive sleep. 
Trembling or shaky movements (tremor). 
Memory impairment. 
Overwhelming urge to move the legs (restless leg syndrome). 
Hearing noises (e.g. ringing, humming) in the ears that have no external source (tinnitus). 
High blood pressure (hypertension). 
Burping/belching. 
Inflammation of the lips. 
Difficulty swallowing. 
Increased sweating. 
Skin discolouration. 
Brittle nails. 
Red bumps or white-headed pimples around the roots of the hair, possibly with pain, itching or 
burning sensation (signs of inflammation of the hair follicles, also called folliculitis). 
Skin rash with flaking or peeling (exfoliative dermatitis). 
Breast enlargement (may occur in men or women). 
Dull pain and/or feeling of heaviness in the testicles or lower abdomen, pain during urination, 
sexual intercourse or ejaculation, blood in urine (signs of oedema of the testicles). 
Inability to get or keep an erection (erectile dysfunction). 
Heavy or irregular menstrual periods. 
Difficulty achieving/maintaining sexual arousal. 
112 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Decreased sexual desire. 
Nipple pain. 
Generally feeling unwell (malaise). 
Viral infection such as cold sore. 
Lower back pain resulting from kidney disorder. 
Increased frequency of passing urine. 
Increase in appetite. 
Pain or burning sensation in upper abdomen and/or chest (heartburn), nausea, vomiting, acid 
reflux, feeling of fullness and bloating, black-coloured stools (signs of stomach ulcer). 
Joint and muscle stiffness. 
Abnormal laboratory test results. 
Painful red lumps on the skin, skin pain, skin reddening (inflammation of fatty tissue under the 
skin). 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Confusion. 
Nail discolouration. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Reddening and/or swelling on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet which may be 
accompanied by tingling sensation and burning pain. 
• 
Painful and/or blistering skin lesions. 
• 
Slowing of growth in children and adolescents. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Imatinib Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imatinib Teva contains 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is imatinib (as mesilate). 
Each hard capsule of Imatinib Teva contains 100 mg imatinib (as mesilate). 
The other ingredients are mannitol, crospovidone, magnesium stearate and silica colloidal 
anhydrous. The capsule shell is composed of gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide yellow 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(E172) and iron oxide red (E172). The printing ink is composed of shellac, iron oxide black 
(E172) and propylene glycol.  
What Imatinib Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules are non transparent orange capsules with black marking 7629 on 
capsule body and black marking TEVA on capsule cap. The content of the capsule is white to light 
yellow granulated powder. The capsules are approximately 19 mm long and 7 mm wide. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules are available in pack sizes of 60 or 120 hard capsules in blisters. 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg hard capsules are available in pack sizes of 20x1, 60x1, 120x1 or 180x1 hard 
capsules in perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravska 29, c.p. 305 
74770 Opava-Komarov 
Czech Republic 
TEVA PHARMA, S.L.U. 
C/C, n. 4, Poligono Industrial Malpica 
50016 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Merckle GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Str. 3, 89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80, 31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5,  
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
PLIVA Croatia Ltd. 
Prilaz baruna Filipovica 25 
10000 Zagreb 
Croatia 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
AbZ-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140205 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules 
imatinib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Imatinib Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Imatinib Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Imatinib Teva is and what it is used for 
Imatinib Teva is a medicine containing an active substance called imatinib. This medicine works by 
inhibiting the growth of abnormal cells in the diseases listed below. These include some types of 
cancer. 
Imatinib Teva is a treatment for adults and children for: 
- 
Chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white 
cells usually help the body to fight infection. Chronic myeloid leukaemia is a form of leukaemia 
in which certain abnormal white cells (named myeloid cells) start growing out of control. 
- 
Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (Ph-positive ALL). 
Leukaemia is a cancer of white blood cells. These white cells usually help the body to fight 
infection. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is a form of leukaemia in which certain abnormal 
white cells (named lymphoblasts) start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells. 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for adults for: 
- 
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases (MDS/MPD). These are a group of blood 
diseases in which some blood cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the 
growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) and/or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL). These 
are blood diseases in which some blood cells (named eosinophils) start growing out of control. 
Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these cells in a certain subtype of these diseases. 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GIST). GIST is a cancer of the stomach and bowels. It 
arises from uncontrolled cell growth of the supporting tissues of these organs. 
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP). DFSP is a cancer of the tissue beneath the skin 
in which some cells start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva inhibits the growth of these 
cells. 
- 
- 
- 
In the rest of this leaflet, we will use the abbreviations when talking about these diseases. 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions about how Imatinib Teva works or why this medicine has been prescribed 
for you, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Imatinib Teva 
Imatinib Teva will only be prescribed to you by a doctor with experience in medicines to treat blood 
cancers or solid tumours. 
Follow all your doctor’s instructions carefully, even if they differ from the general information 
contained in this leaflet. 
Do not take Imatinib Teva 
- 
if you are allergic to imatinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If this applies to you, tell your doctor without taking Imatinib Teva. 
If you think you may be allergic but are not sure, ask your doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva: 
- 
- 
- 
if you have or have ever had a liver, kidney or heart problem. 
if you are taking the medicine levothyroxine because your thyroid has been removed. 
if you have ever had or might now have a hepatitis B infection. This is because Imatinib Teva 
could cause hepatitis B to become active again, which can be fatal in some cases. Patients will 
be carefully checked by their doctor for signs of this infection before treatment is started. 
if you experience bruising, bleeding, fever, fatigue and confusion when taking Imatinib Teva, 
contact your doctor. This may be a sign of damage to blood vessels known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy (TMA). 
- 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Imatinib Teva. 
You may become more sensitive to the sun while taking Imatinib Teva. It is important to cover sun-
exposed areas of skin and use sunscreen with high sun protection factor (SPF). These precautions are 
also applicable to children. 
During treatment with Imatinib Teva, tell your doctor straight away if you put on weight very 
quickly. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
While you are taking Imatinib Teva your doctor will regularly check whether the medicine is working. 
You will also have blood tests and be weighed regularly. 
Children and adolescents 
Imatinib Teva is also a treatment for children and adolescents with CML. There is no experience in 
children with CML below 2 years of age. There is limited experience in children with Ph-positive 
ALL and very limited experience in children with MDS/MPD, DFSP, GIST and HES/CEL. 
Some children and adolescents taking Imatinib Teva may have slower than normal growth. The doctor 
will monitor the growth at regular visits. 
Other medicines and Imatinib Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription (such as paracetamol) and including 
herbal medicines (such as St. John’s Wort). Some medicines can interfere with the effect of Imatinib 
Teva when taken together. They may increase or decrease the effect of Imatinib Teva, either leading to 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased side effects or making Imatinib Teva less effective. Imatinib Teva may do the same to some 
other medicines. 
Tell your doctor if you are using medicines that prevent the formation of blood clots. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
- 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby 
ask your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
Imatinib Teva is not recommended during pregnancy unless clearly necessary as it may harm 
your baby. Your doctor will discuss with you the possible risks of taking Imatinib Teva during 
pregnancy.  
Women who might become pregnant are advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
and for 15 days after ending treatment.  
Do not breast-feed during the treatment with Imatinib Teva and for 15 days after ending 
treatment, as it may harm your baby. 
Patients who are concerned about their fertility while taking Imatinib Teva are advised to 
consult with their doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Driving and using machines 
You may feel dizzy or drowsy or get blurred vision while taking this medicine. If this happens, do not 
drive or use any tools or machines until you are feeling well again. 
3.  How to take Imatinib Teva 
Your doctor has prescribed Imatinib Teva because you suffer from a serious condition. Imatinib Teva 
can help you to fight this condition. 
However, always take this medicine exactly as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you. It is 
important that you do this as long as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse tells you to. Check with your 
doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Do not stop taking Imatinib Teva unless your doctor tells you to. If you are not able to take the 
medicine as your doctor prescribed or you feel you do not need it anymore, contact your doctor 
straight away. 
How much Imatinib Teva to take 
Use in adults 
Your doctor will tell you exactly how many capsules of Imatinib Teva to take. 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for CML: 
Depending on your condition the usual starting dose is either 400 mg or 600 mg: 
- 
- 
400 mg to be taken as 1 capsule once a day, 
600 mg to be taken as 1 capsule of 400 mg plus 2 capsules of 100 mg once a day. 
If you are being treated for GIST: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 1 capsule once a day. 
For CML and GIST, your doctor may prescribe a higher or lower dose depending on how you respond 
to the treatment. If your daily dose is 800 mg (2 capsules), you should take one capsule in the morning 
and a second capsule in the evening. 
- 
If you are being treated for Ph-positive ALL: 
The starting dose is 600 mg to be taken as 1 capsule of 400 mg plus 2 capsules of 100 mg once 
a day.  
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
If you are being treated for MDS/MPD: 
The starting dose is 400 mg, to be taken as 1 capsule once a day. 
If you are being treated for HES/CEL: 
The starting dose is 100 mg, to be taken as 1 capsule of 100 mg once a day. Your doctor may 
decide to increase the dose to 400 mg, to be taken as 1 capsule of 400 mg once a day, depending 
on how you respond to treatment. 
If you are being treated for DFSP: 
The dose is 800 mg per day (2 capsules), to be taken as 1 capsule in the morning and a second 
capsule in the evening. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The doctor will tell you how many capsules of Imatinib Teva to give to your child. The amount of 
Imatinib Teva given will depend on your child’s condition, body weight and height. The total daily 
dose in children and adolescents must not exceed 800 mg with CML and 600 mg with Ph+ALL. The 
treatment can either be given to your child as a once-daily dose or alternatively the daily dose can be 
split into two administrations (half in the morning and half in the evening). 
When and how to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
Take Imatinib Teva with a meal. This will help protect you from stomach problems when 
taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swallow the capsules whole with a large glass of water. Do not open or crush the capsules 
unless you have difficulty in swallowing (e.g. in children). 
If you are unable to swallow the capsules, you can open them up and pour the powder into a 
glass of still water or apple juice. 
If you are a woman who is pregnant or might get pregnant and are trying to open the capsules, 
you should handle the contents with caution in order to avoid skin-eye contact or inhalation. 
You should wash your hands immediately after opening the capsules. 
How long to take Imatinib Teva 
Keep taking Imatinib Teva every day for as long as your doctor tells you. 
If you take more Imatinib Teva than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may require 
medical attention. Take the medicine pack with you. 
If you forget to take Imatinib Teva 
- 
If you forget a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However if it is nearly time for the next 
dose, skip the missed dose. 
Then continue with your normal schedule. 
Do not take a double dose to make up a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. They are 
usually mild to moderate. 
Some side effects may be serious. Tell your doctor straight away if you get any of the following: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) or common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Rapid weight gain. Imatinib Teva may cause your body to retain water (severe fluid retention). 
• 
Signs of infection such as fever, severe chills, sore throat or mouth ulcers. Imatinib Teva can 
reduce the number of white blood cells, so you might get infections more easily. 
120 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Unexpected bleeding or bruising (when you have not hurt yourself). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) or rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Chest pain, irregular heart rhythm (signs of heart problems). 
Cough, having difficulty breathing or painful breathing (signs of lung problems). 
Feeling light-headed, dizzy or fainting (signs of low blood pressure). 
Feeling sick (nausea), with loss of appetite, dark-coloured urine, yellow skin or eyes (signs of 
liver problems). 
Rash, red skin with blisters on the lips, eyes, skin or mouth, peeling skin, fever, raised red or 
purple skin patches, itching, burning sensation, pustular eruption (signs of skin problems). 
Severe abdominal pain, blood in your vomit, stools or urine, black stools (signs of 
gastrointestinal disorders). 
Severely decreased urine output, feeling thirsty (signs of kidney problems). 
Feeling sick (nausea) with diarrhoea and vomiting, abdominal pain or fever (signs of bowel 
problems). 
Severe headache, weakness or paralysis of limbs or face, difficulty speaking, sudden loss of 
consciousness (signs of nervous system problems such as bleeding or swelling in skull/brain). 
Pale skin, feeling tired and breathlessness and having dark urine (signs of low levels of red 
blood cells). 
Eye pain or deterioration in vision, bleeding in the eyes. 
Pain in bones or joints (signs of osteonecrosis). 
Blisters on skin or mucous membranes (signs of pemphigus). 
Numb or cold toes and fingers (signs of Raynaud’s syndrome). 
Sudden swelling and redness of the skin (signs of a skin infection called cellulitis). 
Difficulty hearing. 
Muscle weakness and spasms with an abnormal heart rhythm (signs of changes in the amount of 
potassium in your blood). 
Bruising. 
Stomach pain with feeling sick (nausea). 
Muscle spasms with a fever, red-brown urine, pain or weakness in your muscles (signs of 
muscle problems). 
Pelvic pain sometimes with nausea and vomiting, with unexpected vaginal bleeding, feeling 
dizzy or fainting due to low blood pressure (signs of problems with your ovaries or womb). 
Nausea, shortness of breath, irregular heartbeat, clouding of urine, tiredness and/or joint 
discomfort associated with abnormal laboratory test results (e.g. high potassium, uric acid and 
calcium levels and low phosphorous levels in the blood). 
Blood clots in small blood vessels (thrombotic microangiopathy). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Combination of a widespread severe rash, feeling sick, fever, high level of certain white blood 
cells or yellow skin or eyes (signs of jaundice) with breathlessness, chest pain/discomfort, 
severely decreased urine output and feeling thirsty etc. (signs of a treatment-related allergic 
reaction). 
Chronic renal failure. 
Recurrence (reactivation) of hepatitis B infection when you have had hepatitis B in the past (a 
liver infection). 
• 
• 
If you get any of the above, tell your doctor straight away. 
Other side effects may include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
Headache or feeling tired. 
Feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting), diarrhoea or indigestion. 
Rash. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Muscle cramps or joint, muscle or bone pain, during treatment with Imatinib Teva or after you 
have stopped taking Imatinib Teva. 
Swelling such as round your ankles or puffy eyes. 
• 
•  Weight gain. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Anorexia, weight loss or a disturbed sense of taste. 
Feeling dizzy or weak. 
Difficulty in sleeping (insomnia). 
Discharge from the eye with itching, redness and swelling (conjunctivitis), watery eyes or 
having blurred vision. 
Nose bleeds. 
Pain or swelling in your abdomen, flatulence, heartburn or constipation. 
Itching. 
Unusual hair loss or thinning. 
Numbness of the hands or feet. 
Mouth ulcers. 
Joint pain with swelling. 
Dry mouth, dry skin or dry eye. 
Decreased or increased skin sensitivity. 
Hot flushes, chills or night sweats. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Cough, runny or stuffy nose, feeling of heaviness or pain on pressing the area above the eyes or 
on the sides of the nose, nasal congestion, sneezing, sore throat, with or without headache (signs 
of upper respiratory tract infection). 
Severe headache felt as a throbbing pain or pulsing sensation, usually on one side of the head 
and often accompanied by nausea, vomiting and sensitivity to light or sound (signs of migraine). 
Flu-like symptoms (influenza). 
Pain or burning sensation while passing urine, increased body temperature, pain in groin or 
pelvic area, red- or brown-coloured or cloudy urine (signs of urinary tract infection). 
Pain and swelling of your joints (signs of arthralgia). 
A constant feeling of sadness and loss of interest, which stops you carrying out your normal 
activities (signs of depression). 
A feeling of apprehension and worry along with physical symptoms such as pounding heart, 
sweating, trembling, dry mouth (signs of anxiety). 
Sleepiness/drowsiness/excessive sleep. 
Trembling or shaky movements (tremor). 
Memory impairment. 
Overwhelming urge to move the legs (restless leg syndrome). 
Hearing noises (e.g. ringing, humming) in the ears that have no external source (tinnitus). 
High blood pressure (hypertension). 
Burping/belching. 
Inflammation of the lips. 
Difficulty swallowing. 
Increased sweating. 
Skin discolouration. 
Brittle nails. 
Red bumps or white-headed pimples around the roots of the hair, possibly with pain, itching or 
burning sensation (signs of inflammation of the hair follicles, also called folliculitis). 
Skin rash with flaking or peeling (exfoliative dermatitis). 
Breast enlargement (may occur in men or women). 
Dull pain and/or feeling of heaviness in the testicles or lower abdomen, pain during urination, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
122 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
sexual intercourse or ejaculation, blood in urine (signs of oedema of the testicles). 
Inability to get or keep an erection (erectile dysfunction). 
Heavy or irregular menstrual periods. 
Difficulty achieving/maintaining sexual arousal. 
Decreased sexual desire. 
Nipple pain. 
Generally feeling unwell (malaise). 
Viral infection such as cold sore. 
Lower back pain resulting from kidney disorder. 
Increased frequency of passing urine. 
Increase in appetite. 
Pain or burning sensation in upper abdomen and/or chest (heartburn), nausea, vomiting, acid 
reflux, feeling of fullness and bloating, black-coloured stools (signs of stomach ulcer). 
Joint and muscle stiffness. 
Abnormal laboratory test results. 
Painful red lumps on the skin, skin pain, skin reddening (inflammation of fatty tissue under the 
skin). 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Confusion. 
Nail discolouration. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
Reddening and/or swelling on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet which may be 
accompanied by tingling sensation and burning pain. 
• 
Painful and/or blistering skin lesions. 
• 
Slowing of growth in children and adolescents. 
If any of these affects you severely, tell your doctor. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5.  How to store Imatinib Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imatinib Teva contains 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is imatinib (as mesilate). 
Each hard capsule of Imatinib Teva contains 400 mg imatinib (as mesilate). 
The other ingredients are mannitol, crospovidone, magnesium stearate and silica colloidal 
anhydrous. The capsule shell is composed of gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide yellow 
(E172) and iron oxide red (E172). The printing ink is composed of shellac, iron oxide black 
(E172) and propylene glycol. 
What Imatinib Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules are non transparent orange capsules with black marking 7630 on 
capsule body and black marking TEVA on capsule cap. The content of the capsule is white to light 
yellow granulated powder. The capsules are approximately 23 mm long and 9 mm wide. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules are available in pack sizes of 30 or 90 hard capsules in blisters. 
Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules are available in pack sizes of 30x1 or 90x1 hard capsules in 
perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravska 29, c.p. 305 
74770 Opava-Komarov 
Czech Republic 
TEVA PHARMA, S.L.U. 
C/C, n. 4, Poligono Industrial Malpica 
50016 Zaragoza 
Spain 
Merckle GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Str. 3, 89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80, 31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Swensweg 5,  
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
PLIVA Croatia Ltd. 
Prilaz baruna Filipovica 25 
10000 Zagreb 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Croatia 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
AbZ-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140205 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
TEVA HELLAS Α.Ε. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
