EMA/714483/2016 
EMEA/H/C/002585 
EPAR summary for the public 
Imatinib Teva 
imatinib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Imatinib Teva. It explains how 
the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. 
It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Imatinib Teva. 
For practical information about using Imatinib Teva, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Imatinib Teva and what is it used for? 
Imatinib Teva is a cancer medicine. It is used to treat the following diseases: 
• 
chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), a cancer of the white blood cells in which granulocytes (a type of 
white blood cell) start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva is used when the patients are 
‘Philadelphia chromosome positive’ (Ph+). This means that some of their genes have re-arranged 
themselves to form a special chromosome called the Philadelphia chromosome. Imatinib Teva is 
used in adults and children who have been newly diagnosed with Ph+ CML and who are not eligible 
for a bone marrow transplant. It is also used in adults and children in the ‘chronic phase’ of the 
disease if it is not responding to interferon alpha (another cancer medicine), and in more advanced 
phases of the disease (‘accelerated phase’ and ‘blast crisis’); 
• 
Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a type of cancer in which lymphocytes (another type of 
white blood cell) multiply too quickly. Imatinib Teva is used in combination with other cancer 
medicines in adults and children who have been newly diagnosed with Ph+ ALL. It is also used 
alone in adults to treat Ph+ ALL that has returned following previous treatment, or is not 
responding to other medicines; 
•  myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative diseases (MD/MPD), a group of diseases in which the body 
produces large numbers of abnormal blood cells. Imatinib Teva is used to treat adults with 
MD/MPD who have re-arrangements of the gene for platelet-derived growth factor receptor 
(PDGFR); 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL), diseases in 
which eosinophils (another type of white blood cell) start growing out of control. Imatinib Teva is 
used to treat adults with HES or CEL who have a specific re-arrangement of two genes called 
FIP1L1 and PDGFRα; 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a type of cancer (sarcoma) in which cells in the tissue 
beneath the skin divide uncontrollably. Imatinib Teva is used to treat adults with DFSP that cannot 
be removed with surgery, and in adults who are not eligible for surgery when the cancer has 
returned after treatment or has spread to other parts of the body. 
Imatinib Teva contains the active substance imatinib. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Imatinib Teva is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called 
Glivec. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Imatinib Teva used? 
Imatinib Teva can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
who has experience in the treatment of patients with cancers of the blood. It is available as capsules 
(100 and 400 mg) and tablets (100 and 400 mg) and is given by mouth with a meal and a large glass 
of water to reduce the risk of irritation of the stomach and gut. The dose depends on the age and 
condition of the patient, and the response to treatment, but it should not exceed 800 mg a day. For 
more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Imatinib Teva work? 
The active substance in Imatinib Teva, imatinib, is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. This means that 
it blocks some specific enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes can be found in certain 
receptors in cancer cells, including the receptors that are involved in stimulating the cells to divide 
uncontrollably. By blocking these receptors, Imatinib Teva helps to control cell division. 
How has Imatinib Teva been studied? 
Because Imatinib Teva is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that the tablets and capsules are bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Glivec. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Imatinib Teva? 
Because Imatinib Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Imatinib Teva approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Imatinib Teva has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Glivec. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Glivec, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risk. The Committee recommended that Imatinib Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Imatinib Teva  
EMA/714483/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Imatinib Teva? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Imatinib Teva have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.  
Other information about Imatinib Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Imatinib Teva on 8 January 2013. 
The full EPAR for Imatinib Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Imatinib Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2016.  
Imatinib Teva  
EMA/714483/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
