EMA/393159/2017 
EMEA/H/C/002681 
EPAR summary for the public 
Imatinib Accord 
imatinib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Imatinib Accord. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Imatinib Accord. 
For practical information about using Imatinib Accord, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Imatinib Accord and what is it used for? 
Imatinib Accord is a cancer medicine used to treat the following diseases: 
• 
chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML), a cancer of the white blood cells in which granulocytes (a type of 
white blood cell) start growing out of control. Imatinib Accord is used when the patients are 
‘Philadelphia chromosome positive’ (Ph+). This means that some of their genes have re-arranged 
themselves to form a special chromosome called the Philadelphia chromosome. Imatinib Accord is 
used in adults and children who have been newly diagnosed with Ph+ CML and who are not eligible 
for bone marrow transplantation. It is also used in adults and children in the ‘chronic phase’ of the 
disease if it is not responding to interferon alfa (another cancer medicine), and in more advanced 
phases of the disease (‘accelerated phase’ and ‘blast crisis’);  
• 
Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a type of cancer in which lymphocytes (another type of 
white blood cell) multiply too quickly. Imatinib Accord is used in combination with other cancer 
medicines in adults and children who have been newly diagnosed with Ph+ ALL. It is also used 
alone in adults to treat Ph+ ALL that has returned following previous treatment, or is not 
responding to other medicines; 
•  myelodysplastic or myeloproliferative diseases (MD/MPD), a group of diseases in which the body 
produces large numbers of abnormal blood cells. Imatinib Accord is used to treat adults with 
MD/MPD who have re-arrangements of the gene for platelet-derived growth factor receptor 
(PDGFR); 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
advanced hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) or chronic eosinophilic leukaemia (CEL), diseases in 
which eosinophils (another type of white blood cell) start growing out of control. Imatinib Accord is 
used to treat adults with HES or CEL who have a specific re-arrangement of two genes called 
FIP1L1 and PDGFRα; 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP), a type of cancer (sarcoma) in which cells in the tissue 
beneath the skin divide uncontrollably. Imatinib Accord is used to treat adults with DFSP that 
cannot be removed with surgery, and in adults who are not eligible for surgery when the cancer 
has returned after treatment or has spread to other parts of the body. 
Imatinib Accord contains the active substance imatinib. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Imatinib Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Glivec. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Imatinib Accord used? 
Imatinib Accord is available as tablets (100 and 400 mg). It can only be obtained with a prescription 
and treatment should be started by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of patients with 
cancers of the blood or solid tumours. Imatinib Accord is given by mouth with a meal and a large glass 
of water to reduce the risk of irritation of the stomach and gut. The dose depends on the disease being 
treated, the age and condition of the patient, and the response to treatment, but it should not exceed 
800 mg a day. For more information, see the package leaflet.  
How does Imatinib Accord work? 
The active substance in Imatinib Accord, imatinib, is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor. This means 
that it blocks some specific enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes can be found in some 
receptors on the surface of cancer cells, including the receptors that are involved in stimulating the 
cells to divide uncontrollably. By blocking these receptors, Imatinib Accord helps to control cell 
division. 
How has Imatinib Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Glivec, and do not need to be repeated for Imatinib Accord. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Imatinib Accord. The company 
also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine, Glivec. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Imatinib Accord? 
Because Imatinib Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Imatinib Accord  
EMA/393159/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Imatinib Accord approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Imatinib Accord 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Glivec. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Glivec, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency recommended that 
Imatinib Accord be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Imatinib Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Imatinib Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Imatinib Accord 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Imatinib Accord on 1 July 2013. 
The full EPAR for Imatinib Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Imatinib Accord, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017. 
Imatinib Accord  
EMA/393159/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
