18 October 2012 
EMA/CHMP/593709/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Imatinib Teva 
International non-proprietary name: imatinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002585 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product information 
Marketing authorisation application 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Imatinib Teva 
Applicant: 
Teva Pharma B.V. 
Computerweg 10 
NL-3542 DR Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
Active substance: 
imatinib mesilate 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
imatinib 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Protein kinase inhibitors  
(L01XE01) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
treatment of Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) 
positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Film-coated tablet and hard capsules 
Strength(s): 
100 mg, 400 mg  
Route(s) of administration: 
Oral use 
Packaging: 
Package size(s): 
blister (OPA/AL/PVC/AL), blister 
(PVC/PE/PVdC/PE/PVC/AL) 
120 capsules, 120 tablets, 120 x 1 capsule, 120 x 1 
tablet, 180 x 1 capsule, 180 x 1 tablet, 20 x 1 
capsule, 20 x 1 tablet, 30 capsules, 30 tablets, 30 x 
1 capsule, 30 x 1 tablet, 60 capsules, 60 tablets, 60 
x 1 capsule, 60 x 1 tablet, 90 capsules, 90 tablets, 
90 x 1 capsule, 90 x 1 tablet  
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 2/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product.............................................................................. 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 12 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 12 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development............................................ 13 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 13 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 13 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment........................................................ 13 
2.3.3. Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects .............................................. 13 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 13 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 13 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 18 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience.............................................................................. 18 
2.4.5. Discussion and conclusion on clinical aspects ..................................................... 18 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 19 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Recommendation................................................................................... 20 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 3/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABBREVIATIONS 
AGP 
ALL 
ANOVA 
AUC 
CEL 
CML 
DFSP 
EMA 
GIST 
HES  
ICH  
alpha-1 acid glycoprotein 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
analysis of variance 
area under the curve 
chronic eosinophilic leukaemia 
chronic myeloid leukaemia 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans 
European Medicines Agency 
Gastrointestinal stromal tumour 
hypereosinophilic syndrome 
International Conference on Harmonization 
MDS/MPD  
myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative diseases 
mg  
mg/m2  
PDGF  
PDGFR  
Ph  
milligrams 
milligrams/square meter 
platelet-derived growth factor 
platelet-derived growth factor receptor 
Philadelphia chromosome 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 4/21
 
 
 
 
 
1.   Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva Pharma B.V. submitted on 15 November 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Imatinib Teva, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 19 May 
2011. The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) 
positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Glivec instead of non-clinical and clinical 
data unless justified otherwise. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
The market exclusivity of the chosen reference product expired on 12 November 2011 for the condition 
chronic myeloid leukaemia. 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:  Glivec 100 mg hard capsules    
 
  Marketing authorisation holder:  Novartis Europharm Limited     
  Date of authorisation: 07-11-2001     
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number:   EU/1/01/198/002 - EU/1/01/198/006    
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Glivec 100 mg hard capsules    
 
  Marketing authorisation holder:   Novartis Europharm Limited        
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 5/21
 
 
 
 
 
  Date of authorisation:  07-11-2001     
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number:    EU/1/01/198/002 - EU/1/01/198/006      
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:  Glivec 400 mg film-coated tablets    
 
  Marketing authorisation holder:  Novartis Europharm Limited           
  Date of authorisation: 11-11-2003     
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation numbers:   EU/1/01/198/009, EU/1/01/198/010 and 
EU/1/01/198/013    
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product has been authorised in Croatia. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Arantxa Sancho-Lopez   
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 15 November 2011.  
The procedure started on 21 December 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 09 March 
2012. 
During the meeting on 16-19 April 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 20 April 2012. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 July 
2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 03 September 2012. 
During the CHMP meeting on 17-20 September 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
20 September 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 04 October 2012. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 6/21
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
During the meeting on 15-18 October 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation Imatinib Teva on 18 October 2012. 
• 
CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Imatinib Teva with Tasigna and Sprycel on 19 April 
2012. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 7/21
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Imatinib Teva 100 mg and 400 mg film-coated tablets and 100 mg and 400 mg hard capsules is a 
generic medicinal product of Glivec, which has been authorised in the EU since 7 November 2001. 
The  active  substance  of  Imatinib  Teva  is  imatinib,  a  protein-tyrosine  kinase  inhibitor  which  potently 
inhibits the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase at the in vitro, cellular and in vivo levels. The compound selectively 
inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis in Bcr-Abl positive cell lines as well as fresh leukaemic cells 
from Philadelphia chromosome positive CML patients. 
The safety and efficacy profile of imatinib has been demonstrated in several clinical trials details of 
which can be found in the EPAR for Glivec. In addition, there is a long-term post-marketing experience 
contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Since this application is a generic 
application referring to the reference medicinal product Glivec, summary of the clinical data of imatinib 
is available and no new clinical studies regarding pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and efficacy and 
safety have been conducted. 
Bioequivalence to the reference product was demonstrated by two bioequivalence studies at single 
dose under fed conditions. The studies were performed in healthy volunteers. One study was 
performed with the 400 mg strength film coated tablets and the second with the 400 mg capsules. 
The approved indication is: 
Imatinib Teva is indicated for the treatment of 
 
Paediatric patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome (bcr-abl) positive (Ph+) chronic 
myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not considered as the first line 
of treatment. 
 
Paediatric patients with Ph+ CML in chronic phase after failure of interferon-alpha therapy, or in 
accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
  Adult patients with Ph+ CML in blast crisis. 
The effect of imatinib on the outcome of bone marrow transplantation has not been determined.  
In adult and paediatric patients, the effectiveness of imatinib is based on overall haematological and 
cytogenetic response rates and progression-free survival in CML. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film coated tables and hard capsules containing 100 mg and 400 
mg of imatinib as active substance. The composition is described in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
The product is available in blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The active substance is a white to off white or slightly yellowish crystalline powder, slightly 
hygroscopic, freely soluble in water, soluble in methanol and slightly soluble in ethanol. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 8/21
 
 
 
 
The chemical name is 4-[(4-Methyl-1-piperazinyl) methyl]-N-[4-methyl-3-[[4-(3-pyridinyl)-2-
pyrimidinyl] aminophenyl]benzamide methanesulfonate salt.  
Imatinib mesylate has no chiral center hence no chirality. Polymorphism has been observed for 
imatinib mesylate. However, there is no impact on the quality and performance of drug product since 
the polymorphs of imatinib mesylate are highly soluble.  
The information on the active substance is provided according to the Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) procedure within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture 
Imatinib mesylate is manufactured by different manufacturers and the Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) procedure was followed for all manufacturers. The route of synthesis differs for the sites. The 
route of synthesis was briefly described in the open part but the detailed information was provided in 
the restricted part of the ASMF. The process was acceptably described for all manufacturing sites. 
Imatinib mesylate is synthesized in three main steps using commercially available starting materials.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
Batch analysis data is provided on three commercial scale batches produced with the proposed 
synthetic route, and the batch analysis data show that the active substance can be manufactured 
reproducibly. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance (visual inspection), identity (IR, HPLC, 
XRPD), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water content (KF), sulphated ash (Ph 
Eur) and heavy metals (Ph Eur). Additional specifications have been set for methanesulphonic acid 
content (potentiometric titration).  
Impurities have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
The analytical methods are essentially the same in the different manufacturing sites and are suitable to 
control the quality of the active substance. The methods have been well described and validated 
according to ICH Q2 (R1). 
Batch analysis data (3 commercial scale batches) of the active substance are provided. The results 
comply with the specifications and therefore confirm consistency and uniformity of the manufacturing 
processes. 
Stability 
Three production scale batches of the active substance packed in the intended commercial package 
were placed on stability testing as per ICH conditions: under long term (25°C/60%RH) for up 48 
months, and accelerated (40°C/75%RH) for up six months conditions. Photostability test following ICH 
guidelines Q1B was performed on one batch. Results on stress conditions, i.e., heat treatment, acid 
treatment, base treatment, oxidizing agent treatment and water treatment were also provided. 
The parameters tested are the same as for release. 
The stability results indicate that the drug substance manufactured by the proposed suppliers is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results support the proposed retest period. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 9/21
 
 
 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The proposed medicinal product is film-coated tablets and hard capsules, available in two strengths, 
100mg and 400 mg. Imatinib Teva film-coated tablets 100 mg are dark yellow to brownish orange 
round film coated tablets debossed with IT and 1, divided by score line on one side. Imatinib film-
coated tablets 400 mg are dark yellow to brownish orange oblong film coated tablets debossed with IT 
and 4, divided by score line on one side. Imatinib capsules 100 mg are non transparent orange 
capsules with black marking 7629 on the capsule body and black marking TEVA on the capsule cap. 
Imatinib capsules 400 mg are non transparent orange capsules with black marking 7630 on the 
capsule body and black marking TEVA on the capsule cap. 
Imatinib film-coated tablets 100 mg and 400 mg and Imatinib capsules 100 mg 400 mg are packed 
into two types of packaging systems, i.e., OPA/Al/PVC//Al blisters and PVC/PE/PVdC/PE/PVC//Al 
blisters.  
Imatinib film-coated tablets 
The formulation of Imatinib film-coated tablets was designed to obtain a dosage form similar to the 
reference product, Glivec 400 mg film-coated tablets. 
Imatinib film coated tablets are immediate release oral solid dosage form, containing imatinib mesylate 
as the active ingredient.  
 Excipients used in the formulation are well known and widely used for this dosage form. The 
excipients used include: anhydrous dibasic calcium phosphate, crospovidone, water, magnesium 
stearate and Opadry as coating coating agent.  
Bioequivalence has been established between the 400 mg strength batches with batches of the 
reference product.  
Additionally, comparative in vitro dissolution profiles of the test products (including additional strength 
not tested for bioequivalence) and the reference product were provided to support the essential similar 
character. 
Dissolution profiles of Imatinib film coated tablets 400 mg manufactured using all sources of the drug 
substance, as well as Imatinib film coated tablets 100 mg was shown to be similar. 
In vitro dissolution studies were conducted in different media and met the F
requirements. 
2 
Investigation on polymorphism during stability studies confirmed that storage of tablets did not lead to 
any relevant changes in solid state characteristics. In addition, it was also confirmed that polymorphic 
form has been preserved after production.  
The test of subdivision of tablets has been performed according to Ph. Eur. All results comply with the 
pharmacopoeial requirements. 
Imatinib capsules 
The formulation development phase was conducted to obtain a formulation that would use standard 
technology, standard excipients and would have a rapid drug release similar to the reference product.  
Excipients used in the formulation are well known and widely used for this dosage form. The excipients 
used include: mannitol, crospovidone, silica colloidal anhydrous, magnesium stearate. Excipients used 
for the capsule shell include: gelatin, titanium dioxide, yellow ferric oxide and red ferric oxide. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 10/21
 
 
 
Appropriate excipients in optimal quantity in the formulation were selected in order to match the 
dissolution profiles of drug reference product. Pre-formulation studies were performed to test and 
determine compatibility of the proposed excipients with the active substance. The manufacturing 
process was developed in order to deliver a final product of satisfying stability. The scale up of the 
process was done by defining optimal process parameters and ranges.  
Bioequivalence study was performed with the 400 mg strength showing bioequivalence to the 
reference product, Glivec 400 mg film-coated tablets.  
Dissolution studies were performed in order to demonstrate in vitro equivalence between the reference 
product and imatinib capsules with regard to imatinib release from the product. The discriminatory 
nature of the method was evaluated. In all tested dissolution media the results show a fast and 
complete dissolution (> 85% in 15 minutes). 
The additional strength of the product series, 100mg, has not been tested in vivo for bioequivalence. 
Exemption of a bioavailability study for the 100 mg strength was acceptable since all requirements of a 
biowaiver for this strength have been fulfilled. 
The primary packaging proposed is described as stated in the SmPC. The material complies with PhEur 
requirements, and it is adequate to support the stability and use of the product. 
Adventitious agents 
Gelatin obtained from bovine/limed bone is used in the product. Valid TSE CEP from the supplier of the 
gelatin used in the manufacture is provided. 
Manufacture of the product 
Imatinib film-coated tablets 100 mg and 400 mg 
The manufacturing process consists of five main steps: (1) granulation, (2) homogenisation of the 
granules, (3) compression, (4) film coating and (5) packaging. The manufacturing process is 
considered to be a standard manufacturing process for film-coated tablets. The manufacturing process 
has been validated by a number of studies for the major steps of the manufacturing process and has 
been demonstrated to be capable and to be able to reproducibly produce finished product of the 
intended quality. The in process controls are adequate for this tablet preparation. The manufacturing 
process has been satisfactorily validated at full scale on three batches per strength. 
Imatinib capsules 100 mg and 400 mg 
The manufacturing process consists of seven main steps: (1) mixing, (2) roller compaction, (3) 
screening, (4) milling, (5) homogenisation, (6) encapsulation and (7) packaging. The process is 
considered to be a standard manufacturing process for capsules. 
The manufacturing processes have been adequately described and the critical steps have been 
identified. Adequate flow-charts were provided and the different steps of the manufacturing processes 
are described, together with equipment type and operating parameters. 
The validation protocol proposed for the full scale batches for the capsule formulation has been 
provided and the quality of the production batches will be evaluated through the results of in process 
testing as well as the results of finished product testing. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 11/21
 
 
 
Product specification  
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for visual description, identification 
(HPLC  and  UV),  assay  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  dosage  unit  (PhEur),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
subdivision  of  tablets  (PhEur),  dissolution  (PhEur),  loss  on  drying  (PhEur),  identification  of  colorants 
and microbiological quality (PhEur). Analytical methods have been well described and validated. 
The proposed limits for the impurities are in accordance with the ICHQ3B guideline. 
Batch analysis results on three commercial batches per strength and per pharmaceutical form confirm 
consistency and uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process is capable and under control. 
Stability of the product 
Imatinib film-coated tablets 100 mg and 400 mg 
Stability data of 9 full scale batches of 100 mg and 6 full scale batches of 400 mg film coated tablets 
stored under long term conditions for 24 months at 25ºC/60%RH, and for up to six months under 
accelerate conditions at 40ºC/75%RH according to ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of 
imatinib film coated tablets are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the 
primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for assay, related substances, dissolution, loss on drying, description and 
microbial limits. The analytical procedures used were stability indicating. 
In addition, freezing testing has been performed. Freezing testing has shown that the product is not 
sensitive to freezing.  
Imatinib capsules 100 mg and 400 mg 
Stability data of 6 full scale batches of 100 mg  and 6 full scale batches  of 400 mg batches of imatinib 
capsules stored under long term conditions for 12 months at 25ºC/60%RH, and for up to six months 
under accelerate conditions at 40ºC/75%RH according to ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of 
imatinib capsules are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for assay, related substances, dissolution, water content, description and 
microbial limits. The analytical procedures used were stability indicating. 
Freezing and photostability testing results have shown that the product is not sensitive to freezing or 
to light. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 12/21
 
 
 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A  non-clinical  overview  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  has  been  provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need  to  generate  additional  non-clinical  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data.  The 
non-clinical  aspects  of  the  SmPC  are  in  line  with  the  SmPC  of  the  reference  product.  The  impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
No  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  was  submitted.  This  was  justified  by  the  applicant  as  the 
introduction of  Imatinib  Teva  manufactured  by  Teva  is  considered  unlikely  to  result  in  any  significant 
increase  in  the  combined  sales  volumes  for  all  imatinib  containing  products  and  the  exposure  of  the 
environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion and conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  properties  of  imatinib  are  well  known.    No  non-
clinical  data  are  submitted  with  this  application.  Published  literature  has  been  reviewed  and  is 
considered of suitable quality. 
In line with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), justification for not providing new ERA studies is acceptable. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  film-coated  tablets  and  hard  capsules  containing  imatinib.  The  applicant 
provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as efficacy 
and  safety  of  imatinib  based  on  published  literature.  The  SmPC  is  in  line  with  the  SmPC  of  the 
reference product with the exception of the information related to the indications protected by market 
exclusivity at the time of the Marketing authorisation application. 
No  formal  scientific  advice  by  the  CHMP  was  given  for  this  medicinal  product.  For  the  clinical 
assessment  Guideline  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.1)  in  its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 13/21
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
A waiver of two proportional strengths has been applied for based on dissolution profiles. The different 
film-coated tablets and hard capsules strengths are manufactured with the same process by the same 
manufacturer.  They  have  the  same  qualitative  composition  and  a  proportional  quantitative 
composition. The evidence submitted to show that in vitro dissolution profiles are similar is enough in 
the assessor’s opinion to grant a biowaiver for the proportional formulation of lower strength since the 
necessary information has been provided.  
Based  on  the  submitted  bioequivalence  studies,  study  1  (film-coated  tablets)  and  study  2  (hard 
capsules),  both  met  the  bioequivalence  criteria  with  respect  to  the  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of 
Imatinib as set in the Protocol. 
Clinical studies 
To  support  the  marketing  authorisation  application  the  applicant  conducted  two  bioequivalence  study 
under  fed  conditions.  Both  BE  studies  were  a  Single-Dose  Randomized,  Open-Label,  Two-Way 
Crossover, Comparative Bioavailability Study in Normal, Healthy Subjects under Fed Conditions. 
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Study 
type 
Study 
Objective(s)  of 
the study 
Study 
Design  and 
Type 
of 
control 
Test 
Dosage 
Route 
administration 
product(s); 
regimen; 
of 
Number / 
type 
of 
subjects 
Healthy 
subjects 
or 
diagnosis 
of 
patients 
Healthy 
male 
subjects 
Duratio
n 
of 
treatme
nt 
Study 
status; 
type 
report 
of 
Single 
dose 
Complete, 
full 
Test: Imatinib 
400mg tablets; 
Reference: 400 mg 
film-coated tablets, 
Novartis Germany; 
1x400 mg, oral 
(41 
42 
completed 
the  study 
and  were 
included  in 
PK 
statistical 
analyses) 
BE 
Study 
1 
BE 
Study 
2 
To evaluate and 
compare the 
relative 
Bioavailability and 
therefore the 
bioequivalence of 
two different 
formulations of 
imatinib after a 
single oral dose 
administration 
under fed 
conditions.; 
Monitor the safety 
Single 
center, 
randomized, 
single dose, 
laboratory-
blinded, 
2-period, 
2-sequence, 
crossover 
study. 
Fed state 
the 
Compare 
pharmacokinetic 
profiles  of  Imatinib 
mesylate  capsules 
versus 
tablets; 
Monitor the safety 
Open label, 
randomized, 
2-way 
crossover 
study. 
Fed state 
Test: 
mesylate 
400mg;  
Imatinib 
capsules 
Reference:  400  mg 
film-coated 
tablets, 
Novartis  Germany; 
1x400 mg, oral 
20 
(20 
completed 
the  study 
and  were 
included  in 
PK 
statistical 
analyses) 
Healthy 
male 
and/or 
post-
menopaus
al/surgicall
y 
sterile 
female 
subjects 
Single 
dose 
Complete, 
abbreviate
d 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 14/21
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study 1 - Film-coated tablets 
The  study  is  a  single  centre,  randomized,  single  dose,  laboratory-blinded,  2-period,  2-sequence, 
crossover  design  in  healthy  male  subjects,  Comparative  Bioavailability  Study  Imatinib  400  mg  film-
coated  tablet  and  Glivec  400  mg  film-coated  tablet  (Novartis  Pharma  GmbH,  Germany)  under  Fed 
Conditions. 
Study 2 - Hard capsules 
The  study  is  an  open-label,  single-dose,  randomized,  two-period,  two-sequence,  two-treatment, 
crossover study, designed to evaluate the comparative bioavailability of a formulation of Imatinib 400 
mg capsules to Glivec 400 mg film-coated tablets (Novartis Pharma GmbH, Germany) to healthy male 
and female subjects under fed conditions 
Test and reference products  
Study 1 - Film-coated tablets 
Test Product: Imatinib Teva 400 mg film coated tablets.  
Reference  Product:  Glivec  400  mg  film  coated  tablets,  manufactured  by  Novartis  Pharma  GmbH, 
Germany  (marketed  in  Germany).  Batch  number:  S0104.  Expiry  date:  July  2011.  Assay  (content): 
97.8% of label claim. 
Study 2 - Hard capsules 
Test Product: Imatinib Teva 400 mg hard capsules.  
Reference  Product:  Glivec  400  mg  film  coated  tablets,  manufactured  by  Novartis  Pharma  GmbH, 
Germany  (marketed  in  Germany).  Batch  number:  S0157.  Expiry  date:  June  2012.  Assay  (content): 
99.6% of label claim. 
Population(s) studied   
Study 1 - Film-coated tablets 
Of  the  forty-two  (42)  healthy  male  subjects  who  were  included  in  the  study,  forty-one  (41)  subjects 
completed the crossover design and received a single oral dose of the assigned formulation on day 1 
and day 15. 
Subject  #  037  withdrew  consent  before  dosing  of  period  2  due  to  an  adverse  event  (toothache  of 
severe  intensity)  and  received  only  one  single  oral  dose  of  the  Glivec®  400  mg  Film-Coated  Tablet. 
Samples collected in period 1 for this subject were analyzed but excluded from the statistical analysis. 
Forty-two  (42)  subjects  were  analyzed  and  forty-one  (41)  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  and 
statistical analysis (Subjects # 001-036 and 038-042). 
Study 2 - Hard capsules 
Of  the  twenty  (20)  healthy  male  and  female  subjects  who  were  included  in  the  study,  twenty  (20) 
subjects completed the crossover design and received a single oral dose of the assigned formulation on 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 15/21
 
 
 
day 1 and day 15. All subjects were analyzed and were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical 
analysis (Subjects # 01-020). 
Analytical methods 
Study 1 - Film-coated tablets 
Pre-study validation 
The  analytical  method  validation  report  describes  the  method  validation  carried  out  for  the 
determination of Imatinib and N-Desmethyl Imatinib in human plasma using K2EDTA as anticoagulant. 
The compounds were identified and quantified using reverse-phase HPLC with MS/MS detection over a 
theoretical concentration range of 10.0 ng/mL to 4000.0 ng/mL for Imatinib and 5.00 ng/mL to 400.00 
ng/mL for N-Desmethyl Imatinib. 
The analytes have no chiral centers and therefore no enantiomers for these compounds exist. 
The concomitant medications were tested and met SOP acceptance criteria as all samples were free of 
interference.  
In-study validation 
Bioanalitycal report describes the analysis of Imatinib in human K2EDTA plasma over the concentration 
range of 10.0 ng/mL to 4000.0 ng/mL (Weighting Factor 1/c) using Imatinib-d8 as IS 
The  in-study  validation  shows  an  acceptable  calibration  standards  (In  all  runs,  there  were  5 
calibrations  standards  out  of  the  acceptance  range  and  only  2  standards  were  rejected  in  the 
calibration curve ) and QC values. 
The reasons for reanalysis of samples are acceptable for unacceptable internal standard response.  
Dilution samples were not necessary. 
The study samples were analysed, with a calibration curve, and four sets of non-zero QCs in duplicate 
(8  QCs).  Since  study  samples  from  three  subjects  (120  samples)  were  analysed  in  each  run,  the 
number of QCs samples relative to the number of study samples is adequate. 
Incurred Sample Reproducibility was acceptable. 
The mainly samples reintegration correspond to Period 1 and 2; hour 1.0. and it was not carried out for 
subject No. 010 and 018 with Cmax at 1.0. As, Imatinib C max achieved within 2-4 hours post-dose the 
samples reintegration is acceptable. The chromatogram integration SOP LAP-1015-05 was submitted. 
The  long  term  stability  data  in  frozen  human  plasma  stored  at  -20  ºC  was  44  days  to  cover  the  35 
days maximum storage samples at -20 ºC 
Study 1 - Hard capsules 
Pre-study validation 
The analytes have no chiral centers and therefore no enantiomers for these compounds exist. 
The  analytical  method  validation  report  describes  the  method  for  the  determination  of  Imatinib  in 
human plasma using K2EDTA as anticoagulant. This validation report provides the results pertaining to 
selectivity,  matrix  effect,  hemolyzed  and  lipemic  plasma  experiments,  specificity  (concomitant 
medication  and  hormonal  contraceptives  interference),  injection  carryover,  recovery,  within  and 
between batch precision and accuracy, dilution integrity, linearity, evaluation of Imatinib in presence of 
Desmethyl  Imatinib  and  stability.  The  compounds  were  identified  and  quantified  using  reverse-phase 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 16/21
 
 
 
HPLC with MS/MS detection over a theoretical concentration range of 10.0 ng/mL to 5000.0 ng/mL for 
Imatinib. 
A quadratic equation was used to evaluate Imatinib standard concentrations. All calibration points are 
weighted  by  a  defined  factor.The  concomitant  medications  were  tested  and  met  SOP  acceptance 
criteria as all samples were free of interference.  
In-study validation 
Bioanalitycal report describes the analysis of Imatinib in human K2EDTA plasma over the concentration 
range of 10.0 ng/mL to 5000.0 ng/mL (weighting factor 1/x) using Imatinib-d4 as IS. 
The  in-study  validation  shows  an  acceptable  calibration  standards  and  QC  values.  All  calibrations 
standards and QCs were within acceptance range. 
The  study  samples  were  analysed,  with  a  calibration  curve,  and  four  sets  of  non-zero  QCs  in 
quadruplicate (16 QCs). Since study samples from four subjects (184 samples) were analysed in each 
run, the number of QCs samples relative to the number of study samples is adequate. 
The reasons for reanalysis of samples are acceptable for unacceptable internal standard response and 
extraction error. 
Dilution samples were not necessary. 
Incurred Sample Reproducibility was acceptable. 
The long term stability data in frozen human plasma stored at -25 ºC ± 10 ºC was 1008 days to cover 
the 24 days maximum storage samples at -25 ºC ± 10 ºC. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
For both studies, the main pharmacokinetic parameters of interest for this study will be Cmax and 
AUC0-72. Other parameters such as Tmax, AUC∞, AUC0-72/∞, Kel and T½el were provided for 
information purposes only. The natural logarithmic transformation of Cmax, AUC0-72 and AUC∞ was 
used for all statistical inference. The pharmacokinetic analysis was performed using Kinetic Version 
9.01. 
The main absorption and disposition parameters were estimated using a non-compartmental approach 
with a log-linear terminal phase assumption. The trapezoidal rule was used to estimate the area under 
the curve and the terminal phase were estimated by maximizing the coefficient of determination 
estimated from the log-linear regression model. However, they were not estimated for individual 
concentration-time profiles where the terminal log-linear phase cannot be reliably characterized. 
Statistical methods   
For  both  studies,  the  statistical  analysis  was  applied  to  quality  assured  data  from  all  subjects  in  the 
final  dataset,  with  unbalanced  groups  if  necessary.  The  PROC  GLM  procedure  from  SAS®  was  used. 
Concentration-time  profiles  where  subjects  exhibit  pre-dose  levels  higher  than  5%  of  the 
corresponding C max would be excluded from the statistical analysis. Concentration-time profiles where 
subjects  exhibit  non-zero  predose  levels  equal  to  or  less  than  5%  of  the  corresponding  C max  will  be 
included in the statistical analysis without baseline correction. 
Analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  applied  to  log-transformed  AUCt  and  C max  parameters.  The 
significance of the sequence, period, treatment, and subject-within-sequence effects was tested. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 17/21
 
 
 
Using  the  same  statistical  model,  the  least-squares-means,  the  differences  between  the  treatments 
least-squares-means,  and  the  corresponding  standard  errors  of  these  differences  was  estimated  for 
log-transformed  AUCt  and  C max  parameters.  Based  on  these  statistics,  the  ratios  of  the  geometric 
means for treatments and the corresponding 90% confidence intervals were calculated. 
Based  on  the  log-transformed  parameters,  the  following  criteria  were  used  to  evaluate  the 
bioequivalence between the test and reference products: 
The  90%  confidence  intervals  of  the  relative  mean  AUCt  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to  reference  products 
should be between 80.00% and 125.00%. 
Results 
Study 1 - Film-coated tablets 
Based  on  the  statistical  analysis  submitted  by  the  Applicant  both  test  products  are  equivalent  to  the 
reference with respect to the extent and rate of absorption / exposure. The 90% confidence intervals 
calculated  for  AUC(0-72)  and  Cmax  of  Imatinib  were  inside  the  normal  range  of  acceptability  (0.80–
1.25). Also the 90% CI for AUC(0-inf) was calculated and were also inside the normal range (0.80-1.25). 
Study 2 - Hard capsules 
Based  on  the  statistical  analysis  submitted  by  the  Applicant  both  test  products  are  equivalent  to  the 
reference  with  respect  to  the  extent  and  rate  of  absorption/exposure.  The  90%  confidence  intervals 
calculated  for  AUC(0-72)  and  C max  of  Imatinib  were  inside  the  normal  range  of  acceptability  (80.0  – 
125.0). 
Safety data 
The safety profile of both products seems to be comparable although it is obvious that the design was 
not powered to compare the safety profile. No difference in the safety profile can be anticipated. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No  new  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  presented  and  no  such  studies  are  required  for  this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion and conclusion on clinical aspects 
Based on the submitted bioequivalence studies, for Study 1 - film-coated tablets and for Study 2 - hard 
capsules,  both  meet  the  bioequivalence  criteria  with  respect  to  the  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of 
Imatinib as set in the Protocol Imatinib Teva is considered bioequivalent with Glivec. 
The results of Study 1 - film-coated tablets and Study 2 - hard capsules with the 400 mg formulation 
can  be  extrapolated  to  the  100  mg  strengths  (film-coated  and  hard  capsules)  as  the  Applicant 
performed  comparative  dissolution  profiles  in  paddle  for  film-coated  tablets  and  in  basket  for  hard 
capsules and new dissolution profiles shown to be similar, according to conditions in Note for Guidance 
on the Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, section 4.2. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 18/21
 
 
 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  applicant  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
pharmacovigilance (DDPSv10, dated on February 2011). A statement signed by the applicant and the 
qualified  person  for  pharmacovigilance,  indicating  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified 
person responsible for pharmacovigilance and the necessary means for the notification of any adverse 
reaction occurring either in the Community or in a third country has been provided.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The  CHMP  did  not  require  the  applicant  to  submit  a  risk  management  plan  since  the  application 
concerns  a  medicinal  product  containing  a  known  active  substance  for  which  no  safety  concern 
requiring additional risk minimisation activities has been identified. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  routine  pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Additionally  data  regarding  use  during  pregnancy;  tolerability  during  pregnancy  and  pregnancy 
outcomes (if applicable/available), should be specifically registered and discussed in the PSUR. 
PSUR submission 
Not applicable. 
User consultation 
The methodology of the user consultation survey is considered satisfactory and the results of the user 
consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant show that the 
package  leaflet  meets  the  criteria  for  readability  as  set  out  in  the  Guideline  on  the  readability  of  the 
label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
This package leaflet was found to contain all the necessary information in a way that is accessible and 
understandable to those who participated in this test. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This  application  concerns  a  generic  version  of  imatinib  film-coated  tablets  and  hard  capsules.  The 
reference product is Glivec.  
No  nonclinical  studies  have  been  provided  for  this  application  but  an  adequate  summary  of  the 
available  nonclinical  information  for  the  active  substance  was  presented  and  considered  sufficient. 
From  a  clinical  perspective,  this  application  does  not  contain  new  data  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and 
pharmacodynamics  as  well  as  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  active  substance;  the  applicant’s  clinical 
overview  on  these  clinical  aspects  based  on  information  from  published  literature  was  considered 
sufficient. 
The  bioequivalence  studies  form  the  pivotal  basis  with  a  single  centre,  randomized,  single  dose, 
laboratory-blinded,  2-period,  2-sequence,  crossover  design  for  the  film-coated  tablets  bioequivalence 
study  and  an  open-label,  single-dose,  randomized,  two-period,  two-sequence,  two-treatment, 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 19/21
 
 
 
crossover  design  for  the  hard  capsules  bioequivalence  study.  The  studies  design  was  considered 
adequate  to  evaluate  the  bioequivalence  of  this  formulation  and  was  in  line  with  the  respective 
European  requirements.  Choice  of  dose,  sampling  points,  overall  sampling  time  as  well  as  wash-out 
period  were  adequate.  The  analytical  method  was  validated.  Pharmacokinetic  and  statistical  methods 
applied were adequate. 
The  test  formulation  of  Imatinib  Teva  met  the  protocol-defined  criteria  for  bioequivalence  when 
compared  with  Glivec.  The  point  estimates  and  their  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  parameters 
AUC 0-t,, AUC0-, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 
125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that Imatinib Teva is not similar to Tasigna and Sprycel 
within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/2000.  
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Imatinib Teva in the treatment of:  
 
Paediatric  patients  with  newly  diagnosed  Philadelphia  chromosome  (bcr-abl)  positive  (Ph+) 
chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) for whom bone marrow transplantation is not considered as 
the first line of treatment. 
 
Paediatric patients with Ph+ CML in chronic phase after failure of interferon-alpha therapy, or 
in accelerated phase or blast crisis. 
  Adult patients with Ph+ CML in blast crisis. 
is favourable. 
The effect of imatinib on the outcome of bone marrow transplantation has not been determined. 
In  adult  and  paediatric  patients,  the  effectiveness  of  imatinib  is  based  on  overall  haematological  and 
cytogenetic response rates and progression-free survival in CML.  
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted  medical  prescription  (See  Annex  I:  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 20/21
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the member states. 
Not applicable. 
Imatinib Teva 
Assessment report  
Page 21/21
 
 
 
 
