14 December 2017 
EMA/CHMP/608212/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ibrutinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010301/201705 
Period covered by the PSUR: 13 November 2016 – 12 May 2017 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for ibrutinib, the scientific conclusions of 
CHMP are as follows:  
During the assessment of the previous PSUR (#4), the MAH provided a cumulative review of all cases of 
panniculitis and of erythema nodosum (a type of panniculitis). During the review, the MAH identified a total 
of 26 cases: 17 cases of erythema nodosum and 11 cases of panniculitis. Five of these cases had been 
reported from a publication (Fabbro S. et al 2015). Briefly, the authors identified 5 patients who reported 
nodular rashes primarily on the extremities while receiving ibrutinib for CLL. Histopathologic analysis 
demonstrated a lobular and septal panniculitis. Treatment with prednisone was started in 3 patients and this 
proved effective in reducing symptoms which returned upon discontinuation of corticosteroids. The authors 
considered the cases causally related to ibrutinib. 
During the period covered by the current PSUR (#5) the MAH reported 3 initial cases of panniculitis of which 
2 serious and 1 non-serious. Of the 3 cases, one was excluded from the review as related to ‘multiple 
patients’. Of the remaining two cases, one reports that the treating physician discontinued treatment with 
ibrutinib and the other is a literature case study reporting positive de-challenge and re-challenge (Hammel 
J. et al, 2017).  
With regards to the cases reported cumulatively by the MAH and assessed during the last PSUR, in one case 
the investigator believed that a causal association with ibrutinib was possible. In three cases the MAH 
reported that ibrutinib was discontinued at the onset of symptoms suggesting that the investigator might 
have considered a correlation as possible. Twelve cases did not report causality assessment but the clinical 
narrative could not exclude a causative role played by ibrutinib.  
Considering the cases reported cumulatively at the time of the previous PSUR in addition to the cases 
reported during the current interval, these comprised: 1 case of positive de- and re-challenge, 1 case 
considered possibly related to ibrutinib by the investigator, 4 cases of ibrutinib discontinuation by the 
treating physician suggesting that a correlation with ibrutinib was considered possible and 12 cases lacking 
a causality assessment but reporting a clinical narrative that cannot exclude a causative role played by 
ibrutinib. 
The re-assessment of the cumulative data reported in the previous PSUR and in the one under current 
review, including the case of positive de-challenge and re-challenge reported during this PSUR and the lack 
of plausible alternative explanation, suggests that the role of ibrutinib in cases of panniculitis cannot be 
excluded and the above ADR should therefore be listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing ibrutinib were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ibrutinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance 
of the medicinal product(s) containing ibrutinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product 
information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/608212/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
