24 June 2021 
EMA/403012/2021 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ibrutinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010301/202011 
Period covered by the PSUR: 13 November 2019 to 12 November 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Am sterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ibrutinib, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on hepatic events (cases of hepatitis B reactivation and cases of hepatitis E, 
which may be chronic, as well as hepatic failure, including fatal events) from spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal  relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between ibrutinib and hepatic events is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing ibrutinib should be 
amended to add a recommendation to assess liver function and viral hepatitis status before initiating 
treatment with ibrutinib and to periodically monitor for changes in liver function parameters during 
treatment and, as clinically indicated, to perform viral load and serological testing for infectious 
hepatitis. 
In view of available data on eye haemorrhage including high number of cases reporting events related 
to ocular haemorrhagic disorders (435 cases cumulatively), of which 32 cases positive dechallenge 
including 2 cases of a positive rechallenge (of which 1 rechallenge case of intraocular bleeding causing 
loss of vision), imbalance in clinical trial data and in view of a plausible mechanism of action since it is 
known that ibrutinib is associated with bleeding events and haemorrhage is an important identified risk 
for ibrutinib, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between ibrutinib and eye haemorrhage is 
established. Additionally, since in some of these cases loss of vision occurred (in at least 20 cases 
including one case with positive rechallenge), this information is also proposed to be added to the 
product information. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing ibrutinib 
should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ibrutinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ibrutinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/403012/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
