22 June 2017 
EMA/CHMP/644858/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ibrutinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010301/201611 
Period covered by the PSUR: 13 May 2016 to 12 November 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ibrutinib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Hepatitis B reactivation  
In the context of this PSUR, the MAH has performed a cumulative review of all cases of hepatitis B 
reactivation. On a total population of 1741 patients enrolled in clinical trials, HBV reactivation was 
reported in only 2 subjects. However, it is noted that candidate subjects for clinical trials had been 
screened for signs of prior or acute hepatitis infection (hepatitis B surface antigen, hepatitis B surface 
antibody, and hepatitis B core antibody) and that patients who resulted positive for hepatitis B core 
antibody or hepatitis B surface antigen were required to have a negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
to be eligible for enrolment in clinical trial. With regards to individual case safety reports, 8 cases of 
hepatitis B reactivation (including one fatal case) were reported, in which the treating 
physician/investigator considered the role of ibrutinib as probable/possible (7 cases) or related.  
Given the evidence reported in post-marketing settings, the HBV pre-screening of patients to be enrolled 
in clinical trials operated by the MAH and the impossibility to exclude a causative role played by ibrutinib 
in cases of hepatitis b reactivation, this safety concern should be listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC with 
frequency ‘uncommon’.  In addition, the PRAC considered that healthcare professionals should be 
informed about the risk of viral reactivation and that a warning should be introduced in the product 
information. 
Ventricular tachyarrhythmia  
52 cases of ventricular tachyarrhythmia were reported in post-marketing settings of which the role of 
ibrutinib could not be ruled out in 2 cases. Also a recent study by Lampson and colleagues (2016) reports 
11 cases of Ventricular tachycardia/ ventricular fibrillation and 6 cases of sudden cardiac death in patients 
exposed to ibrutinib. In 12 of the total 17 cases, the events above occurred without any evidence of prior 
cardiac history. Finally, atrial fibrillation is included as an important identified risk- and ‘cardiac 
arrhythmia (excluding cardiac fibrillation)’ as an important potential risk in the RMP. Atrial fibrillation is 
also reported in section 4.4 of the SmPC and listed as ‘common’ in section 4.8 of the SmPC. Therefore, 
although the biological mechanism is still not clear, it cannot be excluded that ibrutinib might have 
general pro-arrhythmogenic properties. Based on this outcome, update of section 4.4 and 4.8 of the 
Summary of product characteristic to include the risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmia is recommended. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing ibrutinib were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ibrutinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ibrutinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/644858/2017 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
