2 August 2019 
EMADOC-2005359794-147797 
EMA/OD/0000002783  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Imbruvica (ibrutinib) 
Treatment of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma 
EU/3/14/1264 (EMA/OD/000000/2783) 
Sponsor: Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An 
cy 
  he 
an 
on   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation ................................................................... 4 
2.2. Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of marketing authorisation 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 18 July 2019 ................................................ 11 
Page 2/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Ibrutinib 
Ibrutinib 
Initial orphan condition 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma 
Capsule, hard 
Oral use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
L01XE27 
Sponsor’s details: 
Janssen-Cilag International N.V. 
Turnhoutseweg, 30 
2340 Beerse 
Belgium 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Janssen-Cilag International N.V.  
12 March 2014 
29 April 2014 
EU/3/14/1264 
Marketing authorisation type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Filip Josephson, Sinan B. Sarac 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Janssen-Cilag International N.V.  
17 January 2019 
15 February 2019 
EMA/H/C/003791/II/0046 
Imbruvica 
Imbruvica as a single agent is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory 
mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).  
Imbruvica as a single agent is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with previously untreated 
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) (see section 
5.1). 
Imbruvica as a single agent or in combination with 
bendamustine and rituximab (BR) is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with CLL who have 
received at least one prior therapy.  
Imbruvica as a single agent is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with Waldenström’s 
macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least 
one prior therapy, or in first line treatment for 
patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy.  
Further information on Ibrutinib can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s 
website .ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/i
mbruvica 
Page 3/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
CHMP opinion date 
27 June 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteurs 
Karri Penttilä / Darius Matusevicius 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
16 November 2018 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
18-20 May 2019  
questions  
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
17 July 2019 
18 July 2019 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2014 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing ibrutinib was considered 
justified based on preliminary clinical data in patients affected by the condition who responded to 
treatment with the product;  
the condition is chronically debilitating and life-threatening due to bone marrow dysfunction, 
lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and paraproteinaemia resulting in hyperviscosity, autoimmunity, 
cryoglobulinaemia, coagulopathies and neuropathies; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 0.1 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time the application was made; 
in addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in 
the European Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the 
medicinal product containing ibrutinib may be of significant benefit to those affected by the 
condition. The sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data in patients affected by the condition 
who have relapsed or were refractory to available products and responded to treatment with the 
product. The Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
2.2.  Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
The COMP opinion on the initial review of the orphan medicinal product designation in 2015 was based 
on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
the therapeutic indication “Imbruvica is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
Waldenström’s macroglobulinaemia (WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first 
line treatment for patients unsuitable for chemo-immunotherapy” falls entirely within the scope of 
the designated orphan indication “treatment of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma”; 
the prevalence of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be less than 0.1 in 10,000 persons 
in the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life-threatening due to bone marrow dysfunction, 
lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and paraproteinaemia resulting in hyperviscosity, autoimmunity, 
cryoglobulinaemia, coagulopathies and neuropathies; 
Page 4/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
• 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Imbruvica may be of potential significant benefit to those affected by 
the orphan condition still holds. The sponsor has provided clinical data in WM patients who have 
relapsed or were refractory to previous treatments, and responded to treatment with ibrutinib. 
Furthermore, the recommended indication covers use in first-line, in patients not eligible for 
chemotherapy/immunotherapy; there are no authorised products for this group of patients. The 
Committee considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM) is a subset of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL) and is a 
lymphoproliferative B-cell disorder characterized by infiltration of lymphoplasmacytic cells into the 
bone marrow and an immunoglobulin M (IgM) monoclonal gammopathy. It is considered as an LPL by 
the revised World Health Organization classification system (Swerdlow 2016). 
The proposed therapeutic indication “IMBRUVICA in combination with rituximab is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia” falls entirely within the scope of 
the product’s designated orphan condition which is lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma. 
The current extension of therapeutic indication involves broadening the population from “adult patients 
with Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia (WM) who have received at least one prior therapy, or in first 
line treatment for patients unsuitable for chemoimmunotherapy (CIT) (EC decision 03 July 2015)” to 
first line treatment in combination with rituximab. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Data from the study 1127 in WM patients, showed superiority on PFS of the combination of ibrutinib + 
rituximab over placebo + rituximab, in treatment-naïve and previously treated patients with WM. The 
sponsor was encouraged to further investigate the efficacy of ibrutinib + rituximab vs ibrutinib 
monotherapy in the broad indication WM. 
In order to better understand the ibrutinib resistance, there is need of PFS2 data or a corresponding 
proxy such as time to second subsequent therapy. The MAH will provide final results in June 2020 were 
also PFS2 data will be presented (see RMP). 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Waldenstrӧm’s macroglobulinemia is a disease of the elderly, with incidence increasing with age, and 
median age being over 70 years. The indicative symptoms of treatment include hyperviscosity, 
neuropathy, symptomatic adenopathy or organomegaly, amyloidosis, cryoglobulinemia, cold 
agglutinin, disease, and presence of cytopenia (NCCN 2017). The most recognized risk factor for 
Page 5/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
developing WM is IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, which confers a 46-fold 
higher relative risk compared to the general population (Leblebjian 2013). 
Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia remains an incurable disease with variability in outcome. In this 
regard the chronically debilitating and life-threatening nature of the condition has not changed. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The epidemiology of WM since the last prevalence calculation in June 2015 was reviewed, and the 
prevalence estimate of WM in the EU has been updated and assessed for maintenance of orphan drug 
designation at the present time. 
Based on published evidence on LPL and WM from multiple sources (Leukemia & Lymphoma Society 
2013, Morton 2014, Wang 2012), overall LPL that encompasses WM appears to comprise 
approximately 2.1% of NHL cases (accounting for both WM and non-WM cases). 
Table 1.  Updated prevalence of LPL/WM based on available recent data for selected EU countries 
Country 
Denmarka 
Finlanda 
Icelanda 
Norwaya 
Swedena 
Germanyb 
Englandc 
Prevalence of NHL per 
10,000 persons 
18.31 
19.20 
13.53 
16.38 
15.10 
12.05 
14.74 
Prevalence of LPL (2.1% of NHL) per 
10,000 persons 
0.38 
0.40 
0.28 
0.34 
0.32 
0.25 
0.31 
Sources: 
a NORDCAN project, data retrieved August 10, 2018. Complete prevalence as of end of 2015 
b German Centre for Cancer Registry Data, Robert Koch Institut, 2017, data retrieved August 10, 2018. Available 
from www.krebsdaten.de/database, 10-year NHL prevalence as of 31 Dec 2014 (97,845 persons). Data retrieved 
August 10, 2018. Extrapolated to Germany population as on January 1, 2015, 81,197,537 persons, data from 
Eurostat 2016.  
cNational Cancer Registration and Analysis Service, Public Health England, Macmillan Cancer Support, 2018. Data 
retrieved on August 10, 2018. 21-year NHL prevalence accessed from 
http://www.ncin.org.uk/about_ncin/segmentation. Population of England in mid-2015 (54,786,327 persons), data 
from StatsWales, National level population estimates by year, age, and UK country, available from 
https://statswales.gov.wales/Catalogue/Population-and-
Migration/Population/Estimates/nationallevelpopulationestimates-by-year-age-ukcountry; Accessed August 17, 
2018. 
The 5-year prevalence estimates of LPL/WM from the previous submission, the complete prevalence 
estimate from Nordic countries, the 10-year prevalence from Germany, and the 21--year prevalence 
from England all remain lower than 1 per 10,000 persons. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
A watch and wait approach is still the standard strategy in asymptomatic patients. The most common 
indications for treatment initiation include anaemia, B symptoms (fever, night sweats, and weight 
loss), and hyperviscosity; other symptoms such as neuropathy, bulky organomegaly, and immune 
related cytopenias are less common indications for treatment (Kastritis 2018). 
Page 6/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
As per Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia: ESMO 2018 Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, 
treatment, and follow-up, current standard of care treatments for newly diagnosed patients with 
symptomatic WM is shown below (Figure 1). With exception of ibrutinib, none of the other current 
standard of care treatments are approved centrally in the EU for the treatment of WM (Kastritis 2018). 
Nevertheless, several products are authorised in the EU for the treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma or 
broader indications, including rituximab, bendamustine, vincristine, chlorambucil, vinblastine, 
doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, bleomycin.  
Nationally authorised products for WM (notwithstanding that the actual indication is not stated) include 
D-penicillamine, chlorambucil, dexamethasone, bendamustine, prednisolone, thalidomide.  
Figure 1.  Treatment Algorithm for Patients with Newly Diagnosed WM  
a In case of hyperviscosity, plasmapheresis should be used concomitantly with systemic therapy [IV, A]. In case of 
high IgM levels and at risk for IgM-related complications, plasmapheresis may be used pre-emptively [IV, A].  
b No major cytopenias, hyperviscosity or organomegaly. 
c Presence of any of the following: severe cytopenias, hyperviscosity, organomegaly.  
d BR for unfit patients may require dose reductions for bendamustine and use of G-CSF and/or antibacterial/antiviral 
prophylaxis.  
BDR, bortezomib/rituximab/dexamethasone; BR, bendamustine/rituximab; DRC, 
rituximab/cyclophosphamide/dexamethasone; G-CSF, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor; IgM, immunoglobulin 
M; q.d., once a day; VR, bortezomib/rituximab; WM, Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia. 
Source: Kastritis 2018 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor received scientific advice in 2014 but questions regarding significant benefit were not 
asked1. The sponsor has complied with the Scientific Advice recommendations. 
Due to the varied and limited knowledge of current treatment practice trends in WM, a comprehensive, 
retrospective analysis in collaboration with the European Consortium for Waldenström’s 
macroglobulinemia was performed to assess treatment patterns and key efficacy outcomes (i.e., PFS 
and OS) for subjects across 10 European countries with symptomatic WM who initiated frontline 
treatment from January 2000 through December 2014 (Buske 2015; Buske 2018). In this 
retrospective study the median PFS in frontline (across all products) was 29 months. The median PFS 
for rituximab in the sponosr’s pivotal study was 20.3 month (13.7,27.6) and the mPFS for the 
combination of ibrutinib and rituximab was not reached, with the lower confidence interval of 35. 
1 At the time it was not foreseen that the COMP would review the significant benefit for an extension of indication within the 
approved orphan condition. 
Page 7/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
Therefore, the sponsor claims significant benefit based on improved efficacy compared to all currently 
used CIT combinations (BDR, VR, DRC and BR). 
The sponsor also noted the decrease of infusion related reactions in the combination R+I therapy 
compared to R alone (Grade 3 and 4 IRR of 1.3 vs 16%, respectively).  
Figure 2.  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Progression-free Survival – Treatment Naive Subjects by 
Investigator Assessment 
CI: confidence interval; Ibr+R: ibrutinib and rituximab; NE: not estimable; Pbo+R: placebo and rituximab; PFS: 
progression-free survival; WM: Waldenström’s macroglobulinemia. 
The claim of improved efficacy of rituximab + ibrutinib versus rituximab alone, may be accepted based 
on the pivotal study of the sponsor. 
Rituximab alone, as included in the study, is used only in a proportion of patients and the ESMO 
guideline recommends combination of immunotherapy with chemotherapy (CIT) whenever possible 
and several CIT combinations are used. It is therefore challenging to compare individual CIT efficacy 
between the pivotal study of the sponsor and the historical trials demonstrating outcomes better than 
this of rituximab alone. The sponsor was asked to discuss all argument for significant benefit in 
patients eligible to CIT. A comparison to a pooled retrospective study such as the one included in 
Buske 2015, may pose methodological problems. Therefore, individual discussion of CIT regimens used 
in first line treatment of WM was necessary. 
In order to discuss all comparative treatment regimens separately, the sponsor provided a set of 
indirect comparisons between the efficacy of ibrutinib with rituximab (I + R) and various 
chemoimmunotherapies (CIT) used in first line treatment of WM (Figure 3).  
Page 8/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
Figure 3.  Kaplan-Meier Curves for Progression-Free Survival (PFS) for Previously Untreated Patients 
PCYC-1127 Data extracted on 06May2019. + Censored 
Of those benadamustine with rituximab (BR) is most recommended by the 2018 ESMO guideline and 
up until 24 months of treatment progression fee survival curve of this CIT is overlapping with that of 
I+R. The committee questioned the validity of the comparison between interval treatments such as BR 
and continuous treatment such as I+R. The sponsor maintained an opinion that long term effects of I 
+ R treatment are better than those of BR regimen and in first line treatment that would be an 
advantage in controlling the disease for a longer time with a more manageable safety profile. In 
addition, real world data with the use of BR indicate a poorer performance of this regimen than what 
clinical trial would suggest (Figure 4).  
Page 9/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
Figure 4.  Kaplan-Meier Curves for PFS Based on Investigator Assessment Treatment Comparison for 
Treatment-naïve Patients with WM: European Chart Review 
PCYC-1127 Data extracted on 06May2019. + Censored 
The committee did not considered the real-world data comparison as methodologically appropriate but 
concluded that there is an effect of long term responses in the I+R treated patients. The sponsor 
claimed population matching between the two studies, which helped establishing comparability of the 
two studies. Moreover, the results from indirect comparison to all other CIT combinations clearly 
indicated an improved PFS in patients treated with I+R.  
The COMP discussed also the characteristics of the population enrolled in the study 1127 (which 
included also fit patients) as well as the safety profile of ibrutinib which seems to favour the 
combination with rituximab due to alleviation of some of adverse reactions associated with rituximab 
alone (such as infusion related reactions and IgM flares). The COMP also expressed the view that 
further studies with ibrutinib as monotherapy in first line treatment would be interesting due to the 
promising short-term study results to date (Figure 3). 
Taken together, the COMP considered that that the totality of evidence is sufficient to confirm the 
significant benefit of ibrutinib in first line treatment of WM. 
In addition, the proposed new indication encompasses also second line treatment, for which the claim 
of significant was already confirmed at the time of the initial marketing authorisation. Since no new 
products came to the market since that time, the claim of significant benefit in the second line may be 
maintained.  
Page 10/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 18 July 2019 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be less than 1 in 10,000 persons in 
the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to bone marrow dysfunction, 
lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly and paraproteinaemia resulting in hyperviscosity, autoimmunity, 
cryoglobulinaemia, coagulopathies and neuropathies; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, the 
assumption that Imbruvica will be of potential significant benefit to the subset of the orphan 
condition as defined in the granted therapeutic indication still holds. The sponsor presented clinical 
data that demonstrate that the combination of ibrutinib and rituximab results in improved and 
durable control of the disease compared to rituximab alone and currently recommended standard 
of care.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Imbruvica, Ibrutinib, 
EU/3/14/1264 for lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Page 11/11 
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
