EMA/697512/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005089 
Imcivree (setmelanotide) 
An overview of Imcivree and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Imcivree and what is it used for? 
Imcivree is a medicine used to treat obesity and help control hunger caused by certain genetic 
conditions that affect how the brain controls feelings of hunger. It is used in adults and children aged 6 
years and older with Bardet Biedl syndrome (BBS), and in those who have pro-opiomelanocortin 
(POMC) deficiency or leptin receptor (LEPR) deficiency resulting from changes (mutations) in both 
copies of the genes responsible for making POMC or LEPR. 
Bardet Biedl syndrome, pro-opiomelanocortin deficiency and leptin receptor deficiency are rare, and 
Imcivree was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases). Further information 
on the orphan designations can be found on the European Medicines Agency’s website (pro-
opiomelanocortin deficiency: 14 July 2016; leptin receptor deficiency: 19 November 2018; Bardet Biedl 
syndrome: 21 August 2019). 
Imcivree contains the active substance setmelanotide. 
How is Imcivree used? 
Imcivree can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be prescribed and supervised 
by a doctor with expertise in treating obesity caused by genetic conditions. 
Imcivree is given once a day as an injection under the skin. The dose depends on the condition being 
treated, the effect of the treatment and how well it is tolerated. After being trained, patients or carers 
can inject the medicine themselves.  
For more information about using Imcivree, see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare 
provider. 
How does Imcivree work? 
People with POMC deficiency have low levels of pro-opiomelanocortin, a substance that is converted 
into several hormones, including melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH). Low levels of MSH lead to 
loss of feeling of fullness after eating. In people with LEPR deficiency and BBS, the receptor (target) for 
the hormone leptin does not work properly so signals to the nerves that make the body feel full and 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
control feelings of hunger cannot be sent. People with POMC, LEPR deficiency and BBS feel 
continuously hungry and quickly put on weight. 
The active substance in Imcivree, setmelanotide, attaches to and activates a receptor called 
melanocortin receptor 4, which is normally activated through leptin and MSH, promoting a feeling of 
fullness after eating. By attaching to this receptor directly, Imcivree is expected to reduce excessive 
food intake and obesity.  
What benefits of Imcivree have been shown in studies? 
In 2 main studies, Imcivree was shown to be effective at reducing body weight by at least 10% in 
people with POMC and LEPR deficiency.  
The first study was carried out in 10 patients with obesity due to POMC deficiency resulting from 
mutations in both copies of the genes for either POMC or PCSK1. After one year of treatment, 8 out of 
10 people achieved at least a 10% reduction in body weight.  
In the second study carried out in 11 patients with obesity due to LEPR deficiency caused by mutations 
in both copies of the gene for LEPR, 5 people out of 11 achieved at least a 10% reduction in body 
weight after one year. 
The studies also looked at the effects of Imcivree on the feeling of hunger as measured using a 
questionnaire: the percentage of patients who achieved at least a 25% reduction in hunger scores was 
50% in the first study, and 73% in the second study. 
In a study that included 28 patients aged 12 years or older with BBS, around 36% of the patients 
achieved at least a 10% reduction in body weight after one year of treatment. 
Imcivree was not compared to another medicine in these studies. 
What are the risks associated with Imcivree? 
The most common side effects with Imcivree (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
hyperpigmentation (coloration of the skin), injection site reaction, nausea (feeling sick), and headache.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Imcivree, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Imcivree authorised in the EU? 
The number of people with BBS, POMC or LEPR deficiency is extremely small, so the number of people 
included in the studies was very limited. However, the studies showed that Imcivree helps to reduce 
bodyweight and feelings of hunger in these patients. These benefits are considered significant 
considering that there are no other medicines for these patients. Imcivree’s side effects are 
manageable and long-term safety is monitored in a dedicated study after authorisation. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Imcivree’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Imcivree? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Imcivree have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Imcivree (setmelanotide)  
EMA/697512/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Imcivree are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Imcivree are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Imcivree 
Imcivree received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 July 2021. 
Further information on Imcivree can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/imcivree.   
This overview was last updated in 08-2022. 
Imcivree (setmelanotide)  
EMA/697512/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
