Summary of risk management plan for IMFINZI™
(durvalumab)
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for IMFINZI (durvalumab). The 
RMP details important risks of IMFINZI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about IMFINZI’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
IMFINZI’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients/carers on how IMFINZI should 
be used.
This summary of the RMP for IMFINZI should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
IMFINZI's RMP.
I.  THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
IMFINZI is authorised: 
 As monotherapy for the treatment of locally advanced, unresectable non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) in adults whose tumours express programmed cell death ligand 1 
(PD-L1) on ≥ 1% of tumour cells and whose disease has not progressed following 
platinum-based chemoradiation therapy.




In combination with etoposide and either carboplatin or cisplatin for the first-line 
treatment of adults with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer.
In combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin for the first-line treatment of adults with 
unresectable or metastatic biliary tract cancer.
In combination with tremelimumab and platinum-based chemotherapy for the first-line 
treatment of adults with metastatic NSCLC with no sensitising epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR) mutations or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) positive mutations.
In combination with tremelimumab for the first-line treatment of adults with advanced or 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
IMFINZI contains durvalumab as the active substance and is administered as an intravenous 
infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of IMFINZI’s benefits can be found in IMFINZI’s 
EPAR, including its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/imfinzi.
II.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND 
ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE 
THE RISKS 
Important risks of IMFINZI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about risks of IMFINZI, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be as follows:




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and product information addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of IMFINZI are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of IMFINZI.  Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine).
There are no safety concerns for IMFINZI.
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks
There are no safety concerns for IMFINZI.
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing 
Authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
for IMFINZI.
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for IMFINZI.
