EMA/240195/2019  
EMEA/H/C/002682 
Imnovid1 (pomalidomide) 
An overview of Imnovid and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Imnovid and what is it used for? 
Imnovid is a cancer medicine used to treat multiple myeloma (a cancer of the bone marrow). It is used 
in combination with bortezomib (another cancer medicine) and dexamethasone (an anti-inflammatory 
medicine) in adults who have received at least one treatment including lenalidomide (another cancer 
medicine). 
It is also used in combination with dexamethasone in adults who have received at least two prior 
therapies, including both lenalidomide and bortezomib, and whose disease has worsened. 
Imnovid contains the active substance pomalidomide. 
Multiple myeloma is rare, and Imnovid was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 8 October 2009. Further information on the orphan designation can be found on 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/EU309672. 
How is Imnovid used? 
Treatment with Imnovid must be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in treating multiple 
myeloma. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Imnovid is available as capsules (1, 2, 3 and 4 mg). It is taken in the first 2 weeks of 3-week 
treatment cycles, when given in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone, and in the first 3 
weeks of 4-week treatment cycles when given in combination with dexamethasone only. The 
recommended starting dose is 4 mg once a day, taken at the same time each day.  
Treatment with Imnovid may need to be interrupted or stopped, or the dose reduced, if the disease 
gets worse or certain side effects occur. For more information about using Imnovid, see the package 
leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
1 Previously known as Pomalidomide Celgene. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European 
Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                       
How does Imnovid work? 
The active substance in Imnovid, pomalidomide, is an immunomodulating agent. This means that it 
affects the activity of the immune system (the body’s natural defences). Pomalidomide works in a 
number of ways in multiple myeloma, similarly to other immunomodulating medicines such as 
lenalidomide and thalidomide: it blocks the development of tumour cells, prevents the growth of blood 
vessels within tumours and also stimulates some specialised cells of the immune system to attack the 
tumour cells. 
What benefits of Imnovid have been shown in studies? 
Imnovid has been studied in one main study involving 455 adults with multiple myeloma whose 
disease did not get better or came back after previous treatments. Imnovid plus low-dose 
dexamethasone was more effective than high-dose dexamethasone alone at delaying the worsening of 
multiple myeloma. The disease worsened after 16 weeks on average in patients taking Imnovid plus 
low-dose dexamethasone, compared with 8 weeks in those taking high-dose dexamethasone. 
A further study included 559 patients with multiple myeloma who had received at least one treatment 
including lenalidomide, and whose disease got worse during or after their last treatment. Patients 
treated with Imnovid, bortezomib and low-dose dexamethasone lived on average 11.2  months before 
their disease got worse, compared with 7.1 months for patients treated with bortezomib and low dose 
dexamethasone. 
What are the risks associated with Imnovid? 
The most common side effects with Imnovid (which affect more than 1 in 10 patients), some of which 
can be serious, include anaemia (low red blood cell counts), neutropenia (low white blood cell count), 
tiredness, thrombocytopenia (low platelet counts), fever, peripheral oedema (swelling of the limbs due 
to fluid retention), peripheral neuropathy (nerve damage causing tingling, pain and numbness in the 
hands and feet) and infections including pneumonia (infection of the lungs).  Serious side effects, 
which affect up to 1 in 10 patients, include blood disorders (such as neutropenia, anaemia and 
thrombocytopenia), lower respiratory tract infection (such as bronchitis or pneumonia), pulmonary 
embolism (clot in a blood vessel in the lungs), flu, and acute kidney injury. 
Pomalidomide is expected to be harmful to the unborn child, causing severe and life-threatening birth 
defects. Therefore, Imnovid must not be used in women who are pregnant. It must not be used in 
women who could become pregnant, unless they take all the necessary steps to ensure that they are 
not pregnant before treatment and that they do not become pregnant during or soon after treatment. 
As the medicine can pass into semen, the medicine must also not be used in men who are unable to 
comply with the required contraceptive measures.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Imnovid, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Imnovid authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Imnovid’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency concluded that Imnovid is effective at delaying the 
progression of multiple myeloma in patients whose disease has not got better or has come back after 
previous treatment, who have very limited treatment options. The Agency also noted that Imnovid’s 
side effects were acceptable for these patients, with side effects similar to those of other medicines of 
this type. 
                          Imnovid0F (pomalidomide)  
                          EMA/240195/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Imnovid? 
The company that makes Imnovid will set up a pregnancy-prevention programme in each Member 
State. It will provide a letter and educational kits for healthcare workers, and brochures for patients, 
explaining that the medicine is expected to be harmful to the unborn child and detailing the steps 
needed to use the medicine safely. It will also supply cards for patients to ensure that all appropriate 
safety measures have been taken by each patient. Each Member State will also ensure that educational 
materials and patient cards are provided to prescribers and patients. 
The company will also set up a registry of patients treated with Imnovid to monitor the side effects 
reported and whether the medicine is used for its approved indication and in compliance with the 
pregnancy-prevention programme. The medicine packs containing Imnovid capsules will carry a 
warning on the risk of severe birth defects. 
The company will also provide final results from a study with Imnovid in combination with bortezomib 
and dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma who had received at least one treatment 
including lenalidomide, to confirm the medicine’s effect on overall survival.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Imnovid have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Imnovid are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Imnovid are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Imnovid 
Imnovid received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 5 August 2013. Further 
information on Imnovid can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/imnovid-previously-pomalidomide-celgene   
This overview was last updated in 04-2019. 
                          Imnovid0F (pomalidomide)  
                          EMA/240195/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
