1 April 2016 
EMA/388488/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pomalidomide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010127/201508 
Period covered by the PSUR: 08 February 2015 - 07 August 2015  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pomalidomide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The PRAC considered that based on evidence from cases (compatible temporal relationship, unusual 
presentation is some cases), biological plausibility and potential class effect, there is a reasonable 
possibility of a causal association between pomalidomide and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC). 
Therefore, NMSC should be included in the existing warning regarding second primary malignancy in 
section 4.4 and in section 4.8 of the pomalidomide product information. The safety concern ‘second 
primary malignancies’ in the risk management plan (RMP) should be updated to include relevant 
information about NMSC. 
In view of the case reports of viral reactivation (plausible temporal relationship, reported causality) 
and biological plausibility, a contributory role for pomalidomide in combination with dexamethasone in 
varizella-zoster virus and hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation is likely. These adverse reactions should 
therefore be included in the product information. Two of the five cases of hepatitis B reactivation 
resulted in acute hepatic failure. Communicating about the risk of hepatitis B reactivation in the 
current warning on hepatic disorders in section 4.4 of the SmPC is therefore recommended, with a 
statement advising caution in patients with a history of HBV infection, including monitoring for signs 
and symptoms of active HBV infection. The PRAC also recommends that hepatitis B virus status should 
be established before initiating treatment with pomalidomide. Furthermore, a direct healthcare 
professional communication (DHPC) should be distributed to relevant healthcare professionals to 
inform about the new risk minimisation measures, in agreement with the communication plan. In the 
RMP, the existing important identified risk of ‘Infection’ should be updated to include information about 
reactivation of HBV and VZV. Furthermore, the MAH committed to update the relevant sections of the 
healthcare professional’s educational material in order to reflect the new recommendation.  
The PRAC considered that taking into account strong biological plausibility and cases of gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage for which a causal association cannot be excluded that there is a reasonable possibility 
that pomalidomide is causally related to gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Therefore, gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage should be included in section 4.8 of the SmPC. Given the various types of haemorrhagic 
events from different system organ classes that can occur with pomalidomide and the seriousness of 
some of these events, haemorrhagic disorders should be included in the description of selected 
adverse reactions in section 4.8 of the SmPC, with a cross-reference from the relevant warning in 
section 4.4. The important identified risk ‘thrombocytopenia and bleeding’ in the RMP should be 
updated to include information on gastrointestinal haemorrhage. 
Finally, the preferred term ‘Pneumonia’ in the tabulated list of adverse reactions of section 4.8 should 
be broadened to ‘Pneumonia (bacterial, viral and fungal infections, including opportunistic infections)’. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing pomalidomide were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pomalidomide the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pomalidomide is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
EMA/388488/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
  
 
 
 
 
