13 May 2019 
EMA/275155/2019 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Imnovid (pomalidomide) 
Treatment of multiple myeloma  
EU/3/09/672 (EMEA/OD/053/09) 
Sponsor: Celgene Europe B.V. 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 17 April 2019 ............................................... 16 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Pomalidomide 
Pomalidomide 
Treatment of multiple myeloma 
Hard capsule 
Oral use 
L04AX06 
Celgene Europe B.V. 
Winthontlaan 6 N 
3526 KV Utrecht 
The Netherlands 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Celgene Europe Limited - United Kingdom 
8 July 2009 
8 October 2009 
EU/3/09/672 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Celgene Europe Limited to Celgene 
Europe B.V. – EC decision of 25 July 2018 
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
R. Hemmings, J. Jiménez 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Celgene Europe B.V. 
29 June 2018 
21 July 2018 
EMEA/H/C/002682/II/0031/G 
Imnovid 
Extension of indication to include treatment with 
Imnovid in combination with bortezomib and 
dexamethasone of adult patients with multiple 
myeloma who have received at least one prior 
treatment regimen including lenalidomide. 
Further information on Imnovid can be found in the 
European public assessments report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
R/imnovid-previously-pomalidomide-celgene  
CHMP opinion date 
28 March 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
K. Penttila, F. Naumann-Winter 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
29 June 2018 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
19-21 March 2019 
questions  
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
15 April 2019 
17 April 2019 
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2009 was 
based on the following grounds: 
•  multiple myeloma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 2.2 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
• 
• 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life-threatening, particularly with regards to the 
development of osteolytic lesions, renal failure and the cytopenias and its clinical complications 
such as infections and fatigue; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, sufficient justification has been submitted that pomalidomide provides a potentially 
clinical relevant advantage, particularly in relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma patients. 
Pomalidomide is intended for oral use; this support the assumption of major contribution to patient 
care compared with currently available parenteral treatments. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Multiple myeloma (MM) (also known as myeloma or plasma cell myeloma) is a debilitating malignancy 
part of a spectrum of diseases ranging from monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS) 
to plasma cell leukaemia (PCL). Multiple myeloma is characterised by the accumulation of clonal 
plasma cells in the bone marrow (BM) and accounts for 10% of all haematological malignancies. 
Imnovid is currently authorised in combination with dexamethasone in the treatment of adult patients 
with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior treatment 
regimens, including both lenalidomide and bortezomib, and have demonstrated disease progression on 
the last therapy. 
This COMP maintenance report concerns the assessment of orphan criteria for an extension of 
indication to include treatment with Imnovid in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone of 
adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior treatment regimen including 
lenalidomide. 
The approved therapeutic indication “treatment with Imnovid in combination with bortezomib and 
dexamethasone of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior 
treatment regimen including lenalidomide” falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication 
“multiple myeloma”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition has been justified. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
At the time of initial designation and review at initial marketing authorisation, the COMP agreed that 
the condition was chronically debilitating and life-threatening.  
At the time of this review MM is presented to remain seriously debilitating and life threatening disease 
with a median OS for patients with MM ranging from 2 to more than 10 years. The most frequent 
causes of death being disease progression, infection, and renal failure. Clinical complications of 
progressive MM include recurrent infections, cytopenias, renal failure, hyperviscosity syndrome, 
hypercalcemia, bone pain, and pathologic fractures. The COMP concluded that the condition remains 
chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, 
anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with a relevantly reduced life expectancy. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
At the time of designation the prevalence was agreed to be 2.2 per 10,000. At the time of the initial 
marketing authorisation, the prevalence was estimated to be approximately 1.3 per 10,000 (figure as 
per report and not as per opinion).  
For this review the prevalence was presented to the COMP to remain less than 5 per 10,000 and was 
estimated to be between 1.82 (Spain) and 3.61 (Italy) per 10,000. Point prevalence projections for 
2019 have been estimated from France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the UK (table 1). This analysis was 
conducted using data collected from the GBD study by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation 
(IHME). The epidemiologic models were developed for each country using the GBD’s DisMod II 
software. Age- and sex-specific prevalence, incidence, and cause-specific mortality estimates for each 
country from the GBD study, as made available by the IHME, were input into DisMod II. The range of 
figures has been further contextualised with epidemiological data from the NORDCAN registry 
database, which reports that 4.1 per 10,000 men and 3.3 per 10,000 women in Nordic countries were 
living with MM at the end of 2016. The COMP raised concerns with regards to the modelling approach, 
but concluded that a prevalence estimate of less than 4 per 10,000 is acceptable based on the 
provided data and based on their own experience in estimating prevalence using the correlation of 
incidence and average duration of the condition.  
Table 1.  Modelled Point Prevalence Values for Multiple Myeloma in 2019 
Country 
France 
Germany 
Italy 
Spain 
UK 
Point Prevalence per 10,000 persons 
1.96 
2.93 
3.66 
1.82 
3.09 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There are medicinal products authorised in the EU for the treatment of the condition. Central 
marketing authorisations include elotuzumab, doxorubicin, interferon-α2b, bortezomib, lenalidomide, 
thalidomide, pomalidomide, panobinostat, carfilzomib, daratumumab, ixazomib, and dexamethasone. 
There are also products authorised at the national level including carmustine, cyclophosphamide, 
doxorubicin, epirubicin, melphalan, and vincristine. 
There are ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up guidelines from 
2017 (Ann Oncol (2017) 28 (suppl 4): iv52–iv61). The ESMO guideline distinguishes elderly patients 
regarding the non-transplant setting and more fit patients in the transplant setting ASCT. Treatments 
are discussed regarding front line treatment, consolidation, maintenance and relapsed/refractory 
disease. 
Significant benefit 
Significant benefit needs to be demonstrated in adult patients with multiple myeloma who have 
received at least one prior treatment regimen including lenalidomide. In this context the ESMO 
guideline outlines for relapsed/refractory MM that the choice of therapy in the relapse setting depends 
on several parameters such as age, performance status, comorbidities, the type, efficacy and tolerance 
of the previous treatment, the number of prior treatment lines, the available remaining treatment 
options, the interval since the last therapy and the type of relapse. Treatment options for patients with 
relapsed disease are outlined in table 2.   
Table 2.  Recommended Treatment Options for Patients with Multiple Myeloma: ESMO Treatment 
Guidelines 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking into consideration the ESMO guideline and the authorisation status of medicinal products, it was 
considered that significant benefit would need to be established over: 
1.  Bortezomib: monotherapy, or in combination with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, or in 
combination with dexamethasone 
2.  Lenalidomide: in combination with dexamethasone 
3.  Doxorubicin: in combination with bortezomib 
4.  Panobinostat: in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone 
5.  Carfilzomib: in combination with either lenalidomide and dexamethasone or dexamethasone alone 
6.  Elotuzumab: in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone 
7.  Daratumumab: monotherapy, or in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone, or in 
combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone 
8.  Ixazomib: in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone 
The sponsor requested EMA protocol assistance prior to marketing authorisation variation submission 
and pre-discussed the demonstration of significant benefit with the COMP. Specifically, approaches A 
and B (more detail below) have been presented to the COMP. While the COMP endorsed the overall 
methodology, it was deemed challenging to demonstrate significant benefit via indirect methods in an 
area with many authorised products.  
Significant benefit on clinically relevant advantage (direct comparison):  
For the demonstration of significant benefit over bortezomib and low dose dexamethasone, 
comparative clinical data has been submitted. It is the same data that forms the pivotal data for the 
marketing authorisation (reference is made to the Imnovid EPAR on the type II variation with 
procedure number EMEA/H/C/002682/II/0031/G). MM-007 is an ongoing phase 3, multicentre, 
randomised, open label study to compare the efficacy and safety of Imnovid (pomalidomide), 
bortezomib and low-dose dexamethasone (PVd) versus bortezomib and low dose dexamethasone (Vd) 
in subjects with relapsed or refractory MM (figure 1). Enrolled patients must have had at least 1 but no 
greater than 3 prior antimyeloma regimens (induction with or without bone marrow transplant and 
with or without maintenance therapy was considered 1 regimen). Patients had documented disease 
progression during or after their last antimyeloma therapy and prior treatment with a lenalidomide 
(LEN)-containing regimen for at least 2 consecutive cycles. 
The primary endpoint was progression-free survival (PFS) based on the IMWG Uniform Response 
criteria, or death whichever occurred earlier. Secondary endpoints included overall survival (OS), 
overall response rate (ORR) by IMWG response criteria (2006), and duration of response: time of the 
first documented response to confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause for all 
responders.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Study design of MM-007 
A total of 559 subjects were randomised, 281 in arm A and 278 in arm B. As of the data cut-off date of 
26 Oct 2017, 93 (33.1%) subjects in arm A and 45 (16.2%) subjects in arm B are still on treatment 
with disease progression being the most common reason for treatment discontinuation. Overall, the 
median (min, max) follow-up duration for surviving subjects was 15.90 (0.0, 57.4) months. Prior to 
enrolment, 100% of subjects in both arms had received LEN-based treatments and approximately 25% 
of subjects in each arm received thalidomide. Most subjects (75.4% and 76.6% in the arm A and B, 
respectively) received proteasome inhibitors (almost exclusively bortezomib) and almost all (99.6% in 
each arm) also had corticosteroids. Most subjects were exposed to 4 or 5 classes of antimyeloma drugs 
prior to entering the study, of which combinations of LEN and a proteasome inhibitor were the most 
common. Most subjects received LEN (88.6% and 85.6% in the arms A and B respectively) and 
approximately a third received bortezomib (33.8% and 32.7% in arms A and B, respectively) as part of 
last prior regimen. Around 70% of patients were refractory to lenalidomide and 10% to bortezomib 
with similar rates in both arms.  Most subjects (68.0%) were refractory to their last antimyeloma 
therapy. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant PFS advantage in favour of PVd. After a median 
follow-up of 15.9 months, PVd treatment reduced the risk of progression or death by 39% in the ITT 
population compared to Vd (HR 0.61, 95% CI: 0.49, 0.77, p < 0.0001) with a median PFS of 11.2 
months (95% CI: 9.66, 13.73) versus 7.1 months (95% CI: 5.88, 8.48) in the control (table 3).  
Interim OS analysis on a cut-off date of 26 Oct 2017, after a median follow-up of 15.9 months showed 
a total of 87 (31.0%) subjects in the PVd arm and 89 (32.0%) subjects in the Vd arm had died and the 
difference between arms (HR 0.98, 95% CI: 0.73, 1.32; p = 0.894) did not cross the prespecified 
superiority boundary.  
Objective responses (sCR + CR + VGPR + PR) were significantly higher in the POM arm versus the 
control (82.2% vs 50.0%, OR = 5.02, 95% CI: 3.35, 7.52, p < 0.001). Importantly, the rates of VGPR 
or better and complete remissions (CR + sCR) were almost 3 and 4 times higher in the POM arm 
versus control, respectively.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3.  Progression-free Survival by IRAC Review Based on IMWG Criteria (Stratified Analysis) 
Censoring Rule According to FDA Guideline (ITT Population) 
Significant benefit versus bortezomib and dexamethasone can be accepted based on the presented 
clinical data demonstrating improved efficacy associated with the triple combination of pomalidomide, 
bortezomib and low dose dexamethasone.  
For the demonstration of significant benefit over the other authorised products, three approaches have 
been submitted: indirect comparisons (approach A), the identification of smaller patient sub-
populations that have not been tested in trials of authorised counterparts (approach B), and the 
demonstration of a reduction in treatment burden (major contribution to patient care). No data have 
been submitted to support a claim of significant benefit on the basis of improved safety.  
Significant benefit on clinically relevant advantage (approach B): 
Approach B aims to show efficacy of PVd versus Vd in patient subgroups, who were excluded from 
other phase 3 studies in relapsed/refractory MM. It is claimed that MM-007 differed from other studies 
of existing relapsed/refractory MM therapies in that enrolment permitted subjects, who had clinically 
relevant medical conditions. Specifically, subjects with a history of prior allogeneic SCT, severe renal 
impairment not requiring dialysis, respiratory disease, and moderate cardiac impairment were eligible 
to enrol. In addition, subjects who had reduced haematological function (i.e., ANC ≥ 1000/μL, platelets 
≥ 30,000/μL with ≥ 50% plasma cells in bone marrow or platelets ≥ 75,000/μL with < 50% plasma 
cells) were also eligible for inclusion. The COMP acknowledged that different patient populations have 
been studied across different trials. In general, the exclusion and inclusion of populations in trials is 
aimed to ensure internal validity in clinical trials.  This type of evidence was not sufficient to 
demonstrate significant benefit without a restriction of the therapeutic indication or contraindications 
relevant for a notable proportion of the expected patient population.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant benefit on clinically relevant advantage (approach A): 
Approach A is based on the indirect comparison of efficacy results from the above described MM-007 
Study in ITT and lenalidomide-refractory subjects with other phase 3 studies in relapsed/refractory MM 
(table 3 and 4). The presented indirect comparisons are crude in the way that they indirectly compare 
the MM-007 data with data from published studies/EPARs. The indirect comparisons across trials do not 
support improved efficacy of the Imnovid triple combination when comparing ITT populations, except 
regarding doxorubicin (PLD BTZ). Hence, significant benefit over liposomal doxorubicin can be 
considered established by a clinically relevant advantage. 
For demonstration of significant benefit over the remaining authorised products, a focus on the 
lenalidomide-refractory patient population is argued and justified by the design MM-007 Study, which 
aimed at the evaluation of the combination of Imnovid with bortezomib and low dose dexamethasone 
in relapsed/refractory MM patients, who received lenalidomide-based treatments including those, who 
have become lenalidomide- refractory. Indeed, around 70% of patients in the study were classified as 
lenalidomide-refractory. It can be acknowledged that this patient population is growing in importance 
since lenalidomide is used more frequently in a wider range of regimens early in the MM treatment 
pathway. While there is currently no published data quantifying the size and relevance of the 
lenalidomide-refractory patient population, it can be expected that treatment in patients with at least 
one prior treatment will include a significant percentage of lenalidomide refractory patients, in view of 
the authorised maintenance treatment. Therefore, the COMP agreed with a focus on this clinically 
significant and relevant subgroup for the purpose of demonstrating significant benefit, even though the 
therapeutic indication covers a larger patient population (relapse/refractory after at least one prior 
treatment). In this line of argumentation and based on the submitted clinical data, the COMP 
acknowledged that it is possible to treat patients with the Imnovid triple combination, who are 
refractory to currently authorised lenalidomide-based regimens. It was considered that significant 
benefit was established over those products in the relapsed and refractory setting, which are 
authorised as part of lenalidomide-based regimens: lenalidomide, panobinostat, ixazomib, elotuzumab.  
Approach A did not provide adequate data to establish significant benefit on the grounds of improved 
efficacy over carfilzomib and daratumumab. These products are not exclusively indicated in 
combination with lenalidomide and therefore require a data-driven argumentation for significant 
benefit. The provided indirect comparisons of ITT populations do not show improved efficacy (table 4 
and 5). Moreover, the indirect comparisons of the lenalidomide refractory patient subgroups are based 
on low patient numbers and the effects are not sufficiently conclusive. Therefore, a significant benefit 
based on a major contribution to patient care was argued by the sponsor. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Progression-free Survival in Phase 3 Registrational Studies in RRMM (≥ 1 Prior Therapy) for 
Orphan Medicinal Products (ITT and Lenalidomide-refractory Populations) 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5.  Progression-free Survival in Phase 3 Registrational Studies in RRMM (≥ 1 Prior Therapy) for 
Nonorphan Medicinal Products (ITT and Lenalidomide-refractory Populations) 
Major contribution to patient care: 
The COMP considered that the complete treatment regimen (as per SmPC) needs to be taken into 
account for the demonstration of significant benefit based on a major contribution to patient care due 
to a reduction in treatment burden. The complete treatment regimen for this Imnovid variation 
application includes low-dose dexamethasone and bortezomib. Table 6 outlines the routes of 
administration of all authorised treatment regimens.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6.  Route of administration of authorised therapies in their respective regimens 
Product INN 
Route of 
Regimens as per 
Route of 
administration 
Pomalidomide 
oral 
therapeutic 
indication 
Pomalidomide,  
bortezomib and 
dexamethasone 
administration 
oral, IV/SC, oral 
Carfilzomib  
IV 
Carfilzomib in 
IV, oral, oral 
Daratumumab  
IV 
Bortezomib 
IV/SC 
combination with either 
lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone or 
dexamethasone alone 
Daratumumab 
monotherapy 
IV 
Daratumumab in 
IV, oral, IV/SC, oral 
combination with 
lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone, or 
bortezomib and 
dexamethasone 
Bortezomib 
monotherapy 
IV/SC 
Bortezomib in 
IV/SC, IV, oral 
combination with 
pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin or 
dexamethasone 
Lenalidomide  
oral 
Lenalidomide in 
oral, oral 
combination with 
dexamethasone 
Doxorubicin  
IV 
Doxorubicin in 
IV, IV 
combination with 
bortezomib 
Panobinostat  
oral 
Panobinostat in 
oral, IV/SC, oral 
combination with 
bortezomib and 
dexamethasone 
Elotuzumab 
IV 
Elotuzumab in 
IV, oral, oral 
combination with 
lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone  
Ixazomib 
oral 
Ixazomib in 
oral, oral, oral 
combination with 
lenalidomide and 
dexamethasone 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product INN 
Route of 
Regimens as per 
Route of 
administration 
therapeutic 
indication 
administration 
Dexamethasone 
oral 
for the treatment of 
various 
symptomatic multiple 
myeloma in 
combination with other 
medicinal products. 
Imnovid is a medicine for oral administration. The Imnovid triple regimen, subject to this extension 
application, contains oral low-dose dexamethasone and bortezomib, which can be administered IV or 
SC after reconstitution by a healthcare professional. Significant benefit is argued over carfilzomib- and 
daratumumab-based regimens requiring IV administration. It is claimed that bortezomib, as part of the 
Imnovid triple regimen, will be provided subcutaneously and not intravenously and that this route of 
administration in combination with oral Imnovid and oral dexamethasone would lead to a reduction of 
overall treatment burden.  
Regarding the route of administration of bortezomib, it was claimed that subcutaneous bortezomib has 
become the current standard of care in the majority of EU countries after the publication of studies 
demonstrating that subcutaneous bortezomib has non-inferior efficacy (overall response rate, time to 
progression, overall survival) compared with intravenous bortezomib, but improved safety and 
tolerability by reducing the incidence of peripheral neuropathy (Moreau et al, Lancet Oncol. 
2011;12:431–40). As part of their assessment, the COMP conducted three surveys to confirm this 
claim on bortezomib use in the EU: one survey amongst COMP members, one survey for healthcare 
professionals (EMA networks including hospital pharmacists and oncology pharmacists), and one 
survey for patients (Myeloma Patient Network in Europe). Information was available from 26 EU 
countries when combining data from individual surveys . The collected data confirm that bortezomib is 
provided subcutaneously in the outpatient setting in the majority of EU countries. Some EU countries 
might allow for administration at home by healthcare professionals. This has been reported by 
individuals in the Netherlands, Belgium, and the UK; however this option was not consistently reported 
across the surveys. 
Regarding the claim for a reduction of treatment burden, a quantification of the reduction in the 
number or duration of administrations and related hospitalisations over 24 weeks associated with the 
subcutaneous and oral administration of the Imnovid treatment regimen was provided. While the 
analysis is not based on actual observations, it is based on the recommendations in the respective 
SmPCs and is representative for both hospital and for potential home use. Imnovid triple combination 
would require less visits compared to carfilzomib-based and daratumumab based regimens, and 
especially with respect to daratumumab much shorter hospital visits. Of note, all regimens are 
administered until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. 
This data-set was further supplemented by two scientific publications reporting a general patient 
preference of the subcutaneous over the intravenous route of administration. However, the 
publications can only be regarded as supportive evidence in this particular procedure, because they did 
not specifically address patients with multiple myeloma.  
Overall, sufficient evidence has been submitted to demonstrate that a reduction in treatment burden 
could be achieved with Imnovid when it is delivered in combination with oral low-dose dexamethasone 
and SC bortezomib in the outpatient setting.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall conclusion on significant benefit: 
In conclusion, the totality of data allowed the COMP to conclude that Imnovid, in combination with 
bortezomib and low-dose dexamethasone, is of significant benefit over the currently authorised 
products in adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior treatment 
regimen including lenalidomide 
The COMP acknowledged the signficant benefit versus bortezomib and low dose dexamethasone on the 
basis of a comparative clinical trial showing superiority in PFS. Significant benefit over liposomal 
doxorubicin was established via indirect methods, comparing the outcomes in the ITT population of the 
pivotal trial of the Imnovid triple combination (MM-007 trial) with pivotal trial data on liposomal 
doxorubicin (DOXIL MMY-3001). Significant benefit over lenalidomide, panobinostat, ixazomib, 
elotuzumab was established, when acknowleding the efficacy of the Imnovid triple combination in 
patients that are refractory to lenalidomide based regimens, which contain these active substances. 
Finally, signficant benefit over daratumumab and carfilzomib was established based on major 
contribution to patient care showing that the Imnovid triple combination has the potential to reduce 
treatment burden, when taking into consideration the full treatment regimens and the finding that 
bortezomib is administered subcutaneously in the majority of EU countries. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 17 April 2019 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of multiple myeloma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be less than 4 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal 
insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with a relevantly reduced life 
expectancy; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the COMP considered that the newly authorised Imnovid treatment regimen containing 
bortezomib and low-dose dexamethasone is of significant benefit to those affected by the orphan 
condition. 
significant benefit over bortezomib and low dose dexamethasone was supported by the outcomes 
of an actively controlled phase III confirmatory study demonstrating a statistically significant 
progression free survival advantage in favour of Imnovid triple regimen containing bortezomib and 
low dose dexamethasone; 
significant benefit over liposomal doxorubicin has been established via indirect methods comparing 
progression free survival outcomes. Imnovid triple combination therapy was associated with a 
better improved progression free survival compared to liposomal doxorubicin;  
significant benefit of Imnovid over lenalidomide, panobinostat, ixazomib, and elotuzumab has been 
established when acknowledging the expected advantage of a lenalidomide-free regimen for the 
treatment of patients with lenalidomide-refractory disease; 
indirect comparisons between Imnovid based regimens and daratumumab- and carfilzomib- based 
treatments were not conclusive with regards to a clinically relevant advantage. Significant benefit 
over daratumumab and carfilzomib has been established when taking into account the route of 
administration of the Imnovid based regimen. Imnovid is administered orally and is provided in 
combination with oral low dose dexamethasone and intravenous or subcutaneous bortezomib. 
Survey data on bortezomib use in the EU suggest that in the majority of EU countries, as part of 
the Imnovid triple regimen, bortezomib may be administered subcutaneously via a bolus in the 
outpatient setting. The COMP considered that this constitutes a major contribution to patient care 
over regimens containing daratumumab and carfilzomib, which are based on intravenous 
administration requiring frequent visits to the hospital and longer administration time. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Imnovid, pomalidomide, 
EU/3/09/672 for treatment of multiple myeloma is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent position expressed by some members of the COMP 
The general information on the different requirements with respect to the route of administration of 
three combination regimens either containing the proposed product or daratumumab and carfilzomib 
was not considered sufficient to support a major contribution to patient care. No specific data with the 
proposed product were submitted that indicate a translation into a quantifiable outcome. Therefore, 
significant benefit over daratumumab and carfilzomib has not been established. 
Armando Magrelli  
Italy 
Eva Malikova 
Slovakia 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/275155/2019 
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
