26 March 2015 
EMA/CHMP/268395/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: pomalidomide 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010127/201408 
Period covered by the PSUR:  08.02.2014 - 07.08.2014 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for pomalidomide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
There is sufficient evidence to conclude that pomalidomide can cause atrial fibrillation, ILD, angioedema, 
urticaria, cardiac failure, serious hepatic disorders and hyperuricaemia and increased blood uric acid.  
Atrial fibrillation 
There have been seven cases of atrial fibrillation reported where a causal relationship with pomalidomide 
is a reasonable possibility, based on plausible temporal relationship and the absence of a likely alternative 
cause. In addition, there was an increased incidence of treatment-emergent atrial fibrillation in the 
pomalidomide group compared to the high-dose dexamethasone group (3.1% vs 1.3%) in the pivotal 
Phase III study. 
ILD 
There have been 8 cases in which a causal association between pomalidomide and interstitial lung disease 
(ILD) is likely.  
Angioedema and urticaria 
There have been 5 cases reported under the MeDRA Preferred Term (PT) angioedema. There have also 
been 44 cases with PTs highly suggestive of angioedema (facial oedema/lip oedema/eyelid 
oedema/tongue or mouth swelling). In addition there have been 26 cases where the PT was urticaria (and 
for which features of angioedema were not documented in the case narratives).  
In five cases, two cases of angioedema and three cases of urticaria, there was a plausible temporal 
relationship, recurrence of the allergic reaction on re-challenge and lack of an alternative explanation. In 
addition, for another four cases of angioedema, it was likely to be a causal association with 
pomalidomide.  
Cardiac failure 
Study CC-4047-MF-002 showed a notable increase in cardiac failure events in the pomalidomide group 
compared to placebo (8.4% vs 2.4%). A causal role for pomalidomide is further supported by cases of 
cardiac failure from the cumulative review.  
Hepatic Disorders 
There have been 5 cases in which elevated liver function tests were associated with (or progressed to) 
hepatitis, requiring hospitalization. In each of these 5 cases pomalidomide is likely to have caused the 
hepatitis. 
There have also been cases (n=7) of hepatic failure (including some fatal outcomes). Of these seven 
cases, there is one which raises the possibility that pomalidomide-induced liver injury can progress to 
acute hepatic failure. 
Hepatic events had a median time to onset of 70 days and approximately three-quarters (74%) of events 
occurred within 6 months. Also, in the 5 cases of pomalidomide-induced hepatitis, the time to onset was 
up to 74 days suggesting that the highest risk of serious hepatotoxicity is within the first few months of 
initiation of pomalidomide.  
Hyperuricaemia and increased blood uric acid 
A review of all cases of hyperuricaemia and increased blood uric acid levels has concluded on the need to 
include these adverse reactions with a frequency of common in the product information. 
These risks can be addressed through changes to the product information. Additional risk minimisation 
through an update to the Educational Health Care Professional’s kit and a Direct Health Care Professionals 
Communication (DHPC) have been agreed. 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding pomalidomide, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information and to the conditions of the marketing authorisation were warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pomalidomide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pomalidomide is favourable subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/CHMP/268395/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
