ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each 0.8 ml single dose pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Each 0.8 ml single dose pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 20.0 mg sorbitol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Imraldi in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
- 
- 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with methotrexate. 
Imraldi can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Imraldi in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Imraldi can be given as monotherapy in 
case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate 
(for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged 
less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had 
an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and / or MRI, who have had 
an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured 
by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see Section 5.1) and to 
improve physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients 
who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical 
therapy and phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional 
systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Imraldi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients 
who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or 
have contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis  
Imraldi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or 
have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of corticosteroid- 
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, 
or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Imraldi treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Imraldi is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to 
consult with an appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Imraldi (see section 4.4). 
Patients treated with Imraldi should be given the Patient Reminder Card. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Imraldi if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary. 
During treatment with Imraldi, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. Methotrexate should be 
continued during treatment with Imraldi. 
Glucocorticoids, salicylates, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or analgesics can be 
continued during treatment with Imraldi. Regarding combination with disease modifying anti-
rheumatic drugs other than methotrexate see sections 4.4 and 5.1. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In monotherapy, some patients who experience a decrease in their response to Imraldi 40 mg every 
other week dosing may benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Dose interruption  
There may be a need for dose interruption, for instance before surgery or if a serious infection occurs. 
Available data suggest that re-introduction of adalimumab after discontinuation for 70 days or longer 
resulted in the same magnitudes of clinical response and similar safety profile as before dose 
interruption. 
Ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS and psoriatic 
arthritis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Psoriasis  
The recommended dose of Imraldi for adult patients is an initial dose of 80 mg administered 
subcutaneously, followed by 40 mg subcutaneously given every other week starting one week after the 
initial dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period. 
Beyond 16 weeks, patients with inadequate response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. The benefits and risks of 
continued 40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a 
patient with an inadequate response after the increase in dose (see section 5.1). If adequate response is 
achieved with 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, the dose may subsequently be reduced to 
40 mg every other week. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The recommended Imraldi dose regimen for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 
160 mg initially at Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later at Day 15 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day). Two weeks later (Day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week (given as two 40 mg injections in one day). Antibiotics may be continued during 
treatment with Imraldi if necessary. It is recommended that the patient should use a topical antiseptic 
wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with Imraldi. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Imraldi 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be re-
introduced (see section 5.1). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see section 
5.1). 
Crohn’s disease 
The recommended Imraldi induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg at week 2. In case there is a need for a 
more rapid response to therapy, the regimen 160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one 
day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg at week 2 (given 
as two 40 mg injections in one day), can be used with the awareness that the risk for adverse events is 
higher during induction. 
After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous 
injection. Alternatively, if a patient has stopped Imraldi and signs and symptoms of disease recur, 
Imraldi may be re-administered. There is little experience from re-administration after more than 8 
weeks since the previous dose. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg Imraldi every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Some patients who have not responded by week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period. 
Ulcerative colitis 
The recommended Imraldi induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis is 160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg 
injections per day for two consecutive days) and 80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg injections in 
one day). After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via 
subcutaneous injection. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg Imraldi every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 2-8 weeks of treatment. 
Imraldi therapy should not be continued in patients failing to respond within this time period. 
Uveitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for adult patients with uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. There is limited experience 
in the initiation of treatment with Imraldi alone. Treatment with Imraldi can be initiated in 
combination with corticosteroids and/or with other non-biologic immunomodulatory agents. 
Concomitant corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice starting two weeks 
after initiating treatment with Imraldi. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a 
yearly basis (see section 5.1). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required. 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be 
made. 
Paediatric population 
Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are only available as a 40 mg dose. Thus, it is not possible 
to administer Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen to paediatric patients that require less than a 
full 40 mg dose. If an alternative dose is required, other presentations offering such an option should 
be used. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 
2 years of age is based on body weight (Table 1). Imraldi is administered every other week via 
subcutaneous injection.  
Table 1. Imraldi dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
Patient weight 
10 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is 
based on body weight (Table 2). Imraldi is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection.  
Table 2. Imraldi dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The recommended Imraldi dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 3). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
Initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 
20 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose 
Initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding within 
this time period. 
If retreatment with Imraldi is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration should be 
followed. 
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a mean of 
13 months. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg) 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. The posology of 
adalimumab in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation 
(see section 5.2). 
The recommended Imraldi dose is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at 
week 1 via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week, an increase in 
dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered. 
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Imraldi if necessary. It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Imraldi. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Imraldi may be re-introduced as appropriate. 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data 
in section 5.1). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 4). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
Table 4. Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with crohn’s disease 
Induction dose 
•  40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of the 
higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
•  80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
•  80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
Maintenance 
dose 
starting at 
week 4 
20 mg every 
other week 
≥ 40 kg 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of the 
higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
•  160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 
40 mg every 
other week 
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dose: 
  < 40 kg: 20 mg every week 
  ≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by week 12. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged below 6 years for this indication. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is 
based on body weight (Table 5). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 5 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
Induction dose 
•  80 mg at week 0 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) and  
•  40 mg at week 2 (given as one 40 mg 
injection) 
•  160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days) and 
•  80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4* 
•  40 mg every other week 
•  80 mg every other week 
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Imraldi should continue their prescribed 
maintenance dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of 
response within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of Imraldi in children aged less than 6 years in this indication.  
Imraldi may be available in different strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual 
treatment needs. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in the paediatric population for the indications of ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriatric arthritis. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 6). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant 
treatment with methotrexate. 
Table 6 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with uveitis 
Patient weight 
< 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
When Imraldi therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for 
patients ≥ 30 kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No 
clinical data are available on the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age 
(see section 5.2). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 2 years in this indication. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on 
a yearly basis (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration  
Imraldi is administered by subcutaneous injection. Full instructions for use are provided in the 
package leaflet. 
A 40 mg pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are available for patients to administer a full 40 mg dose. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections (see section 
4.4). 
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function 
may increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for 
infections, including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Imraldi. Because the 
elimination of adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout 
this period. 
Treatment with Imraldi should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis 
and patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Imraldi 
should be considered prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections). 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Imraldi, should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Imraldi should be 
discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or 
antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. Physicians should exercise 
caution when considering the use of Imraldi in patients with a history of recurring infection or with 
underlying conditions which may predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant 
immunosuppressive medications. 
Serious infections 
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or 
other opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported. 
Tuberculosis 
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients 
receiving adalimumab. Reports included cases of pulmonary and extra-pulmonary (i.e. disseminated) 
tuberculosis. 
Before initiation of therapy with Imraldi, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection. This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of 
patient history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and 
previous and/or current immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin 
test and chest X-ray) should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is 
recommended that the conduct and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card. 
Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients 
who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Imraldi therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully 
considered. 
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
prophylaxis treatment before the initiation of Imraldi, and in accordance with local recommendations. 
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of 
Imraldi in patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tuberculosis and in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed. 
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in 
patients treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active 
tuberculosis have redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis 
infection (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or 
after therapy with Imraldi. 
Other opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients receiving 
adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking TNF-
antagonists and this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in fatal 
outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, cough, 
dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without concomitant 
shock an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Imraldi should be 
promptly discontinued. Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in these patients 
should be made in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of patients with invasive 
fungal infections. 
Hepatitis B reactivation  
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including adalimumab, 
who are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive). Some cases have had a fatal 
outcome. Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Imraldi. For 
patients who test positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the 
treatment of hepatitis B is recommended. 
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Imraldi should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination 
of therapy. Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral therapy in 
conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. In patients 
who develop HBV reactivation, Imraldi should be stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with 
appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Neurological events  
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating 
disease, including Guillain-Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use 
of Imraldi in patients with pre-existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system 
demyelinating disorders; discontinuation of Imraldi should be considered if any of these disorders 
develop. There is a known association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating 
disorders. Neurologic evaluation should be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate 
uveitis prior to the initiation of Imraldi therapy and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-
existing or developing central demyelinating disorders. 
Allergic reactions 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious 
allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of 
serious allergic reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab 
administration. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of 
Imraldi should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated. 
Immunosuppression 
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no 
evidence of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or 
change in enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control 
patients. However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of leukaemia have 
been reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for 
lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible 
risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a 
TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), including 
adalimumab in the post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated 
with adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is 
usually fatal. Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in 
young adult patients on concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for 
inflammatory bowel disease. The potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-
mercaptopurine and adalimumab should be carefully considered. A risk for the development of 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Imraldi cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom 
treatment with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy. Thus, additional 
caution should be exercised in considering adalimumab treatment of these patients (see section 4.8). 
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy 
or psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non-
melanoma skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Imraldi. Melanoma and Merkel cell 
carcinoma have also been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab 
(see section 4.8). 
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients 
with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly in 
the lung or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control patients. 
All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using any 
TNF-antagonist in COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to 
heavy smoking. 
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia 
or colon cancer. All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carcinoma (for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing 
cholangitis), or who had a prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for 
dysplasia at regular intervals before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation 
should include colonoscopy and biopsies per local recommendations. 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. 
Adverse events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to 
seek immediate medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias 
(e.g. persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor) while on Imraldi. Discontinuation of Imraldi therapy 
should be considered in patients with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Vaccinations 
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza trivalent 
virus vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were 
treated with adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection 
by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating adalimumab therapy. 
Patients on adalimumab may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration 
of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended 
for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Congestive heart failure  
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased 
mortality due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart 
failure have also been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Imraldi should be used with caution 
in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Imraldi is contraindicated in moderate to severe 
heart failure (see section 4.3). Treatment with Imraldi must be discontinued in patients who develop 
new or worsening symptoms of congestive heart failure. 
Autoimmune processes  
Treatment with Imraldi may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-
term treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient 
develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Imraldi and is 
positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Imraldi should not be 
given (see section 4.8). 
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists  
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another TNF-
antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of the 
nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar 
toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the 
combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended. (See section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and 
abatacept) or other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. (See section 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5). 
Surgery 
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The 
long half-life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned. A 
patient who requires surgery while on Imraldi should be closely monitored for infections, and 
appropriate actions should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing 
arthroplasty while receiving adalimumab. 
Small bowel obstruction 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic stricture 
that may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not worsen or cause 
strictures. 
Elderly 
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab treated subjects over 65 years of age (3.7%) 
was higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5%). Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular 
attention regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
See Vaccinations above. 
Excipients with known effects 
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 20 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled syringe/pre-filled pen. Patients with 
hereditary fructose intolerance (HFI) should not take this medicinal product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant 
methotrexate. Antibody formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate 
in comparison with use as monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted 
in increased formation of antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see 
section 5.1). 
The combination of Imraldi and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
The combination of Imraldi and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least five months after the last Imraldi treatment. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy  
A large number (approximately 2,100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to adalimumab 
resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1,500 exposed during the first 
trimester, does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn. 
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) 
treated with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated 
with adalimumab were enrolled. The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth defects. 
The rate of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect was 6/69 
(8.7 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8 %) in the untreated women with RA 
(unadjusted OR 1.31, 95 % CI 0.38-4.52) and 16/152 (10.5 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with 
CD and 3/32 (9.4 %) in the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 95 % CI 0.31-4.16). The 
adjusted OR (accounting for baseline differences) was 1.10 (95 % CI 0.45-2.73) with RA and CD 
combined. There were no distinct differences between adalimumab-treated and untreated women for 
the secondary endpoints spontaneous abortions, minor birth defects, preterm delivery, birth size and 
serious or opportunistic infections and no stillbirths or malignancies were reported. The interpretation 
of data may be impacted due to methodological limitations of the study, including small sample size 
and non-randomised design. 
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available 
(see section 5.3). 
Due to its inhibition of TNFα, adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal 
immune responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly 
needed. 
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with adalimumab 
during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. Administration 
of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended 
for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk 
at very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1 % 
to 1 % of the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal 
proteolysis and have poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. 
Consequently, adalimumab can be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Imraldi (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open-label trials for up to 
60 months or more. These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
standing disease, juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-
related arthritis) as well as axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS), psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, and uveitis patients. The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients 
receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving placebo or active comparator during the controlled 
period. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9 % for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4 % for control 
treated patients. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain 
or swelling), headache and musculoskeletal pain. 
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab 
affect the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defense against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV 
reactivation and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been 
reported with use of adalimumab. 
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events 
and reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Paediatric population  
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen in 
adult patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience and are displayed by system organ class and frequency in Table 7 below: 
very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 
to <1/1,000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The highest frequency 
seen among the various indications has been included. An asterisk (*) appears in the System Organ 
Class (SOC) column if further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
System organ class 
Infections  and 
infestations* 
Frequency 
Very 
common 
Common 
Table 7 
Undesirable effects 
Adverse  reaction 
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and upper 
respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, sinusitis, 
pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and pneumonia herpes viral) 
Systemic infections (including sepsis, candidiasis and 
influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including paronychia, 
cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral herpes and 
tooth infections), 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse  reaction 
Uncommon 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts and 
polyps)* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Blood and the 
lymphatic system 
disorders* 
Very 
common 
Common 
Immune system 
disorders* 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders  Common 
Nervous system 
disorders* 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
reproductive tract infections (including vulvovaginal 
mycotic infection), 
urinary tract infections (including pyelonephritis), 
fungal infections, 
joint infections 
Neurological infections (including viral meningitis), 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis (including 
coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis and mycobacterium 
avium complex infection), 
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, 
diverticulitis1) 
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma), 
benign neoplasm 
Lymphoma**, 
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, lung 
neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm), 
melanoma** 
Leukaemia1) 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine carcinoma of the 
skin)1), Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Leukopenia (including neutropenia and agranulocytosis), 
anaemia 
Leukocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity, 
allergies (including seasonal allergy) 
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis 
Anaphylaxis1) 
Lipids increased 
Hypokalaemia, 
uric acid increased, 
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphatemia, 
dehydration 
Mood alterations (including depression), 
anxiety, 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Paraesthesias (including hypoesthesia), 
migraine, 
nerve root compression 
Cerebrovascular accident1), 
tremor, 
neuropathy 
Multiple sclerosis, 
18 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders* 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders* 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not Known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Adverse  reaction 
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, Guillain-Barré 
syndrome)1) 
Visual impairment, 
conjunctivitis, 
blepharitis, 
eye swelling 
Diplopia 
Vertigo 
Deafness, 
tinnitus 
Tachycardia 
Myocardial infarction1), 
arrhythmia, 
congestive heart failure 
Cardiac arrest 
Hypertension, 
flushing, 
haematoma 
Aortic aneurysm, 
vascular arterial occlusion, 
thrombophlebitis 
Asthma, 
dyspnoea, 
cough 
Pulmonary embolism1), 
interstitial lung disease, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion1) 
Pulmonary fibrosis1) 
Abdominal pain, 
nausea and vomiting 
GI haemorrhage, 
dyspepsia, 
gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
sicca syndrome 
Pancreatitis, 
dysphagia, 
face oedema 
Intestinal perforation1) 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, 
hepatic steatosis, 
bilirubin increased 
Hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B1) 
autoimmune hepatitis1) 
Liver failure1) 
Rash (including exfoliative rash) 
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including 
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1), 
urticaria, 
bruising (including purpura), 
19 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse  reaction 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions* 
Investigations* 
Uncommon 
Common 
dermatitis (including eczema), 
onychoclasis, 
hyperhidrosis, 
alopecia1), 
pruritus 
Night sweats, 
scar 
Erythema multiforme1), 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1), 
angioedema1), 
cutaneous vasculitis1) 
lichenoid skin reaction1) 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1) 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased) 
Rhabdomyolysis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Lupus-like syndrome1) 
Renal impairment, 
haematuria 
Nocturia 
Erectile dysfunction 
Injection site reaction (including injection site erythema) 
Chest pain, 
oedema, 
pyrexia1) 
Inflammation 
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including activated 
partial thromboplastin time prolonged), 
autoantibody test positive (including double stranded DNA 
antibody), 
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Not Known  Weight increased2) 
Common 
Impaired healing 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
* further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
** including open-label extension studies 
1) including spontaneous reporting data 
2) The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across adult 
indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 months. 
Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean exposures 
of approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated with the anti-
inflammatory effect of adalimumab. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the 
known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Uveitis 
20 
 
 
 
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent 
with the known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab 
developed injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared 
to 7.2 % of patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not 
necessitate discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
Infections 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in 
the adalimumab treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated 
patients. The infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and 
sinusitis. Most patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved. 
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab treated patients and 0.03 
per patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients. 
In controlled and open-label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections 
(including fatal infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of 
tuberculosis (including miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections 
(e.g. disseminated or extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred 
within the first eight months after initiation of therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders  
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years 
during adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 192 paediatric 
patients with an exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in paediatric patients with 
Crohn’s disease. No malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients with an exposure of 
80.0 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. No 
malignancies were observed in 93 paediatric patients with an exposure of 65.3 patient years during an 
adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis. No malignancies were observed in 
60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric 
patients with uveitis. 
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration in 
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and 
non-melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5) per 
1,000 patient-years among 5,291 adalimumab treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 
patient-years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for 
adalimumab and 3.8 months for control-treated patients). The rate (95% confidence interval) of non-
melanoma skin cancers was 8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients 
and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell 
carcinomas occurred at rates (95% confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient-years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. The rate 
(95 % confidence interval) of lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient-years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open-label extension 
studies with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 
26,439 patient-years of therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-
melanoma skin cancers is approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-
melanoma skin cancers is approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of 
lymphomas is approximately 1.3 per 1,000 patient-years. 
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient treatment 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 
0.3 per 1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated 
with adalimumab (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis 
studies I − V. In these trials, 11.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1% of placebo and 
active control − treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported 
positive titres at week 24. Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid 
arthritis and psoriatic arthritis studies developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like 
syndrome. The patients improved following discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus 
nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. 
Hepato-biliary events 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
with a control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 ×ULN occurred in 
3.7 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6 % of control-treated patients. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
who were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥3 × 
ULN occurred in 6.1 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3 % of control-treated patients. Most 
ALT elevations occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred 
in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who were 
2 to <4 years.  
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis with 
a control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 0.9% of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.9 % of controlled-treated patients.  
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated 
efficacy and safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight 
adjusted induction therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 2.6 % 
(5/192) of patients of whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline.  
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis with a control period 
duration ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 1.8% of adalimumab-
treated patients and 1.8 % of control-treated patients.  
No ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients with 
plaque psoriasis.  
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2, followed 
by 40 mg every week starting at week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 0.3 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 % of control-treated patients. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week 
starting at week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 166.5 days and 
105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN 
occurred in 2.4 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4 % of control-treated patients. 
In the controlled Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) which 
evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
(N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every Week (N=32), following body 
weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 
160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=30), ALT 
elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of patients. 
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment. However, there have also been post-
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, 
such as hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab. 
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine 
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse 
events were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared 
with adalimumab alone. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has 
been multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended 
dose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors. 
ATC code: L04AB04 
Imraldi is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including 
changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, 
and ICAM-1 with an IC50 of 0.1-0.2 nM). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation 
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab 
usually experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation. 
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with 
adalimumab. In patients with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing 
inflammatory markers in the colon including a significant reduction of expression of TNFα was seen. 
Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab 
treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The 
efficacy and safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-controlled 
studies. Some patients were treated for up to 120 months duration. 
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drug and had 
insufficient efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) 
every week and whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20, 
40 or 80 mg of adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18  years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs. Doses 
of 20 or 40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo 
on alternative weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same 
duration. No other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed. 
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have 
been intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study. The first 
received placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab 
every week for 52 weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with 
placebo injections on alternate weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in 
an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other 
week up to 10 years. 
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were ≥ 18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-
rheumatic drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy 
was stable for a minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, 
hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate 
of progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the first 
104 weeks, 497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab was 
administered every other week up to 10 years. 
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percent of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percent of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at week 52. RA studies III and 
V had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by 
X-ray results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. 
ACR response 
The percent of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in 
Table 8. 
Table 8 
ACR responses in placebo controlled trials 
(Percent of patients) 
Response 
RA study Ia** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
N=60 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
N=63 
RA study IIa** 
Placebo 
Adalimumabb 
N=110 
N=113 
RA study IIIa** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
N=200 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
N=207 
6.7% 
- 
29.5% 
24.0% 
52.4% 
- 
65.1% 
- 
19.1% 
- 
13.3% 
- 
46.0% 
- 
ACR 20 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 50 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 70 
6 months 
12 months 
a  RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks 
b  40 mg adalimumab administered every other week 
c  MTX = methotrexate 
**p <0.01, adalimumab versus placebo 
- Not applicable 
22.1% 
- 
23.8% 
- 
12.4% 
- 
9.5% 
9.5% 
8.2% 
- 
1.8% 
- 
2.5% 
4.5% 
3.3% 
- 
63.3% 
58.9% 
39.1% 
41.5% 
20.8% 
23.2% 
In RA studies I-IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and 
swollen joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index (HAQ) 
scores and CRP (mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA study III, 
these improvements were maintained throughout 52 weeks. 
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained 
response when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. 
Among those, 86 patients (75.4 %) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2 %) had ACR 50 
responses; and 41 patients (36 %) had ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0 %) had ACR 20 
responses; 56 patients (69.1 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 43 patients (53.1 %) had ACR 70 
responses. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care was 
statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care (p <0.001). 
In RA studies I-IV, adalimumab -treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 
responses compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment. 
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination 
therapy with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52 and responses were sustained at 
week 104 (see Table 9). 
Response 
ACR 20 
52 week 
104 week 
ACR 50 
52 week 
104 week 
ACR 70 
Table 9 
ACR responses in RA study V 
(Percent of patients) 
MTX 
Adalimumab 
N=257 
N=274 
Adalimumab/ 
MTX 
N=268 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
62.6% 
56.0% 
45.9% 
42.8% 
54.4% 
49.3% 
41.2% 
36.9% 
72.8% 
69.4% 
61.6% 
59.0% 
0.013 
0.002 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.043 
0.140 
0.317 
0.162 
0.656 
0.864 
45.5% 
46.6% 
27.2% 
28.4% 
25.9% 
52 week 
28.1% 
104 week 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.  
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test  
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed for 
up to 10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
170 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 
patients (90.6 %) had ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 
patients (60.0 %) had ACR 70 responses. 
At week 52, 42.9 % of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy achieved 
clinical remission (DAS28 <2.6) compared to 20.6 % of patients receiving methotrexate monotherapy 
and 23.4 % of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. Adalimumab/methotrexate combination 
therapy was clinically and statistically superior to methotrexate (p <0.001) and adalimumab 
monotherapy (p <0.001) in achieving a low disease state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate 
to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The response for the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447). Of 
342 subjects originally randomised to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy who entered the open-label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of 
adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 subjects (63.7 %) were reported to be in remission at 
10 years. 
Radiographic response  
In RA study III, where adalimumab treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as 
change in modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
narrowing score. Adalimumab /methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic 
progression than patients receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 10). 
In the open-label extension of RA study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage is 
maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally treated 
with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 patients 
showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or 
less. At 10 years, 79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were 
evaluated radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural damage 
defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. 
Table 10 
Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA study III 
Placebo/MTXa 
Adalimumab/MTX 
40 mg every other 
week 
Total sharp score 
Erosion score 
JSNd score 
2.7 
1.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
Placebo/MTX- 
Adalimumab/MTX 
(95% confidence 
intervalb) 
2.6 (1.4, 3.8) 
1.6 (0.9, 2.2) 
0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 
p-value 
<0.001c 
<0.001 
0.002 
a methotrexate 
b 95 % confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and 
adalimumab.  
c Based on rank analysis 
d Joint Space Narrowing 
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified Total Sharp Score (see Table 11). 
Table 11 
Radiographic mean changes at week 52 in RA study V 
MTX 
N=257 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab  
N=274 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
N=268 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
Total sharp 
score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
5.7 (4.2-7.3) 
3.0 (1.7-4.3) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
<0.001 
0.0020 
<0.001 
3.7 (2.7-4.7) 
2.0 (1.2-2.8) 
1.7 (1.0-2.4) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
0.8 (0.4-1.2) 
0.5 (0-1.0) 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.0082 
0.0037 
<0.001 
0.151 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy 
using the Mann-Whitney U test 
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression 
(change from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score ≤0.5) was significantly higher with 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy (63.8 % and 61.2 % respectively) compared to 
methotrexate monotherapy (37.4 % and 33.5 % respectively, p <0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy 
(50.7 %, p <0.002 and 44.5 %, p <0.001 respectively).  
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate 
monotherapy, adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, 
respectively. The corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 31.3 %, 
23.7 % and 36.7 % respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, 
which was a pre-specified primary endpoint at week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability 
index of the HAQ from baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was 
seen at week 52. Results from the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies support these findings, with statistically significant physical component 
summary (PCS) scores, as well as statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 
40 mg every other week dose. A statistically significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional 
assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) scores was seen in all three studies in which it was 
assessed (RA studies I, III, IV). 
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued 
treatment maintained improvement through week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. 
Improvement in quality of life was measured up to week 156 (36 months) and improvement was 
maintained through that time. 
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p <0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52, which was maintained through 
week 104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in 
physical function were maintained through 10 years of treatment. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 393 patients in two randomised, 24 week 
double − blind, placebo − controlled studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (mean 
baseline score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] 
was 6.3 in all groups) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Seventy-nine 
(20.1%) patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti − rheumatic drugs, and 37 
(9.4%) patients with glucocorticoids. The blinded period was followed by an open − label period 
during which patients received adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an 
additional 28 weeks. Subjects (n=215, 54.7%) who failed to achieve ASAS 20 at weeks 12, or 16 or 20 
received early escape open-label adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously and were 
subsequently treated as non-responders in the double-blind statistical analyses. 
In the larger AS study I with 315 patients, results showed statistically significant improvement of the 
signs and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis in patients treated with adalimumab compared to 
placebo. Significant response was first observed at week 2 and maintained through 24 weeks 
(Table 12). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
Efficacy responses in placebo-controlled AS study – study I 
reduction of signs and symptoms 
Response 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Placebo 
N=107 
ASASa 20 
16% 
21% 
19% 
ASAS 50 
3% 
10% 
11% 
ASAS 70 
0% 
5% 
8% 
BASDAIb 50 
4% 
16% 
15% 
Adalimumab 
N=208 
42%*** 
58%*** 
51%*** 
16%*** 
38%*** 
35%*** 
7%** 
23%*** 
24%*** 
20%*** 
45%*** 
42%*** 
***,** Statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01 for all comparisons between adalimumab and 
placebo at weeks 2, 12 and 24 
a Assessments in Ankylosing Spondylitis 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
Adalimumab treated patients had significantly greater improvement at week 12 which was maintained 
through week 24 in both the SF36 and Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(ASQoL). 
Similar trends (not all statistically significant) were seen in the smaller randomised, double − blind, 
placebo controlled AS study II of 82 adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in two randomised, double-blind placebo-
controlled studies in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA). Study nr-
axSpA I evaluated patients with active nr-axSpA. Study nr-axSpA II was a treatment withdrawal study 
in active nr-axSpA patients who achieved remission during open-label treatment with adalimumab. 
Study nr-axSpA I 
In study nr-axSpA I, adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 185 patients in a 
randomised, 12 week double - blind, placebo - controlled study in patients with active nr-axSpA 
(mean baseline score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
(BASDAI)] was 6.4 for patients treated with adalimumab and 6.5 for those on placebo) who have had 
an inadequate response to or intolerance to ≥1 NSAIDs, or a contraindication for NSAIDs. 
Thirty-three (18 %) patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, 
and 146 (79 %) patients with NSAIDs at baseline. The double-blind period was followed by an open-
label period during which patients receive adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up 
to an additional 144 weeks. week 12 results showed statistically significant improvement of the signs 
and symptoms of active nr-axSpA in patients treated with adalimumab compared to placebo 
(Table 13). 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 
Efficacy response in placebo-controlled study nr-axSpA I 
Double-blind 
response at week 12 
ASASa 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAIb 50 
ASDASc,d,e 
ASDAS inactive disease 
hs-CRPd,f,g 
SPARCCh MRI sacroiliac jointsd,i 
SPARCC MRI spined,j 
Placebo 
N=94 
15% 
31% 
6% 
5% 
15% 
-0.3 
4% 
-0.3 
-0.6 
-0.2 
Adalimumab 
N=91 
36%*** 
52%** 
31%*** 
16%* 
35%** 
-1.0*** 
24%*** 
-4.7*** 
-3.2** 
-1.8** 
a Assessments in SpondyloArthritis International Society 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
c Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score 
d mean change from baseline 
e n=91 placebo and n=87 adalimumab 
f high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (mg/L) 
g n=73 placebo and n=70 adalimumab 
h Spondyloarthritis Research Consortium of Canada 
i n=84 placebo and adalimumab 
j n=82 placebo and n=85 adalimumab 
***, **, * Statistically significant at p <0.001, <0.01, and <0.05, respectively, for all comparisons 
between adalimumab and placebo. 
In the open-label extension, improvement in the signs and symptoms was maintained with 
adalimumab therapy through week 156. 
Inhibition of inflammation 
Significant improvement of signs of inflammation as measured by hs-CRP and MRI of both Sacroiliac 
Joints and the Spine was maintained in adalimumab-treated patients through week 156 and week 104, 
respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the HAQ-S and the SF-36 
questionnaires. Adalimumab showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the HAQ-S 
total score and the SF-36 Physical Component Score (PCS) from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo. Improvement in health-related quality of life and physical function was maintained during the 
open-label extension through week 156. 
Study nr-axSpA II 
673 patients with active nr-axSpA (mean baseline disease activity [BASDAI] was 7.0) who had an 
inadequate response to ≥ 2 NSAIDs, or an intolerance to or a contraindication for NSAIDs enrolled 
into the open-label period of study nr-axSpA II during which they received adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week for 28 weeks. These patients also had objective evidence of inflammation in the sacroiliac 
joints or spine on MRI or elevated hs-CRP. Patients who achieved sustained remission for at least 12 
weeks (N=305) (ASDAS < 1.3 at Weeks 16, 20, 24, and 28) during the open-label period were then 
randomised to receive either continued treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every other week (N=152) 
or placebo (N=153) for an additional 40 weeks in a double-blind, placebo-controlled period (total 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study duration 68 weeks). Subjects who flared during the double-blind period were allowed 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week rescue therapy for at least 12 weeks. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with no flare by week 68 of the study. 
Flare was defined as ASDAS ≥ 2.1 at two consecutive visits four weeks apart. A greater proportion of 
patients on adalimumab had no disease flare during the double-blind period, when compared with 
those on placebo (70.4% vs. 47.1%, p<0.001) (Figure 1).  
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to flare in  
study nr-axSpA II 
E
R
A
L
F
O
N
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
                                  Treatment       
 Placebo     
 Adalimumab     ∆ Censored 
TIME (WEEKS) 
Note: P = Placebo (number at risk (flared)); A = adalimumab (number at risk (flared)). 
Among the 68 patients who flared in the group allocated to treatment withdrawal, 65 completed 
12 weeks of rescue therapy with adalimumab, out of which 37 (56.9%) had regained remission 
(ASDAS < 1.3) after 12 weeks of restarting the open-label treatment.  
By Week 68, patients receiving continuous adalimumab treatment showed statistically significant 
greater improvement of the signs and symptoms of active nr-axSpA as compared to patients allocated 
to treatment withdrawal during the double-blind period of the study (Table 14). 
Table 14 
Efficacy response in placebo-controlled period for study nr-axSpA II 
Double-blind 
response at week 68 
ASASa,b 20 
ASASa,b 40 
ASASa partial remission 
ASDASc inactive disease 
Partial flared 
a Assessment of SpondyloArthritis international Society 
b Baseline is defined as open-label baseline when patients have active disease. 
c Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score 
d Partial flare is defined as ASDAS ≥ 1.3 but < 2.1 at 2 consecutive visits. 
Placebo 
N=153 
47.1% 
45.8% 
26.8% 
33.3% 
64.1% 
Adalimumab 
N=152 
70.4%*** 
65.8%*** 
42.1%** 
57.2%*** 
40.8%*** 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
***, ** Statistically significant at p < 0.001 and < 0.01, respectively, for all comparisons between 
adalimumab and placebo. 
Psoriatic arthritis  
Adalimumab, 40 mg every other week, was studied in patients with moderately to severely active 
psoriatic arthritis in two placebo-controlled studies, PsA studies I and II. PsA study I with 24 week 
duration, treated 313 adult patients who had an inadequate response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug therapy and of these, approximately 50 % were taking methotrexate. PsA study II with 12-week 
duration, treated 100 patients who had an inadequate response to DMARD therapy. Upon completion 
of both studies, 383 patients enrolled in an open-label extension study, in which 40 mg adalimumab 
was administered every other week. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of adalimumab in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-
like psoriatic arthropathy due to the small number of patients studied. 
Table 15 
ACR response in placebo-controlled psoriatic arthritis studies 
(Percent of patients) 
PsA study I 
Response 
Placebo 
N=162 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 12 
Week 24 
14% 
15% 
4% 
6% 
1% 
1% 
Adalimumab 
N=151 
ACR 20 
58%*** 
57%*** 
ACR 50 
36%*** 
39%*** 
ACR 70 
20%*** 
23%*** 
PsA study II 
Placebo 
N=49 
Adalimumab 
N=51 
16% 
- 
2% 
- 
0% 
- 
39%* 
- 
25%*** 
- 
14%* 
- 
*** p < 0.001 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
*     p < 0.05 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
- Not applicable 
ACR responses in PsA study I were similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. 
ACR responses were maintained in the open-label extension study for up to 136 weeks. 
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis studies. Radiographs of hands, wrists, 
and feet were obtained at baseline and week 24 during the double-blind period when patients were on 
adalimumab or placebo and at week 48 when all patients were on open-label adalimumab. A modified 
Total Sharp Score (mTSS), which included distal interphalangeal joints (i.e. not identical to the TSS 
used for rheumatoid arthritis), was used. 
Adalimumab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage compared with 
placebo treatment as measured by change from baseline in mTSS (mean ± SD) 0.8 ± 2.5 in the placebo 
group (at week 24) compared with 0.0 ± 1.9; (p<0.001) in the adalimumab group (at week 48). 
In subjects treated with adalimumab with no radiographic progression from baseline to week 48 
(n=102), 84% continued to show no radiographic progression through 144 weeks of treatment. 
Adalimumab treated patients demonstrated statistically significant improvement in physical function 
as assessed by HAQ and Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) compared to placebo at week 24. 
Improved physical function continued during the open-label extension up to week 136. 
Psoriasis 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis 
(≥10% BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) ≥12 or ≥10) who were 
candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73% of patients 
enrolled in Psoriasis studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy. The safety 
and efficacy of adalimumab were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque 
psoriasis with concomitant hand and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a 
randomised double-blind study (Psoriasis study III). 
Psoriasis study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods. In period A, 
patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least 
a PASI 75 response (PASI score improvement of at least 75 % relative to baseline), entered period B 
and received open-label 40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained ≥PASI 75 
response at week 33 and were originally randomised to active therapy in Period A, were re-
randomised in period C to receive 40 mg adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 
19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from “moderate” (53 % of subjects included) to 
“severe” (41 %) to “very severe” (6 %). 
Psoriasis study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus methotrexate 
and placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg and thereafter 
dose increases up to week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab 
followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 16 weeks. There are 
no data available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. Patients receiving 
MTX who achieved a ≥PASI 50 response at week 8 and/or 12 did not receive further dose increases. 
Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the baseline PGA score 
ranged from “mild” (<1%) to “moderate” (48%) to “severe” (46%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open-
label extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks. 
In Psoriasis studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a PASI 
75 response from baseline at week 16 (see Tables 16 and 17). 
Table 16 
Ps study I (REVEAL) - efficacy results at 16 weeks 
≥ PASI 75a 
PASI 100 
PGA: clear/minimal 
Placebo 
N=398 
n (%) 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
17 (4.3) 
Adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week 
N=814 
n (%) 
578 (70.9)b 
163 (20.0)b 
506 (62.2)b 
a Percent of patients achieving PASI 75 response was calculated as centre-adjusted rate 
b p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 
Ps study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks 
Placebo 
N=53 
n (%) 
10 (18.9) 
1 (1.9) 
6 (11.3) 
MTX 
N=110 
n (%) 
39 (35.5) 
8 (7.3) 
33 (30.0) 
Adalimumab  
40 mg every other 
week 
N=108 
n (%) 
86 (79.6)a, b 
18 (16.7)c, d 
79 (73.1)a, b 
≥ PASI 75 
PASI 100 
PGA: clear/minimal 
a p<0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo 
b p<0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
c p<0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo 
d p<0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
In Psoriasis study I, 28 % of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to 
placebo at week 33 compared to 5 % continuing on adalimumab, p<0.001, experienced “loss of 
adequate response” (PASI score after week 33 and on or before week 52 that resulted in a <PASI 50 
response relative to baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to week 33). 
Of the patients who lost adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled into 
the open-label extension trial, 38 % (25/66) and 55 % (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 12 and 
24 weeks of re-treatment, respectively. 
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at week 16 and week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy 
for 52 weeks in Psoriasis study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial. PASI 75 
and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7 % and 59.0 %, respectively, 
after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all 
patients who dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, 
were considered non-responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these 
patients were 69.6 % and 55.7 %, respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy 
(total of 160 weeks). 
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open-
label extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a 
median time to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of 
these patients experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5% (218/285) of 
patients who entered the retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 
weeks of retreatment, irrespective of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1 %[123/178] and 
88.8 % [95/107] for patients who relapsed and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, 
respectively). A similar safety profile was observed during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (studies I and II) and MTX 
(study II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In study I, improvements 
in the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also significant compared to 
placebo.  
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 
40 mg weekly due to a PASI response below 50 %, 26.4 % (92/349) and 37.8 % (132/349) of patients 
achieved PASI 75 response at week 12 and 24, respectively. 
Psoriasis study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 
72 patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients 
received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week 
after the initial dose) or placebo for 16 weeks. At week 16, a statistically significantly greater 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proportion of patients who received adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the hands 
and/or feet compared to patients who received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3%, respectively [p = 0.014]). 
Psoriasis study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients 
with moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed 
by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks followed 
by open-label adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments included 
the Modified Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of 
Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 18). 
Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin 
involvement (BSA≥10 % (60 % of patients) and BSA<10 % and ≥5 % (40 % of patients)). 
Table 18 
Ps study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks 
Week 16 
Placebo-controlled 
Week 26 
Placebo-controlled 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=109 
26.0a 
29.7a 
Placebo 
N=108 
3.4 
6.9 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=109 
46.6a 
48.9a 
Week 52 
Open-label 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=80 
65.0 
61.3 
-44.2a 
-11.5 
-56.2a 
-72.2 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
N=108 
2.9 
2.9 
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%) 
PGA-F clear/minimal 
and ≥2-grade 
improvement (%) 
Percent change in 
total 
fingernail NAPSI (%) 
a p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
-7.8 
Adalimumab treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at week 26 compared with 
placebo in the DLQI. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 3-
month trial of systemic antibiotic therapy. The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or III 
disease with at least 3 abscesses or inflammatory nodules. 
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods. In Period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2, and 40 mg 
every week starting at week 4 to week 11. Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the 
study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-
randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, or placebo from week 12 to week 35). Patients who had been randomised to 
placebo in Period A were assigned to receive adalimumab 40 mg every week in Period B. 
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods. In Period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 and 
40 mg every week starting at week 4 to week 11. 19.3 % of patients had continued baseline oral 
antibiotic therapy during the study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab 
in Period A were re-randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every 
week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from week 12 to week 35). Patients who had 
been randomised to placebo in Period A were assigned to receive placebo in Period B.  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients participating in studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension 
study in which adalimumab 40 mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab 
population was 762 days. Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily. 
Clinical Response 
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas was 
assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50 % reduction in total 
abscess and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining 
fistula count relative to Baseline). Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a Numeric 
Rating Scale in patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater on a 
11 point scale. 
At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo 
achieved HiSCR. At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in study HS-II experienced 
a clinically relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see Table 19). Patients treated with adalimumab 
had significantly reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of treatment. 
Table 19 
Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS studies I and II 
HS study I 
HS study II 
Placebo 
Adalimumab  
40 mg Weekly 
Placebo 
Adalimumab  
40 mg Weekly 
N=154 
40 (26.0%) 
N=153 
64 (41.8%) * 
Hidradenitis 
Suppurativa 
clinical response 
(HiSCR)a 
≥ 30% reduction in 
skin painb 
* p<0.05, ***p<0.001, adalimumab versus placebo 
a Among all randomised patients 
b Among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric Rating Scale 0 
– 10; 0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine 
N=163 
96 (58.9%) *** 
N=105 
48 (45.7%) *** 
N=163 
45 (27.6%) 
N=109 
27 (24.8%) 
N=111 
23 (20.7%) 
N=122 
34 (27.9%) 
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of 
abscesses and draining fistulas. Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group in 
the first 12 weeks of studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group 
experienced worsening of abscesses (23.0 % vs 11.4 %, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0 % vs 
13.9 %, respectively). 
Greater improvements at week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin 
specific health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; 
studies HS-I and HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medication treatment as measured by the 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire - medication (TSQM; studies HS-I and HS-II), and physical 
health as measured by the physical component summary score of the SF-36 (study HS-I). 
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at week 12, the HiSCR rate at 
week 36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in whom dosing 
frequency was reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn (see Table 20). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20 
Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at weeks 24 and 36 after 
treatment reassignment from weekly adalimumab at week 12 
Placebo 
(treatment withdrawal) 
N = 73 
24 (32.9%) 
22 (30.1%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
every other week 
N = 70 
36 (51.4%) 
28 (40.0%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
weekly 
N = 70 
40 (57.1%) 
39 (55.7%) 
Week 24 
Week 36 
a Patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after 12 weeks of treatment 
b Patients meeting protocol-specified criteria for loss of response or no improvement were required to 
discontinue from the studies and were counted as nonresponders 
Among patients who were at least partial responders at week 12, and who received continuous 
weekly adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at week 48 was 68.3% and at Week 96 was 65.1%. 
Longer term treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at week 12 in studies HS-I and HS-II, 
the HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly returned to levels similar 
to that observed before withdrawal (56.0  %). 
Crohn’s disease 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1,500 patients with moderately to 
severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥220 and ≤450) in 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, 
corticosteroids, and/or immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80 % of patients continued to 
receive at least one of these medications. 
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI <150) was evaluated in two studies, CD study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD study II (GAIN). In CD study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naive patients were 
randomised to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 
and 80 mg at week 2, 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2, and 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 
2. In CD study II, 325 patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were randomised 
to receive either 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 or placebo at weeks 0 and 2. The 
primary non-responders were excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were not further 
evaluated. 
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM). In CD study III, 
854 patients received open-label 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2. At week 4 patients were 
randomised to 40 mg every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 
56 weeks. Patients in clinical response (decrease in CDAI ≥70) at week 4 were stratified and analysed 
separately from those not in clinical response at week 4. Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 
8. 
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 21. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21 
Induction of clinical remission and response 
(Percent of patients) 
CD study I: infliximab naive patients 
Placebo 
N=74 
Adalimumab 
80/40 mg 
N=75 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=76 
Week 4 
CD study II: infliximab 
experienced patients 
Placebo 
N=166 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=159 
Clinical 
remission 
Clinical response 
(CR-100) 
12% 
24% 
24% 
37% 
36%* 
49%** 
7% 
25% 
21%* 
38%** 
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo 
*   p <0.001 
** p <0.01 
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by week 8 
and adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group. 
In CD study III, at week 4, 58 % (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in 
the primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at week 4, 48 % had been previously exposed to 
other TNF-antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 22. 
Clinical remission results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist 
exposure. 
Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with adalimumab 
compared with placebo at week 56. 
Table 22 
Maintenance of clinical remission and response 
(Percent of patients) 
Placebo 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every other week 
N=172 
40 %* 
52 %* 
3 % (2/66) 
N=170 
17 % 
27 % 
Week 26  
Clinical remission  
Clinical response (CR-100)  
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa  
Week 56 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100)  
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa  
*   p <0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
** p <0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
a   Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
N=172 
36 %* 
41 %* 
N=170 
12 % 
17 % 
19% (11/58)** 
29 % (17/58)* 
5 % (3/66) 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every week 
N=157 
47 %* 
52 %* 
15% (11/74)** 
N=157 
41 %* 
48 %* 
20 % (15/74)** 
Among patients who were not in response at week 4, 43 % of adalimumab maintenance patients 
responded by week 12 compared to 30 % of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that 
some patients who have not responded by week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy through 
week 12. Therapy continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses (see 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.2). 
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed 
through at least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy. 88 and 189 patients, respectively, 
continued to be in clinical remission. Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 
233 patients, respectively. 
Quality of life  
In CD study I and CD study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific 
inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at week 4 in patients 
randomised to adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at weeks 26 
and 56 in CD study III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo 
group. 
Ulcerative Colitis 
The safety and efficacy of multiple doses of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3) 
in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. 
In study UC-I, 390 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised to receive either placebo at weeks 
0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 followed by 80 mg at week 2, or 80 mg adalimumab at week 0 
followed by 40 mg at week 2. After week 2, patients in both adalimumab arms received 40 mg every 
other week. Clinical remission (defined as Mayo score ≤2 with no subscore >1) was assessed at week 
8. 
In study UC-II, 248 patients received 160 mg of adalimumab at week 0, 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg 
every other week thereafter, and 246 patients received placebo. Clinical results were assessed for 
induction of remission at week 8 and for maintenance of remission at week 52. 
Patients induced with 160/80 mg adalimumab achieved clinical remission versus placebo at week 8 in 
statistically significantly greater percentages in study UC-I (18 % vs. 9 % respectively, p=0.031) and 
study UC-II (17 % vs. 9 % respectively, p=0.019). In study UC-II, among those treated with 
adalimumab who were in remission at week 8, 21/41 (51 %) were in remission at week 52. 
Results from the overall UC-II study population are shown in Table 23. 
Table 23 
Response, remission and mucosal healing in study UC-II 
(Percent of patients) 
Week 52 
Clinical response  
Clinical remission  
Mucosal healing  
Steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 daysa  
Week 8 and 52  
Sustained response  
Sustained remission 
Sustained mucosal healing  
Placebo 
N=246 
18 % 
9 % 
15 % 
6 % 
(N=140) 
12 % 
4 % 
11 % 
Adalimumab  
40 mg every other 
week 
N=248 
30 %* 
17 %* 
25 %* 
13 %* 
(N=150) 
24 %** 
8 %* 
19 %* 
Clinical remission is Mayo score ≤2 with no subscore >1; 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical response is decrease from baseline in Mayo score ≥3 points and ≥30% plus a decrease in 
the rectal bleeding subscore [RBS] ≥1 or an absolute RBS of 0 or 1; 
*   p<0.05 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
** p<0.001 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
a    Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Of those patients who had a response at week 8, 47 % were in response, 29 % were in remission, 41 % 
had mucosal healing, and 20 % were in steroid-free remission for ≥90 days at week 52. 
Approximately 40% of patients in study UC-II had failed prior anti-TNF treatment with infliximab. 
The efficacy of adalimumab in those patients was reduced compared to that in anti-TNF naïve 
patients. Among patients who had failed prior anti-TNF treatment, week 52 remission was achieved by 
3 % on placebo and 10 % on adalimumab. 
Patients from studies UC-I and UC-II had the option to roll over into an open-label long-term 
extension study (UC III). Following 3 years of adalimumab therapy, 75 % (301/402) continued to be 
in clinical remission per partial Mayo score. 
Hospitalisation rates 
During 52 weeks of studies UC-I and UC-II, lower rates of all-cause hospitalisations and UC-related 
hospitalisations were observed for the adalimumab-treated arm compared to the placebo arm. The 
number of all cause hospitalisations in the adalimumab treatment group was 0.18 per patient year vs. 
0.26 per patient year in the placebo group and the corresponding figures for UC-related 
hospitalisations were 0.12 per patient year vs. 0.22 per patient year. 
Quality of life 
In study UC-II, treatment with adalimumab resulted in improvements in the Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ) score. 
Uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious 
intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two 
randomised, double- masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or 
adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after 
the initial dose. Concomitant stable doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted. 
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral 
prednisone at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of 
prednisone 60 mg/day at study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete 
corticosteroid discontinuation by week 15. 
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment 
(oral prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently 
underwent a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 19. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ´time to treatment failure´. Treatment failure was 
defined by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory 
retinal vascular lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best 
corrected visual acuity (BCVA). 
Patients who completed Studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue on 
study medication beyond Week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Response 
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment 
failure in patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (See Table 24). Both 
studies demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus 
placebo (see Figure 2). 
Table 24 
Time to treatment failure in Studies UV I and UV II 
P 
valueb 
N 
HRa 
CI 95% 
for HRa 
Analysis 
treatment 
Median time to 
failure (months) 
Failure 
N (%) 
Time to treatment failure at or after week 6 in study UV I 
Primary analysis (ITT) 
84 (78.5) 
107 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
60 (54.5) 
110 
Time to treatment failure at or after week 2 in study UV II 
Primary analysis (ITT) 
111 
Placebo 
115 
Adalimumab 
Note:  Treatment failure at or after week 6 (study UV I), or at or after week 2 (study UV II), was 
counted as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of 
dropping out. 
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor 
b 2-sided P value from log rank test 
c NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event 
61 (55.0) 
45 (39.1) 
- 
0.57 
- 
0.50 
8.3 
NEc 
3.0 
5.6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.39,0.84  0.004 
0.36,0.70  <0.001 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to treatment failure on or after week 6 
(Study UV I) or week 2 (Study UV II) 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of 
Events/Number at Risk). 
In study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were 
observed for each component of treatment failure. In study UV II, statistically significant differences 
were observed for visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of 
adalimumab. 
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of studies UV I and UV II, 
60 subjects were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to 
diabetic retinopathy, due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary 
analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74%) reached 78 weeks of 
open-label adalimumab treatment. Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3%) were in 
quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC cell grade ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a 
concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2%) were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA 
was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 88.6 % of the eyes at week 78. Data 
beyond Week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the number of enrolled subjects 
declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 18% discontinued 
due to adverse events, and 8 % due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment. 
Quality of Life 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical 
studies, using the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores 
with statistically significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental 
health, and total score in study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in study UV II. Vision 
related effects were not numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in study UVI and for 
colour vision, peripheral vision and near vision in study UV II. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment. Formation of anti-
adalimumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab. 
There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies and the 
occurrence of adverse events. 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with 
active polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA onset 
types (most frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended 
oligoarthritis). 
pJIA I 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
parallel-group study in 171 children (4-17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in 
phase (OL LI) patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX- 
treated. Patients who were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from 
MTX at least two weeks prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and or prednisone (≤ 0.2 mg /kg/day or 10 mg/day 
maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients received 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg adalimumab 
every other week for 16 weeks. The distribution of patients by age and minimum, median and 
maximum dose received during the OL LI phase is presented in Table 25. 
Table 25 
Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI phase 
Age group 
4 to 7 years 
8 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
Number of patients at baseline N (%)  Minimum, median and maximum 
31 (18.1) 
71 (41.5) 
69 (40.4) 
10, 20 and 25 mg 
20, 25 and 40 mg 
25, 40 and 40 mg 
Patients demonstrating a Paediatric ACR 30 response at week 16 were eligible to be randomised into 
the double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg, or 
placebo every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare criteria were 
defined as a worsening of ≥30% from baseline in ≥3 of 6 Paediatric ACR core criteria, ≥2 active 
joints, and improvement of >30% in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 32 weeks or at disease 
flare, patients were eligible to enrol into the open-label extension phase. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26 
Paed ACR 30 responses in the JIA study 
Stratum 
Phase 
MTX 
OL-LI 16 weeks 
Without MTX 
Ped ACR 30 response (n/N) 
94.1 % (80/85) 
74.4 % (64/86) 
Efficacy outcomes 
Double blind 32 weeks 
Adalimumab /MTX 
(N=38) 
Placebo / MTX 
(N=37) 
Adalimumab  
(N=30) 
Placebo 
(N=28) 
Disease flares at the end of 
32 weeksa (n/N) 
36.8 % (14/38) 
64.9 % (24/37)b  43.3 % (13/30)  71.4 % (20/28)c 
Median time to disease flare 
>32 weeks 
20 weeks 
>32 weeks 
14 weeks 
a Ped ACR 30/50/70 responses week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo treated patients 
b p = 0.015 
c p = 0.031 
Amongst those who responded at week 16 (n=144), the Paediatric ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 
maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout  the 
study. Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 12 and 8 of the baseline age 
group 13 to 17 years were treated 6 years or longer. 
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with 
the combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, adalimumab is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as 
monotherapy in patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2). 
pJIA II 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children 
(2 - <4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing <15 kg) with moderately to severely active 
polyarticular JIA. The patients received 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a 
maximum of 20 mg every other week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During 
the study, most subjects used concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or 
NSAIDs. 
At week 12 and week 24, PaedACR30 response was 93.5% and 90.0%, respectively, using the 
observed data approach. The proportions of subjects with PaedACR50/70/90 at week 12 and week 24 
were 90.3%/61.3%/38.7% and 83.3%/73.3%/36.7%, respectively. Amongst those who responded 
(Paediatric ACR 30) at week 24 (n=27 out of 30 patients), the Paediatric ACR 30 responses were 
maintained for up to 60 weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout this 
time period. Overall, 20 subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study 
in 46 paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were 
randomised to receive either 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg, or placebo every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-
label (OL) period during which patients received 24 mg/m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was 
the percent change from Baseline to week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
due to deformity or joints with loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with 
mean percent decrease of -62.6% (median percent change -88.9 %) in patients in the adalimumab 
group compared to -11.6% (median percent change -50.0 %) in patients in the placebo group. 
Improvement in number of active joints with arthritis was maintained during the OL period through 
week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84 %) patients in the adalimumab group who remained in the study. 
Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients demonstrated clinical improvement in 
secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint count (TJC), swollen joint count 
(SJC), Paediatric ACR 50 response, and Paediatric ACR 70 response. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 
114 paediatric patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a PGA 
≥4 or >20% BSA involvement or >10 % BSA involvement with very thick lesions or PASI ≥20 or ≥10 
with clinically relevant facial, genital, or hand/ foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled 
with topical therapy and heliotherapy or phototherapy. 
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other week (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg/kg every other week 
(up to 20 mg), or methotrexate 0.1 – 0.4 mg/kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At Week 16, more patients 
randomised to adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to 0.4 mg/kg every other week or MTX. 
Table 27 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks 
PASI 75b 
PGA: clear/minimalc 
MTXa 
N=37 
12 (32.4%) 
15 (40.5%) 
Adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other 
week 
N=38 
22 (57.9%) 
23 (60.5%) 
a MTX = methotrexate 
b P=0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
c P=0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 
36 weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades). 
Patients were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other week for an additional 16 weeks 
and response rates observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period: PASI 
75 response of 78.9 % (15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6 % (10 of 19 subjects). 
In the open-label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were maintained 
for up to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. Efficacy of adalimumab 
for the treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and 
exposure-response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, 
pathophysiology, and drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure 
levels. Safety of the recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on 
cross-indication safety profile of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more 
frequent doses (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weight (<40 kg or ≥40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, 
with moderate to severe Crohn´s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
(PCDAI) score >30. Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid 
and/or an immunomodulator) for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been 
intolerant to infliximab. 
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 
160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 for subjects ≥40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for 
subjects <40 kg. 
At week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low 
Dose or Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 28. 
Table 28 
Maintenance regimen 
Patient weight 
<40 kg 
≥40 kg 
Low dose 
10 mg every other week 
20 mg every other week 
Standard dose 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Efficacy results 
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at week 26, defined as PCDAI score ≤10. 
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points 
from Baseline) rates are presented in Table 29. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or 
immunomodulators are presented in Table 30. 
Table 29 
Paediatric CD study 
PCDAI clinical remission and response 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg every other 
week 
N=93 
Low dose 
20/10 mg every other 
week 
N=95 
Week 26 
Week 52 
38.7 % 
59.1 % 
33.3 % 
41.9 % 
28.4 % 
48.4 % 
23.2 % 
28.4 % 
P value* 
0.075 
0.073 
0.100 
0.038 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
* p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30 
Paediatric CD study 
Discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg every 
other week 
Low dose 
20/10 mg every 
other week 
P value1 
Discontinued corticosteroids 
N=33 
Week 26 
84.8 % 
Week 52 
69.7 % 
Discontinuation of immunomodulators2 
N=60 
Week 52 
30.0 % 
Fistula remission3 
N=15 
Week 26 
46.7 % 
40.0 % 
Week 52 
1 p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison 
2 Immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after week 26 at the investigator's 
discretion if the subject met the clinical response criterion 
3 Defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at Baseline for at least 2 consecutive post-
Baseline visits 
N=38 
65.8 % 
60.5 % 
N=57 
29.8 % 
N=21 
38.1 % 
23.8 % 
0.066 
0.420 
0.608 
0.303 
0.983 
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to week 26 and 52 in Body Mass Index 
and height velocity were observed for both treatment groups. 
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both 
treatment groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III). 
One hundred patients (n=100) from the Paediatric CD study continued in an open-label long-term 
extension study. After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0 % (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in 
the study continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0 % (46/50) of patients continued to be in 
clinical response per PCDAI. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, trial 
in 93 paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo 
score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who 
had an inadequate response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in 
the study had failed prior anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were 
allowed to taper their corticosteroid therapy after Week 4. 
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomised 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment 
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) 
at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. Both groups received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6. Following an amendment to the study design, 
the remaining 16 patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with 
adalimumab at the induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. 
At Week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a 
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomised equally to receive double-
blind maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every 
week (ew), or a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an amendment to the study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS 
were randomised to receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy. 
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at 
Week 8), at least 2 points (for patients with PMS of 3 to 4 at Week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients 
with PMS of 5 to 6 at Week 8). 
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after Week 12 were randomised to receive a re-
induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and 
continued to receive their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards. 
Efficacy Results  
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no 
individual subscore > 1) at Week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a 
Mayo Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at Week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response 
per PMS at Week 8. Clinical remission rates per PMS at Week 8 for patients in each of the 
adalimumab double-blind induction groups are presented in Table 31. 
Table 31 
Clinical remission per PMS at 8 weeks 
Clinical remission 
Adalimumabb, c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0 
and week 1 
N=47 
28/47 (59.6%) 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0/ 
Placebo at week 1 
N=30 
13/30 (43.3%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 
80 mg) at Week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 
and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoint 
At Week 52, clinical remission per FMS in Week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as 
a decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in Week 8 responders, mucosal 
healing (defined as Mayo endoscopy subscore ≤ 1) in Week 8 responders, clinical remission per FMS 
in Week 8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free remission per FMS in 
Week 8 responders were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the double-blind maximum 
40 mg every other week (0.6 mg/kg) and maximum 40 mg every week (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance doses 
(Table 32). 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 32 
Efficacy results at 52 weeks 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 40 mg every other 
week 
N=31 
Adalimumabb 
maximum of 40 mg every week 
N=31 
9/31 (29.0%) 
19/31 (61.3%) 
12/31 (38.7%) 
14/31 (45.2%) 
21/31 (67.7%) 
Clinical remission in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical response in week 8 
PMS responders 
Mucosal healing in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical remission in week 8 
PMS remitters 
Corticosteroid-free remission 
in week 8 PMS respondersc 
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
c In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline 
Note: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomised to receive re-induction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 endpoints 
10/22 (45.5%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
9/21 (42.9%) 
4/13 (30.8%) 
5/16 (31.3%) 
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative 
Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and 
clinical remission per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at Week 8 and Week 52 (Table 33). 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33 
Exploratory endpoints results per PUCAI 
Week 8 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0/ 
Placebo at week 1 
N=30 
Adalimumabb,c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0 
and week 1 
N=47 
Clinical remission per 
PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
10/30 (33.3%) 
15/30 (50.0%) 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Week 52 
Adalimumabd 
maximum of 40 mg every other 
week 
N=31 
Adalimumabe 
maximum of 40 mg every week 
N=31 
Clinical remission per 
PUCAI in week 8 PMS 
responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
in week 8 PMS responders 
14/31 (45.2%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 
80 mg) at Week 2 
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 
and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
d Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
e Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6 
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomised to receive reinduction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 endpoints 
Of the adalimumab-treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance 
period, 2/6 (33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at Week 52. 
Quality of life 
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab. 
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for the 
groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in 
Body Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 40 mg 
(0.6 mg/kg) every week. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-masked, controlled 
study of 90 paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated noninfectious 
anterior uveitis who were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment. Patients received 
either placebo or 20 mg adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week 
in combination with their baseline dose of methotrexate. 
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with 
development of sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
use of concomitant medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time. 
Clinical Response 
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (See Figure 3, 
P < 0.0001 from log rank test). The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for subjects 
treated with placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for subjects 
treated with adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment failure. 
Adalimumab significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75 % relative to placebo, as 
shown by the hazard ratio (HR = 0.25 [95 % CI: 0.12, 0.49]). 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to treatment failure in the paediatric uveitis 
study 
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
G
N
I
L
I
A
F
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
Treatment 
Note: P = Placebo (number at risk); H = adalimumab (number at risk). 
Placebo 
  Adalimumab 
TIME (WEEKS) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution 
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab 
was slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The 
average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg 
subcutaneous dose was 64 %. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, 
concentrations were dose proportional. After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase half-
life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from several 
rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96 % of those in serum. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 μg/ml 
(without concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 μg/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively. 
The serum adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose 
following 20, 40 and 80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough 
steady-state (values measured from week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 5.6 ± 
5.6 µg/ml (102 % CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 10.9 ± 5.2 µg/ml 
(47.7 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate. 
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to <4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing <15 kg 
dosed with adalimumab 24 mg/m2 , the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations 
was 6.0 ± 6.1 µg/ml (101% CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 7.9 ± 
5.6 µg/ml (71.2% CV) with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values 
measured at week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg/ml for adalimumab 
without concomitant methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg/ml with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult non-
radiographic axial spondyloarthritis patients, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state concentration at 
Week 68 was 8.0 ± 4.6 μg/ml. 
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 μg/ml during 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment. 
Following the administration of 0.8 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 μg/ml (79% CV). 
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 
80 mg on week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg/ml at 
week 2 and week 4. The mean steady-state trough concentration at week 12 through week 36 were 
approximately 8 to 10 μg/ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment. 
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). The recommended adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since 
exposure to adalimumab can be affected by body size, adolescents with higher body weight and 
inadequate response may benefit from receiving the recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 5.5 μg/ml 
during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 μg/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 μg/ml were observed 
in Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was 
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg. 
At week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg every other week) or 
Low Dose (20/10 mg every other week) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. 
The mean (±SD) serum adalimumab trough concentrations achieved at week 4 were 15.7±6.6 µg/ml 
for patients ≥40 kg (160/80 mg) and 10.6±6.1 µg/ml for patients <40 kg (80/40 mg). 
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (±SD) adalimumab trough 
concentrations at week 52 were 9.5±5.6 μg/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5±2.2 μg/ml for the 
Low Dose group. The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to 
receive adalimumab treatment every other week for 52 weeks. For patients who dose escalated from 
every other week to weekly regimen, the mean (±SD) serum concentrations of adalimumab at week 52 
were 15.3±11.4 μg/ml (40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7±3.5 μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly). 
In patients with ulcerative colitis, a loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 μg/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 8 μg/ml were observed 
in ulcerative colitis patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 
40 mg) every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state 
serum adalimumab concentration was 5.01±3.28 µg/ml at Week 52. For patients who received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab 
concentration was 15.7±5.60 μg/ml at Week 52. 
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week starting at week 1, resulted in mean steady-state concentrations of 
approximately 8 to 10 µg/ml. 
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). No clinical exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. 
The predicted exposures indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an 
initial increase in systemic exposure. 
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation 
predicted comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other 
week when compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, 
patients with adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC). 
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population 
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response 
relationship was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent 
adalimumab plasma concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 
response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml (95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml).  
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients 
with severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, 
respectively. PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab 
concentrations, both with a similar apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/ml (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 
1.9-10.5, respectively). 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight 
differences, gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance. The serum 
levels of free adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be 
lower in patients with measurable AAA. 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, 
repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg/kg (9-17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of 
harm to the foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment of 
fertility and postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate models 
for an antibody with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of neutralising 
antibodies in rodents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Histidine  
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Sorbitol 
Polysorbate 20  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
42 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).  
Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
A single Imraldi pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25°C for a period of up to 28 days. The syringe or pen must be protected from light, and discarded if 
not used within the 28-day period. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.8 ml solution for injection in single-use pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a stainless steel needle, 
a rigid needle shield, a rubber plunger (chlorobutyl), a plunger rod, a safe-shield body and a finger 
flange for patient use. 
Packs of: 
 
 
 
 
1 pre-filled syringe, with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes, each with 1 alcohol pad 
4 pre-filled syringes, each with 1 alcohol pad 
6 pre-filled syringes, each with 1 alcohol pad 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
0.8 ml solution for injection in single-use pre-filled pen for patient use containing a pre-filled syringe. 
The syringe inside the pen is made from type I glass with a stainless steel needle, a rigid needle shield, 
a rubber plunger (chlorobutyl). 
Packs of: 
 
 
 
 
1 pre-filled pen, with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled pens, each with 1 alcohol pad 
4 pre-filled pens, each with 1 alcohol pad 
6 pre-filled pens, each with 1 alcohol pad 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/17/1216/001 
EU/1/17/1216/002 
EU/1/17/1216/003 
EU/1/17/1216/004 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/17/1216/005 
EU/1/17/1216/006 
EU/1/17/1216/007 
EU/1/17/1216/008 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of first authorisation: 24 August 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 29 April 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
56 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg/0.8 ml solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each 0.8 ml single dose vial contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 20.0 mg sorbitol. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Imraldi in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or 
more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Imraldi can be given as monotherapy in 
case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate 
(for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged 
less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical 
therapy and phototherapies. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional systemic 
HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or 
have contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or 
have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional 
therapy, or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Imraldi treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Imraldi is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to 
consult with an appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Imraldi (see section 4.4). 
Patients treated with Imraldi should be given the Patient Reminder Card. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Imraldi if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary. 
During treatment with Imraldi, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised. 
Posology 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 
2 years of age is based on body weight (Table 1). Imraldi is administered every other week via 
subcutaneous injection. 
Table 1 Imraldi dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
Patient weight 
10 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is 
based on body weight (Table 2). Imraldi is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 2 Imraldi dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The recommended Imraldi dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 3). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 3 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
Initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 
20 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose 
Initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding within 
this time period. 
If retreatment with Imraldi is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration should be 
followed. 
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a mean of 
13 months. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg) 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS.  
The posology of adalimumab in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling 
and simulation (see section 5.2). 
The recommended Imraldi dose is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at 
week 1 via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week, an increase in 
dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered. 
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Imraldi if necessary. It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Imraldi. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Imraldi may be re-introduced as appropriate. 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data 
in section 5.1). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 4). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
Table 4 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease 
Induction dose 
•  40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of the 
higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
•  80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
•  80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
Maintenance 
dose 
starting at 
week 4 
20 mg every 
other week 
≥ 40 kg 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of the 
higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
•  160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 
40 mg every 
other week 
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dose: 
  < 40 kg: 20 mg every week 
  ≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by week 12. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged below 6 years for this indication. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is based 
on body weight (Table 5). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 5 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
Induction dose 
•  80 mg at week 0 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) and 
•  40 mg at week 2 (given as one 40 mg 
injection) 
•  160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days) and 
•  80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4* 
•  40 mg every other week 
•  80 mg every other week 
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Imraldi should continue their prescribed 
maintenance dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of 
response within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of Imraldi in children aged less than 6 years in this indication.  
Imraldi may be available in different strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual 
treatment needs. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 6). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant 
treatment with methotrexate. 
Table 6 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with uveitis 
Patient weight 
< 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
When Imraldi therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for 
patients ≥ 30 kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No 
clinical data are available on the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age 
(see section 5.2). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 2 years in this indication. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on 
a yearly basis (see section 5.1). 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Imraldi has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be made. 
Method of administration  
Imraldi is administered by subcutaneous injection. Full instructions for use are provided in the 
package leaflet. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A 40 mg pre-filled pen and a 40 mg pre-filled syringe are also available for patients to administer a 
full 40 mg dose. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections (see section 
4.4). 
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function 
may increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for 
infections, including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Imraldi. Because the 
elimination of adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout 
this period. 
Treatment with Imraldi should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis 
and patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Imraldi 
should be considered prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections). 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Imraldi, should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Imraldi should be 
discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or 
antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. Physicians should exercise 
caution when considering the use of Imraldi in patients with a history of recurring infection or with 
underlying conditions which may predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant 
immunosuppressive medications. 
Serious infections 
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or 
other opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported. 
Tuberculosis 
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients 
receiving adalimumab. Reports included cases of pulmonary and extra-pulmonary (i.e. disseminated) 
tuberculosis. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before initiation of therapy with Imraldi, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection. This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of 
patient history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and 
previous and/or current immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin 
test and chest X-ray) should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is 
recommended that the conduct and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card. 
Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients 
who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Imraldi therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully 
considered. 
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
prophylaxis treatment before the initiation of Imraldi, and in accordance with local recommendations. 
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of 
Imraldi in patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for 
tuberculosis and in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed. 
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in 
patients treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active 
tuberculosis have redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis 
infection (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or 
after therapy with Imraldi. 
Other opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients receiving 
adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking TNF-
antagonists and this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in fatal 
outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, cough, 
dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without concomitant 
shock an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Imraldi should be 
promptly discontinued. Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in these patients 
should be made in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of patients with invasive 
fungal infections. 
Hepatitis B reactivation  
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including adalimumab, 
who are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive). Some cases have had a fatal 
outcome. Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Imraldi. For 
patients who test positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the 
treatment of hepatitis B is recommended. 
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Imraldi should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of therapy. Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral therapy in 
conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. In patients 
who develop HBV reactivation, Imraldi should be stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with 
appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Neurological events  
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating 
disease, including Guillain-Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use 
of Imraldi in patients with pre-existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system 
demyelinating disorders; discontinuation of Imraldi should be considered if any of these disorders 
develop. There is a known association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating 
disorders. Neurologic evaluation should be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate 
uveitis prior to the initiation of Imraldi therapy and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-
existing or developing central demyelinating disorders. 
Allergic reactions 
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious 
allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of 
serious allergic reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab 
administration. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of 
Imraldi should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated. 
Immunosuppression 
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no 
evidence of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or 
change in enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control 
patients. However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of leukaemia have 
been reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for 
lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates the risk estimation. With 
 the current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia, and other 
malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), including 
adalimumab in the post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated 
with adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is 
usually fatal. Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in 
young adult patients on concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for 
inflammatory bowel disease. The potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mercaptopurine and adalimumab should be carefully considered. A risk for the development of 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Imraldi cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom 
treatment with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy. Thus, additional 
caution should be exercised in considering adalimumab treatment of these patients (see section 4.8). 
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy 
or psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non-
melanoma skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Imraldi. Melanoma and Merkel cell 
carcinoma have also been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab 
(see section 4.8). 
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients 
with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly in 
the lung or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control patients. 
All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using any 
TNF-antagonist in COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to 
heavy smoking. 
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia 
or colon cancer. All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon 
carcinoma (for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing 
cholangitis), or who had a prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for 
dysplasia at regular intervals before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation 
should include colonoscopy and biopsies per local recommendations. 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. 
Adverse events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to 
seek immediate medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias 
(e.g. persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor) while on Imraldi. Discontinuation of Imraldi therapy 
should be considered in patients with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Vaccinations 
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza trivalent 
virus vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were 
treated with adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection 
by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating adalimumab therapy. 
Patients on adalimumab may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration 
of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended 
for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Congestive heart failure  
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased 
mortality due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart 
failure have also been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Imraldi should be used with caution 
in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Imraldi is contraindicated in moderate to severe 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
heart failure (see section 4.3). Treatment with Imraldi must be discontinued in patients who develop 
new or worsening symptoms of congestive heart failure. 
Autoimmune processes  
Treatment with Imraldi may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-
term treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient 
develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Imraldi and is 
positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Imraldi should not be 
given (see section 4.8). 
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists  
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another TNF-
antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of the 
nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar 
toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the 
combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended. (See section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and 
abatacept) or other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. (See section 
4.5). 
Surgery 
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The 
long half-life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned. A 
patient who requires surgery while on Imraldi should be closely monitored for infections, and 
appropriate actions should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing 
arthroplasty while receiving adalimumab. 
Small bowel obstruction 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic stricture 
that may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not worsen or cause 
strictures. 
Elderly 
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab treated subjects over 65 years of age (3.7%) 
was higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5%). Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular 
attention regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
See Vaccinations above. 
Excipients with known effects 
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 20 mg sorbitol in each vial. Patients with hereditary fructose 
intolerance (HFI) should not take this medicinal product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant 
methotrexate. Antibody formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate 
in comparison with use as monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted 
in increased formation of antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see 
section 5.1). 
The combination of Imraldi and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
The combination of Imraldi and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least five months after the last Imraldi treatment. 
Pregnancy  
A large number (approximately 2,100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to adalimumab 
resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1,500 exposed during the first 
trimester, does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn. 
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) 
treated with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated 
with adalimumab were enrolled. The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth defects. 
The rate of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect was 6/69 
(8.7 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8 %) in the untreated women with RA 
(unadjusted OR 1.31, 95 % CI 0.38-4.52) and 16/152 (10.5 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with 
CD and 3/32 (9.4 %) in the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 95 % CI 0.31-4.16). The 
adjusted OR (accounting for baseline differences) was 1.10 (95 % CI 0.45-2.73) with RA and CD 
combined. There were no distinct differences between adalimumab-treated and untreated women for 
the secondary endpoints spontaneous abortions, minor birth defects, preterm delivery, birth size and 
serious or opportunistic infections and no stillbirths or malignancies were reported. The interpretation 
of data may be impacted due to methodological limitations of the study, including small sample size 
and non-randomised design. 
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available 
(see section 5.3). 
Due to its inhibition of TNFα, adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal 
immune responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly 
needed. 
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with adalimumab 
during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. Administration 
of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended 
for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk 
at very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1 % 
to 1 % of the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal 
proteolysis and have poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. 
Consequently, adalimumab can be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Imraldi (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open-label trials for up to 
60 months or more. These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long 
standing disease, juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-
related arthritis) as well as axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS), psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, and uveitis patients. The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients 
receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving placebo or active comparator during the controlled 
period. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9 % for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4 % for control 
treated patients. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain 
or swelling), headache and musculoskeletal pain. 
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab 
affect the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defense against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV 
reactivation and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been 
reported with use of adalimumab. 
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events 
and reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Paediatric population  
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen in 
adult patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience and are displayed by system organ class and frequency in Table 7 below: 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 
to <1/1,000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The highest frequency 
seen among the various indications has been included. An asterisk (*) appears in the System Organ 
Class (SOC) column if further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
System organ class 
Infections  and 
infestations* 
Frequency 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts and 
polyps)* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Blood and the 
lymphatic system 
disorders* 
Very 
common 
Common 
Immune system 
disorders* 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Table 7 
Undesirable effects 
Adverse  reaction 
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and upper 
respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, sinusitis, 
pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and pneumonia herpes viral) 
Systemic infections (including sepsis, candidiasis and 
influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including paronychia, 
cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral herpes and 
tooth infections), 
reproductive tract infections (including vulvovaginal 
mycotic infection), 
urinary tract infections (including pyelonephritis), 
fungal infections, 
joint infections 
Neurological infections (including viral meningitis), 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis (including 
coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis and mycobacterium 
avium complex infection), 
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, 
diverticulitis1) 
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma), 
benign neoplasm 
Lymphoma**, 
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, lung 
neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm), 
melanoma** 
Leukaemia1) 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1), 
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine carcinoma of the 
skin)1), Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Leukopenia (including neutropenia and agranulocytosis), 
anaemia 
Leukocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity, 
allergies (including seasonal allergy) 
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis 
Anaphylaxis1) 
69 
 
 
System organ class 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Frequency 
Very 
common 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders  Common 
Nervous system 
disorders* 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders* 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Common 
Adverse  reaction 
Lipids increased 
Hypokalaemia, 
uric acid increased, 
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphatemia, 
dehydration 
Mood alterations (including depression), 
anxiety, 
insomnia 
Headache 
Paraesthesias (including hypoesthesia), 
migraine, 
nerve root compression 
Cerebrovascular accident1), 
tremor, 
neuropathy 
Multiple sclerosis, 
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, Guillain-Barré 
syndrome)1) 
Visual impairment, 
conjunctivitis, 
blepharitis, 
eye swelling 
Diplopia 
Vertigo 
Deafness, 
tinnitus 
Tachycardia 
Myocardial infarction1), 
arrhythmia, 
congestive heart failure 
Cardiac arrest 
Hypertension, 
flushing, 
haematoma 
Aortic aneurysm, 
vascular arterial occlusion, 
thrombophlebitis 
Asthma, 
dyspnoea, 
cough 
Pulmonary embolism1), 
interstitial lung disease, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion1) 
Pulmonary fibrosis1) 
Abdominal pain, 
nausea and vomiting 
GI haemorrhage, 
dyspepsia, 
70 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse  reaction 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders* 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions* 
Investigations* 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
sicca syndrome 
Pancreatitis, 
dysphagia, 
face oedema 
Intestinal perforation1) 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, 
hepatic steatosis, 
bilirubin increased 
Hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B1) 
autoimmune hepatitis1) 
Liver failure1) 
Rash (including exfoliative rash) 
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including 
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1), 
urticaria, 
bruising (including purpura), 
dermatitis (including eczema), 
onychoclasis, 
hyperhidrosis, 
alopecia1), 
pruritus 
Night sweats, 
scar 
Erythema multiforme1), 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1), 
angioedema1), 
cutaneous vasculitis1)  
lichenoid skin reaction1) 
Not Known  Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1) 
Very 
common 
Common 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased) 
Rhabdomyolysis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Lupus-like syndrome1) 
Renal impairment, 
haematuria 
Nocturia 
Erectile dysfunction 
Injection site reaction (including injection site erythema) 
Chest pain, 
oedema, 
pyrexia1) 
Inflammation 
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including activated 
partial thromboplastin time prolonged), 
71 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Not known 
Common 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
Adverse  reaction 
autoantibody test positive (including double stranded DNA 
antibody), 
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Weight increased2) 
Impaired healing 
* further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
** including open-label extension studies 
1) including spontaneous reporting data 
2) The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across adult 
indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 months. 
Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean exposures 
of approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated with the anti-
inflammatory effect of adalimumab. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the 
known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Uveitis 
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent 
with the known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab 
developed injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared 
to 7.2 % of patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not 
necessitate discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
Infections 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in 
the adalimumab treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated 
patients. The infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and 
sinusitis. Most patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved. 
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab treated patients and 0.03 
per patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients. 
In controlled and open-label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections 
(including fatal infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of 
tuberculosis (including miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections 
(e.g. disseminated or extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred 
within the first eight months after initiation of therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders  
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 192 paediatric 
patients with an exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in paediatric patients with 
Crohn’s disease. No malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients with an exposure of 
80.0 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. No 
malignancies were observed in 93 paediatric patients with an exposure of 65.3 patient years during an 
adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis. No malignancies were observed in 
60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric 
patients with uveitis. 
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration in 
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and 
non-melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5) per 
1,000 patient-years among 5,291 adalimumab treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 
patient-years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for 
adalimumab and 3.8 months for control-treated patients). The rate (95% confidence interval) of non-
melanoma skin cancers was 8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients 
and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell 
carcinomas occurred at rates (95% confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient-years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. The rate 
(95 % confidence interval) of lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient-years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. 
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open-label extension 
studies with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 
26,439 patient-years of therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-
melanoma skin cancers is approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-
melanoma skin cancers is approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of 
lymphomas is approximately 1.3 per 1,000 patient-years. 
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient treatment 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 
0.3 per 1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated 
with adalimumab (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis 
studies I − V. In these trials, 11.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1% of placebo and 
active control − treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported 
positive titres at week 24. Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid 
arthritis and psoriatic arthritis studies developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like 
syndrome. The patients improved following discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus 
nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. 
Hepato-biliary events 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
with a control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 ×ULN occurred in 
3.7 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6 % of control-treated patients. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥3 × 
ULN occurred in 6.1 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3 % of control-treated patients. Most 
ALT elevations occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred 
in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who were 
2 to <4 years.  
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis with 
a control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 0.9% of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.9 % of controlled-treated patients.  
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated 
efficacy and safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight 
adjusted induction therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 2.6 % 
(5/192) of patients of whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline.  
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis with a control period 
duration ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 1.8% of adalimumab-
treated patients and 1.8 % of control-treated patients.  
No ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients with 
plaque psoriasis.  
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2, followed 
by 40 mg every week starting at week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control 
period duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 0.3 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 % of control-treated patients. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week 
starting at week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 166.5 days and 
105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN 
occurred in 2.4 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4 % of control-treated patients. 
In the controlled Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) 
which evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every 
other week (N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every Week (N=32), 
following body weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and 
Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg 
(maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
(N=30), ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of patients. 
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment. However, there have also been post-
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, 
such as hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab. 
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine 
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse 
events were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared 
with adalimumab alone. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has 
been multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended 
dose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors. 
ATC code: L04AB04 
Imraldi is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including 
changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, 
and ICAM-1 with an IC50 of 0.1-0.2 nM). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation 
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab 
usually experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation. 
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with 
adalimumab. In patients with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing 
inflammatory markers in the colon including a significant reduction of expression of TNFα was seen. 
Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab 
treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Adults with rheumatoid arthritis 
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The 
efficacy and safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-controlled 
studies. Some patients were treated for up to 120 months duration. 
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drug and had 
insufficient efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) 
every week and whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20, 
40 or 80 mg of adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs. Doses 
of 20 or 40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo 
on alternative weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same 
duration. No other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed. 
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have 
been intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study. The first 
received placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab 
every week for 52 weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with 
placebo injections on alternate weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in 
an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other 
week up to 10 years. 
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were ≥ 18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-
rheumatic drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy 
was stable for a minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, 
hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate 
of progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the first 
104 weeks, 497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab was 
administered every other week up to 10 years. 
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percent of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percent of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at week 52. RA studies III and 
V had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by 
X-ray results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. 
ACR response 
The percent of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in 
Table 8. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
ACR responses in placebo controlled trials 
(Percent of patients) 
Response 
RA study Ia** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
N=60 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
N=63 
RA study IIa** 
Placebo 
Adalimumabb 
N=110 
N=113 
RA study IIIa** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
N=200 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
N=207 
6.7% 
- 
52.4% 
- 
65.1% 
- 
19.1% 
- 
13.3% 
- 
46.0% 
- 
29.5% 
24.0% 
ACR 20 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 50 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 70 
6 months 
12 months 
a  RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks 
b  40 mg adalimumab administered every other week 
c  MTX = methotrexate 
**p <0.01, adalimumab versus placebo 
- Not applicable 
12.4% 
- 
23.8% 
- 
22.1% 
- 
2.5% 
4.5% 
9.5% 
9.5% 
8.2% 
- 
1.8% 
- 
3.3% 
- 
63.3% 
58.9% 
39.1% 
41.5% 
20.8% 
23.2% 
In RA studies I-IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and 
swollen joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index (HAQ) 
scores and CRP (mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA study III, 
these improvements were maintained throughout 52 weeks. 
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained 
response when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. 
Among those, 86 patients (75.4 %) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2 %) had ACR 50 
responses; and 41 patients (36 %) had ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0 %) had ACR 20 
responses; 56 patients (69.1 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 43 patients (53.1 %) had ACR 70 
responses. 
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care was 
statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care (p <0.001). 
In RA studies I-IV, adalimumab -treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 
responses compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment. 
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination 
therapy with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52 and responses were sustained at 
week 104 (see Table 9). 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Response 
ACR 20 
52 week 
104 week 
ACR 50 
52 week 
104 week 
ACR 70 
Table 9 
ACR responses in RA study V 
(Percent of patients) 
MTX 
Adalimumab 
N=257 
N=274 
Adalimumab/ 
MTX 
N=268 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
62.6% 
56.0% 
45.9% 
42.8% 
54.4% 
49.3% 
41.2% 
36.9% 
72.8% 
69.4% 
61.6% 
59.0% 
0.013 
0.002 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.043 
0.140 
0.317 
0.162 
0.656 
0.864 
27.2% 
28.4% 
45.5% 
46.6% 
25.9% 
52 week 
28.1% 
104 week 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.  
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test  
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed for 
up to 10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
170 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 
patients (90.6 %) had ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 
patients (60.0 %) had ACR 70 responses. 
At week 52, 42.9 % of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy achieved 
clinical remission (DAS28 <2.6) compared to 20.6 % of patients receiving methotrexate monotherapy 
and 23.4 % of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. Adalimumab/methotrexate combination 
therapy was clinically and statistically superior to methotrexate (p <0.001) and adalimumab 
monotherapy (p <0.001) in achieving a low disease state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate 
to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The response for the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447). Of 
342 subjects originally randomised to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy who entered the open-label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of 
adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 subjects (63.7 %) were reported to be in remission at 
10 years. 
Radiographic response  
In RA study III, where adalimumab treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as 
change in modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space 
narrowing score. Adalimumab /methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic 
progression than patients receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 10). 
In the open-label extension of RA study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage is 
maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally treated 
with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 patients 
showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or 
less. At 10 years, 79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were 
evaluated radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural damage 
defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10 
Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA study III 
Placebo/MTXa 
Adalimumab/MTX 
40 mg every other 
week 
Total sharp score 
Erosion score 
JSNd score 
2.7 
1.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
Placebo/MTX- 
Adalimumab/MTX 
(95% confidence 
intervalb) 
2.6 (1.4, 3.8) 
1.6 (0.9, 2.2) 
0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 
p-value 
<0.001c 
<0.001 
0.002 
a methotrexate 
b 95 % confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and 
adalimumab.  
c Based on rank analysis 
d Joint Space Narrowing 
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified Total Sharp Score (see Table 11). 
Table 11 
Radiographic mean changes at week 52 in RA study V 
MTX 
N=257 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab  
N=274 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
N=268 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
Total sharp 
score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
5.7 (4.2-7.3) 
3.0 (1.7-4.3) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
<0.001 
0.0020 
<0.001 
3.7 (2.7-4.7) 
2.0 (1.2-2.8) 
1.7 (1.0-2.4) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
0.8 (0.4-1.2) 
0.5 (0-1.0) 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.0082 
0.0037 
<0.001 
0.151 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy 
using the Mann-Whitney U test 
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression 
(change from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score ≤0.5) was significantly higher with 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy (63.8 % and 61.2 % respectively) compared to 
methotrexate monotherapy (37.4 % and 33.5 % respectively, p <0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy 
(50.7 %, p <0.002 and 44.5 %, p <0.001 respectively).  
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified 
Total Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate 
monotherapy, adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, 
respectively. The corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 31.3 %, 
23.7 % and 36.7 % respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, 
which was a pre-specified primary endpoint at week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
index of the HAQ from baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was 
seen at week 52. Results from the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies support these findings, with statistically significant physical component 
summary (PCS) scores, as well as statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 
40 mg every other week dose. A statistically significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional 
assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) scores was seen in all three studies in which it was 
assessed (RA studies I, III, IV). 
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued 
treatment maintained improvement through week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. 
Improvement in quality of life was measured up to week 156 (36 months) and improvement was 
maintained through that time. 
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p <0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52, which was maintained through 
week 104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in 
physical function were maintained through 10 years of treatment. 
Adult plaque psoriasis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis 
(≥10% BSA involvement and PASI ≥12 or ≥10) who were candidates for systemic therapy or 
phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73% of patients enrolled in Psoriasis studies I and II 
had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy. The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were also 
studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis with concomitant hand 
and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a randomised double-blind study 
(Psoriasis study III). 
Psoriasis study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods. In period A, 
patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least 
a PASI 75 response (PASI score improvement of at least 75 % relative to baseline), entered period B 
and received open-label 40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained ≥PASI 75 
response at week 33 and were originally randomised to active therapy in Period A, were re-
randomised in period C to receive 40 mg adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 
19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline PGA 
score ranged from “moderate” (53 % of subjects included) to “severe” (41 %) to “very severe” (6 %). 
Psoriasis study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus methotrexate 
and placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg and thereafter 
dose increases up to week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab 
followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 16 weeks. There are 
no data available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. Patients receiving 
MTX who achieved a ≥PASI 50 response at week 8 and/or 12 did not receive further dose increases. 
Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the baseline PGA score 
ranged from “mild” (<1%) to “moderate” (48%) to “severe” (46%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open-
label extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks. 
In Psoriasis studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a PASI 
75 response from baseline at week 16 (see Tables 12 and 13). 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
Ps study I (REVEAL) - efficacy results at 16 weeks 
≥ PASI 75a 
PASI 100 
PGA: clear/minimal 
Placebo 
N=398 
n (%) 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
17 (4.3) 
Adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week 
N=814 
n (%) 
578 (70.9)b 
163 (20.0)b 
506 (62.2)b 
a Percent of patients achieving PASI 75 response was calculated as centre-adjusted rate 
b p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
Table 13 
Ps study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks 
Placebo 
N=53 
n (%) 
10 (18.9) 
1 (1.9) 
6 (11.3) 
MTX 
N=110 
n (%) 
39 (35.5) 
8 (7.3) 
33 (30.0) 
Adalimumab  
40 mg every other 
week 
N=108 
n (%) 
86 (79.6)a, b 
18 (16.7)c, d 
79 (73.1)a, b 
≥ PASI 75 
PASI 100 
PGA: clear/minimal 
a p<0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo 
b p<0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
c p<0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo 
d p<0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
In Psoriasis study I, 28 % of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to 
placebo at week 33 compared to 5 % continuing on adalimumab, p<0.001, experienced “loss of 
adequate response” (PASI score after week 33 and on or before week 52 that resulted in a <PASI 50 
response relative to baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to week 33). 
Of the patients who lost adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled into 
the open-label extension trial, 38 % (25/66) and 55 % (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 12 and 
24 weeks of re-treatment, respectively. 
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at week 16 and week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy 
for 52 weeks in Psoriasis study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial. PASI 75 
and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7 % and 59.0 %, respectively, 
after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all 
patients who dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, 
were considered non-responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these 
patients were 69.6 % and 55.7 %, respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy 
(total of 160 weeks). 
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open-
label extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a 
median time to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of 
these patients experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5% (218/285) of 
patients who entered the retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 
weeks of retreatment, irrespective of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1 %[123/178] and 
88.8 % [95/107] for patients who relapsed and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, 
respectively). A similar safety profile was observed during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (studies I and II) and MTX 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(study II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In study I, improvements 
in the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also significant compared to 
placebo.  
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 
40 mg weekly due to a PASI response below 50 %, 26.4 % (92/349) and 37.8 % (132/349) of patients 
achieved PASI 75 response at week 12 and 24, respectively. 
Psoriasis study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 
72 patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients 
received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week 
after the initial dose) or placebo for 16 weeks. At week 16, a statistically significantly greater 
proportion of patients who received adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the hands 
and/or feet compared to patients who received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3%, respectively [p = 0.014]). 
Psoriasis study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients 
with moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed 
by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks followed 
by open-label adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments included 
the Modified Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of 
Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 14). 
Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin 
involvement (BSA≥10 % (60 % of patients) and BSA<10 % and ≥5 % (40 % of patients)). 
Table 14 
Ps study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks 
Week 16 
Placebo-controlled 
Week 26 
Placebo-controlled 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=109 
26.0a 
29.7a 
Placebo 
N=108 
3.4 
6.9 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=109 
46.6a 
48.9a 
Week 52 
Open-label 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=80 
65.0 
61.3 
-44.2a 
-11.5 
-56.2a 
-72.2 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
N=108 
2.9 
2.9 
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%) 
PGA-F clear/minimal 
and ≥2-grade 
improvement (%) 
Percent change in 
total fingernail NAPSI 
(%) 
a p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
-7.8 
Adalimumab treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at week 26 compared with 
placebo in the DLQI. 
Adult hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 3-
month trial of systemic antibiotic therapy. The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or III 
disease with at least 3 abscesses or inflammatory nodules. 
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods. In Period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2, and 40 mg 
every week starting at week 4 to week 11. Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the 
study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, or placebo from week 12 to week 35). Patients who had been randomised to 
placebo in Period A were assigned to receive adalimumab 40 mg every week in Period B. 
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods. In Period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 and 
40 mg every week starting at week 4 to week 11. 19.3 % of patients had continued baseline oral 
antibiotic therapy during the study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab 
in Period A were re-randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every 
week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from week 12 to week 35). Patients who had 
been randomised to placebo in Period A were assigned to receive placebo in Period B.  
Patients participating in studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension 
study in which adalimumab 40 mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab 
population was 762 days. Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily. 
Clinical Response 
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas was 
assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50 % reduction in total 
abscess and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining 
fistula count relative to Baseline). Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a Numeric 
Rating Scale in patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater on a 
11 point scale. 
At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo 
achieved HiSCR. At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in study HS-II experienced 
a clinically relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see Table 15). Patients treated with adalimumab 
had significantly reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of treatment. 
Table 15 
Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS studies I and II 
HS study I 
HS study II 
Placebo 
Adalimumab  
40 mg weekly 
Placebo 
Adalimumab  
40 mg weekly 
N=154 
40 (26.0%) 
N=153 
64 (41.8%) * 
Hidradenitis 
Suppurativa clinical 
response (HiSCR)a 
≥ 30% reduction in 
skin painb 
* p<0.05, ***p<0.001, adalimumab versus placebo 
a Among all randomised patients 
b Among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric Rating Scale 0 
– 10; 0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine 
N=105 
48 (45.7%) *** 
N=163 
96 (58.9%) *** 
N=109 
27 (24.8%) 
N=111 
23 (20.7%) 
N=122 
34 (27.9%) 
N=163 
45 (27.6%) 
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of 
abscesses and draining fistulas. Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group in 
the first 12 weeks of studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group 
experienced worsening of abscesses (23.0 % vs 11.4 %, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0 % vs 
13.9 %, respectively). 
Greater improvements at week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin 
specific health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; 
studies HS-I and HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medication treatment as measured by the 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire - medication (TSQM; studies HS-I and HS-II), and physical 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
health as measured by the physical component summary score of the SF-36 (study HS-I). 
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at week 12, the HiSCR rate at 
week 36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in whom dosing 
frequency was reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn (see Table 16). 
Table 16 
Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at weeks 24 and 36 after 
treatment reassignment from weekly adalimumab at week 12 
Placebo 
(treatment withdrawal) 
N = 73 
24 (32.9%) 
22 (30.1%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
every other week 
N = 70 
36 (51.4%) 
28 (40.0%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
weekly 
N = 70 
40 (57.1%) 
39 (55.7%) 
Week 24 
Week 36 
a Patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after 12 weeks of treatment 
b Patients meeting protocol-specified criteria for loss of response or no improvement were required to 
discontinue from the studies and were counted as nonresponders 
Among patients who were at least partial responders at week 12, and who received continuous 
weekly adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at week 48 was 68.3% and at Week 96 was 65.1%. 
Longer term treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at week 12 in studies HS-I and HS-II, 
the HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly returned to levels similar 
to that observed before withdrawal (56.0 %). 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1,500 patients with moderately to 
severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥220 and ≤450) in 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, 
corticosteroids, and/or immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80 % of patients continued to 
receive at least one of these medications. 
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI <150) was evaluated in two studies, CD study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD study II (GAIN). In CD study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naive patients were 
randomised to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 
and 80 mg at week 2, 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2, and 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 
2. In CD study II, 325 patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were randomised 
to receive either 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 or placebo at weeks 0 and 2. The 
primary non-responders were excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were not further 
evaluated. 
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM). In CD study III, 
854 patients received open-label 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2. At week 4 patients were 
randomised to 40 mg every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 
56 weeks. Patients in clinical response (decrease in CDAI ≥70) at week 4 were stratified and analysed 
separately from those not in clinical response at week 4. Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 
8. 
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 17. 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 
Induction of clinical remission and response 
(Percent of patients) 
CD study I: infliximab naive patients 
Placebo 
N=74 
Adalimumab 
80/40 mg 
N=75 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=76 
Week 4 
CD study II: infliximab 
experienced patients 
Placebo 
N=166 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=159 
Clinical 
remission 
Clinical response 
(CR-100) 
12% 
24% 
24% 
37% 
36%* 
49%** 
7% 
25% 
21%* 
38%** 
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo 
*   p <0.001 
** p <0.01 
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by week 8 
and adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group. 
In CD study III, at week 4, 58 % (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in 
the primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at week 4, 48 % had been previously exposed to 
other TNF-antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 18. 
Clinical remission results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist 
exposure. 
Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with adalimumab 
compared with placebo at week 56. 
Table 18 
Maintenance of clinical remission and response 
(Percent of patients) 
Placebo 
40 mg 
adalimumab every 
other week 
N=172 
40 %* 
52 %* 
40 mg 
adalimumab every 
week 
N=157 
47 %* 
52 %* 
3 % (2/66) 
N=170 
17 % 
27 % 
Week 26  
Clinical remission  
Clinical response (CR-100)  
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa  
Week 56 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100)  
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa  
*   p <0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
** p <0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
a   Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
N=170 
12 % 
17 % 
N=172 
36 %* 
41 %* 
19% (11/58)** 
29 % (17/58)* 
5 % (3/66) 
15% (11/74)** 
N=157 
41 %* 
48 %* 
20 % (15/74)** 
Among patients who were not in response at week 4, 43 % of adalimumab maintenance patients 
responded by week 12 compared to 30 % of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that 
some patients who have not responded by week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy through 
week 12. Therapy continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses (see 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.2). 
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed 
through at least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy. 88 and 189 patients, respectively, 
continued to be in clinical remission. Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 
233 patients, respectively. 
Quality of life  
In CD study I and CD study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific 
inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at week 4 in patients 
randomised to adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at weeks 26 
and 56 in CD study III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo 
group. 
Adult Uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious 
intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two 
randomised, double- masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or 
adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after 
the initial dose. Concomitant stable doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted. 
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral 
prednisone at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of 
prednisone 60 mg/day at study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete 
corticosteroid discontinuation by week 15. 
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment 
(oral prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently 
underwent a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 19. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ´time to treatment failure´. Treatment failure was 
defined by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory 
retinal vascular lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best 
corrected visual acuity (BCVA). 
Patients who completed Studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enrol in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue on 
study medication beyond Week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
Clinical Response 
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment 
failure in patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (See Table 19). Both 
studies demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus 
placebo (see Figure 1). 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  19 
Time to treatment failure in studies UV I and UV II 
Analysis 
treatment 
N 
Failure N 
(%) 
Median time to failure 
(months) 
HRa 
CI 95% 
for HRa 
p 
valueb 
Time to treatment failure at or after week 6 in study UV I 
Primary analysis (ITT) 
107 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
110 
Time to treatment failure at or after week 2 in study UV II 
Primary analysis (ITT) 
111 
Placebo 
115 
Adalimumab 
84 (78.5) 
60 (54.5) 
61 (55.0) 
45 (39.1) 
8.3 
NEc 
3.0 
5.6 
- 
0.50 
- 
- 
0.36,0.70  <0.001 
- 
0.57 
- 
0.39,0.84 
- 
0.004 
Note: Treatment failure at or after week 6 (study UV I), or at or after week 2 (study UV II), was 
counted as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of 
dropping out. 
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor 
b 2-sided P value from log rank test 
c NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event 
87 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to treatment failure on or after week 6 
(Study UV I) or week 2 (Study UV II) 
Note: P# = Placebo (number of events/number at risk); A# = adalimumab (number of events/number at 
risk). 
In study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were 
observed for each component of treatment failure. In study UV II, statistically significant differences 
were observed for visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of 
adalimumab. 
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of studies UV I and UV II, 
60 subjects were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to 
diabetic retinopathy, due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary 
analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74%) reached 78 weeks of 
open-label adalimumab treatment. Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3%) were in 
quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC cell grade ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a 
concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2%) were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA 
was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 88.6% of the eyes at week 78. Data 
beyond Week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the number of enrolled subjects 
declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 18% discontinued 
due to adverse events, and 8% due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality of Life 
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical 
studies, using the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores 
with statistically significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental 
health, and total score in study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in study UV II. Vision 
related effects were not numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in study UVI and for 
colour vision, peripheral vision and near vision in study UV II. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment. Formation of anti-
adalimumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab. 
There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies and the 
occurrence of adverse events. 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with 
active polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA onset 
types (most frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended 
oligoarthritis). 
pJIA I 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
parallel-group study in 171 children (4-17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in 
phase (OL LI) patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX- 
treated. Patients who were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from 
MTX at least two weeks prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and or prednisone (≤ 0.2 mg /kg/day or 10 mg/day 
maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients received 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg adalimumab 
every other week for 16 weeks. The distribution of patients by age and minimum, median and 
maximum dose received during the OL LI phase is presented in Table 20. 
Table 20 
Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI phase 
Age group 
4 to 7 years 
8 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
Number of patients at baseline N (%)  Minimum, median and maximum 
31 (18.1) 
71 (41.5) 
69 (40.4) 
10, 20 and 25 mg 
20, 25 and 40 mg 
25, 40 and 40 mg 
Patients demonstrating a Paediatric ACR 30 response at week 16 were eligible to be randomised into 
the double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg, or 
placebo every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare criteria were 
defined as a worsening of ≥30% from baseline in ≥3 of 6 Paediatric ACR core criteria, ≥2 active 
joints, and improvement of >30% in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 32 weeks or at disease 
flare, patients were eligible to enrol into the open-label extension phase. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21 
Paed ACR 30 responses in the JIA study 
Stratum 
Phase 
MTX 
OL-LI 16 weeks 
Without MTX 
Ped ACR 30 response (n/N) 
94.1 % (80/85) 
74.4 % (64/86) 
Efficacy outcomes 
Double blind 32 weeks 
Adalimumab /MTX 
(N=38) 
Placebo / MTX 
(N=37) 
Adalimumab  
(N=30) 
Placebo 
(N=28) 
Disease flares at the end of 
32 weeksa (n/N) 
36.8 % (14/38) 
64.9 % (24/37)b  43.3 % (13/30)  71.4 % (20/28)c 
Median time to disease flare 
>32 weeks 
20 weeks 
>32 weeks 
14 weeks 
a Ped ACR 30/50/70 responses week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo treated patients 
b p = 0.015 
c p = 0.031 
Amongst those who responded at week 16 (n=144), the Paediatric ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 
maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout the 
study. Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 12 and 8 of the baseline age 
group 13 to 17 years were treated 6 years or longer. 
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with 
the combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, adalimumab is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as 
monotherapy in patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2). 
pJIA II 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children 
(2 - <4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing <15 kg) with moderately to severely active 
polyarticular JIA. The patients received 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a 
maximum of 20 mg every other week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During 
the study, most subjects used concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or 
NSAIDs. 
At week 12 and week 24, PaedACR30 response was 93.5% and 90.0%, respectively, using the 
observed data approach. The proportions of subjects with PaedACR50/70/90 at week 12 and week 24 
were 90.3%/61.3%/38.7% and 83.3%/73.3%/36.7%, respectively. Amongst those who responded 
(Paediatric ACR 30) at week 24 (n=27 out of 30 patients), the Paediatric ACR 30 responses were 
maintained for up to 60 weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout this 
time period. Overall, 20 subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study 
in 46 paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were 
randomised to receive either 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg, or placebo every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-
label (OL) period during which patients received 24 mg/m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was 
the percent change from Baseline to week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
due to deformity or joints with loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with 
mean percent decrease of -62.6% (median percent change -88.9 %) in patients in the adalimumab 
group compared to -11.6% (median percent change -50.0 %) in patients in the placebo group. 
Improvement in number of active joints with arthritis was maintained during the OL period through 
week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84 %) patients in the adalimumab group who remained in the study. 
Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients demonstrated clinical improvement in 
secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint count (TJC), swollen joint count 
(SJC), Paediatric ACR 50 response, and Paediatric ACR 70 response. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 
114 paediatric patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) ≥4 or >20% BSA involvement or >10 % BSA involvement 
with very thick lesions or Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) ≥20 or ≥10 with clinically relevant 
facial, genital, or hand/ foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled with topical therapy and 
heliotherapy or phototherapy. 
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other week (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg/kg every other week 
(up to 20 mg), or methotrexate 0.1 – 0.4 mg/kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At Week 16, more patients 
randomised to adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to 0.4 mg/kg every other week or MTX. 
Table 22 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks 
PASI 75b 
PGA: clear/minimalc 
MTXa 
N=37 
12 (32.4%) 
15 (40.5%) 
Adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other 
week 
22 (57.9%) 
23 (60.5%) 
a MTX = methotrexate 
b P=0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
c P=0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 
36 weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades). 
Patients were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other week for an additional 16 weeks 
and response rates observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period: PASI 
75 response of 78.9 % (15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6 % (10 of 19 subjects). 
In the open-label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were maintained 
for up to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. Efficacy of adalimumab 
for the treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and 
exposure-response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, 
pathophysiology, and drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure 
levels. Safety of the recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on 
cross-indication safety profile of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more 
frequent doses (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body 
weight (<40 kg or ≥40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, 
with moderate to severe Crohn´s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
(PCDAI) score >30. Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid 
and/or an immunomodulator) for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been 
intolerant to infliximab. 
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 
160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 for subjects ≥40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for 
subjects <40 kg. 
At week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low 
Dose or Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 23. 
Table 23 
Maintenance regimen 
Patient weight 
<40 kg 
≥40 kg 
Low dose 
10 mg every other week 
20 mg every other week 
Standard dose 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Efficacy results 
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at week 26, defined as PCDAI score ≤10. 
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points 
from Baseline) rates are presented in Table 24. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or 
immunomodulators are presented in Table 25. 
Table 24 
Paediatric CD study 
PCDAI clinical remission and response 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg every other 
week 
Low dose 
20/10 mg every other 
week 
Week 26 
Week 52 
38.7 % 
59.1 % 
33.3 % 
41.9 % 
28.4 % 
48.4 % 
23.2 % 
28.4 % 
p value* 
0.075 
0.073 
0.100 
0.038 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
* p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25 
Paediatric CD study 
Discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission 
p value1 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg every 
other week 
Discontinued corticosteroids 
N=33 
Week 26 
84.8 % 
Week 52 
69.7 % 
Discontinuation of immunomodulators2 
N=60 
Week 52 
30.0 % 
Fistula remission3 
N=15 
Week 26 
46.7 % 
Week 52 
40.0 % 
1 p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison 
2 Immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after week 26 at the investigator's 
discretion if the subject met the clinical response criterion 
3 Defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at Baseline for at least 2 consecutive post-
Baseline visits 
Low dose 
20/10 mg every 
other week 
N=38 
65.8 % 
60.5 % 
N=57 
29.8 % 
N=21 
38.1 % 
23.8 % 
0.066 
0.420 
0.608 
0.303 
0.983 
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to week 26 and 52 in Body Mass Index 
and height velocity were observed for both treatment groups. 
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both 
treatment groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III). 
One hundred patients (n=100) from the Paediatric CD study continued in an open-label long-term 
extension study. After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0 % (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in 
the study continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0 % (46/50) of patients continued to be in 
clinical response per PCDAI. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicenter, randomised, double-blind, trial 
in 93 paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo 
score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who 
had an inadequate response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in 
the study had failed prior anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were 
allowed to taper their corticosteroid therapy after Week 4. 
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomised 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment 
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) 
at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. Both groups received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6. Following an amendment to the study design, 
the remaining 16 patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with 
adalimumab at the induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. 
At Week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a 
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomised equally to receive double-
blind maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every 
week (ew), or a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to 
an amendment to the study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS 
were randomised to receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy. 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at 
Week 8), at least 2 points (for patients with PMS of 3 to 4 at Week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients 
with PMS of 5 to 6 at Week 8). 
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after Week 12 were randomised to receive a re-
induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and 
continued to receive their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards.  
Efficacy Results 
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no 
individual subscore > 1) at Week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a 
Mayo Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at Week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response 
per PMS at Week 8. Clinical remission rates per PMS at Week 8 for patients in each of the 
adalimumab doubleblind induction groups are presented in Table 26. 
Table 26 
Clinical remission per PMS at 8 weeks 
Clinical remission 
Adalimumabb, c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0 
and week 1 
N=47 
28/47 (59.6%) 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0/ 
placebo at week 1 
N=30 
13/30 (43.3%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 
80 mg) at Week 2 
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 
and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6 
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoint 
At Week 52, clinical remission per FMS in Week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as 
a decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in Week 8 responders, mucosal 
healing (defined as Mayo endoscopy subscore ≤ 1) in Week 8 responders, clinical remission per FMS 
in Week 8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free remission per FMS in 
Week 8 responders were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the double-blind maximum 
40 mg every other week (0.6 mg/kg) and maximum 40 mg every week (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance doses 
(Table 27). 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27 
Efficacy results at 52 weeks 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 40 mg every other 
week 
N=31 
Adalimumabb 
maximum of 40 mg every week 
N=31 
9/31 (29.0%) 
12/31 (38.7%) 
19/31 (61.3%) 
21/31 (67.7%) 
14/31 (45.2%) 
Clinical remission in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical response in week 8 
PMS responders 
Mucosal healing in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical remission in week 8 
PMS remitters 
Corticosteroid-free remission 
in week 8 PMS respondersc 
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
c In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline 
Note: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomised to receive re-induction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 endpoints 
10/22 (45.5%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
5/16 (31.3%) 
9/21 (42.9%) 
4/13 (30.8%) 
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative 
Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and 
clinical remission per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at Week 8 and Week 52 (Table 28). 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28 
Exploratory endpoints results per PUCAI 
Week 8 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0/ 
placebo at week 1 
N=30 
Adalimumabb,c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0 
and week 1 
N=47 
Clinical remission per 
PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
10/30 (33.3%) 
15/30 (50.0%) 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Week 52 
Adalimumabd 
maximum of 40 mg every other 
week 
N=31 
Adalimumabe 
maximum of 40 every week 
N=31 
Clinical remission per 
PUCAI in week 8 PMS 
responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
in week 8 PMS responders 
14/31 (45.2%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 
80 mg) at Week 2 
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 
and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
d Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week  
e Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomised to receive reinduction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 endpoints 
Of the adalimumab-treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance 
period, 2/6 (33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at Week 52. 
Quality of life  
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab. 
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for the 
groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in 
Body Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 40 mg (0.6 
mg/kg) every week. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-masked, controlled 
study of 90 paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated noninfectious 
anterior uveitis who were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment. Patients received 
either placebo or 20 mg adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week 
in combination with their baseline dose of methotrexate. 
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with 
development of sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
use of concomitant medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time. 
Clinical Response 
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (See Figure 2, 
P < 0.0001 from log rank test). The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for subjects 
treated with placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for subjects 
treated with adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment failure. 
Adalimumab significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75 % relative to placebo, as 
shown by the hazard ratio (HR = 0.25 [95 % CI: 0.12, 0.49]). 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to treatment failure in the paediatric uveitis 
study 
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
G
N
I
L
I
A
F
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
Treatment 
Note: P = Placebo (number at risk); H = adalimumab (number at risk). 
Placebo 
  Adalimumab 
TIME (WEEKS) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough 
steady-state (values measured from week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 5.6 ± 
5.6 µg/ml (102 % CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 10.9 ± 5.2 µg/ml 
(47.7 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate. 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to <4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing <15 kg 
dosed with adalimumab 24 mg/m2 , the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations 
was 6.0 ± 6.1 µg/ml (101% CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 7.9 ± 
5.6 µg/ml (71.2% CV) with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values 
measured at week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg/ml for adalimumab 
without concomitant methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg/ml with concomitant methotrexate 
Following the administration of 0.8 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 μg/ml (79% CV). 
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). The recommended adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since 
exposure to adalimumab can be affected by body size, adolescents with higher body weight and 
inadequate response may benefit from receiving the recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was 
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg. 
At week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg every other week) or 
Low Dose (20/10 mg every other week) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. 
The mean (±SD) serum adalimumab trough concentrations achieved at week 4 were 15.7±6.6 µg/ml 
for patients ≥40 kg (160/80 mg) and 10.6±6.1 µg/ml for patients <40 kg (80/40 mg). 
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (±SD) adalimumab trough 
concentrations at week 52 were 9.5±5.6 μg/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5±2.2 μg/ml for the 
Low Dose group. The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to 
receive adalimumab treatment every other week for 52 weeks. For patients who dose escalated from 
every other week to weekly regimen, the mean (±SD) serum concentrations of adalimumab at week 52 
were 15.3±11.4 μg/ml (40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7±3.5 μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly). 
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). No clinical exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. 
The predicted exposures indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an 
initial increase in systemic exposure. 
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population 
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response 
relationship was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent 
adalimumab plasma concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 
response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml (95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml). 
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients 
with severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, 
respectively. PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab 
concentrations, both with a similar apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/ml (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 
1.9-10.5, respectively). 
Adults 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab 
was slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The 
average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg 
subcutaneous dose was 64 %. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, 
concentrations were dose proportional. After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 
to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase half-
life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from several 
rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96 % of those in serum. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 μg/ml 
(without concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 μg/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively. 
The serum adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose 
following 20, 40 and 80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week. 
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 μg/ml during 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment. 
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 
80 mg on week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg/ml at 
week 2 and week 4. The mean steady-state trough concentration at week 12 through week 36 were 
approximately 8 to 10 μg/ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 5.5 μg/ml 
during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 μg/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 μg/ml were observed 
in Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 
40 mg) every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state 
serum adalimumab concentration was 5.01±3.28 µg/ml at Week 52. For patients who received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab 
concentration was 15.7±5.60 μg/ml at Week 52. 
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week starting at week 1, resulted in mean steady-state concentrations of 
approximately 8 to 10 µg/ml. 
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation 
predicted comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other 
week when compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, 
patients with adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC). 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward 
higher apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight 
differences, gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance. The serum 
levels of free adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be 
lower in patients with measurable AAA. 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, 
repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg/kg (9-17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of 
harm to the foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment of 
fertility and postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate models 
for an antibody with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of neutralising 
antibodies in rodents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Histidine  
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Sorbitol 
Polysorbate 20  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect 
from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in single-use vial (type I glass), fitted with rubber stoppers, 
aluminium crimps and flip-off seals. 
1 Pack of 2 boxes each containing: 
1 vial (0.8 ml sterile solution), 1 empty sterile injection syringe, 1 needle, 1 vial adapter and 2 alcohol 
pads. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/009 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 24 August 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 29 April 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each 0.4 ml single dose pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Each 0.4 ml single dose pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
This medicinal product contains no excipient(s) with known effect. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Imraldi in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
- 
- 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the 
response to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been 
inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously 
treated with methotrexate. 
Imraldi can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray 
and to improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Imraldi in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Imraldi can be given as monotherapy in 
case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate 
(for the efficacy in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged 
less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see 
section 5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had 
an inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and / or MRI, who have had 
an inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured 
by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see Section 5.1) and to 
improve physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients 
who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from 4 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical 
therapy and phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne 
inversa) in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional 
systemic HS therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Imraldi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients 
who have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
primary nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or 
have contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis  
Imraldi is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients 
who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-
mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or 
have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of corticosteroid- 
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients 
from 2 years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, 
or in whom conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Imraldi treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of conditions for which Imraldi is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to 
consult with an appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Imraldi (see section 4.4). 
Patients treated with Imraldi should be given the Patient Reminder Card. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Imraldi if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary. 
During treatment with Imraldi, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. Methotrexate should be 
continued during treatment with Imraldi. 
Glucocorticoids, salicylates, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), or analgesics can be 
continued during treatment with Imraldi. Regarding combination with disease modifying anti-
rheumatic drugs other than methotrexate see sections 4.4 and 5.1. 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In monotherapy, some patients who experience a decrease in their response to Imraldi 40 mg every 
other week dosing may benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Dose interruption  
There may be a need for dose interruption, for instance before surgery or if a serious infection occurs. 
Available data suggest that re-introduction of adalimumab after discontinuation for 70 days or longer 
resulted in the same magnitudes of clinical response and similar safety profile as before dose 
interruption. 
Ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS and psoriatic 
arthritis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Psoriasis  
The recommended dose of Imraldi for adult patients is an initial dose of 80 mg administered 
subcutaneously, followed by 40 mg subcutaneously given every other week starting one week after the 
initial dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period. 
Beyond 16 weeks, patients with inadequate response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. The benefits and risks of 
continued 40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a 
patient with an inadequate response after the increase in dose (see section 5.1). If adequate response is 
achieved with 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, the dose may subsequently be reduced to 
40 mg every other week. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The recommended Imraldi dose regimen for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 
160 mg initially at Day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later at Day 15 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day). Two weeks later (Day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week (given as two 40 mg injections in one day). Antibiotics may be continued during 
treatment with Imraldi if necessary. It is recommended that the patient should use a topical antiseptic 
wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with Imraldi. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Imraldi 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be re-
introduced (see section 5.1). 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see section 
5.1). 
Crohn’s disease 
The recommended Imraldi induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg at week 2. In case there is a need for a 
more rapid response to therapy, the regimen 160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one 
day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg at week 2 (given 
as two 40 mg injections in one day), can be used with the awareness that the risk for adverse events is 
higher during induction. 
After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous 
injection. Alternatively, if a patient has stopped Imraldi and signs and symptoms of disease recur, 
Imraldi may be re-administered. There is little experience from re-administration after more than 8 
weeks since the previous dose. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg Imraldi every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Some patients who have not responded by week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy 
through week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding 
within this time period. 
Ulcerative colitis 
The recommended Imraldi induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderate to severe 
ulcerative colitis is 160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg 
injections per day for two consecutive days) and 80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg injections in 
one day). After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via 
subcutaneous injection. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week may 
benefit from an increase in dose to 40 mg Imraldi every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 2-8 weeks of treatment. 
Imraldi therapy should not be continued in patients failing to respond within this time period. 
Uveitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for adult patients with uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. There is limited experience 
in the initiation of treatment with Imraldi alone. Treatment with Imraldi can be initiated in 
combination with corticosteroids and/or with other non-biologic immunomodulatory agents. 
Concomitant corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice starting two weeks 
after initiating treatment with Imraldi. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a 
yearly basis (see section 5.1). 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required. 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be 
made. 
Paediatric population 
Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are only available as a 40 mg dose. Thus, it is not possible 
to administer Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen to paediatric patients that require less than a 
full 40 mg dose. If an alternative dose is required, other presentations offering such an option should 
be used. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 
2 years of age is based on body weight (Table 1). Imraldi is administered every other week via 
subcutaneous injection.  
Table 1. Imraldi dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
Patient weight 
10 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is 
based on body weight (Table 2). Imraldi is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection.  
Table 2. Imraldi dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The recommended Imraldi dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 3). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection.  
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
Initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 
20 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose 
Initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week 
starting one week after the initial 
dose 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding within 
this time period. 
If retreatment with Imraldi is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration should be 
followed. 
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a mean of 
13 months. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg) 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. The posology of 
adalimumab in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation 
(see section 5.2). 
The recommended Imraldi dose is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at 
week 1 via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Imraldi 40 mg every other week, an increase in 
dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered. 
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Imraldi if necessary. It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Imraldi. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no 
improvement within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Imraldi may be re-introduced as appropriate. 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data 
in section 5.1). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 4). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
Table 4. Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with crohn’s disease 
Induction Dose 
•  40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of the 
higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
•  80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
•  80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
Maintenance 
dose 
starting at 
week 4 
20 mg every 
other week 
≥ 40 kg 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of the 
higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
•  160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 
40 mg every 
other week 
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dose: 
  < 40 kg: 20 mg every week 
  ≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by week 12. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged below 6 years for this indication. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is 
based on body weight (Table 5). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 5 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
Induction dose 
•  80 mg at week 0 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) and  
•  40 mg at week 2 (given as one 40 mg 
injection) 
•  160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days) and 
•  80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4* 
•  40 mg every other week 
•  80 mg every other week 
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Imraldi should continue their prescribed 
maintenance dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of 
response within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of Imraldi in children aged less than 6 years in this indication.  
Imraldi may be available in different strengths and/or presentations depending on the individual 
treatment needs. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in the paediatric population for the indications of ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriatric arthritis. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The recommended dose of Imraldi for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 6). Imraldi is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant 
treatment with methotrexate. 
Table 6 Imraldi dose for paediatric patients with uveitis 
Patient weight 
< 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
When Imraldi therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for 
patients ≥ 30 kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No 
clinical data are available on the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age 
(see section 5.2). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 2 years in this indication. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on 
a yearly basis (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration  
Imraldi is administered by subcutaneous injection. Full instructions for use are provided in the 
package leaflet. 
A 40 mg pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are available for patients to administer a full 40 mg dose. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections (see section 
4.4). 
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function 
may increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for 
infections, including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Imraldi. Because the 
elimination of adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout 
this period. 
Treatment with Imraldi should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis 
and patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Imraldi 
should be considered prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections). 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Imraldi, should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Imraldi should be 
discontinued if a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or 
antifungal therapy should be initiated until the infection is controlled. Physicians should exercise 
caution when considering the use of Imraldi in patients with a history of recurring infection or with 
underlying conditions which may predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant 
immunosuppressive medications. 
Serious infections 
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or 
other opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported. 
Tuberculosis 
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients 
receiving adalimumab. Reports included cases of pulmonary and extra-pulmonary (i.e. disseminated) 
tuberculosis. 
Before initiation of therapy with Imraldi, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection. This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of 
patient history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and 
previous and/or current immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin 
test and chest X-ray) should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is 
recommended that the conduct and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card. 
Prescribers are reminded of the risk of false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients 
who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Imraldi therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully 
considered. 
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
prophylaxis treatment before the initiation of Imraldi, and in accordance with local recommendations. 
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of 
Imraldi in patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tuberculosis and in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed. 
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in 
patients treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active 
tuberculosis have redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis 
infection (e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or 
after therapy with Imraldi. 
Other opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients receiving 
adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking TNF-
antagonists and this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in fatal 
outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, cough, 
dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without concomitant 
shock an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Imraldi should be 
promptly discontinued. Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in these patients 
should be made in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of patients with invasive 
fungal infections. 
Hepatitis B reactivation  
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including adalimumab, 
who are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive). Some cases have had a fatal 
outcome. Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Imraldi. For 
patients who test positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the 
treatment of hepatitis B is recommended. 
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Imraldi should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination 
of therapy. Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral therapy in 
conjunction with TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. In patients 
who develop HBV reactivation, Imraldi should be stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with 
appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Neurological events  
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system 
demyelinating disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating 
disease, including Guillain-Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use 
of Imraldi in patients with pre-existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system 
demyelinating disorders; discontinuation of Imraldi should be considered if any of these disorders 
develop. There is a known association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating 
disorders. Neurologic evaluation should be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate 
uveitis prior to the initiation of Imraldi therapy and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-
existing or developing central demyelinating disorders. 
Allergic reactions 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious 
allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of 
serious allergic reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab 
administration. If an anaphylactic reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of 
Imraldi should be discontinued immediately and appropriate therapy initiated. 
Immunosuppression 
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no 
evidence of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or 
change in enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control 
patients. However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of leukaemia have 
been reported in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for 
lymphoma and leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, 
inflammatory disease, which complicates the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible 
risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a 
TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤18 years of age), including 
adalimumab in the post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other 
cases represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated 
with adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is 
usually fatal. Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in 
young adult patients on concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for 
inflammatory bowel disease. The potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-
mercaptopurine and adalimumab should be carefully considered. A risk for the development of 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Imraldi cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom 
treatment with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy. Thus, additional 
caution should be exercised in considering adalimumab treatment of these patients (see section 4.8). 
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy 
or psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non-
melanoma skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Imraldi. Melanoma and Merkel cell 
carcinoma have also been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab 
(see section 4.8). 
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients 
with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly in 
the lung or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control patients. 
All patients had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using any 
TNF-antagonist in COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to 
heavy smoking. 
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia 
or colon cancer. All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
carcinoma (for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing 
cholangitis), or who had a prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for 
dysplasia at regular intervals before therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation 
should include colonoscopy and biopsies per local recommendations. 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. 
Adverse events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. 
thrombocytopenia, leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to 
seek immediate medical attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias 
(e.g. persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, pallor) while on Imraldi. Discontinuation of Imraldi therapy 
should be considered in patients with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Vaccinations 
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza trivalent 
virus vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were 
treated with adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection 
by live vaccines in patients receiving adalimumab. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating adalimumab therapy. 
Patients on adalimumab may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration 
of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended 
for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Congestive heart failure  
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased 
mortality due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart 
failure have also been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Imraldi should be used with caution 
in patients with mild heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Imraldi is contraindicated in moderate to severe 
heart failure (see section 4.3). Treatment with Imraldi must be discontinued in patients who develop 
new or worsening symptoms of congestive heart failure. 
Autoimmune processes  
Treatment with Imraldi may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-
term treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient 
develops symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Imraldi and is 
positive for antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Imraldi should not be 
given (see section 4.8). 
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists  
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another TNF-
antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of the 
nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar 
toxicities may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the 
combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended. (See section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and 
abatacept) or other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for 
infections, including serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions. (See section 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5). 
Surgery 
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The 
long half-life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned. A 
patient who requires surgery while on Imraldi should be closely monitored for infections, and 
appropriate actions should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing 
arthroplasty while receiving adalimumab. 
Small bowel obstruction 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic stricture 
that may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not worsen or cause 
strictures. 
Elderly 
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab treated subjects over 65 years of age (3.7%) 
was higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5%). Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular 
attention regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
See Vaccinations above. 
Excipients with known effects 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
psoriatic arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant 
methotrexate. Antibody formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate 
in comparison with use as monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted 
in increased formation of antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see 
section 5.1). 
The combination of Imraldi and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
The combination of Imraldi and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent 
pregnancy and continue its use for at least five months after the last Imraldi treatment. 
Pregnancy  
A large number (approximately 2,100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to adalimumab 
resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1,500 exposed during the first 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trimester, does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn. 
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) 
treated with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated 
with adalimumab were enrolled. The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth defects. 
The rate of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect was 6/69 
(8.7 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8 %) in the untreated women with RA 
(unadjusted OR 1.31, 95 % CI 0.38-4.52) and 16/152 (10.5 %) in the adalimumab-treated women with 
CD and 3/32 (9.4 %) in the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 95 % CI 0.31-4.16). The 
adjusted OR (accounting for baseline differences) was 1.10 (95 % CI 0.45-2.73) with RA and CD 
combined. There were no distinct differences between adalimumab-treated and untreated women for 
the secondary endpoints spontaneous abortions, minor birth defects, preterm delivery, birth size and 
serious or opportunistic infections and no stillbirths or malignancies were reported. The interpretation 
of data may be impacted due to methodological limitations of the study, including small sample size 
and non-randomised design. 
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available 
(see section 5.3). 
Due to its inhibition of TNFα, adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal 
immune responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly 
needed. 
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with adalimumab 
during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. Administration 
of live vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended 
for 5 months following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk 
at very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1 % 
to 1 % of the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal 
proteolysis and have poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. 
Consequently, adalimumab can be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Imraldi (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open-label trials for up to 
60 months or more. These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long 
standing disease, juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-
related arthritis) as well as axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of AS), psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, and uveitis patients. The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients 
receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving placebo or active comparator during the controlled 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9 % for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4 % for control 
treated patients. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain 
or swelling), headache and musculoskeletal pain. 
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab 
affect the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defense against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV 
reactivation and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been 
reported with use of adalimumab. 
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events 
and reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Paediatric population  
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen in 
adult patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience and are displayed by system organ class and frequency in Table 7 below: 
very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 
to <1/1,000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The highest frequency 
seen among the various indications has been included. An asterisk (*) appears in the System Organ 
Class (SOC) column if further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
System organ class 
Infections  and 
infestations* 
Frequency 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Table 7 
Undesirable effects 
Adverse  reaction 
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and upper 
respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, sinusitis, 
pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and pneumonia herpes viral) 
Systemic infections (including sepsis, candidiasis and 
influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including paronychia, 
cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral herpes and 
tooth infections), 
reproductive tract infections (including vulvovaginal 
mycotic infection), 
urinary tract infections (including pyelonephritis), 
fungal infections, 
joint infections 
Neurological infections (including viral meningitis), 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse  reaction 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts and 
polyps)* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Blood and the 
lymphatic system 
disorders* 
Very 
common 
Common 
Immune system 
disorders* 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders  Common 
Nervous system 
disorders* 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Eye disorders 
Common 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis (including 
coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis and mycobacterium 
avium complex infection), 
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, 
diverticulitis1) 
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma), 
benign neoplasm 
Lymphoma**, 
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, lung 
neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm), 
melanoma** 
Leukaemia1) 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine carcinoma of the 
skin)1), Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Leukopenia (including neutropenia and agranulocytosis), 
anaemia 
Leukocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity, 
allergies (including seasonal allergy) 
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis 
Anaphylaxis1) 
Lipids increased 
Hypokalaemia, 
uric acid increased, 
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphatemia, 
dehydration 
Mood alterations (including depression), 
anxiety, 
Insomnia 
Headache 
Paraesthesias (including hypoesthesia), 
migraine, 
nerve root compression 
Cerebrovascular accident1), 
tremor, 
neuropathy 
Multiple sclerosis, 
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, Guillain-Barré 
syndrome)1) 
Visual impairment, 
conjunctivitis, 
blepharitis, 
eye swelling 
118 
System organ class 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders* 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders* 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very 
common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not Known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Adverse  reaction 
Diplopia 
Vertigo 
Deafness, 
tinnitus 
Tachycardia 
Myocardial infarction1), 
arrhythmia, 
congestive heart failure 
Cardiac arrest 
Hypertension, 
flushing, 
haematoma 
Aortic aneurysm, 
vascular arterial occlusion, 
thrombophlebitis 
Asthma, 
dyspnoea, 
cough 
Pulmonary embolism1), 
interstitial lung disease, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion1) 
Pulmonary fibrosis1) 
Abdominal pain, 
nausea and vomiting 
GI haemorrhage, 
dyspepsia, 
gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
sicca syndrome 
Pancreatitis, 
dysphagia, 
face oedema 
Intestinal perforation1) 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, 
hepatic steatosis, 
bilirubin increased 
Hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B1) 
autoimmune hepatitis1) 
Liver failure1) 
Rash (including exfoliative rash) 
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including 
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1), 
urticaria, 
bruising (including purpura), 
dermatitis (including eczema), 
onychoclasis, 
hyperhidrosis, 
alopecia1), 
pruritus 
Night sweats, 
119 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse  reaction 
Rare 
Not known 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions* 
Investigations* 
Uncommon 
Common 
scar 
Erythema multiforme1), 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1), 
angioedema1), 
cutaneous vasculitis1) 
lichenoid skin reaction1) 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1) 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased) 
Rhabdomyolysis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Lupus-like syndrome1) 
Renal impairment, 
haematuria 
Nocturia 
Erectile dysfunction 
Injection site reaction (including injection site erythema) 
Chest pain, 
oedema, 
pyrexia1) 
Inflammation 
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including activated 
partial thromboplastin time prolonged), 
autoantibody test positive (including double stranded DNA 
antibody), 
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Not Known  Weight increased2) 
Common 
Impaired healing 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
* further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
** including open-label extension studies 
1) including spontaneous reporting data 
2) The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across adult 
indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 months. 
Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean exposures 
of approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated with the anti-
inflammatory effect of adalimumab. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the 
known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Uveitis 
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent 
with the known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site reactions 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab 
developed injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared 
to 7.2 % of patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not 
necessitate discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
Infections 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in 
the adalimumab treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated 
patients. The infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and 
sinusitis. Most patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved. 
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab treated patients and 0.03 
per patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients. 
In controlled and open-label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections 
(including fatal infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of 
tuberculosis (including miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections 
(e.g. disseminated or extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, 
pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred 
within the first eight months after initiation of therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders  
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years 
during adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 192 paediatric 
patients with an exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in paediatric patients with 
Crohn’s disease. No malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients with an exposure of 
80.0 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. No 
malignancies were observed in 93 paediatric patients with an exposure of 65.3 patient years during an 
adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis. No malignancies were observed in 
60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric 
patients with uveitis. 
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration in 
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS, psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and 
non-melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5) per 
1,000 patient-years among 5,291 adalimumab treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 
patient-years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for 
adalimumab and 3.8 months for control-treated patients). The rate (95% confidence interval) of non-
melanoma skin cancers was 8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients 
and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell 
carcinomas occurred at rates (95% confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient-years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. The rate 
(95 % confidence interval) of lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient-years among 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. 
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open-label extension 
studies with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 
26,439 patient-years of therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-
melanoma skin cancers is approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-
melanoma skin cancers is approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lymphomas is approximately 1.3 per 1,000 patient-years. 
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient treatment 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 
0.3 per 1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated 
with adalimumab (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis 
studies I − V. In these trials, 11.9 % of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1% of placebo and 
active control − treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported 
positive titres at week 24. Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid 
arthritis and psoriatic arthritis studies developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like 
syndrome. The patients improved following discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus 
nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. 
Hepato-biliary events 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis 
with a control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 ×ULN occurred in 
3.7 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6 % of control-treated patients. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
who were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥3 × 
ULN occurred in 6.1 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3 % of control-treated patients. Most 
ALT elevations occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred 
in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who were 
2 to <4 years.  
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis with 
a control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 0.9% of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.9 % of controlled-treated patients.  
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated 
efficacy and safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight 
adjusted induction therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 2.6 % 
(5/192) of patients of whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline.  
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis with a control period 
duration ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 1.8% of adalimumab-
treated patients and 1.8 % of control-treated patients.  
No ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients with 
plaque psoriasis.  
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2, followed 
by 40 mg every week starting at week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control 
period duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN occurred in 0.3 % of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 % of control-treated patients. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week 
starting at week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 166.5 days and 
105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT elevations ≥3 × ULN 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occurred in 2.4 % of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4 % of control-treated patients. 
In the controlled Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) which 
evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
(N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every Week (N=32), following body 
weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 
160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 (N=30), ALT 
elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of patients. 
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment. However, there have also been post-
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, 
such as hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab. 
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine 
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse 
events were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared 
with adalimumab alone. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has 
been multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended 
dose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors. 
ATC code: L04AB04 
Imraldi is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including 
changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, 
and ICAM-1 with an IC50 of 0.1-0.2 nM). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab 
usually experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation. 
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with 
adalimumab. In patients with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing 
inflammatory markers in the colon including a significant reduction of expression of TNFα was seen. 
Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab 
treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The 
efficacy and safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-controlled 
studies. Some patients were treated for up to 120 months duration. Injection site pain of adalimumab 
40 mg/0.4 ml was assessed in two randomised, active control, single-blind, two-period crossover 
studies. 
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drug and had 
insufficient efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) 
every week and whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20, 
40 or 80 mg of adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18  years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs. Doses 
of 20 or 40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo 
on alternative weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same 
duration. No other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed. 
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
≥18 years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have 
been intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study. The first 
received placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab 
every week for 52 weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with 
placebo injections on alternate weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in 
an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other 
week up to 10 years. 
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were ≥ 18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-
rheumatic drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy 
was stable for a minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, 
hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate 
of progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the first 
104 weeks, 497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab was 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administered every other week up to 10 years. 
RA studies VI and VII each evaluated 60 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were ≥ 18 years old. Enrolled patients were either current users of adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 
ml and rated their average injection site pain as at least 3 cm (on a 0-10 cm VAS) or were biologic-
naïve subjects who were starting adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml. Patients were randomised to receive a 
single dose of adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml or adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml, followed by a single injection 
of the opposite treatment at their next dose. 
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percent of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percent of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at week 52. RA studies III and 
V had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by 
X-ray results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. The primary 
endpoint in RA studies VI and VII was injection site pain immediately after injection as measured by a 
0-10 cm VAS. 
ACR response 
The percent of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in 
Table 8. 
Table 8 
ACR responses in placebo controlled trials 
(Percent of patients) 
Response 
RA study Ia** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
N=60 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
N=63 
RA study IIa** 
Placebo 
Adalimumabb 
N=110 
N=113 
RA study IIIa** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
N=200 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
N=207 
6.7% 
- 
52.4% 
- 
46.0% 
- 
13.3% 
- 
65.1% 
- 
19.1% 
- 
29.5% 
24.0% 
ACR 20 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 50 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 70 
6 months 
12 months 
a  RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks 
b  40 mg adalimumab administered every other week 
c  MTX = methotrexate 
**p <0.01, adalimumab versus placebo 
- Not applicable 
12.4% 
- 
23.8% 
- 
22.1% 
- 
1.8% 
- 
2.5% 
4.5% 
3.3% 
- 
8.2% 
- 
9.5% 
9.5% 
63.3% 
58.9% 
39.1% 
41.5% 
20.8% 
23.2% 
In RA studies I-IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and 
swollen joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index (HAQ) 
scores and CRP (mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA study III, 
these improvements were maintained throughout 52 weeks. 
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained 
response when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. 
Among those, 86 patients (75.4 %) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2 %) had ACR 50 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
responses; and 41 patients (36 %) had ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0 %) had ACR 20 
responses; 56 patients (69.1 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 43 patients (53.1 %) had ACR 70 
responses. 
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care was 
statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care (p <0.001). 
In RA studies I-IV, adalimumab -treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 
responses compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment. 
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination 
therapy with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52 and responses were sustained at 
week 104 (see Table 9). 
Response 
ACR 20 
52 week 
104 week 
ACR 50 
52 week 
104 week 
ACR 70 
Table 9 
ACR responses in RA study V 
(Percent of patients) 
MTX 
Adalimumab 
N=257 
N=274 
Adalimumab/ 
MTX 
N=268 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
62.6% 
56.0% 
45.9% 
42.8% 
54.4% 
49.3% 
41.2% 
36.9% 
72.8% 
69.4% 
61.6% 
59.0% 
0.013 
0.002 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.043 
0.140 
0.317 
0.162 
0.656 
0.864 
45.5% 
46.6% 
27.2% 
28.4% 
25.9% 
52 week 
28.1% 
104 week 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test.  
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test  
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed for 
up to 10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
170 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 
patients (90.6 %) had ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7 %) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 
patients (60.0 %) had ACR 70 responses. 
At week 52, 42.9 % of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy achieved 
clinical remission (DAS28 <2.6) compared to 20.6 % of patients receiving methotrexate monotherapy 
and 23.4 % of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. Adalimumab/methotrexate combination 
therapy was clinically and statistically superior to methotrexate (p <0.001) and adalimumab 
monotherapy (p <0.001) in achieving a low disease state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate 
to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The response for the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447). Of 
342 subjects originally randomised to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy who entered the open-label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of 
adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 subjects (63.7 %) were reported to be in remission at 
10 years. 
Radiographic response  
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In RA study III, where adalimumab treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as 
change in modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space 
narrowing score. Adalimumab /methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic 
progression than patients receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 10). 
In the open-label extension of RA study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage is 
maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally treated 
with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 patients 
showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or 
less. At 10 years, 79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were 
evaluated radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural damage 
defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. 
Table 10 
Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA study III 
Placebo/MTXa 
Adalimumab/MTX 
40 mg every other 
week 
Total sharp score 
Erosion score 
JSNd score 
2.7 
1.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
Placebo/MTX- 
Adalimumab/MTX 
(95% confidence 
intervalb) 
2.6 (1.4, 3.8) 
1.6 (0.9, 2.2) 
0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 
p-value 
<0.001c 
<0.001 
0.002 
a methotrexate 
b 95 % confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and 
adalimumab.  
c Based on rank analysis 
d Joint Space Narrowing 
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified Total Sharp Score (see Table 11). 
Table 11 
Radiographic mean changes at week 52 in RA study V 
MTX 
N=257 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab  
N=274 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
N=268 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
Total sharp 
score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
5.7 (4.2-7.3) 
3.0 (1.7-4.3) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
<0.001 
0.0020 
<0.001 
3.7 (2.7-4.7) 
2.0 (1.2-2.8) 
1.7 (1.0-2.4) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
0.8 (0.4-1.2) 
0.5 (0-1.0) 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.0082 
0.0037 
<0.001 
0.151 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy 
using the Mann-Whitney U test 
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression 
(change from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score ≤0.5) was significantly higher with 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy (63.8 % and 61.2 % respectively) compared to 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
methotrexate monotherapy (37.4 % and 33.5 % respectively, p <0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy 
(50.7 %, p <0.002 and 44.5 %, p <0.001 respectively).  
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified 
Total Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate 
monotherapy, adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, 
respectively. The corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 31.3 %, 
23.7 % and 36.7 % respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, 
which was a pre-specified primary endpoint at week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability 
index of the HAQ from baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was 
seen at week 52. Results from the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of 
adalimumab in all four studies support these findings, with statistically significant physical component 
summary (PCS) scores, as well as statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 
40 mg every other week dose. A statistically significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional 
assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) scores was seen in all three studies in which it was 
assessed (RA studies I, III, IV). 
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued 
treatment maintained improvement through week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. 
Improvement in quality of life was measured up to week 156 (36 months) and improvement was 
maintained through that time. 
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p <0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52, which was maintained through 
week 104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in 
physical function were maintained through 10 years of treatment. 
Injection site pain 
For the pooled crossover RA studies VI and VII, a statistically significant difference for injection site 
pain immediately after dosing was observed between adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml and adalimumab 40 
mg/0.4 ml (mean VAS of 3.7 cm versus 1.2 cm, scale of 0-10 cm, P < 0.001). This represented an 84% 
median reduction in injection site pain. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 393 patients in two randomised, 24 week 
double − blind, placebo − controlled studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (mean 
baseline score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] 
was 6.3 in all groups) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Seventy-nine 
(20.1%) patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti − rheumatic drugs, and 37 
(9.4%) patients with glucocorticoids. The blinded period was followed by an open − label period 
during which patients received adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an 
additional 28 weeks. Subjects (n=215, 54.7%) who failed to achieve ASAS 20 at weeks 12, or 16 or 20 
received early escape open-label adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously and were 
subsequently treated as non-responders in the double-blind statistical analyses. 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the larger AS study I with 315 patients, results showed statistically significant improvement of the 
signs and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis in patients treated with adalimumab compared to 
placebo. Significant response was first observed at week 2 and maintained through 24 weeks 
(Table 12). 
Table 12 
Efficacy responses in placebo-controlled AS Sstudy – study I 
reduction of signs and symptoms 
Response 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Placebo 
N=107 
ASASa 20 
16% 
21% 
19% 
ASAS 50 
3% 
10% 
11% 
ASAS 70 
0% 
5% 
8% 
BASDAIb 50 
4% 
16% 
15% 
Adalimumab 
N=208 
42%*** 
58%*** 
51%*** 
16%*** 
38%*** 
35%*** 
7%** 
23%*** 
24%*** 
20%*** 
45%*** 
42%*** 
***,** Statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01 for all comparisons between adalimumab and 
placebo at weeks 2, 12 and 24 
a Assessments in Ankylosing Spondylitis 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
Adalimumab treated patients had significantly greater improvement at week 12 which was maintained 
through week 24 in both the SF36 and Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(ASQoL). 
Similar trends (not all statistically significant) were seen in the smaller randomised, double − blind, 
placebo controlled AS study II of 82 adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in two randomised, double-blind placebo-
controlled studies in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA). Study nr-
axSpA I evaluated patients with active nr-axSpA. Study nr-axSpA II was a treatment withdrawal study 
in active nr-axSpA patients who achieved remission during open-label treatment with adalimumab. 
Study nr-axSpA I 
In study nr-axSpA I, adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 185 patients in a 
randomised, 12 week double - blind, placebo - controlled study in patients with active nr-axSpA 
(mean baseline score of disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
(BASDAI)] was 6.4 for patients treated with adalimumab and 6.5 for those on placebo) who have had 
an inadequate response to or intolerance to ≥1 NSAIDs, or a contraindication for NSAIDs. 
Thirty-three (18 %) patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, 
and 146 (79 %) patients with NSAIDs at baseline. The double-blind period was followed by an open-
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
label period during which patients receive adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up 
to an additional 144 weeks. week 12 results showed statistically significant improvement of the signs 
and symptoms of active nr-axSpA in patients treated with adalimumab compared to placebo 
(Table 13). 
Table 13 
Efficacy response in placebo-controlled study nr-axSpA I 
Double-blind 
response at week 12 
ASASa 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAIb 50 
ASDASc,d,e 
ASDAS inactive disease 
hs-CRPd,f,g 
SPARCCh MRI sacroiliac jointsd,i 
SPARCC MRI spined,j 
Placebo 
N=94 
15% 
31% 
6% 
5% 
15% 
-0.3 
4% 
-0.3 
-0.6 
-0.2 
Adalimumab 
N=91 
36%*** 
52%** 
31%*** 
16%* 
35%** 
-1.0*** 
24%*** 
-4.7*** 
-3.2** 
-1.8** 
a Assessments in SpondyloArthritis International Society 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
c Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score 
d mean change from baseline 
e n=91 placebo and n=87 adalimumab 
f high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (mg/L) 
g n=73 placebo and n=70 adalimumab 
h Spondyloarthritis Research Consortium of Canada 
i n=84 placebo and adalimumab 
j n=82 placebo and n=85 adalimumab 
***, **, * Statistically significant at p <0.001, <0.01, and <0.05, respectively, for all comparisons 
between adalimumab and placebo. 
In the open-label extension, improvement in the signs and symptoms was maintained with 
adalimumab therapy through week 156. 
Inhibition of inflammation 
Significant improvement of signs of inflammation as measured by hs-CRP and MRI of both Sacroiliac 
Joints and the Spine was maintained in adalimumab-treated patients through week 156 and week 104, 
respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the HAQ-S and the SF-36 
questionnaires. Adalimumab showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the HAQ-S 
total score and the SF-36 Physical Component Score (PCS) from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo. Improvement in health-related quality of life and physical function was maintained during the 
open-label extension through week 156. 
Study nr-axSpA II 
673 patients with active nr-axSpA (mean baseline disease activity [BASDAI] was 7.0) who had an 
inadequate response to ≥ 2 NSAIDs, or an intolerance to or a contraindication for NSAIDs enrolled 
into the open-label period of study nr-axSpA II during which they received adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week for 28 weeks. These patients also had objective evidence of inflammation in the sacroiliac 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
joints or spine on MRI or elevated hs-CRP. Patients who achieved sustained remission for at least 12 
weeks (N=305) (ASDAS < 1.3 at Weeks 16, 20, 24, and 28) during the open-label period were then 
randomised to receive either continued treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every other week (N=152) 
or placebo (N=153) for an additional 40 weeks in a double-blind, placebo-controlled period (total 
study duration 68 weeks). Subjects who flared during the double-blind period were allowed 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week rescue therapy for at least 12 weeks. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with no flare by week 68 of the study. 
Flare was defined as ASDAS ≥ 2.1 at two consecutive visits four weeks apart. A greater proportion of 
patients on adalimumab had no disease flare during the double-blind period, when compared with 
those on placebo (70.4% vs. 47.1%, p<0.001) (Figure 1).  
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to flare in  
study nr-axSpA II 
E
R
A
L
F
O
N
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
                                  Treatment       
 Placebo     
 Adalimumab     ∆ Censored 
TIME (WEEKS) 
Note: P = Placebo (number at risk (flared)); A = adalimumab (number at risk (flared)). 
Among the 68 patients who flared in the group allocated to treatment withdrawal, 65 completed 
12 weeks of rescue therapy with adalimumab, out of which 37 (56.9%) had regained remission 
(ASDAS < 1.3) after 12 weeks of restarting the open-label treatment.  
By Week 68, patients receiving continuous adalimumab treatment showed statistically significant 
greater improvement of the signs and symptoms of active nr-axSpA as compared to patients allocated 
to treatment withdrawal during the double-blind period of the study (Table 14). 
Table 14 
Efficacy response in placebo-controlled period for study nr-axSpA II 
Double-blind 
response at week 68 
ASASa,b 20 
ASASa,b 40 
ASASa partial remission 
ASDASc inactive disease 
Partial flared 
a Assessment of SpondyloArthritis international Society 
131 
Placebo 
N=153 
47.1% 
45.8% 
26.8% 
33.3% 
64.1% 
Adalimumab 
N=152 
70.4%*** 
65.8%*** 
42.1%** 
57.2%*** 
40.8%*** 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b Baseline is defined as open-label baseline when patients have active disease. 
c Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score 
d Partial flare is defined as ASDAS ≥ 1.3 but < 2.1 at 2 consecutive visits. 
***, ** Statistically significant at p < 0.001 and < 0.01, respectively, for all comparisons between 
adalimumab and placebo. 
Psoriatic arthritis  
Adalimumab, 40 mg every other week, was studied in patients with moderately to severely active 
psoriatic arthritis in two placebo-controlled studies, PsA studies I and II. PsA study I with 24 week 
duration, treated 313 adult patients who had an inadequate response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug therapy and of these, approximately 50 % were taking methotrexate. PsA study II with 12-week 
duration, treated 100 patients who had an inadequate response to DMARD therapy. Upon completion 
of both studies, 383 patients enrolled in an open-label extension study, in which 40 mg adalimumab 
was administered every other week. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of adalimumab in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-
like psoriatic arthropathy due to the small number of patients studied. 
Table 15 
ACR response in placebo-controlled psoriatic arthritis studies 
(Percent of patients) 
PsA study I 
Response 
Placebo 
N=162 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 12 
Week 24 
14% 
15% 
4% 
6% 
1% 
1% 
Adalimumab 
N=151 
ACR 20 
58%*** 
57%*** 
ACR 50 
36%*** 
39%*** 
ACR 70 
20%*** 
23%*** 
PsA study II 
Placebo 
N=49 
Adalimumab 
N=51 
16% 
- 
2% 
- 
0% 
- 
39%* 
- 
25%*** 
- 
14%* 
- 
*** p < 0.001 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
*     p < 0.05 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
- Not applicable 
ACR responses in PsA study I were similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. 
ACR responses were maintained in the open-label extension study for up to 136 weeks. 
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis studies. Radiographs of hands, wrists, 
and feet were obtained at baseline and week 24 during the double-blind period when patients were on 
adalimumab or placebo and at week 48 when all patients were on open-label adalimumab. A modified 
Total Sharp Score (mTSS), which included distal interphalangeal joints (i.e. not identical to the TSS 
used for rheumatoid arthritis), was used. 
Adalimumab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage compared with 
placebo treatment as measured by change from baseline in mTSS (mean ± SD) 0.8 ± 2.5 in the placebo 
group (at week 24) compared with 0.0 ± 1.9; (p<0.001) in the adalimumab group (at week 48). 
In subjects treated with adalimumab with no radiographic progression from baseline to week 48 
(n=102), 84% continued to show no radiographic progression through 144 weeks of treatment. 
Adalimumab treated patients demonstrated statistically significant improvement in physical function 
as assessed by HAQ and Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) compared to placebo at week 24. 
Improved physical function continued during the open-label extension up to week 136. 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriasis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis 
(≥10% BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) ≥12 or ≥10) who were 
candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73% of patients 
enrolled in Psoriasis studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy. The safety 
and efficacy of adalimumab were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque 
psoriasis with concomitant hand and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a 
randomised double-blind study (Psoriasis study III). 
Psoriasis study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods. In period A, 
patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least 
a PASI 75 response (PASI score improvement of at least 75 % relative to baseline), entered period B 
and received open-label 40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained ≥PASI 75 
response at week 33 and were originally randomised to active therapy in Period A, were re-
randomised in period C to receive 40 mg adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 
19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from “moderate” (53 % of subjects included) to 
“severe” (41 %) to “very severe” (6 %). 
Psoriasis study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus methotrexate 
and placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg and thereafter 
dose increases up to week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab 
followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 16 weeks. There are 
no data available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. Patients receiving 
MTX who achieved a ≥PASI 50 response at week 8 and/or 12 did not receive further dose increases. 
Across all treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the baseline PGA score 
ranged from “mild” (<1%) to “moderate” (48%) to “severe” (46%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open-
label extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks. 
In Psoriasis studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a PASI 
75 response from baseline at week 16 (see Tables 16 and 17). 
Table 16 
Ps study I (REVEAL) - efficacy results at 16 weeks 
≥ PASI 75a 
PASI 100 
PGA: clear/minimal 
Placebo 
N=398 
n (%) 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
17 (4.3) 
Adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week 
N=814 
n (%) 
578 (70.9)b 
163 (20.0)b 
506 (62.2)b 
a Percent of patients achieving PASI 75 response was calculated as centre-adjusted rate 
b p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 
Ps study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks 
Placebo 
N=53 
n (%) 
10 (18.9) 
1 (1.9) 
6 (11.3) 
MTX 
N=110 
n (%) 
39 (35.5) 
8 (7.3) 
33 (30.0) 
Adalimumab  
40 mg every other 
week 
N=108 
n (%) 
86 (79.6)a, b 
18 (16.7)c, d 
79 (73.1)a, b 
≥ PASI 75 
PASI 100 
PGA: clear/minimal 
a p<0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo 
b p<0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
c p<0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo 
d p<0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
In Psoriasis study I, 28 % of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to 
placebo at week 33 compared to 5 % continuing on adalimumab, p<0.001, experienced “loss of 
adequate response” (PASI score after week 33 and on or before week 52 that resulted in a <PASI 50 
response relative to baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to week 33). 
Of the patients who lost adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled into 
the open-label extension trial, 38 % (25/66) and 55 % (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 12 and 
24 weeks of re-treatment, respectively. 
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at week 16 and week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy 
for 52 weeks in Psoriasis study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial. PASI 75 
and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7 % and 59.0 %, respectively, 
after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all 
patients who dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, 
were considered non-responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these 
patients were 69.6 % and 55.7 %, respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy 
(total of 160 weeks). 
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open-
label extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a 
median time to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of 
these patients experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5% (218/285) of 
patients who entered the retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 
weeks of retreatment, irrespective of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1 %[123/178] and 
88.8 % [95/107] for patients who relapsed and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, 
respectively). A similar safety profile was observed during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (studies I and II) and MTX 
(study II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In study I, improvements 
in the physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also significant compared to 
placebo.  
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 
40 mg weekly due to a PASI response below 50 %, 26.4 % (92/349) and 37.8 % (132/349) of patients 
achieved PASI 75 response at week 12 and 24, respectively. 
Psoriasis study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 
72 patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients 
received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week 
after the initial dose) or placebo for 16 weeks. At week 16, a statistically significantly greater 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proportion of patients who received adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the hands 
and/or feet compared to patients who received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3%, respectively [p = 0.014]). 
Psoriasis study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients 
with moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed 
by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks followed 
by open-label adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments included 
the Modified Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of 
Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 18). 
Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin 
involvement (BSA≥10 % (60 % of patients) and BSA<10 % and ≥5 % (40 % of patients)). 
Table 18 
Ps study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks 
Week 16 
Placebo-controlled 
Week 26 
Placebo-controlled 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=109 
26.0a 
29.7a 
Placebo 
N=108 
3.4 
6.9 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=109 
46.6a 
48.9a 
Week 52 
Open-label 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every 
other week 
N=80 
65.0 
61.3 
-44.2a 
-11.5 
-56.2a 
-72.2 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
N=108 
2.9 
2.9 
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%) 
PGA-F clear/minimal 
and ≥2-grade 
improvement (%) 
Percent change in 
total 
fingernail NAPSI (%) 
a p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
-7.8 
Adalimumab treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at week 26 compared with 
placebo in the DLQI. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis 
suppurativa (HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 3-
month trial of systemic antibiotic therapy. The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or III 
disease with at least 3 abscesses or inflammatory nodules. 
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods. In Period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2, and 40 mg 
every week starting at week 4 to week 11. Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the 
study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-
randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 
40 mg every other week, or placebo from week 12 to week 35). Patients who had been randomised to 
placebo in Period A were assigned to receive adalimumab 40 mg every week in Period B. 
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods. In Period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 and 
40 mg every week starting at week 4 to week 11. 19.3 % of patients had continued baseline oral 
antibiotic therapy during the study. After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab 
in Period A were re-randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every 
week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from week 12 to week 35). Patients who had 
been randomised to placebo in Period A were assigned to receive placebo in Period B.  
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients participating in studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension 
study in which adalimumab 40 mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab 
population was 762 days. Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily. 
Clinical Response 
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas was 
assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50 % reduction in total 
abscess and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining 
fistula count relative to Baseline). Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a Numeric 
Rating Scale in patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater on a 
11 point scale. 
At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo 
achieved HiSCR. At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in study HS-II experienced 
a clinically relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see Table 19). Patients treated with adalimumab 
had significantly reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of treatment. 
Table 19 
Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS studies I and II 
HS study I 
HS study II 
Placebo 
Adalimumab  
40 mg Weekly 
Placebo 
Adalimumab  
40 mg Weekly 
N=154 
40 (26.0%) 
N=153 
64 (41.8%) * 
Hidradenitis 
Suppurativa 
clinical response 
(HiSCR)a 
≥ 30% reduction in 
skin painb 
* p<0.05, ***p<0.001, adalimumab versus placebo 
a Among all randomised patients 
b Among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric Rating Scale 0 
– 10; 0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine 
N=163 
96 (58.9%) *** 
N=105 
48 (45.7%) *** 
N=163 
45 (27.6%) 
N=109 
27 (24.8%) 
N=122 
34 (27.9%) 
N=111 
23 (20.7%) 
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of 
abscesses and draining fistulas. Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group in 
the first 12 weeks of studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group 
experienced worsening of abscesses (23.0 % vs 11.4 %, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0 % vs 
13.9 %, respectively). 
Greater improvements at week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin 
specific health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; 
studies HS-I and HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medication treatment as measured by the 
Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire - medication (TSQM; studies HS-I and HS-II), and physical 
health as measured by the physical component summary score of the SF-36 (study HS-I). 
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at week 12, the HiSCR rate at 
week 36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in whom dosing 
frequency was reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn (see Table 20). 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20 
Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at weeks 24 and 36 after 
treatment reassignment from weekly adalimumab at week 12 
Placebo 
(treatment withdrawal) 
N = 73 
24 (32.9%) 
22 (30.1%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
every other week 
N = 70 
36 (51.4%) 
28 (40.0%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
weekly 
N = 70 
40 (57.1%) 
39 (55.7%) 
Week 24 
Week 36 
a Patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after 12 weeks of treatment 
b Patients meeting protocol-specified criteria for loss of response or no improvement were required to 
discontinue from the studies and were counted as nonresponders 
Among patients who were at least partial responders at week 12, and who received continuous 
weekly adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at week 48 was 68.3% and at Week 96 was 65.1%. 
Longer term treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at week 12 in studies HS-I and HS-II, 
the HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly returned to levels similar 
to that observed before withdrawal (56.0  %). 
Crohn’s disease 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1,500 patients with moderately to 
severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI) ≥220 and ≤450) in 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, 
corticosteroids, and/or immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80 % of patients continued to 
receive at least one of these medications. 
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI <150) was evaluated in two studies, CD study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD study II (GAIN). In CD study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naive patients were 
randomised to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 
and 80 mg at week 2, 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2, and 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 
2. In CD study II, 325 patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were randomised 
to receive either 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 or placebo at weeks 0 and 2. The 
primary non-responders were excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were not further 
evaluated. 
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM). In CD study III, 
854 patients received open-label 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2. At week 4 patients were 
randomised to 40 mg every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 
56 weeks. Patients in clinical response (decrease in CDAI ≥70) at week 4 were stratified and analysed 
separately from those not in clinical response at week 4. Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 
8. 
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 21. 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21 
Induction of clinical remission and response 
(Percent of patients) 
CD study I: infliximab naive patients 
Placebo 
N=74 
Adalimumab 
80/40 mg 
N=75 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=76 
Week 4 
CD study II: infliximab 
experienced patients 
Placebo 
N=166 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=159 
Clinical 
remission 
Clinical response 
(CR-100) 
12% 
24% 
24% 
37% 
36%* 
49%** 
7% 
25% 
21%* 
38%** 
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo 
*   p <0.001 
** p <0.01 
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by week 8 
and adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group. 
In CD study III, at week 4, 58 % (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in 
the primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at week 4, 48 % had been previously exposed to 
other TNF-antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 22. 
Clinical remission results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist 
exposure. 
Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with adalimumab 
compared with placebo at week 56. 
Table 22 
Maintenance of clinical remission and response 
(Percent of patients) 
Placebo 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every other week 
N=172 
40 %* 
52 %* 
3 % (2/66) 
N=170 
17 % 
27 % 
Week 26  
Clinical remission  
Clinical response (CR-100)  
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa  
Week 56 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100)  
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa  
*   p <0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
** p <0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
a   Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
N=172 
36 %* 
41 %* 
N=170 
12 % 
17 % 
19% (11/58)** 
29 % (17/58)* 
5 % (3/66) 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every week 
N=157 
47 %* 
52 %* 
15% (11/74)** 
N=157 
41 %* 
48 %* 
20 % (15/74)** 
Among patients who were not in response at week 4, 43 % of adalimumab maintenance patients 
responded by week 12 compared to 30 % of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that 
some patients who have not responded by week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy through 
week 12. Therapy continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses (see 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.2). 
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed 
through at least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy. 88 and 189 patients, respectively, 
continued to be in clinical remission. Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 
233 patients, respectively. 
Quality of life  
In CD study I and CD study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific 
inflammatory bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at week 4 in patients 
randomised to adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at weeks 26 
and 56 in CD study III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo 
group. 
Ulcerative Colitis 
The safety and efficacy of multiple doses of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3) 
in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. 
In study UC-I, 390 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised to receive either placebo at weeks 
0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 followed by 80 mg at week 2, or 80 mg adalimumab at week 0 
followed by 40 mg at week 2. After week 2, patients in both adalimumab arms received 40 mg every 
other week. Clinical remission (defined as Mayo score ≤2 with no subscore >1) was assessed at week 
8. 
In study UC-II, 248 patients received 160 mg of adalimumab at week 0, 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg 
every other week thereafter, and 246 patients received placebo. Clinical results were assessed for 
induction of remission at week 8 and for maintenance of remission at week 52. 
Patients induced with 160/80 mg adalimumab achieved clinical remission versus placebo at week 8 in 
statistically significantly greater percentages in study UC-I (18 % vs. 9 % respectively, p=0.031) and 
study UC-II (17 % vs. 9 % respectively, p=0.019). In study UC-II, among those treated with 
adalimumab who were in remission at week 8, 21/41 (51 %) were in remission at week 52. 
Results from the overall UC-II study population are shown in Table 23. 
Table 23 
Response, remission and mucosal healing in study UC-II 
(Percent of patients) 
Week 52 
Clinical response  
Clinical remission  
Mucosal healing  
Steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 daysa  
Week 8 and 52  
Sustained response  
Sustained remission 
Sustained mucosal healing  
Placebo 
N=246 
18 % 
9 % 
15 % 
6 % 
(N=140) 
12 % 
4 % 
11 % 
Adalimumab  
40 mg every other 
week 
N=248 
30 %* 
17 %* 
25 %* 
13 %* 
(N=150) 
24 %** 
8 %* 
19 %* 
Clinical remission is Mayo score ≤2 with no subscore >1; 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical response is decrease from baseline in Mayo score ≥3 points and ≥30% plus a decrease in 
the rectal bleeding subscore [RBS] ≥1 or an absolute RBS of 0 or 1; 
*   p<0.05 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
** p<0.001 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
a    Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Of those patients who had a response at week 8, 47 % were in response, 29 % were in remission, 41 % 
had mucosal healing, and 20 % were in steroid-free remission for ≥90 days at week 52. 
Approximately 40% of patients in study UC-II had failed prior anti-TNF treatment with infliximab. 
The efficacy of adalimumab in those patients was reduced compared to that in anti-TNF naïve 
patients. Among patients who had failed prior anti-TNF treatment, week 52 remission was achieved by 
3 % on placebo and 10 % on adalimumab. 
Patients from studies UC-I and UC-II had the option to roll over into an open-label long-term 
extension study (UC III). Following 3 years of adalimumab therapy, 75 % (301/402) continued to be 
in clinical remission per partial Mayo score. 
Hospitalisation rates 
During 52 weeks of studies UC-I and UC-II, lower rates of all-cause hospitalisations and UC-related 
hospitalisations were observed for the adalimumab-treated arm compared to the placebo arm. The 
number of all cause hospitalisations in the adalimumab treatment group was 0.18 per patient year vs. 
0.26 per patient year in the placebo group and the corresponding figures for UC-related 
hospitalisations were 0.12 per patient year vs. 0.22 per patient year. 
Quality of life 
In study UC-II, treatment with adalimumab resulted in improvements in the Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease Questionnaire (IBDQ) score. 
Uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious 
intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two 
randomised, double- masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or 
adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after 
the initial dose. Concomitant stable doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted. 
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral 
prednisone at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of 
prednisone 60 mg/day at study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete 
corticosteroid discontinuation by week 15. 
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment 
(oral prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently 
underwent a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 19. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ´time to treatment failure´. Treatment failure was 
defined by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory 
retinal vascular lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best 
corrected visual acuity (BCVA). 
Patients who completed Studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue on 
study medication beyond Week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Response 
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment 
failure in patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (See Table 24). Both 
studies demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus 
placebo (see Figure 2). 
Table 24 
Time to treatment failure in studies UV I and UV II 
P 
valueb 
N 
HRa 
CI 95% 
for HRa 
Analysis 
treatment 
Median time to 
failure (months) 
Failure 
N (%) 
Time to treatment failure at or after week 6 in study UV I 
Primary analysis (ITT) 
84 (78.5) 
107 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
60 (54.5) 
110 
Time to treatment failure at or after week 2 in study UV II 
Primary analysis (ITT) 
111 
Placebo 
115 
Adalimumab 
Note:  Treatment failure at or after week 6 (study UV I), or at or after week 2 (study UV II), was 
counted as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of 
dropping out. 
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor 
b 2-sided P value from log rank test 
c NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event 
61 (55.0) 
45 (39.1) 
- 
0.57 
- 
0.50 
8.3 
NEc 
3.0 
5.6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.39,0.84  0.004 
0.36,0.70  <0.001 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to treatment failure on or after week 6 
(Study UV I) or week 2 (Study UV II) 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of 
Events/Number at Risk). 
In study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were 
observed for each component of treatment failure. In study UV II, statistically significant differences 
were observed for visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of 
adalimumab. 
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of studies UV I and UV II, 
60 subjects were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to 
diabetic retinopathy, due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary 
analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74%) reached 78 weeks of 
open-label adalimumab treatment. Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3%) were in 
quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC cell grade ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a 
concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2%) were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA 
was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 88.6 % of the eyes at week 78. Data 
beyond Week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the number of enrolled subjects 
declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 18% discontinued 
due to adverse events, and 8 % due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment. 
Quality of Life 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical 
studies, using the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores 
with statistically significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental 
health, and total score in study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in study UV II. Vision 
related effects were not numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in study UVI and for 
colour vision, peripheral vision and near vision in study UV II. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment. Formation of anti-
adalimumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab. 
There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies and the 
occurrence of adverse events. 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with 
active polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA onset 
types (most frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended 
oligoarthritis). 
pJIA I 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
parallel-group study in 171 children (4-17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in 
phase (OL LI) patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX- 
treated. Patients who were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from 
MTX at least two weeks prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and or prednisone (≤ 0.2 mg /kg/day or 10 mg/day 
maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients received 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg adalimumab 
every other week for 16 weeks. The distribution of patients by age and minimum, median and 
maximum dose received during the OL LI phase is presented in Table 25. 
Table 25 
Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI phase 
Age group 
4 to 7 years 
8 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
Number of patients at baseline N (%)  Minimum, median and maximum 
31 (18.1) 
71 (41.5) 
69 (40.4) 
10, 20 and 25 mg 
20, 25 and 40 mg 
25, 40 and 40 mg 
Patients demonstrating a Paediatric ACR 30 response at week 16 were eligible to be randomised into 
the double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg, or 
placebo every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare criteria were 
defined as a worsening of ≥30% from baseline in ≥3 of 6 Paediatric ACR core criteria, ≥2 active 
joints, and improvement of >30% in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 32 weeks or at disease 
flare, patients were eligible to enrol into the open-label extension phase. 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26 
Paed ACR 30 responses in the JIA study 
Stratum 
Phase 
MTX 
OL-LI 16 weeks 
Without MTX 
Ped ACR 30 response (n/N) 
94.1 % (80/85) 
74.4 % (64/86) 
Efficacy outcomes 
Double blind 32 weeks 
Adalimumab /MTX 
(N=38) 
Placebo / MTX 
(N=37) 
Adalimumab  
(N=30) 
Placebo 
(N=28) 
Disease flares at the end of 
32 weeksa (n/N) 
36.8 % (14/38) 
64.9 % (24/37)b  43.3 % (13/30)  71.4 % (20/28)c 
Median time to disease flare 
>32 weeks 
20 weeks 
>32 weeks 
14 weeks 
a Ped ACR 30/50/70 responses week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo treated patients 
b p = 0.015 
c p = 0.031 
Amongst those who responded at week 16 (n=144), the Paediatric ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 
maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout  the 
study. Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 12 and 8 of the baseline age 
group 13 to 17 years were treated 6 years or longer. 
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with 
the combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, adalimumab is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as 
monotherapy in patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2). 
pJIA II 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children 
(2 - <4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing <15 kg) with moderately to severely active 
polyarticular JIA. The patients received 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a 
maximum of 20 mg every other week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During 
the study, most subjects used concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or 
NSAIDs. 
At week 12 and week 24, PaedACR30 response was 93.5% and 90.0%, respectively, using the 
observed data approach. The proportions of subjects with PaedACR50/70/90 at week 12 and week 24 
were 90.3%/61.3%/38.7% and 83.3%/73.3%/36.7%, respectively. Amongst those who responded 
(Paediatric ACR 30) at week 24 (n=27 out of 30 patients), the Paediatric ACR 30 responses were 
maintained for up to 60 weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout this 
time period. Overall, 20 subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study 
in 46 paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were 
randomised to receive either 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg, or placebo every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-
label (OL) period during which patients received 24 mg/m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 
40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was 
the percent change from Baseline to week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
due to deformity or joints with loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with 
mean percent decrease of -62.6% (median percent change -88.9 %) in patients in the adalimumab 
group compared to -11.6% (median percent change -50.0 %) in patients in the placebo group. 
Improvement in number of active joints with arthritis was maintained during the OL period through 
week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84 %) patients in the adalimumab group who remained in the study. 
Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients demonstrated clinical improvement in 
secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint count (TJC), swollen joint count 
(SJC), Paediatric ACR 50 response, and Paediatric ACR 70 response. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 
114 paediatric patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a PGA 
≥4 or >20% BSA involvement or >10 % BSA involvement with very thick lesions or PASI ≥20 or ≥10 
with clinically relevant facial, genital, or hand/ foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled 
with topical therapy and heliotherapy or phototherapy. 
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other week (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg/kg every other week 
(up to 20 mg), or methotrexate 0.1 – 0.4 mg/kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At Week 16, more patients 
randomised to adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to 0.4 mg/kg every other week or MTX. 
Table 27 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks 
PASI 75b 
PGA: clear/minimalc 
MTXa 
N=37 
12 (32.4%) 
15 (40.5%) 
Adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other 
week 
N=38 
22 (57.9%) 
23 (60.5%) 
a MTX = methotrexate 
b P=0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
c P=0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 
36 weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades). 
Patients were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg every other week for an additional 16 weeks 
and response rates observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period: PASI 
75 response of 78.9 % (15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6 % (10 of 19 subjects). 
In the open-label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were maintained 
for up to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS. Efficacy of adalimumab 
for the treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and 
exposure-response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, 
pathophysiology, and drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure 
levels. Safety of the recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on 
cross-indication safety profile of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more 
frequent doses (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weight (<40 kg or ≥40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, 
with moderate to severe Crohn´s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
(PCDAI) score >30. Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid 
and/or an immunomodulator) for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been 
intolerant to infliximab. 
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 
160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 for subjects ≥40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for 
subjects <40 kg. 
At week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low 
Dose or Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 28. 
Table 28 
Maintenance regimen 
Patient weight 
<40 kg 
≥40 kg 
Low dose 
10 mg every other week 
20 mg every other week 
Standard dose 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Efficacy results 
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at week 26, defined as PCDAI score ≤10. 
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points 
from Baseline) rates are presented in Table 29. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or 
immunomodulators are presented in Table 30. 
Table 29 
Paediatric CD study 
PCDAI clinical remission and response 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg every other 
week 
N=93 
Low Dose 
20/10 mg every other 
week 
N=95 
Week 26 
Week 52 
38.7 % 
59.1 % 
33.3 % 
41.9 % 
28.4 % 
48.4 % 
23.2 % 
28.4 % 
P value* 
0.075 
0.073 
0.100 
0.038 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
* p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30 
Paediatric CD study 
Discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg every 
other week 
Low dose 
20/10 mg every 
other week 
P value1 
Discontinued corticosteroids 
N=33 
Week 26 
84.8 % 
Week 52 
69.7 % 
Discontinuation of immunomodulators2 
N=60 
Week 52 
30.0 % 
Fistula remission3 
N=15 
Week 26 
46.7 % 
Week 52 
40.0 % 
1 p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison 
2 Immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after week 26 at the investigator's 
discretion if the subject met the clinical response criterion 
3 Defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at Baseline for at least 2 consecutive post-
Baseline visits 
N=38 
65.8 % 
60.5 % 
N=57 
29.8 % 
N=21 
38.1 % 
23.8 % 
0.066 
0.420 
0.608 
0.303 
0.983 
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to week 26 and 52 in Body Mass Index 
and height velocity were observed for both treatment groups. 
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both 
treatment groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III). 
One hundred patients (n=100) from the Paediatric CD study continued in an open-label long-term 
extension study. After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0 % (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in 
the study continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0 % (46/50) of patients continued to be in 
clinical response per PCDAI. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, trial 
in 93 paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo 
score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who 
had an inadequate response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in 
the study had failed prior anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were 
allowed to taper their corticosteroid therapy after Week 4. 
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomised 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment 
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) 
at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. Both groups received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6. Following an amendment to the study design, 
the remaining 16 patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with 
adalimumab at the induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 
1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2. 
At Week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a 
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomised equally to receive double-
blind maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every 
week (ew), or a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an amendment to the study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS 
were randomised to receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy. 
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at 
Week 8), at least 2 points (for patients with PMS of 3 to 4 at Week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients 
with PMS of 5 to 6 at Week 8). 
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after Week 12 were randomised to receive a re-
induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and 
continued to receive their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards. 
Efficacy Results  
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no 
individual subscore > 1) at Week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a 
Mayo Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at Week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response 
per PMS at Week 8. Clinical remission rates per PMS at Week 8 for patients in each of the 
adalimumab doubleblind induction groups are presented in Table 31. 
Table 31 
Clinical remission per PMS at 8 weeks 
Clinical remission 
Adalimumabb, c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0 
and week 1 
N=47 
28/47 (59.6%) 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0/ 
Placebo at week 1 
N=30 
13/30 (43.3%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 
80 mg) at Week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 
and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoint 
At Week 52, clinical remission per FMS in Week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as 
a decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in Week 8 responders, mucosal 
healing (defined as Mayo endoscopy subscore ≤ 1) in Week 8 responders, clinical remission per FMS 
in Week 8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free remission per FMS in 
Week 8 responders were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the double-blind maximum 
40 mg every other week (0.6 mg/kg) and maximum 40 mg every week (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance doses 
(Table 32). 
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 32 
Efficacy results at 52 weeks 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 40 mg every other 
week 
N=31 
Adalimumabb 
Maximum of 40 mg every week 
N=31 
9/31 (29.0%) 
12/31 (38.7%) 
19/31 (61.3%) 
21/31 (67.7%) 
14/31 (45.2%) 
Clinical remission in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical response in week 8 
PMS responders 
Mucosal healing in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical remission in week 8 
PMS remitters 
Corticosteroid-free remission 
in week 8 PMS respondersc 
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
c In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline 
Note: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomised to receive re-induction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 endpoints 
10/22 (45.5%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
9/21 (42.9%) 
4/13 (30.8%) 
5/16 (31.3%) 
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative 
Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and 
clinical remission per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at Week 8 and Week 52 (Table 33). 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33 
Exploratory endpoints results per PUCAI 
Week 8 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0/ 
Placebo at week 1 
N=30 
Adalimumabb,c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 0 
and week 1 
N=47 
Clinical remission per 
PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
10/30 (33.3%) 
15/30 (50.0%) 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Week 52 
Adalimumabd 
maximum of 40 mg every other 
week 
N=31 
Adalimumabe 
maximum of 40 mg every week 
N=31 
Clinical remission per 
PUCAI in week 8 PMS 
responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
in week 8 PMS responders 
14/31 (45.2%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0, placebo at Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 
80 mg) at Week 2 
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at Week 0 
and Week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at Week 2 
d Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
e Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at Week 4 and Week 6 
Note 2: Patients with missing values at Week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at Week 52 or who were randomised to receive reinduction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for Week 52 endpoints 
Of the adalimumab-treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance 
period, 2/6 (33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at Week 52. 
Quality of life 
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab. 
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for the 
groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in 
Body Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 40 mg 
(0.6 mg/kg) every week. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-masked, controlled 
study of 90 paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated noninfectious 
anterior uveitis who were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment. Patients received 
either placebo or 20 mg adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week 
in combination with their baseline dose of methotrexate. 
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with 
development of sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
use of concomitant medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time. 
Clinical Response 
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (See Figure 3, 
P < 0.0001 from log rank test). The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for subjects 
treated with placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for subjects 
treated with adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment failure. 
Adalimumab significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75 % relative to placebo, as 
shown by the hazard ratio (HR = 0.25 [95 % CI: 0.12, 0.49]). 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier curves summarising time to treatment failure in the paediatric uveitis 
study 
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
G
N
I
L
I
A
F
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
Treatment 
Note: P = Placebo (number at risk); H = adalimumab (number at risk). 
Placebo 
  Adalimumab 
TIME (WEEKS) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution 
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab 
was slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The 
average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg 
subcutaneous dose was 64 %. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, 
concentrations were dose proportional. After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 
151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase half-
life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from several 
rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96 % of those in serum. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 μg/ml 
(without concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 μg/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively. 
The serum adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose 
following 20, 40 and 80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough 
steady-state (values measured from week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 5.6 ± 
5.6 µg/ml (102 % CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 10.9 ± 5.2 µg/ml 
(47.7 % CV) with concomitant methotrexate. 
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to <4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing <15 kg 
dosed with adalimumab 24 mg/m2 , the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations 
was 6.0 ± 6.1 µg/ml (101% CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 7.9 ± 
5.6 µg/ml (71.2% CV) with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
patients with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values 
measured at week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg/ml for adalimumab 
without concomitant methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg/ml with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult non-
radiographic axial spondyloarthritis patients, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state concentration at 
Week 68 was 8.0 ± 4.6 μg/ml. 
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 μg/ml during 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment. 
Following the administration of 0.8 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 μg/ml (79% CV). 
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 
80 mg on week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg/ml at 
week 2 and week 4. The mean steady-state trough concentration at week 12 through week 36 were 
approximately 8 to 10 μg/ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment. 
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). The recommended adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since 
exposure to adalimumab can be affected by body size, adolescents with higher body weight and 
inadequate response may benefit from receiving the recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 5.5 μg/ml 
during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 μg/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 μg/ml were observed 
in Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was 
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg. 
At week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg every other week) or 
Low Dose (20/10 mg every other week) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. 
The mean (±SD) serum adalimumab trough concentrations achieved at week 4 were 15.7±6.6 µg/ml 
for patients ≥40 kg (160/80 mg) and 10.6±6.1 µg/ml for patients <40 kg (80/40 mg). 
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (±SD) adalimumab trough 
concentrations at week 52 were 9.5±5.6 μg/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5±2.2 μg/ml for the 
Low Dose group. The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to 
receive adalimumab treatment every other week for 52 weeks. For patients who dose escalated from 
every other week to weekly regimen, the mean (±SD) serum concentrations of adalimumab at week 
52 were 15.3±11.4 μg/ml (40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7±3.5 μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly). 
In patients with ulcerative colitis, a loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 μg/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 8 μg/ml were observed 
in ulcerative colitis patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 
40 mg) every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state 
serum adalimumab concentration was 5.01±3.28 µg/ml at Week 52. For patients who received 
0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab 
concentration was 15.7±5.60 μg/ml at Week 52. 
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week starting at week 1, resulted in mean steady-state concentrations of 
approximately 8 to 10 µg/ml. 
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients 
(paediatric psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related 
arthritis). No clinical exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. 
The predicted exposures indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an 
initial increase in systemic exposure. 
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation 
predicted comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other 
week when compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, 
patients with adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC). 
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population 
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response 
relationship was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent 
adalimumab plasma concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 
response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml (95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml).  
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients 
with severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, 
respectively. PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab 
concentrations, both with a similar apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/ml (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 
1.9-10.5, respectively). 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight 
differences, gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance. The serum 
levels of free adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be 
lower in patients with measurable AAA. 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, 
repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg/kg (9-17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of 
harm to the foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment of 
fertility and postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate models 
for an antibody with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of neutralising 
antibodies in rodents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate 
Succinic acid 
Sodium succinate dibasic 
Histidine 
Histidine hydrochloride monohydrate 
Mannitol 
Polysorbate 20 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
A single Imraldi pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25°C for a period of up to 31 days. The syringe or pen must be protected from light, and discarded if 
not used within the 31-day period. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
0.4 ml solution for injection in single-use pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a stainless steel needle, 
a rigid needle shield, a rubber plunger (chlorobutyl), a plunger rod, a safe-shield body and a finger 
flange for patient use. 
Packs of: 
 
 
 
 
1 pre-filled syringe, with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes, each with 1 alcohol pad 
4 pre-filled syringes, each with 1 alcohol pad 
6 pre-filled syringes, each with 1 alcohol pad 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
0.4 ml solution for injection in single-use pre-filled pen for patient use containing a pre-filled syringe. 
The syringe inside the pen is made from type I glass with a stainless steel needle, a rigid needle shield, 
a rubber plunger (chlorobutyl). 
Packs of: 
 
 
 
 
1 pre-filled pen, with 2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled pens, each with 1 alcohol pad 
4 pre-filled pens, each with 1 alcohol pad 
6 pre-filled pens, each with 1 alcohol pad 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/17/1216/010 
EU/1/17/1216/011 
EU/1/17/1216/012 
EU/1/17/1216/013 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/17/1216/014 
EU/1/17/1216/015 
EU/1/17/1216/016 
EU/1/17/1216/017 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
155 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of first authorisation: 24 August 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 29 April 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
156 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
157 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)  
FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Denmark ApS 
Biotek Allé 1 
Hillerød, 3400 
Denmark  
Samsung Biologics Co. Ltd 
300, Songdo bio-daero, 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon, 21987, 
Korea, Republic of 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Imraldi in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including distribution modalities, 
and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. The educational 
program consists of a Patient Reminder Card.  
The Patient Reminder Cards should contain the following key elements:  
serious infections 
tuberculosis 
cancer 
• 
• 
• 
•  nervous system problems 
•  vaccinations 
159 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON (PRE-FILLED SYRINGE PACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.8 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, 
sorbitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled syringes 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled syringes 
6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not remove the needle cap before you are ready to inject. 
Open. 
For single use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/001 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/17/1216/002 2 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/17/1216/003 4 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/17/1216/004 6 pre-filled syringes 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imraldi 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
163 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Imraldi 40 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.8 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON (PRE-FILLED PEN PACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.8 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, 
sorbitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled pens 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled pens 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled pens 
6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not remove the needle cap before you are ready to inject. 
There is no button on your pre-filled pen. 
Open. 
For single use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/005 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/17/1216/006 2 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/17/1216/007 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/17/1216/008 6 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imraldi 40 mg 
167 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Imraldi 40 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.8 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON (VIAL PACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg/0.8 ml solution for injection 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.8 ml vial contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, 
sorbitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection 
Contains 2 cartons each for a single injection only 
Contains 2 cartons and 
each carton contains: 
1 vial 
1 sterile injection syringe 
1 sterile needle 
1 sterile vial adapter 
2 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Open. 
For single use only. 
For paediatric use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imraldi 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
171 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
172 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER CARTON (VIAL PACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg/0.8 ml solution for injection 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.8 ml vial contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, 
sorbitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection 
1 vial 
1 sterile injection syringe 
1 sterile needle 
1 sterile vial adapter 
2 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Open. 
For single use only. 
For paediatric use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
173 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imraldi 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
174 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Imraldi 40 mg/0.8 ml injection 
adalimumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.8 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
For single use only 
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON (PRE-FILLED SYRINGE PACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.4 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate, sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate, 
succinic acid, sodium succinate dibasic, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, mannitol, 
polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled syringes 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled syringes 
6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not remove the needle cap before you are ready to inject. 
Open. 
For single use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/010 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/17/1216/011 2 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/17/1216/012 4 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/17/1216/013 6 pre-filled syringes 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imraldi 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
177 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
178 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Imraldi 40 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.4 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON (PRE-FILLED PEN PACK) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.4 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate, sodium phosphate dibasic heptahydrate, 
succinic acid, sodium succinate dibasic, histidine, histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, mannitol, 
polysorbate 20, and water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled pens 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled pens 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled pens 
6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not remove the needle cap before you are ready to inject. 
There is no button on your pre-filled pen. 
Open. 
For single use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
180 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/17/1216/014 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/17/1216/015 2 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/17/1216/016 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/17/1216/017 6 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Imraldi 40 mg 
181 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED PEN LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Imraldi 40 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.4 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
183 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
184 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Imraldi and during treatment with 
Imraldi. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your (or your child’s) last injection of Imraldi. 
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet (See section 4). 
- 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
3.  How to use Imraldi  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Imraldi  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
Imraldi contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Imraldi is intended for treatment of: 
 
rheumatoid arthritis,  
 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
 
enthesitis-related arthritis,  
 
ankylosing spondylitis,  
 
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis,  
 
psoriatic arthritis,  
 
psoriasis,  
 
hidradenitis suppurativa,  
 
Crohn’s disease,  
 
ulcerative colitis and  
 
non-infectious uveitis.  
The active ingredient in Imraldi, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Imraldi decreases 
the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to treat your rheumatoid arthritis. 
Imraldi can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function. 
Usually, Imraldi is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Imraldi can be given alone. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Imraldi is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
work well enough, patients will be given Imraldi to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
or enthesitis-related arthritis. 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine. 
Imraldi is used to treat ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of ankylosing spondylitis in adults. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given other 
medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs 
and symptoms of your disease. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis. 
Imraldi is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve physical function. 
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Imraldi is also used to treat 
severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents weighing 30 kg or greater for whom topical 
therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents 
186 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus. It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the 
armpits, inner thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Imraldi is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. Imraldi 
can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with 
the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you 
will be given Imraldi. 
Crohn’s disease in adults and children 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut. 
Imraldi is used to treat Crohn’s disease in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will 
be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease. 
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye.  
Imraldi is used to treat  
 
 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
Children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting 
the front of the eye 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black 
dots or wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Imraldi works by reducing this inflammation. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
Do not use Imraldi 
- 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems.  
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Imraldi. 
Allergic reaction 
187 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash do not inject more Imraldi and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening. 
Infection 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example, leg ulcer) 
consult your doctor before starting Imraldi. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.  
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Imraldi treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, other opportunistic 
infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system) and sepsis (blood 
poisoning). In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your 
doctor if you get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor 
may recommend temporary discontinuation of Imraldi. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Imraldi, your doctor will 
check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Imraldi. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
Travel/recurrent infection 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are endemic. 
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should test you 
for HBV. Imraldi can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening. 
Age over 65 years 
• 
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Imraldi. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Imraldi. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures, tell your doctor that you are taking 
Imraldi. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Imraldi. 
Demyelinating disease 
188 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Imraldi. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccine 
• 
Certain vaccines contain weakened but live forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses, and 
these vaccines should not be given during treatment with Imraldi. Check with your doctor 
before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the 
scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Imraldi. If you receive 
Imraldi while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an infection for up 
to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is important that you 
tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Imraldi use during your 
pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine. 
Heart Failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and you are being treated with Imraldi, your heart failure status 
must be closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. 
shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your 
doctor will decide if you should receive Imraldi. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells to fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or bleed 
very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment. 
Cancer 
• 
• 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking Imraldi 
or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have had the disease 
for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects 
the lymph system), and leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). If you take 
Imraldi the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare 
occasions, a specific and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
Some of those patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Imraldi. 
In addition, cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after therapy or if existing marks or areas of 
damage change appearance, tell your doctor. 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of 
lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another TNFα 
blocker. If you have COPD, or you are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you. 
Lupus-like syndrome 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Imraldi could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
189 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Do not give Imraldi to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years. 
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled syringe if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.  
Other medicines and Imraldi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Imraldi can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids or 
pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
You should not take Imraldi with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept due 
to increased risk of serious infection. If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Imraldi injection. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imraldi should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab. 
Imraldi can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you received Imraldi during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection.  
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Imraldi use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section). 
Driving and using machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Imraldi. 
Imraldi contains sodium and sorbitol 
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 20 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled syringe. If you have been told by 
your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this 
medicinal product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Imraldi 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
190 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adults with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are only available as a 40 mg dose. Thus, it is not possible 
to administer Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen to paediatric patients that require less than a 
full 40 mg dose. If an alternative dose is required, other presentations offering such an option should 
be used. 
Imraldi is injected under the skin (subcutaneous use). The usual dose for adults with rheumatoid 
arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab given every other week as a 
single dose. 
In rheumatoid arthritis, methotrexate is continued while using Imraldi. If your doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, Imraldi can be given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid arthritis and you do not receive methotrexate with your Imraldi therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 10 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 6 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with psoriasis 
The usual dose for adults with psoriasis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one 
day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. You should 
continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with plaque psoriasis 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
191 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 40 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with hidradenitis suppurativa 
The usual dose regimen for hidradenitis suppurativa is an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. After two further weeks, continue with a 
dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, as prescribed by your doctor.  
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adolescents with hidradenitis suppurativa from 12 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week later. If this dose does not work well enough to 
Imraldi 40 mg every other week, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adults with Crohn’s disease 
The usual dose regimen for Crohn’s disease is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting two weeks later. If a faster effect is required your doctor 
may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later, and thereafter as 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your doctor 
may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with Crohn's disease 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual dose regimen is 40 mg initially followed by 20 mg two weeks later. If a faster response is 
required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) 
followed by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose frequency to 20 mg every week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing 40 kg or more: 
The usual dose regimen is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg two 
weeks later. If a faster response is required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) 
followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Adults with ulcerative colitis 
The usual Imraldi dose for adults with ulcerative colitis is 160 mg initially (as four 40 mg injections in 
one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later and thereafter 40 mg every other week. If this dose does 
192 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not work well enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other 
week. 
Children and adolescents with ulcerative colitis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual Imraldi dose is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two weeks later. Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 40 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 40 kg or more 
The usual Imraldi dose is 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) initially, followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later. Thereafter the usual dose is 80 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 80 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis 
The usual dose for adults with non-infectious uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial 
dose. You should continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. 
In non-infectious uveitis, corticosteroids or other medicines that influence the immune system may be 
continued while using Imraldi. Imraldi can also be given alone. 
Children and adolescents with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing less than 30 kg 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your child’s doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 40 mg which may be administered one week 
prior to the start of the usual dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg which may be administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Imraldi is given by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). For instructions for use, refer 
to section 7. 
If you use more Imraldi than you should 
If you accidentally inject Imraldi more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist and 
explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of the medicine with 
you, even if it is empty. 
193 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to use Imraldi 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Imraldi as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Imraldi 
The decision to stop using Imraldi should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Imraldi injection. 
Seek medical attention urgently if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction; 
swollen face, hands, feet; 
trouble breathing, swallowing; 
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination; 
feeling weak or tired; 
coughing; 
tingling; 
numbness; 
double vision; 
arm or leg weakness; 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal; 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness. 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been 
observed with adalimumab: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching); 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia); 
headache; 
abdominal (belly) pain; 
nausea and vomiting; 
rash; 
pain in the muscles. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza); 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis); 
194 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles); 
ear infections; 
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores); 
reproductive tract infections; 
urinary tract infection; 
fungal infections; 
joint infections; 
benign tumours; 
skin cancer; 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy); 
dehydration; 
mood swings (including depression); 
anxiety; 
difficulty sleeping; 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness; 
migraine; 
symptoms of nerve root compression(including low back pain and leg pain); 
vision disturbances; 
eye inflammation; 
inflammation of the eyelid and eye swelling; 
vertigo (sensation of the room spinning); 
sensation of heart beating rapidly; 
high blood pressure; 
flushing; 
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood); 
cough; 
asthma; 
shortness of breath; 
gastrointestinal bleeding; 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn); 
acid reflux disease; 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth); 
itching; 
itchy rash; 
bruising; 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema); 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails; 
increased sweating; 
hair loss; 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis; 
muscle spasms; 
blood in urine; 
kidney problems; 
chest pain; 
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell); 
fever; 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising; 
impaired healing. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when 
resistance to disease is lowered); 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis); 
195 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
eye infections; 
bacterial infections; 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine); 
cancer, including cancer of the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of skin 
cancer); 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis); 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels); 
tremor; 
neuropathy (nerve damage); 
stroke; 
hearing loss, buzzing; 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats; 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling; 
myocardial infarction; 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel; 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation); 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung); 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space); 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back; 
difficulty in swallowing; 
facial oedema; 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones; 
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells); 
night sweats; 
scar;  
abnormal muscle breakdown; 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other 
organ systems); 
sleep interruptions; 
impotence; 
inflammations. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
severe allergic reaction with shock; 
multiple sclerosis; 
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body); 
heart stops pumping; 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung); 
intestinal perforation; 
hepatitis; 
reactivation of hepatitis B; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system); 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin); 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash); 
facial oedema associated with allergic reactions; 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash); 
lupus-like syndrome; 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);  
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash). 
196 
 
 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal); 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer); 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure; 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness); 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small). 
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for red blood cells; 
increased lipids in the blood; 
raised liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for platelets; 
increased uric acid in the blood; 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium; 
low blood measurements for calcium; 
low blood measurements for phosphate; 
high blood sugar; 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase; 
autoantibodies present in the blood; 
low blood potassium. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Imraldi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage: 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Imraldi pre-filled syringe may be stored 
at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 28 days – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the syringe must be used within 
28 days or discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the syringe is first removed from refrigerator, and the date after 
which it should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imraldi contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine 
hydrochloride monohydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 20 and water for injections. 
What Imraldi looks like and contents of the pack 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to opalescent and 
colourless to pale brown solution. 
Imraldi is available in packs containing 1, 2, 4 or 6 pre-filled syringe(s) (type I glass) with a stainless 
steel needle, a rigid needle shield, a rubber plunger, a plunger rod, a safe-shield body, a finger flange 
for patient use and 2, 2, 4 or 6 alcohol pads enclosed in packs respectively. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
198 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Biogen Belgium NV/S.A  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 808 5947 
Lietuva  
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 52 07 91 38 
България  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office 
Teл.: + 359 249 176 81 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Biogen Belgium NV/SA  
Tél/Tel: +35 227 772 038 
Česká republika  
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 228 884 152 
Danmark  
Biogen (Denmark) A/S  
Tlf: + 45 78 79 37 53 
Deutschland  
Biogen GmbH  
Tel: + 49 (0)89 996 177 00 
Eesti  
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: + 372 6 68 30 56 
Ελλάδα  
Genesis Pharma S.A. 
Τηλ: + 30 211 176 8555 
España  
Biogen Spain, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 931 790 519 
France  
Biogen France SAS  
Tél: + 33 (0)1 776 968 14 
Hrvatska  
Ewopharma d.o.o 
Tel: + 385 (0)1 777 64 37 
Ireland  
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.  
Tel: +353 (0)1 513 33 33 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 800 9836 
Italia  
Biogen Italia s.r.l.  
Tel: + 39 (0)6 899 701 50 
Magyarország  
Biogen Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36 1 848 04 64 
Malta  
Pharma.MT Ltd 
Tel: + 356 27 78 15 79 
Nederland  
Biogen Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: + 31 (0)20 808 02 70 
Norge  
Biogen Norway AS  
Tlf: + 47 21 93 95 87 
Österreich  
Biogen Austria GmbH  
Tel: + 43 (0)1 267 51 42 
Polska  
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 116 86 94 
Portugal  
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica,  
Unipessoal, Lda  
Tel: + 351 308 800 792 
România  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office 
Tel: + 40 377 881 045 
Slovenija  
Biogen Pharma d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 (0)1 888 81 07 
Slovenská republika  
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 (0)2 333 257 10 
Suomi/Finland  
Biogen Finland Oy  
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 427 041 08 
199 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος  
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22 00 04 93 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: + 371 66 16 40 32 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Sverige  
Biogen Sweden AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 525 038 36 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0)20 360 886 22 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Follow this instruction guide carefully, and soon you will develop a routine for injecting confidently. 
• 
Before you inject, ask your doctor or nurse to show you how to use your pre-filled syringe. 
Your doctor or nurse should make sure you can use your syringe correctly. 
Your single-dose pre-filled syringe 
After you push the plunger all the way down, the needle will retract to help prevent needle stick injury. 
Caring for your pre-filled syringe 
Syringe storage 
• 
• 
• 
Store your syringe in the refrigerator, but do not freeze it. 
Keep your syringe in its carton, and away from light. 
Keep the syringe out of the sight and reach of children. 
Syringe disposal 
• 
• 
Use each syringe only once. Never reuse a syringe. 
Throw away your used syringe in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist. 
Cautions 
• 
If you dropped your syringe with the cap ON, it is okay to use the syringe. 
If you dropped your syringe with the cap OFF, do not use it. The needle might be dirty or 
damaged. 
Do not use a damaged syringe. 
• 
201 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site care 
• 
• 
• 
Choose a fatty area for injection: 
Fatty areas, like your stomach, are generally the best injection sites. Fatty areas are easier to 
pinch and are good for inserting the needle correctly. 
Use a different injection site every time: 
When choosing an injection site, select an area that has not recently been used to avoid soreness 
and bruises. 
Press plunger slowly: 
Sometimes, fast injections can be painful. If you press the syringe plunger slowly, it may make 
your injection more comfortable. 
How to inject with your pre-filled syringe 
1. 
Gather supplies 
Place your pre-filled syringe and alcohol pads on a clean, dry surface.  
 
 
Remember to wash your hands! 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
2.  Wait 15-30 minutes 
Wait 15-30 minutes for your pre-filled syringe to reach to room temperature, which helps reduce your 
pain during injection. 
 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
3. 
Inspect medicine & expiry date 
202 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Always make sure your medicine is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of particles, and 
has not expired. If your medication is not clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of 
particles, or expired, do not use it. 
You may see1 or more bubbles, and that is okay. There is no reason to remove it. 
 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
4. 
Choose an injection site & clean skin 
Choose an injection site on your body. Your abdomen (except the area around the navel) or thighs are 
best.  
Clean your injection site with an alcohol pad. Do not touch the area again before the injection. 
 
Avoid skin that’s sore, bruised, scarred, scaly, or has red patches. 
5. 
Pull off needle cap 
Carefully pull off the needle cap. 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the needle. 
If you take off the needle cap before you are ready to inject, do not put the needle cap back on. This 
could bend or damage the needle. You might accidentally stick yourself or waste medication. 
203 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Pinch skin & insert needle  
Gently pinch your skin and insert the needle all the way at about a 45-degree angle. 
7. 
Push plunger all the way  
Hold the syringe steady and press the plunger all the way down.  
Then lift your thumb to let the needle retract into the body of the syringe. 
8. 
Remove syringe & dispose 
Pull the syringe away from your skin.  
After injecting Imraldi, confirm that the needle has retracted and immediately throw away the used 
syringe in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
 
Not sure if you received your dose? Contact your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
204 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card,which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Imraldi and during treatment with 
Imraldi. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your (or your child’s) last injection of Imraldi. 
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet (See section 4). 
- 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
3.  How to use Imraldi 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Imraldi 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
Imraldi contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Imraldi is intended for treatment of: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rheumatoid arthritis, 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
enthesitis-related arthritis  
ankylosing spondylitis, 
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, 
psoriatic arthritis, 
psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, 
Crohn’s disease, 
ulcerative colitis and  
non-infectious uveitis. 
The active ingredient in Imraldi, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Imraldi decreases 
the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
205 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Imraldi is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to treat your rheumatoid arthritis. 
Imraldi can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function. 
Usually, Imraldi is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Imraldi can be given alone. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Imraldi is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
work well enough, patients will be given Imraldi to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
or enthesitis-related arthritis. 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine. 
Imraldi is used to treat ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of ankylosing spondylitis in adults. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given other 
medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs 
and symptoms of your disease. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis. 
Imraldi is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve physical function. 
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Imraldi is also used to treat 
severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents weighing 30 kg or greater for whom topical 
therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
206 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus. It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the 
armpits, inner thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Imraldi is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. Imraldi 
can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with 
the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you 
will be given Imraldi. 
Crohn’s disease in adults and children 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut. 
Imraldi is used to treat Crohn’s disease in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will 
be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease. 
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye.  
Imraldi is used to treat  
• 
• 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
Children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting 
the front of the eye 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black 
dots or wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Imraldi works by reducing this inflammation. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
Do not use Imraldi 
- 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems. 
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Imraldi. 
Allergic reaction 
207 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash do not inject more Imraldi and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening. 
Infection 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example, leg ulcer) 
consult your doctor before starting Imraldi. If you are unsure, contact your doctor. 
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Imraldi treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, other opportunistic 
infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system) and sepsis (blood 
poisoning). In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your 
doctor if you get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor 
may recommend temporary discontinuation of Imraldi. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Imraldi, your doctor will 
check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Imraldi. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
Travel/recurrent infection 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are endemic. 
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should test you 
for HBV. Imraldi can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening. 
Age over 65 years 
• 
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Imraldi. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Imraldi. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures, tell your doctor that you are taking 
Imraldi. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Imraldi. 
Demyelinating disease 
208 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Imraldi. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccine 
• 
Certain vaccines contain weakened but live forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses, and 
these vaccines should not be given during treatment with Imraldi. Check with your doctor 
before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the 
scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Imraldi. If you receive 
Imraldi while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an infection for up 
to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is important that you 
tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Imraldi use during your 
pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine. 
Heart Failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and you are being treated with Imraldi, your heart failure status 
must be closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. 
shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your 
doctor will decide if you should receive Imraldi. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells to fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or bleed 
very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment. 
Cancer 
• 
• 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking Imraldi 
or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have had the disease 
for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects 
the lymph system), and leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). If you take 
Imraldi the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare 
occasions, a specific and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
Some of those patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Imraldi. 
In addition, cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after therapy or if existing marks or areas of 
damage change appearance, tell your doctor. 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of 
lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another TNFα 
blocker. If you have COPD, or you are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you. 
Lupus-like syndrome 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Imraldi could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
209 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Do not give Imraldi to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years. 
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled pen if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.  
Other medicines and Imraldi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Imraldi can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids or 
pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
You should not take Imraldi with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept due 
to increased risk of serious infection.. If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Imraldi injection.  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imraldi should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab. 
Imraldi can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you received Imraldi during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection.  
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Imraldi use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).  
Driving and using machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Imraldi. 
Imraldi contains sodium and sorbitol 
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 20 mg sorbitol in each pre-filled pen. If you have been told by your 
doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal 
product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Imraldi 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
210 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adults with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are only available as a 40 mg dose. Thus, it is not possible 
to administer Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen to paediatric patients that require less than a 
full 40 mg dose. If an alternative dose is required, other presentations offering such an option should 
be used. 
Imraldi is injected under the skin (subcutaneous use). The usual dose for adults with rheumatoid 
arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab given every other week as a 
single dose. 
In rheumatoid arthritis, methotrexate is continued while using Imraldi. If your doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, Imraldi can be given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid arthritis and you do not receive methotrexate with your Imraldi therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 10 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 6 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with psoriasis 
The usual dose for adults with psoriasis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one 
day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. You should 
continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. If this dose dose not work well 
enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with plaque psoriasis 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
211 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 40 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with hidradenitis suppurativa 
The usual dose regimen for hidradenitis suppurativa is an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. After two further weeks, continue with a 
dose of 40 mg every week. or 80 mg every other week, as prescribed by your doctor It is 
recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adolescents with hidradenitis suppurativa from 12 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week later. If this dose does not work well enough to 
Imraldi 40 mg every other week, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adults with Crohn’s disease  
The usual dose regimen for Crohn’s disease is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting two weeks later. If a faster effect is required your doctor 
may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later, and thereafter as 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your doctor 
may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with Crohn's disease  
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual dose regimen is 40 mg initially followed by 20 mg two weeks later. If a faster response is 
required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) 
followed by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose frequency to 20 mg every week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing 40 kg or more: 
The usual dose regimen is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg two 
weeks later. If a faster response is required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) 
followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Adults with ulcerative colitis 
The usual Imraldi dose for adults with ulcerative colitis is 160 mg initially (as four 40 mg injections in 
one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later and thereafter 40 mg every other week. If this dose does 
not work well enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other 
week. 
212 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents with ulcerative colitis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual Imraldi dose is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two weeks later. Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 40 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 40 kg or more 
The usual Imraldi dose is 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) initially, followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later. Thereafter the usual dose is 80 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 80 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis 
The usual dose for adults with non-infectious uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial 
dose. You should continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. 
In non-infectious uveitis, corticosteroids or other medicines that influence the immune system may be 
continued while using Imraldi. Imraldi can also be given alone. 
Children and adolescents with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing less than 30 kg 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your child’s doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 40 mg which may be administered one week 
prior to the start of the usual dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg which may be administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Imraldi is given by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). For instructions for use, refer 
to section 7. 
If you use more Imraldi than you should 
If you accidentally inject Imraldi more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist and 
explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of the medicine with 
you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Imraldi 
213 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Imraldi as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Imraldi 
The decision to stop using Imraldi should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Imraldi injection. 
Seek medical attention urgently if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction; 
swollen face, hands, feet; 
trouble breathing, swallowing; 
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination; 
feeling weak or tired; 
coughing; 
tingling; 
numbness; 
double vision; 
arm or leg weakness; 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal; 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness. 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been 
observed with adalimumab: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching); 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia); 
headache; 
abdominal (belly) pain; 
nausea and vomiting; 
rash; 
pain in the muscles. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza); 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis); 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles); 
214 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
ear infections; 
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores); 
reproductive tract infections; 
urinary tract infection; 
fungal infections; 
joint infections; 
benign tumours; 
skin cancer; 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy); 
dehydration; 
mood swings (including depression); 
anxiety; 
difficulty sleeping; 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness; 
migraine; 
symptoms of nerve root compression(including low back pain and leg pain); 
vision disturbances; 
eye inflammation; 
inflammation of the eyelid and eye swelling; 
vertigo (sensation of the room spinning); 
sensation of heart beating rapidly; 
high blood pressure; 
flushing; 
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood); 
cough; 
asthma; 
shortness of breath; 
gastrointestinal bleeding; 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn); 
acid reflux disease; 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth); 
itching; 
itchy rash; 
bruising; 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema); 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails; 
increased sweating; 
hair loss; 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis; 
muscle spasms; 
blood in urine; 
kidney problems; 
chest pain; 
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell); 
fever; 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising; 
impaired healing. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when 
resistance to disease is lowered); 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis); 
eye infections; 
215 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
bacterial infections; 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine); 
cancer, including cancer of the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of skin 
cancer); 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis); 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels); 
tremor; 
neuropathy  (nerve damage); 
stroke; 
hearing loss, buzzing; 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats; 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling; 
myocardial infarction; 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel; 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation); 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung); 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space); 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back; 
difficulty in swallowing; 
facial oedema; 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones; 
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells); 
night sweats; 
scar; 
abnormal muscle breakdown; 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other 
organ systems); 
sleep interruptions; 
impotence; 
inflammations. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
severe allergic reaction with shock; 
multiple sclerosis; 
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body); 
heart stops pumping; 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung); 
intestinal perforation; 
hepatitis; 
reactivation of hepatitis B; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system); 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin); 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash); 
facial oedema associated with allergic reactions; 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash); 
lupus-like syndrome; 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin); 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash). 
216 
 
 
 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal); 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer); 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure; 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness); 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small). 
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for red blood cells; 
increased lipids in the blood; 
raised liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for platelets; 
increased uric acid in the blood; 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium; 
low blood measurements for calcium; 
low blood measurements for phosphate; 
high blood sugar; 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase; 
autoantibodies present in the blood; 
low blood potassium. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Imraldi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
217 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
Alternative Storage:  
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Imraldi pre-filled pen may be stored at 
room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 28 days – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the pen must be used within 
28 days or discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the pen is first removed from refrigerator, and the date after which it 
should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imraldi contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine 
hydrochloride monohydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. 
What Imraldi looks like and contents of the pack 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to opalescent and 
colourless to pale brown solution. 
Imraldi is available in packs containing 1, 2, 4 or 6 pre-filled pen(s) containing a pre-filled syringe 
(type I glass) with a stainless steel needle, a rigid needle shield, a rubber plunger for patient use and 2, 
2, 4 or 6 alcohol pads are enclosed in packs respectively. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
218 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Biogen Belgium NV/S.A  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 808 5947 
Lietuva  
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 52 07 91 38 
България  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office  
Teл.: + 359 249 176 81 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Biogen Belgium NV/SA  
Tél/Tel: +35 227 772 038 
Česká republika  
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 228 884 152 
Danmark  
Biogen (Denmark) A/S  
Tlf: + 45 78 79 37 53 
Deutschland  
Biogen GmbH  
Tel: + 49 (0)89 996 177 00 
Eesti  
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: + 372 6 68 30 56 
Ελλάδα  
Genesis Pharma S.A. 
Τηλ: + 30 211 176 8555 
España  
Biogen Spain, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 931 790 519 
France  
Biogen France SAS  
Tél: + 33 (0)1 776 968 14 
Hrvatska  
Ewopharma d.o.o  
Tel: + 385 (0)1 777 64 37 
Ireland  
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.  
Tel: +353 (0)1 513 33 33 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf.  
Sími: + 354 800 9836 
Italia  
Biogen Italia s.r.l.  
Tel: + 39 (0)6 899 701 50 
Magyarország  
Biogen Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36 1 848 04 64 
Malta  
Pharma.MT Ltd 
Tel: + 356 27 78 15 79 
Nederland  
Biogen Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: + 31 (0)20 808 02 70 
Norge  
Biogen Norway AS  
Tlf: + 47 21 93 95 87 
Österreich  
Biogen Austria GmbH  
Tel: + 43 (0)1 267 51 42 
Polska  
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 116 86 94 
Portugal  
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica,  
Unipessoal, Lda  
Tel: + 351 308 800 792 
România  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office  
Tel: + 40 377 881 045 
Slovenija  
Biogen Pharma d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 (0)1 888 81 07 
Slovenská republika  
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 (0)2 333 257 10 
Suomi/Finland  
Biogen Finland Oy  
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 427 041 08 
219 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος  
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22 00 04 93 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: + 371 66 16 40 32 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Sverige  
Biogen Sweden AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 525 038 36 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0)20 360 886 22 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
220 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Follow this instruction guide carefully, and soon you will develop a routine for injecting confidently. 
• 
Before you inject, ask your doctor or nurse to show you how to use your pre-filled pen. Your 
doctor or nurse should make sure you can use your pen correctly. 
Your single-dose pre-filled pen 
There is no button on your pre-filled pen. 
The needle is hidden below the green base. When you push the pre-filled pen firmly onto your skin, 
the injection will start automatically. 
Caring for your pre-filled pen 
Pen storage 
• 
• 
• 
Store your pen in the refrigerator, but do not freeze it. 
Keep your pen in its carton, and away from light. 
Keep the pen out of the sight and reach of children. 
Pen disposal 
• 
• 
Use each pen only once. Never reuse a pen. 
Throw away your used pen in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist. 
Cautions 
• 
• 
If you dropped your pen with the cap ON, it is okay to use the pen. 
If you dropped your pen with the cap OFF, do not use it. The needle might be dirty or damaged.  
Do not use a damaged pen. 
221 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site care 
• 
• 
Choose a fatty area for injection: 
Fatty areas, like your stomach, are generally the best injection sites. Fatty areas are good for 
inserting the needle correctly. 
Use a different injection site every time: 
When choosing an injection site, select an area that has not recently been used to avoid soreness 
and bruises. 
How to inject with your pre-filled pen 
1. 
Gather supplies 
Place your pre-filled pen and alcohol pads on a clean, dry surface.  
• 
• 
Remember to wash your hands! 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
2.  Wait 15-30 minutes 
Wait 15-30 minutes for your pre-filled pen to reach to room temperature, which helps reduce your 
pain during injection. 
• 
Do not remove the cap just yet!  
3. 
Inspect medicine & expiry date 
222 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Always make sure your medicine is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of particles, and 
has not expired. If your medication is not clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of 
particles, or expired, do not use it. 
You may see1 or more bubbles, and that is okay. There is no reason to remove it. 
• 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
4. 
Choose an injection site & clean skin 
Choose an injection site on your body. Your abdomen (except the area around the navel) or thighs are 
best.  
Clean your injection site with an alcohol pad. Do not touch the area again before the injection. 
• 
Avoid skin that is sore, bruised, scarred, scaly, or has red patches. 
5. 
Pull off the clear needle cap 
Carefully pull off the clear needle cap with a metal center from the pen.  
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the needle. 
If you take off the needle cap before you are ready to inject, do not put the needle cap back on. This 
could bend or damage the needle. You might accidentally stick yourself or waste medication. 
223 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Place greenbase, press down, and hold 
Place the greenbase straight (90 degrees) on your skin, and push the entire pre-filled pen down firmly 
to start the injection. 
•  When you push down, the injection starts. You may hear a 1st click. 
7. 
Continue to hold 
Hold the pen against your skin until the yellow indicator fills the medication window and stops 
moving. 
• 
Several seconds later you may hear a 2nd click. 
8. 
Confirm completion & dispose 
After injecting Imraldi, confirm that the entire medication window is yellow. 
Throw away the used pen in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
• 
  Not sure if you received your dose? Contact your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
224 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imraldi 40 mg/0.8 ml solution for injection 
adalimumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child starts using this medicine because it contains 
important information. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before your child is given Imraldi and during treatment 
with Imraldi. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you or your child during his/her treatment 
and for 4 months after your child’s last injection of Imraldi. 
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for your child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm 
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as your child's.  
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your child’s doctor or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet (See section 4). 
- 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before your child uses Imraldi 
3.  How to use Imraldi  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Imraldi  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
Imraldi contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Imraldi is intended for treatment of: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
enthesitis-related arthritis,  
paediatric plaque psoriasis,  
adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa,  
paediatric Crohn’s disease, 
paediatric ulcerative colitis, 
paediatric uveitis. 
The active ingredient in Imraldi, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Imraldi decreases 
the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Imraldi is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients 
may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
225 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
work well enough, patients will be given Imraldi to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
or enthesitis-related arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells. 
Imraldi is used to treat severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years in whom 
topical therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus. It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the 
armpits, inner thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Imraldi is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents from 12 years of age. Imraldi can 
reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with the 
disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will 
be given Imraldi. 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut. 
Imraldi is indicated for the treatment of Crohn’s disease in children aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, patients will be given 
Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. Imraldi is used to treat moderate to 
severe ulcerative colitis in children aged 6 to 17 years. Your child may first be given other medicines. 
If these medicines do not work well enough, your child will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and 
symptoms of his/her disease. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. 
Imraldi is used to treat children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with 
inflammation affecting the front of the eye. This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or 
the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or wispy lines that move across the field of vision). 
Imraldi works by reducing this inflammation. 
2.  What you need to know before your child uses Imraldi 
Do not use Imraldi 
- 
If your child is allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
226 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
If your child has a severe infection, including tuberculosis (see “Warnings and precautions”). It 
is important that you tell your doctor if your child has symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, 
wounds, feeling tired, dental problems.  
If your child has moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if your child 
has had or has a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your child’s doctor or pharmacist before using Imraldi. 
Allergic reaction 
• 
If your child has allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash do not inject more Imraldi and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening. 
Infection 
• 
• 
If your child has an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example, leg ulcer) 
consult your doctor before starting Imraldi. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.  
Your child might get infections more easily while receiving Imraldi treatment. This risk may 
increase if his/her lung function is reduced. These infections may be serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, other opportunistic 
infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system) and sepsis (blood 
poisoning). In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your 
doctor if your child gets symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. 
Your doctor may recommend temporary discontinuation of Imraldi. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Imraldi, your doctor will 
check your child for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Imraldi. This will 
include a thorough medical evaluation including your child’s medical history and screening 
tests (for example chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests 
should be recorded on your child’s Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your 
doctor if your child has ever had tuberculosis, or if he/she has been in close contact with 
someone who has had tuberculosis. Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if your child 
has had preventative treatment for tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, 
weight loss, listlessness, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell 
your doctor immediately. 
Travel/recurrent infection 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if your child has lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are endemic. 
Tell your doctor if your child has a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that 
increase the risk of infections. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
Tell your doctor if your child is a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if he/she has active 
HBV infection or if you think he/she might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your child’s doctor 
should test your child for HBV. Imraldi can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this 
virus. In some rare cases, especially if your child is taking other medicines that suppress the 
immune system, reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
227 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If your child is about to have surgery or dental procedures tell your doctor that he/she is 
taking Imraldi. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Imraldi. 
Demyelinating disease 
• 
If your child has or develops a demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer 
around the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if he/she should receive 
or continue to receive Imraldi. Tell your doctor immediately if your child gets symptoms like 
changes in vision, weakness in arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of the body. 
Vaccine 
• 
Certain vaccines contain weakened but live forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses, and 
these vaccines should not be given during treatment with Imraldi. Check with your doctor 
before your child receives any vaccines. It is recommended that children, if possible, be given 
all the scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Imraldi. If you 
receive Imraldi while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an infection 
for up to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is important 
that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Imraldi use 
during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine. 
Heart Failure 
• 
If your child has mild heart failure and is being treated with Imraldi, his/her heart failure status 
must be closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if your child has 
had or has a serious heart condition. If he/she develops new or worsening symptoms of heart 
failure (e.g. shortness of breath, or swelling of his/her feet), you must contact your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor will decide if your child should receive Imraldi. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells to fight off infections or 
help him/her to stop bleeding. If your child develops a fever that does not go away, or he/she 
bruises or bleeds very easily or looks very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may 
decide to stop treatment. 
Cancer 
• 
• 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking Imraldi 
or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have had the disease 
for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects 
the lymph system), and leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). If your 
child takes Imraldi the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On 
rare occasions, a specific and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking 
Imraldi. Some of those patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or 
mercaptopurine. Tell your doctor if your child is taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with 
Imraldi. 
In addition, cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after therapy or if existing marks or areas of 
damage change appearance, tell your doctor. 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of 
lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another TNFα 
blocker. If your child has COPD, or is a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for your child. 
Lupus-like syndrome 
228 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Imraldi could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur 
Other medicines and Imraldi 
Tell your child’s doctor or pharmacist if your child is taking, has recently taken or might take any 
other medicines. 
Imraldi can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids or 
pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Your child should not take Imraldi with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or 
abatacept due to increased risk of serious infection . If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Imraldi injection.  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imraldi should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab. 
Imraldi can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you received Imraldi during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection.  
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your Imraldi 
use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information on vaccines see 
the “Warnings and precautions” section). 
Driving and using machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on the ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Imraldi. 
Imraldi contains sodium and sorbitol 
Sorbitol 
This medicinal product contains 20 mg sorbitol in each vial. If your child has been told by doctor that 
he/she has an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Imraldi 
Always use this medicine exactly as your child’s doctor or pharmacist has instructed. Check with your 
child’s doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure about any of the instructions or if you have any 
questions. Your doctor may prescribe another strength of Imraldi if your child needs a different dose. 
Children and adolescents with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
229 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 10 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other weeks. 
Children, adolescents and adults with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 6 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with plaque psoriasis 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 40 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Adolescents with hidradenitis suppurativa from 12 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week later. If this dose does not work well enough to 
Imraldi 40 mg every other week, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week . 
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Children and adolescents with Crohn's disease 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual dose regimen is 40 mg initially followed by 20 mg two weeks later. If a faster response is 
required, your child’s doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in 1 day) 
followed by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
child’s doctor may increase the dose frequency to 20 mg every week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing 40 kg or more 
The usual dose regimen is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg two 
weeks later. If a faster response is required, your child’s doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 
160 mg initially (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day for two 
consecutive days) followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. 
230 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
child’s doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with ulcerative colitis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual Imraldi dose is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two weeks later. Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 40 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 40 kg or more 
The usual Imraldi dose is 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) initially, followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later. Thereafter the usual dose is 80 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 80 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Children and adolescents with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing less than 30 kg 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your child’s doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 40 mg which may be administered one week 
prior to the start of the usual dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your child’s doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg which may be administered one week 
prior to the start of the usual dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Imraldi is given by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). For instructions for use, refer 
to section 7. 
If you use more Imraldi than you should 
If you accidentally inject a larger amount of Imraldi liquid, or if you inject Imraldi more frequently 
than you should, call your child’s doctor or pharmacist and explain that your child has taken more than 
required. Always take the outer carton or the vial of the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you use less Imradi than you should 
If you accidentally inject a smaller amount of Imraldi liquid, or if you inject Imraldi less frequently 
than you should, call your child’s doctor or pharmacist and explain that your child has taken less. 
Always take the outer carton or the vial of the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Imraldi 
231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to give your child an injection, you should inject the Imraldi dose as soon as you 
remember. Then administer your child’s next dose as you would have on the originally scheduled day, 
had you not forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Imraldi 
The decision to stop using Imraldi should be discussed with your child’s doctor. Your child’s 
symptoms may return upon stopping treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Imraldi injection. 
Seek medical attention urgently if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction; 
swollen face, hands, feet; 
trouble breathing, swallowing; 
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination; 
feeling weak or tired; 
coughing; 
tingling; 
numbness; 
double vision; 
arm or leg weakness; 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal; 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness. 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been 
observed with adalimumab: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching); 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia); 
headache; 
abdominal (belly) pain; 
nausea and vomiting; 
rash; 
pain in the muscles. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza); 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis); 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles); 
ear infections; 
232 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores); 
reproductive tract infections; 
urinary tract infection; 
fungal infections; 
joint infections; 
benign tumours; 
skin cancer; 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy); 
dehydration; 
mood swings (including depression); 
anxiety; 
difficulty sleeping; 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness; 
migraine; 
symptoms of nerve root compression(including low back pain and leg pain); 
vision disturbances; 
eye inflammation; 
inflammation of the eyelid and eye swelling; 
vertigo (sensation of the room spinning); 
sensation of heart beating rapidly; 
high blood pressure; 
flushing; 
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood); 
cough; 
asthma; 
shortness of breath; 
gastrointestinal bleeding; 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn); 
acid reflux disease; 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth); 
itching; 
itchy rash; 
bruising; 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema); 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails; 
increased sweating; 
hair loss; 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis; 
muscle spasms; 
blood in urine; 
kidney problems; 
chest pain; 
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell); 
fever; 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising; 
impaired healing. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when 
resistance to disease is lowered); 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis); 
eye infections; 
bacterial infections; 
233 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine); 
cancer, including cancer of the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of skin 
cancer); 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis); 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels); 
tremor; 
neuropathy (nerve damage); 
stroke; 
hearing loss, buzzing; 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats; 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling; 
myocardial infarction; 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel; 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation); 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung); 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space); 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back; 
difficulty in swallowing; 
facial oedema; 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones; 
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells); 
night sweats; 
scar;  
abnormal muscle breakdown; 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other 
organ systems); 
sleep interruptions; 
impotence; 
inflammations. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
severe allergic reaction with shock; 
multiple sclerosis; 
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body); 
heart stops pumping; 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung); 
intestinal perforation; 
hepatitis; 
reactivation of hepatitis B; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system); 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin); 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash); 
facial oedema associated with allergic reactions; 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash); 
lupus-like syndrome; 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin); 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data): 
234 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal); 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer); 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure; 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness); 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small). 
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for red blood cells; 
increased lipids in the blood; 
raised liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for platelets; 
increased uric acid in the blood; 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium; 
low blood measurements for calcium; 
low blood measurements for phosphate; 
high blood sugar; 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase; 
autoantibodies present in the blood; 
low blood potassium. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects 
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your child’s doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Imraldi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
235 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imraldi contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are sodium citrate, citric acid monohydrate, histidine, histidine 
hydrochloride monohydrate, sorbitol, polysorbate 20 and water for injections. 
What Imraldi looks like and contents of the pack 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in vial is supplied as a 0.8 ml clear to opalescent and colourless to 
pale brown solution. 
The Imraldi vial is a glass vial containing a solution of adalimumab. One pack contains 2 boxes, each 
containing 1 vial, 1 empty sterile syringe, 1 needle, 1 vial adapter and 2 alcohol pads. 
Imraldi may be available as a vial, a pre-filled syringe and/or a pre-filled pen. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Biogen Belgium NV/S.A  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 808 5947 
Lietuva  
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 52 07 91 38 
България  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office 
Teл.: + 359 249 176 81 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Biogen Belgium NV/SA  
Tél/Tel: +35 227 772 038 
236 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká republika  
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 228 884 152 
Danmark  
Biogen (Denmark) A/S  
Tlf: + 45 78 79 37 53 
Deutschland  
Biogen GmbH  
Tel: + 49 (0)89 996 177 00 
Eesti  
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: + 372 6 68 30 56 
Ελλάδα  
Genesis Pharma S.A. 
Τηλ: + 30 211 176 8555 
España  
Biogen Spain, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 931 790 519 
France  
Biogen France SAS  
Tél: + 33 (0)1 776 968 14 
Hrvatska  
Ewopharma d.o.o 
Tel: + 385 (0)1 777 64 37 
Ireland  
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.  
Tel: +353 (0)1 513 33 33 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 800 9836 
Italia  
Biogen Italia s.r.l.  
Tel: + 39 (0)6 899 701 50 
Κύπρος  
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22 00 04 93 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: + 371 66 16 40 32 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Magyarország  
Biogen Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36 1 848 04 64 
Malta  
Pharma.MT Ltd 
Tel: + 356 27 78 15 79 
Nederland  
Biogen Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: + 31 (0)20 808 02 70 
Norge  
Biogen Norway AS  
Tlf: + 47 21 93 95 87 
Österreich  
Biogen Austria GmbH  
Tel: + 43 (0)1 267 51 42 
Polska  
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 116 86 94 
Portugal  
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica,  
Unipessoal, Lda  
Tel: + 351 308 800 792 
România  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office 
Tel: + 40 377 881 045 
Slovenija  
Biogen Pharma d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 (0)1 888 81 07 
Slovenská republika  
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 (0)2 333 257 10 
Suomi/Finland  
Biogen Finland Oy  
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 427 041 08 
Sverige  
Biogen Sweden AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 525 038 36 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0)20 360 886 22 
237 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
238 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
The following instructions explain how to inject Imraldi. Please read the instructions carefully and 
follow them step by step. You will be instructed by your child's doctor or his/her assistant on the 
technique of injection and the amount to give to your child. Do not attempt to give your child an 
injection until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. After proper 
training, the injection can be self-administered or given by another person, for example a family 
member or friend. 
Failure to perform the following steps as described may cause contamination which may lead to 
infection of your child. 
This injection should not be mixed in the same syringe or vial with any other medicine. 
Caring for your vial  
Vial storage 
• 
• 
• 
Store your vial in the refrigerator, but do not freeze it. 
Keep your vial in its carton, and away from light. 
Keep the vial out of the sight and reach of children. 
Vial disposal 
• 
• 
Use each vial only once. Never reuse a vial and other components. 
Throw away your used vial in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist. 
Injection site care 
• 
• 
• 
Choose a fatty area for injection: 
Fatty areas, like your stomach, are generally the best injection sites. Fatty areas are easier to 
pinch and are good for inserting the needle correctly. 
Use a different injection site every time: 
When choosing an injection site, select an area that has not recently been used to avoid soreness 
and bruises. 
Press plunger slowly: 
Sometimes, fast injections can be painful. If you press the syringe plunger slowly, it may make 
your injection more comfortable. 
How to inject with your vial 
1)  
Setting up  
• 
• 
Make sure you know the proper amount (volume) needed for dosing. If you don’t know the 
amount, STOP HERE and contact your doctor for further instruction. 
You will need a special container for waste, such as a sharps container or as instructed by your 
nurse, doctor or pharmacist. Place the container on your work surface. 
•  Wash your hands thoroughly 
• 
Remove one box containing, one syringe, one vial adapter, one vial, two alcohol pads and one 
needle from the carton. If there is a second box in the carton for a future injection, place it back 
in the refrigerator immediately. 
Look at the expiry date on the box to be used. DO NOT use any item after the date shown on 
the box. 
Set up the following items on a clean surface, DO NOT take them out of their individual 
packaging yet. 
• 
• 
o 
1) One 1 ml syringe 
239 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o 
o 
o 
o 
2) One vial adapter  
3) One vial for paediatric use of Imraldi for injection 
4) Two alcohol swabs  
5) One needle 
• 
Imraldi is a liquid that is clear to opalescent and colourless to pale brown. DO NOT use if the 
liquid is not clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown or not free of particles. 
2)  
Preparing the Imraldi dose for injection 
General handling: DO NOT dispose of any waste items until after the injection is completed. 
• 
Prepare the needle by partially peeling the package open from the end closest to the yellow 
syringe connector. Peel the package just far enough to expose the yellow syringe connector.  
Set the package down with the clear side of the package facing up. 
• 
Pop off the white plastic cap from the vial to see the top of the vial stopper. 
• 
Use one of the alcohol pads to wipe the vial stopper. DO NOT touch the vial stopper after 
wiping with the alcohol pad. 
240 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Peel the cover off the vial adapter package but do not take out the vial adapter. 
Hold the vial with the vial stopper facing up. 
• 
•  With the vial adapter still in the clear package, attach it to the vial stopper by pushing down 
until the vial adapter snaps in place. 
•  When you are sure the adapter is attached to the vial, lift off the package from the vial adapter.  
• 
Gently set the vial with vial adapter down on your clean work surface. Be careful that it does 
not fall over. DO NOT touch the vial adapter.  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Prepare the syringe by partially peeling the package open from the end closest to white plunger 
rod. 
Peel the clear package just far enough to expose the white plunger rod, but do not take the 
syringe out of the package. 
Hold the syringe package and SLOWLY pull the white plunger rod out to 0.1 ml beyond the 
prescribed dose (For example, if the prescribed dose is 0.5 ml, pull the white plunger rod to 0.6 
ml). NEVER pull past the 0.9 ml position regardless of prescribed dose. 
You will set the volume to the prescribed dose in a later step. 
DO NOT pull the white plunger rod completely out of the syringe. 
NOTE:  
If the white plunger rod is pulled completely out of the syringe, discard the syringe and contact your 
Imraldi provider for a replacement. DO NOT try to reinsert the white plunger rod. 
241 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose + 0.1 ml 
• 
DO NOT use the white plunger rod to remove the syringe from the package. Hold the syringe 
on the graduated area and pull the syringe from its package. DO NOT set the syringe down at 
any time. 
•  While holding the vial adapter firmly, insert the syringe tip into the vial adapter and twist the 
syringe clockwise with one hand until firm. DO NOT over-tighten.  
•  While holding the vial, push the white plunger rod all the way down. This step is important to 
get the proper dose. Hold the white plunger rod in and turn the vial and syringe upside down. 
• 
SLOWLY pull the white plunger rod out to 0.1 ml beyond the prescribed dose. This is 
important to get the proper dose. You will set the volume to the prescribed dose in step 4 (Dose 
Preparation). If the prescribed dose is 0.5 ml, pull the white plunger rod out to 0.6 ml. You will 
see the liquid medication from the vial go into the syringe. 
242 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Push the white plunger rod all the way back in to push the liquid medication back into the vial. 
Again, SLOWLY pull the white plunger rod out to 0.1 ml beyond the prescribed dose, this is 
important to get the proper dose and important in order to prevent air bubbles or air gaps in the 
liquid medication. You will set the volume to the prescribed dose in step 4 (Dose Preparation). 
• 
If you see remaining air bubbles or air gaps in the liquid medication in the syringe, you may 
repeat this process up to 3 times. DO NOT shake the syringe. 
NOTE:  
If the white plunger rod is pulled completely out of the syringe, discard the syringe and contact your 
Imraldi provider for a replacement. DO NOT try to reinsert the white plunger rod. 
•  While still holding the syringe upright at the graduated area, remove the vial adapter with the 
vial by twisting the vial adapter off with the other hand. Be sure to remove the vial adapter with 
the vial from the syringe. DO NOT touch the tip of the syringe. 
• 
If a large air bubble or air gap can be seen near the syringe tip, SLOWLY push the white 
plunger rod into the syringe until fluid begins to enter the syringe tip. DO NOT push the white 
plunger rod past the dose position. 
243 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
For example, if the prescribed dose is 0.5 ml, DO NOT push the white plunger rod past the 0.5 
ml position. 
Check to see that the fluid remaining in the syringe is at least the prescribed dose volume. If the 
remaining volume is less than the prescribed dose volume, DO NOT use the syringe and 
contact your healthcare provider. 
•  With your free hand, pick up the needle package with the yellow syringe connector facing 
• 
down. 
Keeping the syringe up, insert the syringe tip into the yellow syringe connector and twist the 
syringe as indicated by the arrow in the picture until firm. The needle is now attached to the 
syringe. 
• 
• 
Pull the needle package off, but DO NOT remove the clear needle cap. 
Place the syringe on your clean work surface. Continue with injection site and dose preparation 
immediately. 
3)   Choosing and preparing an injection site 
• 
• 
Choose a site on your thigh or abdomen (except the area around the navel). DO NOT use the 
same site that was used for the last injection. 
The new injection site should be given at least 3 cm from the last injection site. 
• 
• 
DO NOT inject in an area where the skin is sore, bruised, scarred, scaly, or has red patches. 
This may mean there is an infection and therefore you should contact your doctor. 
To reduce the chance of infection, wipe the injection site with the other alcohol pad. DO NOT 
touch the area again before injecting. 
4)   Dose Preparation  
• 
• 
Pick up the syringe with the needle pointing up. 
Use your other hand to flip the pink needle cover down toward the syringe. 
244 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Remove the clear needle cap by pulling it straight up with your other hand. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The needle is clean. 
DO NOT touch the needle. 
DO NOT set the syringe down at any time after the clear needle cap is off. 
DO NOT try to put the clear needle cap back on the needle. 
Hold the syringe at eye-level with the needle pointing up to see the amount clearly. Be careful 
not to squirt the liquid medication into your eye. 
Recheck the prescribed medication amount. 
Push the white plunger rod gently into the syringe until the syringe contains the prescribed 
amount of liquid. Excess liquid may come out of the needle while the white plunger rod is being 
pushed. DO NOT wipe off the needle or the syringe. 
5)  
Injecting Imraldi 
•  With the free hand, gently grasp the cleaned area of skin and hold firmly.  
•  With the other hand, hold syringe at 45-degree angle to skin.  
•  With one quick, short motion, push needle all the way into skin. 
• 
• 
•  When the syringe is empty, remove the needle from skin, being careful to pull it out at the same 
Let go of the skin in your hand. 
Push the white plunger rod to inject the liquid medication until the syringe is empty. 
angle as when it was inserted. 
245 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Gently flip the pink needle cover up, over the needle and snap into place and set the syringe 
with needle on the work surface. DO NOT put the clear needle cap back on the needle. 
• 
Using a piece of gauze, apply pressure over the injection site for 10 seconds. A little bleeding 
may occur. DO NOT rub the injection site. Use a plaster if you want to.  
6)   Throwing away supplies 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You will need a special container for waste, such as a sharps container or as instructed by your 
nurse, doctor or pharmacist. 
Put the syringe with needle, vial and vial adapter into a special sharps container. DO NOT put 
these items into regular household waste. 
The syringe, needle, vial and vial adapter MUST NEVER be reused. 
Keep the special container out of the sight and reach of children at all times. 
Throw away all other used items into your regular household waste. 
246 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Imraldi and during treatment with 
Imraldi. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your (or your child’s) last injection of Imraldi. 
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet (See section 4). 
- 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
3.  How to use Imraldi  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Imraldi  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
Imraldi contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Imraldi is intended for treatment of: 
 
rheumatoid arthritis,  
 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
 
enthesitis-related arthritis,  
 
ankylosing spondylitis,  
 
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis,  
 
psoriatic arthritis,  
 
psoriasis,  
 
hidradenitis suppurativa,  
 
Crohn’s disease,  
 
ulcerative colitis and  
 
non-infectious uveitis.  
The active ingredient in Imraldi, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Imraldi decreases 
the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
247 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to treat your rheumatoid arthritis. 
Imraldi can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function. 
Usually, Imraldi is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Imraldi can be given alone. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Imraldi is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
work well enough, patients will be given Imraldi to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
or enthesitis-related arthritis. 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine. 
Imraldi is used to treat ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of ankylosing spondylitis in adults. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given other 
medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs 
and symptoms of your disease. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis. 
Imraldi is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve physical function. 
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Imraldi is also used to treat 
severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents weighing 30 kg or greater for whom topical 
therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents 
248 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus. It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the 
armpits, inner thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Imraldi is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. Imraldi 
can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with 
the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you 
will be given Imraldi. 
Crohn’s disease in adults and children 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut. 
Imraldi is used to treat Crohn’s disease in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will 
be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease. 
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye.  
Imraldi is used to treat  
 
 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
Children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting 
the front of the eye 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black 
dots or wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Imraldi works by reducing this inflammation. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
Do not use Imraldi 
- 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems.  
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Imraldi. 
Allergic reaction 
249 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash do not inject more Imraldi and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening. 
Infection 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example, leg ulcer) 
consult your doctor before starting Imraldi. If you are unsure, contact your doctor.  
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Imraldi treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, other opportunistic 
infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system) and sepsis (blood 
poisoning). In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your 
doctor if you get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor 
may recommend temporary discontinuation of Imraldi. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Imraldi, your doctor will 
check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Imraldi. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
Travel/recurrent infection 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are endemic. 
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should test you 
for HBV. Imraldi can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening. 
Age over 65 years 
• 
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Imraldi. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Imraldi. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures, tell your doctor that you are taking 
Imraldi. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Imraldi. 
Demyelinating disease 
250 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Imraldi. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccine 
• 
Certain vaccines contain weakened but live forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses, and 
these vaccines should not be given during treatment with Imraldi. Check with your doctor 
before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the 
scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Imraldi. If you receive 
Imraldi while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an infection for up 
to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is important that you 
tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Imraldi use during your 
pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine. 
Heart Failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and you are being treated with Imraldi, your heart failure status 
must be closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. 
shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your 
doctor will decide if you should receive Imraldi. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells to fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or bleed 
very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment. 
Cancer 
• 
• 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking Imraldi 
or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have had the disease 
for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects 
the lymph system), and leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). If you take 
Imraldi the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare 
occasions, a specific and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
Some of those patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Imraldi. 
In addition, cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after therapy or if existing marks or areas of 
damage change appearance, tell your doctor. 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of 
lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another TNFα 
blocker. If you have COPD, or you are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you. 
Lupus-like syndrome 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Imraldi could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
251 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Do not give Imraldi to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years. 
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled syringe if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.  
Other medicines and Imraldi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Imraldi can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids or 
pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
You should not take Imraldi with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept due 
to increased risk of serious infection. If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Imraldi injection. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imraldi should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab. 
Imraldi can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you received Imraldi during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection.  
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Imraldi use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section). 
Driving and using machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Imraldi. 
Imraldi contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Imraldi 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Adults with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are only available as a 40 mg dose. Thus, it is not possible 
to administer Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen to paediatric patients that require less than a 
full 40 mg dose. If an alternative dose is required, other presentations offering such an option should 
be used. 
252 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is injected under the skin (subcutaneous use). The usual dose for adults with rheumatoid 
arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab given every other week as a 
single dose. 
In rheumatoid arthritis, methotrexate is continued while using Imraldi. If your doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, Imraldi can be given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid arthritis and you do not receive methotrexate with your Imraldi therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 10 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 6 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with psoriasis 
The usual dose for adults with psoriasis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one 
day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. You should 
continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. If this dose does not work well 
enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with plaque psoriasis 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 40 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with hidradenitis suppurativa 
The usual dose regimen for hidradenitis suppurativa is an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40-mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. After two further weeks, continue with a 
253 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, as prescribed by your doctor.  
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adolescents with hidradenitis suppurativa from 12 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week later. If this dose does not work well enough to 
Imraldi 40 mg every other week, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adults with Crohn’s disease 
The usual dose regimen for Crohn’s disease is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting two weeks later. If a faster effect is required your doctor 
may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later, and thereafter as 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your doctor 
may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with Crohn's disease 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual dose regimen is 40 mg initially followed by 20 mg two weeks later. If a faster response is 
required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) 
followed by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose frequency to 20 mg every week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing 40 kg or more: 
The usual dose regimen is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg two 
weeks later. If a faster response is required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) 
followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Adults with ulcerative colitis 
The usual Imraldi dose for adults with ulcerative colitis is 160 mg initially (as four 40 mg injections in 
one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later and thereafter 40 mg every other week. If this dose does 
not work well enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other 
week. 
Children and adolescents with ulcerative colitis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual Imraldi dose is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two weeks later. Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
254 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 40 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 40 kg or more 
The usual Imraldi dose is 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) initially, followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later. Thereafter the usual dose is 80 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 80 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis 
The usual dose for adults with non-infectious uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial 
dose. You should continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. 
In non-infectious uveitis, corticosteroids or other medicines that influence the immune system may be 
continued while using Imraldi. Imraldi can also be given alone. 
Children and adolescents with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing less than 30 kg 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your child’s doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 40 mg which may be administered one week 
prior to the start of the usual dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg which may be administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Imraldi is given by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). For instructions for use, refer 
to section 7. 
If you use more Imraldi than you should 
If you accidentally inject Imraldi more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist and 
explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of the medicine with 
you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Imraldi 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Imraldi as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Imraldi 
255 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decision to stop using Imraldi should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Imraldi injection. 
Seek medical attention urgently if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction; 
swollen face, hands, feet; 
trouble breathing, swallowing; 
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination; 
feeling weak or tired; 
coughing; 
tingling; 
numbness; 
double vision; 
arm or leg weakness; 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal; 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness. 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been 
observed with adalimumab: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching); 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia); 
headache; 
abdominal (belly) pain; 
nausea and vomiting; 
rash; 
pain in the muscles. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza); 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis); 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles); 
ear infections; 
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores); 
reproductive tract infections; 
urinary tract infection; 
fungal infections; 
joint infections; 
256 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
benign tumours; 
skin cancer; 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy); 
dehydration; 
mood swings (including depression); 
anxiety; 
difficulty sleeping; 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness; 
migraine; 
symptoms of nerve root compression(including low back pain and leg pain); 
vision disturbances; 
eye inflammation; 
inflammation of the eyelid and eye swelling; 
vertigo (sensation of the room spinning); 
sensation of heart beating rapidly; 
high blood pressure; 
flushing; 
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood); 
cough; 
asthma; 
shortness of breath; 
gastrointestinal bleeding; 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn); 
acid reflux disease; 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth); 
itching; 
itchy rash; 
bruising; 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema); 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails; 
increased sweating; 
hair loss; 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis; 
muscle spasms; 
blood in urine; 
kidney problems; 
chest pain; 
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell); 
fever; 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising; 
impaired healing. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when 
resistance to disease is lowered); 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis); 
eye infections; 
bacterial infections; 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine); 
cancer, including cancer of the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of skin 
cancer); 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis); 
257 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels); 
tremor; 
neuropathy (nerve damage); 
stroke; 
hearing loss, buzzing; 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats; 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling; 
myocardial infarction; 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel; 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation); 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung); 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space); 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back; 
difficulty in swallowing; 
facial oedema; 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones; 
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells); 
night sweats; 
scar;  
abnormal muscle breakdown; 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other 
organ systems); 
sleep interruptions; 
impotence; 
inflammations. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
severe allergic reaction with shock; 
multiple sclerosis; 
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body); 
heart stops pumping; 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung); 
intestinal perforation; 
hepatitis; 
reactivation of hepatitis B; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system); 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin); 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash); 
facial oedema associated with allergic reactions; 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash); 
lupus-like syndrome; 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin);  
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data): 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal); 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer); 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
258 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
liver failure; 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness). 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small). 
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for red blood cells; 
increased lipids in the blood; 
raised liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for platelets; 
increased uric acid in the blood; 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium; 
low blood measurements for calcium; 
low blood measurements for phosphate; 
high blood sugar; 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase; 
autoantibodies present in the blood; 
low blood potassium. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Imraldi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
259 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alternative Storage: 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Imraldi pre-filled syringe may be stored 
at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31days – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the syringe must be used within 
31 days or discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the syringe is first removed from refrigerator, and the date after 
which it should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imraldi contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate, sodium phosphate dibasic 
heptahydrate, succinic acid, sodium succinate dibasic, histidine, histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, mannitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. 
What Imraldi looks like and contents of the pack 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe is supplied as a 0.4 ml clear to opalescent and 
colourless to pale brown solution. 
Imraldi is available in packs containing 1, 2, 4 or 6 pre-filled syringe(s) (type I glass) with a stainless 
steel needle, a rigid needle shield, a rubber plunger, a plunger rod, a safe-shield body, a finger flange 
for patient use and 2, 2, 4 or 6 alcohol pads enclosed in packs respectively. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
260 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Biogen Belgium NV/S.A  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 808 5947 
Lietuva  
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 52 07 91 38 
България  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office 
Teл.: + 359 249 176 81 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Biogen Belgium NV/SA  
Tél/Tel: +35 227 772 038 
Česká republika  
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 228 884 152 
Danmark  
Biogen (Denmark) A/S  
Tlf: + 45 78 79 37 53 
Deutschland  
Biogen GmbH  
Tel: + 49 (0)89 996 177 00 
Eesti  
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: + 372 6 68 30 56 
Ελλάδα  
Genesis Pharma S.A. 
Τηλ: + 30 211 176 8555 
España  
Biogen Spain, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 931 790 519 
France  
Biogen France SAS  
Tél: + 33 (0)1 776 968 14 
Hrvatska  
Ewopharma d.o.o 
Tel: + 385 (0)1 777 64 37 
Ireland  
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.  
Tel: +353 (0)1 513 33 33 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 800 9836 
Italia  
Biogen Italia s.r.l.  
Tel: + 39 (0)6 899 701 50 
Κύπρος  
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22 00 04 93 
Magyarország  
Biogen Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36 1 848 04 64 
Malta  
Pharma.MT Ltd 
Tel: + 356 27 78 15 79 
Nederland  
Biogen Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: + 31 (0)20 808 02 70 
Norge  
Biogen Norway AS  
Tlf: + 47 21 93 95 87 
Österreich  
Biogen Austria GmbH  
Tel: + 43 (0)1 267 51 42 
Polska  
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 116 86 94 
Portugal  
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica,  
Unipessoal, Lda  
Tel: + 351 308 800 792 
România  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office 
Tel: + 40 377 881 045 
Slovenija  
Biogen Pharma d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 (0)1 888 81 07 
Slovenská republika  
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 (0)2 333 257 10 
Suomi/Finland  
Biogen Finland Oy  
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 427 041 08 
Sverige  
Biogen Sweden AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 525 038 36 
261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: + 371 66 16 40 32 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0)20 360 886 22 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
262 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Follow this instruction guide carefully, and soon you will develop a routine for injecting confidently. 
• 
Before you inject, ask your doctor or nurse to show you how to use your pre-filled syringe. 
Your doctor or nurse should make sure you can use your syringe correctly. 
Your single-dose pre-filled syringe 
After you push the plunger all the way down, the needle will retract to help prevent needle stick injury. 
Caring for your pre-filled syringe 
Syringe storage 
• 
• 
• 
Store your syringe in the refrigerator, but do not freeze it. 
Keep your syringe in its carton, and away from light. 
Keep the syringe out of the sight and reach of children. 
Syringe disposal 
• 
• 
Use each syringe only once. Never reuse a syringe. 
Throw away your used syringe in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist. 
Cautions 
• 
If you dropped your syringe with the cap ON, it is okay to use the syringe. 
If you dropped your syringe with the cap OFF, do not use it. The needle might be dirty or 
damaged. 
Do not use a damaged syringe. 
• 
263 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site care 
• 
• 
• 
Choose a fatty area for injection: 
Fatty areas, like your stomach, are generally the best injection sites. Fatty areas are easier to 
pinch and are good for inserting the needle correctly. 
Use a different injection site every time: 
When choosing an injection site, select an area that has not recently been used to avoid soreness 
and bruises. 
Press plunger slowly: 
Sometimes, fast injections can be painful. If you press the syringe plunger slowly, it may make 
your injection more comfortable. 
How to inject with your pre-filled syringe 
1. 
Gather supplies  
Place your pre-filled syringe and alcohol pads on a clean, dry surface.  
 
 
Remember to wash your hands! 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
2.  Wait 15-30 minutes 
Wait 15-30 minutes for your pre-filled syringe to reach to room temperature, which helps reduce your 
pain during injection. 
 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
3. 
Inspect medicine & expiry date 
264 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Always make sure your medicine is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of particles, and 
has not expired. If your medication is not clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of 
particles, or expired, do not use it. 
You may see 1 or more bubbles, and that is okay. There is no reason to remove it. 
 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
4. 
Choose an injection site & clean skin 
Choose an injection site on your body. Your abdomen (except the area around the navel) or thighs are 
best.  
Clean your injection site with an alcohol pad. Do not touch the area again before the injection. 
 
Avoid skin that’s sore, bruised, scarred, scaly, or has red patches. 
5. 
Pull off needle cap 
Carefully pull off the needle cap. 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the needle. 
If you take off the needle cap before you are ready to inject, do not put the needle cap back on. This 
could bend or damage the needle. You might accidentally stick yourself or waste medication. 
265 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Pinch skin & insert needle  
Gently pinch your skin and insert the needle all the way at about a 45-degree angle. 
7. 
Push plunger all the way  
Hold the syringe steady and press the plunger all the way down.  
Then lift your thumb to let the needle retract into the body of the syringe. 
8. 
Remove syringe & dispose 
Pull the syringe away from your skin.  
After injecting Imraldi, confirm that the needle has retracted and immediately throw away the used 
syringe in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
 
Not sure if you received your dose? Contact your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
266 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card,which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you are given Imraldi and during treatment with 
Imraldi. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your (or your child’s) last injection of Imraldi. 
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet (See section 4). 
- 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
3.  How to use Imraldi 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Imraldi 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
7. 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Imraldi is and what it is used for 
Imraldi contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune 
(defence) system. 
Imraldi is intended for treatment of: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rheumatoid arthritis, 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
enthesitis-related arthritis  
ankylosing spondylitis, 
axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, 
psoriatic arthritis, 
psoriasis, 
hidradenitis suppurativa, 
Crohn’s disease, 
ulcerative colitis and  
non-infectious uveitis. 
The active ingredient in Imraldi, adalimumab, is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is present at 
increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By attaching to TNFα, Imraldi decreases 
the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
267 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Imraldi is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis in adults. If you have moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis, you may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these 
medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to treat your rheumatoid arthritis. 
Imraldi can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage and bone of the joints caused by the disease and 
improve physical function. 
Usually, Imraldi is used with methotrexate. If your doctor considers that methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Imraldi can be given alone. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis are inflammatory diseases of 
the joints that usually first appear in childhood. 
Imraldi is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children and adolescents aged 2 to 
17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. Patients may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not 
work well enough, patients will be given Imraldi to treat their polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
or enthesitis-related arthritis. 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, are inflammatory diseases of the spine. 
Imraldi is used to treat ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of ankylosing spondylitis in adults. If you have ankylosing spondylitis or axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis, you will first be given other 
medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs 
and symptoms of your disease. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints associated with psoriasis. 
Imraldi is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Imraldi can slow down the damage to the cartilage 
and bone of the joints caused by the disease and to improve physical function. 
Plaque psoriasis in adults and children 
Plaque psoriasis is an inflammatory skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin 
covered with silvery scales. Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, 
become thickened and lift away from the nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be 
caused by a problem with the body’s immune system that leads to an increased production of skin 
cells. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults. Imraldi is also used to treat 
severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents weighing 30 kg or greater for whom topical 
therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
268 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a long-term and often painful 
inflammatory skin disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that 
may leak pus. It most commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the 
armpits, inner thighs, groin and buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Imraldi is used to treat hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and adolescents from 12 years of age. Imraldi 
can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses you have, and the pain that is often associated with 
the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you 
will be given Imraldi. 
Crohn’s disease in adults and children 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the gut. 
Imraldi is used to treat Crohn’s disease in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, you will 
be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your Crohn’s disease. 
Ulcerative colitis in adults and children 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Imraldi is used to treat moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and children aged 6 to 17 years. 
If you have ulcerative colitis you may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, you will be given Imraldi to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Non-infectious uveitis in adults and children 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye.  
Imraldi is used to treat  
• 
• 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
Children from 2 years of age with chronic non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting 
the front of the eye 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black 
dots or wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Imraldi works by reducing this inflammation. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Imraldi 
Do not use Imraldi 
- 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
If you have a severe infection, including tuberculosis (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, e.g. fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems. 
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Imraldi. 
Allergic reaction 
269 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash do not inject more Imraldi and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life-threatening. 
Infection 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term or localised infection (for example, leg ulcer) 
consult your doctor before starting Imraldi. If you are unsure, contact your doctor. 
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Imraldi treatment. This risk may 
increase if your lung function is reduced. These infections may be serious and include 
tuberculosis, infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria, other opportunistic 
infections (unusual infections associated with a weakened immune system) and sepsis (blood 
poisoning). In rare cases, these infections may be life-threatening. It is important to tell your 
doctor if you get symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor 
may recommend temporary discontinuation of Imraldi. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Imraldi, your doctor will 
check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Imraldi. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and screening tests (for example 
chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded on 
your Patient Reminder Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had 
tuberculosis, or if you have been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have had preventative treatment for 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, mild 
fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor immediately. 
Travel/recurrent infection 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have lived or travelled in regions where fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis are endemic. 
Tell your doctor if you have a history of recurrent infections or other conditions that increase the 
risk of infections. 
Hepatitis B virus 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV 
infection or if you think you might be at risk of contracting HBV. Your doctor should test you 
for HBV. Imraldi can reactivate HBV infection in people who carry this virus. In some rare 
cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV infection can be life-threatening. 
Age over 65 years 
• 
If you are over 65 years you may be more susceptible to infections while taking Imraldi. You 
and your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated 
with Imraldi. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, 
wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures, tell your doctor that you are taking 
Imraldi. Your doctor may recommend temporarily stopping Imraldi. 
Demyelinating disease 
270 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you have or develop demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around 
the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue 
to receive Imraldi. Tell your doctor immediately if you get symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccine 
• 
Certain vaccines contain weakened but live forms of disease-causing bacteria or viruses, and 
these vaccines should not be given during treatment with Imraldi. Check with your doctor 
before you receive any vaccines. It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the 
scheduled vaccinations for their age before they start treatment with Imraldi. If you receive 
Imraldi while you are pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting an infection for up 
to about five months after the last dose you received during pregnancy. It is important that you 
tell your baby's doctors and other health care professionals about your Imraldi use during your 
pregnancy so they can decide when your baby should receive any vaccine. 
Heart Failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and you are being treated with Imraldi, your heart failure status 
must be closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. 
shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your 
doctor will decide if you should receive Imraldi. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells to fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. If you develop a fever that does not go away, or you bruise or bleed 
very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. Your doctor may decide to stop 
treatment. 
Cancer 
• 
• 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adults taking Imraldi 
or other TNFα blockers. People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis who have had the disease 
for a long time may have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects 
the lymph system), and leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). If you take 
Imraldi the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On rare 
occasions, a specific and severe type of lymphoma has been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
Some of those patients were also treated with the medicines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or mercaptopurine with Imraldi. 
In addition, cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Imraldi. 
If new areas of damaged skin appear during or after therapy or if existing marks or areas of 
damage change appearance, tell your doctor. 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of 
lung disease called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with another TNFα 
blocker. If you have COPD, or you are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor 
whether treatment with a TNFα blocker is appropriate for you. 
Lupus-like syndrome 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Imraldi could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your 
doctor if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
271 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Do not give Imraldi to children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis below the age of 
2 years. 
Do not use the 40 mg pre-filled pen if doses other than 40 mg are recommended.  
Other medicines and Imraldi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Imraldi can be taken together with methotrexate or certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents 
(sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, leflunomide and injectable gold preparations), corticosteroids or 
pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
You should not take Imraldi with medicines containing the active substances anakinra or abatacept due 
to increased risk of serious infection.. If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Imraldi injection.  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before taking this medicine. 
Imraldi should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received adalimumab during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did 
not receive adalimumab. 
Imraldi can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you received Imraldi during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection.  
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Imraldi use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine (for more information 
on vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section).  
Driving and using machines 
Imraldi may have a minor influence on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning 
sensation (vertigo) and vision disturbances may occur after taking Imraldi. 
Imraldi contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Imraldi 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Adults with rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen are only available as a 40 mg dose. Thus, it is not possible 
to administer Imraldi pre-filled syringe and pre-filled pen to paediatric patients that require less than a 
full 40 mg dose. If an alternative dose is required, other presentations offering such an option should 
be used. 
272 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imraldi is injected under the skin (subcutaneous use). The usual dose for adults with rheumatoid 
arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis, and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab given every other week as a 
single dose. 
In rheumatoid arthritis, methotrexate is continued while using Imraldi. If your doctor determines that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, Imraldi can be given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid arthritis and you do not receive methotrexate with your Imraldi therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 10 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week. 
Children, adolescents and adults from 6 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with psoriasis 
The usual dose for adults with psoriasis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one 
day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. You should 
continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. If this dose dose not work well 
enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with plaque psoriasis 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 15 kg to less than 30 kg 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 20 mg, followed by 20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 4 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 40 mg, followed by 40 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
Adults with hidradenitis suppurativa 
The usual dose regimen for hidradenitis suppurativa is an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by an 80 mg 
dose (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. After two further weeks, continue with a 
273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose of 40 mg every week. or 80 mg every other week, as prescribed by your doctor It is 
recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adolescents with hidradenitis suppurativa from 12 to 17 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The recommended dose of Imraldi is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week later. If this dose does not work well enough to 
Imraldi 40 mg every other week, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
It is recommended that you use an antiseptic wash daily on the affected areas. 
Adults with Crohn’s disease  
The usual dose regimen for Crohn’s disease is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially 
followed by 40 mg every other week starting two weeks later. If a faster effect is required your doctor 
may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later, and thereafter as 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your doctor 
may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents with Crohn's disease  
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual dose regimen is 40 mg initially followed by 20 mg two weeks later. If a faster response is 
required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) 
followed by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose frequency to 20 mg every week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 to 17 years of age weighing 40 kg or more: 
The usual dose regimen is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg two 
weeks later. If a faster response is required, your doctor may prescribe an initial dose of 160 mg (as 
four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) 
followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. If this dose does not work well enough, your 
doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Adults with ulcerative colitis 
The usual Imraldi dose for adults with ulcerative colitis is 160 mg initially (as four 40 mg injections in 
one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days) followed by 80 mg (as two 
40 mg injections in one day) two weeks later and thereafter 40 mg every other week. If this dose does 
not work well enough, your doctor may increase the dose to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other 
week. 
Children and adolescents with ulcerative colitis 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing less than 40 kg 
The usual Imraldi dose is 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) initially followed by 40 mg (as 
one 40 mg injection) two weeks later. Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg every other week. 
274 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 40 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Children and adolescents from 6 years of age weighing 40 kg or more 
The usual Imraldi dose is 160 mg (as four 40 mg injections in one day or two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days) initially, followed by 80 mg (as two 40 mg injections in one day) two weeks 
later. Thereafter the usual dose is 80 mg every other week. 
Patients who turn 18 years of age while on 80 mg every other week, should continue their prescribed 
dose. 
Adults with non-infectious uveitis 
The usual dose for adults with non-infectious uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg (as two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed by 40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial 
dose. You should continue to inject Imraldi for as long as your doctor has told you. 
In non-infectious uveitis, corticosteroids or other medicines that influence the immune system may be 
continued while using Imraldi. Imraldi can also be given alone. 
Children and adolescents with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing less than 30 kg 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 20 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your child’s doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 40 mg which may be administered one week 
prior to the start of the usual dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 years of age weighing 30 kg or more 
The usual dose of Imraldi is 40 mg every other week with methotrexate. 
Your doctor may also prescribe an initial dose of 80 mg which may be administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Imraldi is given by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). For instructions for use, refer 
to section 7. 
If you use more Imraldi than you should 
If you accidentally inject Imraldi more frequently than you should, call your doctor or pharmacist and 
explain that you have taken more than required. Always take the outer carton of the medicine with 
you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Imraldi 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Imraldi as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Imraldi 
275 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decision to stop using Imraldi should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return 
upon stopping treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may 
occur up to 4 months or more after the last Imraldi injection. 
Seek medical attention urgently if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction; 
swollen face, hands, feet; 
trouble breathing, swallowing; 
shortness of breath with exertion or upon lying down or swelling of the feet. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination; 
feeling weak or tired; 
coughing; 
tingling; 
numbness; 
double vision; 
arm or leg weakness; 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal; 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness. 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been 
observed with adalimumab: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching); 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia); 
headache; 
abdominal (belly) pain; 
nausea and vomiting; 
rash; 
pain in the muscles. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza); 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis); 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles); 
ear infections; 
mouth infections (including tooth infections and cold sores); 
reproductive tract infections; 
urinary tract infection; 
fungal infections; 
joint infections; 
benign tumours; 
276 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
skin cancer; 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy); 
dehydration; 
mood swings (including depression); 
anxiety; 
difficulty sleeping; 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness; 
migraine; 
symptoms of nerve root compression(including low back pain and leg pain); 
vision disturbances; 
eye inflammation; 
inflammation of the eyelid and eye swelling; 
vertigo (sensation of the room spinning); 
sensation of heart beating rapidly; 
high blood pressure; 
flushing; 
haematoma (a solid swelling with clotted blood); 
cough; 
asthma; 
shortness of breath; 
gastrointestinal bleeding; 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn); 
acid reflux disease; 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth); 
itching; 
itchy rash; 
bruising; 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema); 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails; 
increased sweating; 
hair loss; 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis; 
muscle spasms; 
blood in urine; 
kidney problems; 
chest pain; 
oedema (a build-up of fluid in the body which causes the affected tissue to swell); 
fever; 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising; 
impaired healing. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when 
resistance to disease is lowered); 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis); 
eye infections; 
bacterial infections; 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine); 
cancer, including cancer of the lymph system (lymphoma) and melanoma (a type of skin 
cancer); 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly as a 
condition called sarcoidosis); 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels); 
277 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tremor; 
neuropathy  (nerve damage); 
stroke; 
hearing loss, buzzing; 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats; 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling; 
myocardial infarction; 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein; blockage of a blood vessel; 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation); 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung); 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space); 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back; 
difficulty in swallowing; 
facial oedema; 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones; 
fatty liver (build-up of fat in liver cells); 
night sweats; 
scar; 
abnormal muscle breakdown; 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other 
organ systems); 
sleep interruptions; 
impotence; 
inflammations. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
severe allergic reaction with shock; 
multiple sclerosis; 
nerve disorders (such as inflammation of the optic nerve to the eye, and Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, a condition that may cause muscle weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the 
arms and upper body); 
heart stops pumping; 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung); 
intestinal perforation; 
hepatitis; 
reactivation of hepatitis B; 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system); 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin); 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash); 
facial oedema associated with allergic reactions; 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash); 
lupus-like syndrome; 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin); 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from available data): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal); 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer); 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s 
sarcoma most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure; 
278 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness). 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small). 
Some side effects observed with adalimumab may not have symptoms and may only be discovered 
through blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for red blood cells; 
increased lipids in the blood; 
raised liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells; 
low blood measurements for platelets; 
increased uric acid in the blood; 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium; 
low blood measurements for calcium; 
low blood measurements for phosphate; 
high blood sugar; 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase; 
autoantibodies present in the blood; 
low blood potassium. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
raised bilirubin measurement (liver blood test). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Imraldi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label of the carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
Alternative Storage:  
279 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Imraldi pre-filled pen may be stored at 
room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31 days – be sure to protect it from light. 
Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the pen must be used within 
31 days or discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the pen is first removed from refrigerator, and the date after which it 
should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Imraldi contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are sodium phosphate monobasic monohydrate, sodium phosphate dibasic 
heptahydrate, succinic acid, sodium succinate dibasic, histidine, histidine hydrochloride 
monohydrate, mannitol, polysorbate 20, and water for injections. 
What Imraldi looks like and contents of the pack 
Imraldi 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen is supplied as a 0.4 ml clear to opalescent and 
colourless to pale brown solution. 
Imraldi is available in packs containing 1, 2, 4 or 6 pre-filled pen(s) containing a pre-filled syringe 
(type I glass) with a stainless steel needle, a rigid needle shield, a rubber plunger for patient use and 2, 
2, 4 or 6 alcohol pads are enclosed in packs respectively. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands  
Samsung Bioepis NL B.V. 
Olof Palmestraat 10 
2616 LR Delft 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Biogen Belgium NV/S.A  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 808 5947 
Lietuva  
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 52 07 91 38 
280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office  
Teл.: + 359 249 176 81 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Biogen Belgium NV/SA  
Tél/Tel: +35 227 772 038 
Česká republika  
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 228 884 152 
Danmark  
Biogen (Denmark) A/S  
Tlf: + 45 78 79 37 53 
Deutschland  
Biogen GmbH  
Tel: + 49 (0)89 996 177 00 
Eesti  
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: + 372 6 68 30 56 
Ελλάδα  
Genesis Pharma S.A. 
Τηλ: + 30 211 176 8555 
España  
Biogen Spain, S.L.  
Tel: + 34 931 790 519 
France  
Biogen France SAS  
Tél: + 33 (0)1 776 968 14 
Hrvatska  
Ewopharma d.o.o  
Tel: + 385 (0)1 777 64 37 
Ireland  
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd.  
Tel: +353 (0)1 513 33 33 
Ísland  
Icepharma hf.  
Sími: + 354 800 9836 
Italia  
Biogen Italia s.r.l.  
Tel: + 39 (0)6 899 701 50 
Κύπρος  
Genesis Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 22 00 04 93 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: + 371 66 16 40 32 
Magyarország  
Biogen Hungary Kft.  
Tel.: + 36 1 848 04 64 
Malta  
Pharma.MT Ltd 
Tel: + 356 27 78 15 79 
Nederland  
Biogen Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: + 31 (0)20 808 02 70 
Norge  
Biogen Norway AS  
Tlf: + 47 21 93 95 87 
Österreich  
Biogen Austria GmbH  
Tel: + 43 (0)1 267 51 42 
Polska  
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 116 86 94 
Portugal  
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica,  
Unipessoal, Lda  
Tel: + 351 308 800 792 
România  
Ewopharma AG Representative Office  
Tel: + 40 377 881 045 
Slovenija  
Biogen Pharma d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 (0)1 888 81 07 
Slovenská republika  
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: + 421 (0)2 333 257 10 
Suomi/Finland  
Biogen Finland Oy  
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)9 427 041 08 
Sverige  
Biogen Sweden AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 525 038 36 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +44 (0)20 360 886 22 
281 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
282 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Follow this instruction guide carefully, and soon you will develop a routine for injecting confidently. 
• 
Before you inject, ask your doctor or nurse to show you how to use your pre-filled pen. Your 
doctor or nurse should make sure you can use your pen correctly. 
Your single-dose pre-filled pen 
There is no button on your pre-filled pen. 
The needle is hidden below the green base. When you push the pre-filled pen firmly onto your skin, 
the injection will start automatically. 
Caring for your pre-filled pen 
Pen storage 
• 
• 
• 
Store your pen in the refrigerator, but do not freeze it. 
Keep your pen in its carton, and away from light. 
Keep the pen out of the sight and reach of children. 
Pen disposal 
• 
• 
Use each pen only once. Never reuse a pen. 
Throw away your used pen in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or 
pharmacist. 
Cautions 
• 
• 
If you dropped your pen with the cap ON, it is okay to use the pen. 
If you dropped your pen with the cap OFF, do not use it. The needle might be dirty or damaged.  
Do not use a damaged pen. 
283 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Injection site care 
• 
• 
Choose a fatty area for injection: 
Fatty areas, like your stomach, are generally the best injection sites. Fatty areas are good for 
inserting the needle correctly. 
Use a different injection site every time: 
When choosing an injection site, select an area that has not recently been used to avoid soreness 
and bruises. 
How to inject with your pre-filled pen 
1. 
Gather supplies 
Place your pre-filled pen and alcohol pads on a clean, dry surface.  
• 
• 
Remember to wash your hands! 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
2.  Wait 15-30 minutes 
Wait 15-30 minutes for your pre-filled pen to reach to room temperature, which helps reduce your 
pain during injection. 
• 
Do not remove the cap just yet!  
3. 
Inspect medicine & expiry date 
284 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Always make sure your medicine is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of particles, and 
has not expired. If your medication is not clear to opalescent, colourless to pale brown, free of 
particles, or expired, do not use it. 
You may see 1 or more bubbles, and that is okay. There is no reason to remove it. 
• 
Do not remove the cap just yet! 
4. 
Choose an injection site & clean skin 
Choose an injection site on your body. Your abdomen (except the area around the navel) or thighs are 
best.  
Clean your injection site with an alcohol pad. Do not touch the area again before the injection. 
• 
Avoid skin that is sore, bruised, scarred, scaly, or has red patches. 
5. 
Pull off the clear needle cap 
Carefully pull off the clear needle cap with a metal center from the pen.  
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the needle. 
If you take off the needle cap before you are ready to inject, do not put the needle cap back on. This 
could bend or damage the needle. You might accidentally stick yourself or waste medication. 
285 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Place greenbase, press down, and hold 
Place the greenbase straight (90 degrees) on your skin, and push the entire pre-filled pen down firmly 
to start the injection. 
•  When you push down, the injection starts. You may hear a 1st click. 
7. 
Continue to hold 
Hold the pen against your skin until the yellow indicator fills the medication window and stops 
moving. 
• 
Several seconds later you may hear a 2nd click. 
8. 
Confirm completion & dispose 
After injecting Imraldi, confirm that the entire medication window is yellow. 
Throw away the used pen in a special container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
• 
  Not sure if you received your dose? Contact your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
286 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
