30 May 2013 
EMA/369203/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
IMVANEX 
Common name: Modified Vaccinia Ankara virus 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002596 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Manufacturers ...................................................................................................... 7 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 8 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 22 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 29 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 31 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 94 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 111 
2.8. Risk Management Plan ...................................................................................... 111 
2.9. User consultation ............................................................................................. 118 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 118 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 119 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 2/121 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
ACIP 
AD 
AE 
APSV 
ATC 
BN 
CDC 
CEF 
cGMP    
CHMP 
CoA 
CPMP 
CTL 
DMID 
DNA 
DP 
DS 
DSMB   
EC 
ECG 
ECTV 
ELISA   
EV 
FAS 
FDA 
GCP 
GMT 
HC 
HIV 
ICH 
i.m. 
IPC 
i.t. 
i.v. 
IND 
IRB 
MOI 
MPXV 
MSV  
MVA 
MVA-BN 
NDS 
NHP 
NIH 
NIAID   
NYCBH   
PCR 
PP 
PPS 
PRNT 
PT 
RE 
RFP 
SAE 
Advisory Committee on Immunisation Practices  
Atopic Dermatitis 
Adverse Event  
Aventis Pasteur Smallpox Vaccine 
Anatomical Chemical Code 
Bavarian Nordic  
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
Chick Embryo Fibroblast 
current Good Manufacturing Practice 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Certificate of Analysis 
Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products 
Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte 
Division of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases 
Deoxyribonucleic Acid 
Drug Product 
Drug substance 
Data Safety Monitoring Board 
Ethics Committee 
Electrocardiogram 
Ectromelia Virus 
Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay 
Eczema vaccinatum 
Full Analysis Set 
Food and Drug Administration (US) 
Good Clinical Practice 
Geometric Mean Titer 
Health Canada 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus  
International Conference on Harmonization  
intramuscular 
In-Process Control 
intratracheal 
intravenous 
Investigational New Drug  
Institutional Review Board 
Multiplicity Of Infection 
Monkeypox Virus 
Master Seed Virus 
Modified Vaccinia Ankara  
Modified Vaccinia Ankara-Bavarian Nordic 
New Drug Submission  
Non-human Primate 
US National Institutes of Health 
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases 
New York City Board of Health 
Polymerase Chain Reaction 
Per Protocol 
Per Protocol Analysis Set 
Plaque Reduction Neutralisation Test 
Preferred Term 
Restriction Enzyme 
Request for Proposal 
Serious Adverse Event  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 3/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAP 
s.c. 
SCORAD 
SD 
SFU 
SIAE 
SLU 
SOC 
SPF 
TCID 
TFF 
TVAC 
ULN 
US 
VIG 
VV 
VV-WR   
WHO 
WSV 
Special Access Programme 
subcutaneous 
Scoring Atopic Dermatitis 
Standard Deviation 
Spot Forming Unit 
Special Interest Adverse Event 
St Louis University 
System Organ Class 
Specified Pathogen Free 
Tissue culture infectious dose  
Tangential Flow Filtration 
Total Viable Aerobic Counts 
Upper Limit of Normal 
United States of America 
Vaccinia Immune Globulin 
Vaccinia Virus 
Vaccinia Virus Western Reserve 
World Health Organization 
Working Seed Virus 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 4/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Bavarian Nordic A/S submitted on 29 February 2012 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for IMVANEX, through  the centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3(2)(a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 June 2011.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Active  immunisation  against  smallpox  infection  and  disease  in  persons  18  years  of  age  and 
older. 
The indication includes healthy populations as well as individuals with immune deficiencies and 
skin  disorders  such  as  those  who  are  Human  Immunodeficiency  Virus  (HIV)  infected  (CD4  ≥ 
200 cells/μL) and those who have Atopic Dermatitis (AD) or Allergic Rhinitis (AR). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic 
literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA 
Decision P/0038/2012 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0038/2012 was not yet completed as 
some measures were deferred. 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible 
similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan 
medicinal product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s request(s) for consideration 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
The applicant requested consideration of its application for a Marketing Authorisation under 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 5/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
exceptional circumstances in accordance with Article 14(8) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The applicant has stated that they are unable to provide a comprehensive data on the efficacy 
and safety under normal conditions of use based on the following claim(s):  
• 
Inability to provide comprehensive efficacy and safety data due to rarity of 
the indication.  
IMVANEX is indicated for active immunisation against smallpox infection and disease in 
individuals 18 years of age and older. Smallpox was officially declared eradicated by the WHO 
in 1981 and therefore the ability to conduct Phase III field efficacy trials no longer exists. 
Eradication of the disease for which IMVANEX® is indicated results in an inability of the 
applicant to provide comprehensive data on the clinical efficacy of the vaccine (i.e. a 
demonstration of protection from acquiring the disease). 
• 
Inability to provide comprehensive information due to the present state of scientific 
knowledge. 
The immunological mechanisms of protection against smallpox are not fully understood. 
However, during the global smallpox vaccination campaigns, the development of a major  
cutaneous reaction following scarification (“take”) in response to vaccination with the 
replication-competent vaccines that were then in use was used as a surrogate parameter of 
clinical efficacy. However MVA-BN does not replicate in humans and therefore no “take” is 
formed so that its potential protective efficacy cannot be assessed based on this biomarker. In 
the past, attempts were made to identify an additional biological efficacy marker based on 
immunogenicity parameters, since not every vaccinated individual developed a “take” (Mack 
1972). Neutralising antibodies were acknowledged as the parameter that most reliably 
correlated with immunity and protection against smallpox infection and disease, although they 
may not be solely responsible for protection (Mack 1972; Sarkar 1975). Today, there is 
growing evidence that antibodies are a key element in protection from both a primary and 
secondary poxvirus infection (Panchanathan 2008). 
Therefore, in the absence of a full understanding of the immunological mechanisms of 
protection against smallpox there is an inability to evaluate the protective efficacy of MVA-BN 
based on the humoral response which has been correlated with protection. 
• 
Inability to collect such information because it would be contrary to medical ethics. 
The efficacy of IMVANEX cannot be demonstrated in the traditional manner of pivotal human 
Phase III efficacy trials, since smallpox has been declared eradicated in 1980 (see section 
4.1). The WHO as the owner of one of the two last known remaining stocks of VARV would not 
allow the use of VARV challenge studies in humans since these unethical and unfeasible.  
•  The CHMP is of the view that the reference to the framework of a Marketing Authorisation under 
exceptional circumstances in accordance with Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 is 
justified based on the fact that the applicant will most likely not be in a position to provide the 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 6/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
comprehensive clinical data based on the following:  
•  A comprehensive dossier cannot be provided as it would be contrary to medical ethics. 
Indeed, the efficacy of IMVANEX cannot be demonstrated in clinical trials since neither 
human challenge studies nor field efficacy studies are possible.  
A comprehensive dossier cannot be provided due to the present state of scientific 
knowledge. Indeed, IMVANEX contains a non-replicating vaccinia virus and is not 
administered by intradermal inoculation. Therefore it is not possible to assess potential 
protective efficacy based on pock take rates, which is considered to be a clinica l 
correlate of protection against smallpox for replication-competent vaccines. While the 
humoral immune response to MVA-BN can be and has been documented, the protective 
efficacy of MVA-BN cannot be predicted from immunogenicity studies in the absence of 
an immunological correlate of protection.  
Specific obligations have been listed in Annex II of the CHMP opinion. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance modified Vaccinia Ankara - Bavarian Nordic 
(MVA-BN) virus contained in the above medicinal product to be considered as a new active 
substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a product previously 
authorised within the Union. 
Licensing status 
The medicinal product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the 
application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer(s) of the active substance 
Bavarian Nordic A/S 
Hejreskovvej 10 A, Kvistgård, 3490, Denmark 
The manufacturing sites had been inspected by EU authorities and are in compliance with the 
EU Good Manufacturing Practice requirements.  
Manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Bavarian Nordic A/S 
Hejreskovvej 10 A, Kvistgård, 3490, Denmark 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 7/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Ian Hudson 
      Co-Rapporteur:  Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 29 February 2012. 
•  The procedure started on 21 March 2012.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 31 May 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members 
on 8 June 2012.  
•  During the meeting on 16-19 July 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to 
the applicant on 19 July 2013 . 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 11 
October 2012. 
•  During a meeting of SAG on 16 November 2012, experts were convened to address 
questions raised by the CHMP. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 23 November 2012. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 10-13 December 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of 
outstanding issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 21 
March 2013. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 22-25 April 2013, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses provided by the 
applicant, dated 05 April 2013.  
•  During the meeting on 17-30 May 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances to IMVANEX.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 8/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Imvanex (previously named Imvamune) is a live, non-replicating Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) 
vaccine  that  has  been  developed  to  provide  protection  against  smallpox  in  adults.  Since  the 
vaccine  does  not  replicate  in  humans,  it  was  evaluated  in  healthy  subjects  and  also  in  HIV-
infected  subjects  and  those  with  active  or  a  history  of  atopic  dermatitis,  two  groups  for  which 
replication-competent  smallpox  vaccines  are  contraindicated  due  to  the  risk  of  severe  adverse 
events. 
Smallpox eradication 
Smallpox  virus  (Variola  virus)  is  a  member  of  the  family  Poxviridae  belonging  to  the  subfamily 
Chordopoxviridae  and  genus  Orthopoxvirus.  Vaccinia  virus  contains  a  large  linear  double-
stranded DNA genome amounting to approximately 190,000 base pairs and encoding more than 
200  proteins.  Viral  particles  are  typically  brick  shaped  and  measure  ~300  x  230  nm.  Virions 
released through  the  cell membrane  are  enveloped but  most  virions  remain  cell-associated  and 
are  released  by  cellular  disruption  that  leaves  them  without  an  envelope.  Both  enveloped  and 
non-enveloped  viruses  are  infectious.  The  vaccinia  viruses  used  for  replication-competent 
smallpox  vaccine  production  worldwide  are  laboratory-derived  versions  of  wild-type  animal  pox 
viruses,  including  but  probably  not  limited  to  horse  pox  virus.  Vaccine  strains  are  genetically 
distinct from wild type poxviruses and from each other.   
Smallpox  was  eradicated  (declaration  1981;  last  known  case  in  1977)  as  a  result  of  the  WHO 
global  campaign.  There  remains  concern  that  stored  smallpox  virus,  with  or  without  genetic 
engineering,  could  be  deliberately  released  as  a  weapon  of  bioterrorism.  For  this  reason  there 
remains some interest in the development of new smallpox vaccines. Since there is no disease, 
the likely protective efficacy of new smallpox vaccines has to be inferred from other parameters.  
During the global eradication campaign it was recognised that the formation of an appropriately 
sized  pock  with  subsequent  crusting  and  scarring  at  the  site  of  primary  inoculation  was  highly 
correlated with vaccine-induced protection against infection. In particular, the surface area of the 
scar,  as  well  as  the  number  of  scars  from  previous  immunisations,  showed  an  inverse 
relationship  with  the  case-fatality  rate.  After  successful  vaccination,  the  duration  of  protection 
was thought to be at least three years, with at least some degree of protection likely persisting 
for 10 years or more.  
The CHMP Note for Guidance (CPMP/1100/02) states that the likely protective efficacy of a novel 
smallpox  vaccine  containing  a  replication-competent  strain  directly  descended  from  those  in 
vaccines deployed in the global eradication programme could be inferred from the proportion of 
vaccinees  in  whom  appropriately  sized  pocks  are  achieved  at  the  site  of  inoculation. 
Extrapolating  from  past  experience  with  vaccines  that  were  used  in  the  global  eradication 
programme,  it  would  be  expected  that  a  novel  smallpox  vaccine  would  induce  an  adequately 
sized  pock  in  at  least  95%  of  vaccine-naïve  healthy  recipients  after  primary  immunisation.  The 
assessment  of  humoral  and  cell-mediated  immune  responses  to  vaccination  is  encouraged  but 
mainly with the purpose of exploring any correlation there may be with pock formation.  
It is suggested that: 
•  Assessment  of  the  humoral  immune  response  should  include  the  detection  and  titration  of 
neutralising  antibodies  using  the  intracellular  mature  virion  (IMV)  against  an  international 
standard  (WHO  or  equivalent).  However,  it  is  recognised  that  there  is  currently  a  need  for 
the  development  of  appropriate  international  standards.  If  more  recent  technologies 
(including  ELISA  tests)  are  used,  they  should  be  validated  against  the  results  of 
neutralisation tests and should differentiate IgG and IgM responses.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 9/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Assessments  of  the  cell-mediated  component  of  the  immune  response  should  include  the 
evaluation of CD8 T-cell activity using sensitive methods, such as cell activation by live virus 
and interferon (IFNgamma) production (i.e. by ELISPOT and flow-cytometry).  
However, the CHMP guideline does not address the assessment of the potential efficacy of other 
types of smallpox vaccines, including those containing attenuated strains that do not elicit pock 
formation  such  as  the  modified  vaccinia  Ankara  strain  (MVA).  For  such  vaccines  the  evaluation 
has  to  take  into  account  non-clinical  evidence  of  protective  efficacy  and  the  immune  responses 
observed in human vaccinees.  
Immunogenicity of replication competent smallpox vaccines 
Following  primary  vaccination  with  vaccines  used  in  the  global  eradication  programme  a  small 
central lesion (pock or ulcer) of as little as 1-8 mm diameter was reported to be associated with 
a maximal level of neutralising antibody, although details of study methodologies are not always 
available  and  assays  have  never  been  standardised.  The  correlation  between  lesion  size  and 
antibody  levels  determined  by  haemagglutination  inhibition  tests  appeared  to  be  much  weaker. 
These  findings  applied  to  vaccines  containing  the  New  York  City  Board  of  Health  (NYCB)  strain 
(grown in calf lymph or in eggs) or the Lister-Elstree vaccine strain (grown in sheep flank).  
The  relative  importance  of  the  humoral  and  cell-mediated  immune  responses  for  natural 
protection  against  clinically  apparent  smallpox  and  for  recovery  from  clinical  infection  is  still 
debated. However, pre-eradication experience indicated that clinically apparent infection could be 
prevented by  administration  of  VIG  while  subjects with  hypogammaglobulinaemia  could  recover 
well from smallpox provided they had no accompanying T-cell defects. More recently, it has been 
suggested that circulating antibody and immune memory could be the more important factors for 
preventing or at least modifying the severity of clinically apparent smallpox, taking into account 
that the incubation period of ~12 days allows time for clonal expansion of memory B-cells. Once 
clinical  disease  is  established  it  seems  that  the  ability  to  mount  an  adequate  T-cell  response  is 
important for recovery.   
that  neutralising  antibodies  were  more  persistent 
The  evidence  supporting  a  long-lived  antibody  response  to  replication-competent  smallpox 
vaccines  dates  at  least  from  McCarthy  et  al.  (1958),  as  quoted  by  Fenner  et  al.  (1988),  who 
found 
inhibiting 
haemagglutination or fixing complement and were sometimes detectable for more than 20 years 
after vaccination. These findings were confirmed in several other studies (e.g. El Ad et al. 1990; 
Stienlauf  et  al.  1999;  Crotty  et  al.  2003;  Pütz  et  al.  2005).  However,  these  data  relate  to 
subjects who had received two or more vaccinations over time. 
than  antibodies 
The neutralising antibody titres reported by these and other authors cannot be directly compared 
across  studies  because  of  the  differences  in  the  techniques  used  (e.g.  indicator  cells,  virus 
inoculum, duration of incubation of the serum/virus mixture, read-out at PRNT50% or 60%; the 
methods  are  often  not  described  in  detail)  and  the  lack  of  standards.  For  example,  published 
neutralising  antibody  titres  measured  one  month  after  vaccination  of  previously  naïve  subjects 
with  replication-competent  NYBH  vaccine  have  ranged  from  36  to  1262.  In  addition, 
seropositivity rates and seroconversion rates cannot be compared across these studies not only 
due  to  the  assay  variability  but  also  because  of  variable  or  unexplained  criteria  for  serological 
status and response.  
There are data to indicate that neutralising antibody begins to wane by the second month after 
vaccination  of  previously  vaccinia-naïve  subjects.  For  example,  in  the  study  of  Belshe  et  al. 
(2004)  103/106  in  the  group  that  received  undiluted  Dryvax  developed  a  major  cutaneous 
reaction  and  neutralising  antibodies  increased  from  <20  prior  to  vaccination  to  a  GMT  1262  on 
D28 but had fallen to 796 on D56. Frey et al. (2002) followed 20 subjects who received Dryvax, 
among whom 19 developed a take and 17 had at least a 4-fold increase in antibody titres. The 
GMTs were 36 at one month and 11 at 12 months post vaccination. Frey et al 2003 reported that 
all  10  vaccinia-naive  subjects  who  received  Dryvax  developed  a  take  and  at  least  a  4-fold 
increase in antibody titre with GMTs at 724 and 90 at M1 and M12, respectively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 10/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ratios of the residual neutralising antibody titres at M12 vs the titres at D28 appeared to be are 
in  the  same  range  (12%,  15%  and  30%).  In  fact,  these  findings  are  in  keeping  with  those 
reported  in  the  SmPC  for  the  UK-approved  Lister-Elstree  strain  vaccine  (2008;  GMP-compliant 
vaccine including virus grown in cell culture).  
This  degree  of  waning  of  vaccinia-specific  antibody  by  one  year  after  immunisation  does  not 
contradict available data on very long-lived persistence of detectable circulating antibody. There 
are reports of stable titres for 40 to 75 years post-immunisation after more rapid declines during 
the first three year (El Ad et al. 1990; Hammarlund et al. 2003; Viner and Isaacs 2005). 
Regarding the correlation between neutralising antibody vs. antigen-binding antibody, Galwitz et 
al.  (2003)  analysed  the  sera  of  165  persons  born  before  1980  who  had  received  smallpox 
vaccine  once.  Antibody  assessed  by  EIA  against  infected  cell  lysates  gave  a  positivity  rate  of 
112/165  sera  tested  (67.9  %)  but  neutralising  antibody  was  largely  absent  in  that  59/60  sera 
tested  were  negative  although  44/59  were  EIA  positive  and  the  only  serum  positive  for 
neutralising  antibody  was  EIA  negative.  This  study  may  indicate  that  the  kinetics  of  antibody 
determined by virus neutralisation and by EIA are quite different.  
Despite  these  differences  in  assay  results,  declines  in  antibody  titres  have  also  been  reported 
with  other  serological  techniques.  Pütz  et  al.  (2006)  used  ELISA  against  vaccinia-infected  cell 
lysates  or  purified  antigens  associated  with  EEV  or  IMV  particles  to  evaluate  the  immune 
response  to  Lister/Elstree  strain  vaccine.  Using  a  vaccinia-infected  cell  lysate  as  antigen  they 
reported that all vaccinia-naive individuals had mounted a robust antibody response by D21 post 
vaccination (GMT 3119) but the GMT was 996 at 6 months and 623 (95% CI 115-1,130) at one 
year  post-vaccination.  The  corresponding  percentages  with  titres  at  least  four  fold  that  on  D0 
was  100  %  on  D21,  70  %  at  M6  and  approximately  50%  at  one  year.  In  addition,  similar 
antibody decline was seen when using five of the six vaccinia (glyco) proteins as specific antigens 
in the ELISA. 
Safety of replication-competent smallpox vaccines 
The  safety  profile  of  smallpox  vaccines  that  were  used  up  to  the  time  of  cessation  of  routine 
vaccination  following  the  global  eradication  of  the  disease  was  well  described.  Serious  and  life-
threatening  adverse  reactions  appeared  to  occur  rarely  or  very  rarely  provided  that  the 
contraindications  and  warnings  were  fully  observed.  Nevertheless,  the  current  absence  of 
circulating  virus  carries  implications  for  the  benefit-risk  relationship  regarding  vaccination  of 
subjects in clinical studies.  
The  CHMP  Note  for  Guidance  recognised  that  the  number  of  subjects  to  be  exposed  to  a  new 
smallpox  vaccine  in  clinical  studies  should  be  kept  to  the  minimum  necessary  to  provide 
adequate assurance regarding its likely protective efficacy and safety. At the time of writing the 
guideline  there  was  no  licensed  smallpox  vaccine  in  the  EU  so  it  was  stated  that  uncontrolled 
studies  would  be  acceptable.  It  was  recognised  that  pre-authorisation  clinical studies  would  not 
include a sufficient number of subjects to be able to detect rare or very rare adverse reactions, 
such  as  encephalitis.  It  was  recommended  that  the  size  of  the  safety  database  should  be 
sufficient  at  least  to  estimate  the  frequency  of  uncommon  reactions  and  that  the  duration  of 
follow-up  for  assessment  of  safety  should  be  at  least  3  months  for  all  subjects  exposed  at  the 
time  of  an  initial  application  for  marketing  authorisation  in  case  of  late  development  of 
neurotoxicity. 
Subsequently,  the  US  instituted  a  vaccination  campaign  of  military  and  civilian  personnel  in 
2002-2003  using  Dryvax.  During  this  campaign  there  emerged  reports  of  myopericarditis  in 
persons  with  no  prior  smallpox  vaccine  history.  For  example,  one  report  described  the  first  18 
cases of probable myopericarditis among 230,734 vaccine-naïve adults compared to no reported 
cases  among  95,622  re-vaccinated  persons.  This  gave  a  rate  of  7.8  per  100,000  over  30  days 
which was estimated to be 3.6-fold higher than the background incidence among non-vaccinated 
military personnel. A later report covered 450,293 military personnel of which 70.5% (317,456) 
were  naïve  to  smallpox  vaccine.  There  were  37  cases  of  myopericarditis  reported  in  vaccine-
naïve males, giving a rate of 11.6 cases per 100,000 naïve vaccinees. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 11/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  2007  the  US  FDA  approved  a  new  smallpox  vaccine  ACAM2000,  which  contains  the  NYBH 
strain.  In  pre-licensure  studies  2983  subjects  received  ACAM2000  and  868  subjects  received 
Dryvax.  There  were  10  cases  of  suspected  myocarditis  -  7/2983  (0.2%)  in  ACAM2000  subjects 
and 3/868 (0.3%) in Dryvax
subjects. The mean time to onset of suspected myocarditis and/or 
pericarditis  from  vaccination  was  11  days  (range  9  to  20  days).  All  subjects  who  experienced 
these  cardiac  events  were  smallpox  vaccine-naïve.  Two  of  the  10  subjects  were  hospitalised 
while  the  others  were  sub-clinical  (i.e.  were  detected  by  ECG  with  or  without  abnormalities  of 
troponin-I) and received no treatment. All cases resolved by 9 months, with the exception of one 
female subject in the Dryvax
group with a persistent borderline abnormal left ventricular ejection 
fraction on echocardiogram.  
Within  the  Phase  3  ACAM2000  clinical  trials  there  was  active  monitoring  for  myocarditis  and 
pericarditis.  Among  1,162  vaccine-naïve  subjects  there  were  8  cases  of  suspected  myocarditis 
and  pericarditis  identified  across  both  treatment  groups  (total  incidence  rate  of  6.9  per  1000 
vaccinees).  The  rate  for  the  ACAM2000  treatment  group  was  5.7  (95%  CI:  1.9-13.3)  per  1000 
vaccinees  (5/873)  and  the  rate  for  Dryvax  was  10.4  (95%  CI:  2.1-30.0)  per  1000  vaccinees 
(3/289). No cases of myocarditis and/or pericarditis were identified in 1819 previously vaccinated 
subjects. The long-term outcome of myocarditis and pericarditis following ACAM2000 vaccination 
is currently unknown.  
In  the  ACAM2000  clinical  studies  97%  and  92%  of  vaccine-naïve  and  previously  vaccinated 
subjects,  respectively,  experienced  one  or  more  AEs.  Common  events  included  injection  site 
reactions (erythema, pruritus, pain and swelling) and constitutional symptoms (fatigue, malaise, 
feeling  hot,  rigors  and  exercise  tolerance  decreased).  Overall  10%  of  vaccine-naïve  and  3%  of 
previously  vaccinated  subjects  experienced  at  least  one  severe  AE.  Also,  rates  for  severe  AEs 
were  10%  for  ACAM2000  and  13%  for  Dryvax  among  vaccine-naïve  subjects  but  4%  and  6%, 
respectively,  for  previously  vaccinated  subjects.  Headache  was  reported  in  51%  and  35%  of 
vaccine-naïve subjects and previously vaccinated subjects, respectively. Severe, vaccine-related 
myalgia  was  seen  in  1%  of  vaccine-naïve  subjects  and  <1%  of  previously  vaccinated  subjects. 
Erythema and rash were noted in 18% and 8% of subjects respectively.  
Development of the MVA-BN vaccine virus 
Vaccinia  virus  (VV)  is  a  member  of  the  poxvirus  family  that  replicates  in  the  cytoplasm  of  the 
host cell without integration of viral DNA into the host cell genome.  
Orthopoxviruses  have  a  double-stranded  DNA  genome  that  encodes  nearly  200  proteins.  There 
are  two  major  infectious  forms,  the  mature  virion  (MV)  and  enveloped  virion  (EV).  MVs,  which 
are comprised of a single membrane with more than 20 viral proteins surrounding the virus core, 
are  released  by  cell  lysis and  are  thought  to  be  responsible  for  host-to-host  spread.  EVs  derive 
from  MVs  by  acquiring  extra  membrane  layers  containing  at  least  six  additional  unique  viral 
proteins.  EVs  are  responsible  for  dissemination  of  the  virus  within  the  host.  Antibodies  against 
surface proteins of both infectious particle forms contribute to protection (Moss, 2011). 
Modified  Vaccinia  Virus  Ankara  (MVA)  was  derived  from  the  replication-competent  dermal 
vaccinia  strain  Ankara  (Chorioallantois-Vaccinia-Virus  Ankara,  CVA),  which  was  attenuated  after 
more than 570 continuous passages in primary chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) with the aim of 
reducing  the  risk  of  complications  associated  with  the  existing  replication-competent  VV-based 
vaccines against smallpox.  
Since  passage  516,  the  attenuated  CVA  was  called  MVA  because  of  the  stability  of  its  altered 
phenotype. During passaging, MVA acquired a multitude of mutations within its genome as well 
as six major deletions resulting in the loss of 15% (30 kbp) of the original genetic information. 
The  deletions  affected  a  number  of  virulence  and  host  range  genes  as  well  as  the  gene  for  the 
Type  A  inclusion  bodies.  As  a  consequence,  MVA  exhibits  a  very  restricted  host  range  and 
replicates only very poorly, if at all, in most mammalian cell types, including primary human cells 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 12/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and most transformed human cell lines. Non-infectious immature virions and abnormal particles 
are produced but no infectious MV and EV particles. 
The viral genes are transcribed efficiently and the block in viral replication in host cells occurs at 
the stage of virus assembly and egress. Genetic reconstitution of one of the deletions in the MVA 
genome affecting, besides other genes, the VV host range gene K1L, restored MVA replication in 
some  mammalian  cell  lines  but  did  not  restore  its  growth  capacity  in  human  cells.  In  light  of 
these  findings  and  the  loss  of  15%  of  its  genome,  MVA  is  unlikely  to  spontaneously  regain  its 
replication competency following injection into humans.  
Despite these genomic modifications, MVA has retained stable immunogenic properties. MVA is a 
strong inducer of type I interferon (IFN) in human cells and it expresses a soluble interleukin-1 
receptor, which has been implicated as an anti-virulence factor for certain poxviruses. In contrast 
to VV, MVA does not express soluble receptors for IFN-γ, IFN-α/β, tumour necrosis factor (TNF) 
and CC chemokines. The virus is described as eliciting a protective immune response against any 
of the orthopoxviruses. 
All  MVA  strains  originate  from  Prof.  Anton  Mayr.  However,  as  many  passages  were  used  to 
attenuate  MVA  there  are  a  number  of  different  strains  in  existence  depending  on  the  passage 
number  in  CEF  cells.  Most  are  derived  from  MVA-572  that  was  used  in  Germany  during  a  1978 
vaccination  program  in  more  than  120,000  human  subjects  (as  part  of  a  two-step  vaccination 
protocol with a conventional VV vaccine against smallpox) or from MVA-575 that was extensively 
used as a veterinary vaccine.  
During the 1978 German campaign intradermal (mostly) and subcutaneous (less often) injections 
of an MVA vaccine were administered prior to giving a VV smallpox vaccine. Each vial contained 2 
x 106 freeze-dried infectious units (IU) and was used for two vaccinations after resolution in 0.5 
ml  saline.  Most  recipients  were  vaccinia-naïve  children  and  adults  considered  to  be  at  risk  for 
adverse reactions to VV smallpox vaccines.  
Mild local reactions including reddening and infiltration were observed at the site of injection (0.2 
ml  intradermal) in  ~75%  of  5308  individuals  but  there  were  no  blisters,  pustules  or  ulceration. 
Among  7098  subjects  fever  >  38°C  occurred  in  2.28%  and  non-specific  general  symptoms  in 
4.11%.  There  were  no  SAEs.  Pre-vaccination  with  MVA  resulted  in  a  reduced  number  of  side 
effects  following  a  subsequent  dose  of  VV  smallpox  vaccine  and  the  development  of  smaller 
pocks. 
A  single  dose  of  MVA  elicited  a  weak  haemagglutination  inhibiting  (HI)  or  virus  neutralising 
antibody (NA) response. Following the subsequent VV smallpox vaccine dose there was a marked 
immune  response,  which  was  interpreted  as  MVA  priming  of  specific  humoral  and  cellular 
immune  responses.  In  animal  experiments  MVA  provided  protection  against  variola  even  in  the 
absence of an antibody response. In some animal studies much higher doses were used vs. that 
in the campaign vaccine with a clear impact on the magnitude of immune response.  
About the product 
Imvanex is derived from MVA-584 (i.e. 584th passage in CEF cells) and differs from all other MVA 
strains in that it has undergone 6-rounds of plaque purification (monoclonal) and is propagated 
in  serum-free  conditions.  MVA-BN  has  been  developed  primarily  for  use  as  a  viral  vector  in  a 
variety  of  vaccine  types.  Nevertheless,  the  Company  has  also  pursued  its  potential  use  as  an 
alternative to VV smallpox vaccines as a standalone regimen rather than in a sequential regimen 
of MVA followed by a replication competent VV smallpox vaccine.  
Imvanex is a liquid formulation (suspension for injection) for subcutaneous administration which 
contains Modified Vaccinia Ankara – Bavarian Nordic Live virus no less than 5 x 107 TCID50 per 
0.5 mL dose. The vaccine is presented in single-dose type I glass vials. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 13/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
IMVANEX  is  prepared  from  Modified  Vaccinia  Ankara  –  Bavarian  Nordic  strain  (MVA-BN),  an 
attenuated  and  host  restricted  orthopox  virus.  MVA-BN  virus  is  propagated  in  CEF,  harvested, 
subjected  to  ultrasonification,  purified  by  centrifugation,  concentrated,  subject  to  an  enzymatic 
digestion step to remove DNA and further ultrafiltration/diafiltration steps. The final bulk vaccine 
is prepared by mixing drug substance with the formulation buffer  to the target TCID50 titre.  
The vaccine is supplied as a frozen suspension in a 2 ml vial containing a single dose of 0.5 ml. 
Each 0.5 mL dose should deliver a minimum of 5 x 107 TCID50.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The  development  of  the  MVA-BN  vaccine  virus  is  described  in  section  2.1.  The  structure  of 
poxviruses  in  general  has  been  adequately  addressed,  and  is  supported  by  of  the  information 
provided on MVA. The complete nucleotide sequence is provided and open reading frames have 
been identified and confirmed against the MVA parent strain and other vaccinia virus strains. The 
Applicant  has  provided  information  on  the  derivation  of  MVA-BN.  The  description  of  deletions, 
pathogenicity,  virulence,  and  neurovirulence  are  described  in  literature  concerning  experiments 
conducted with MVA and is considered satisfactory.  
Manufacture 
The  drug  substance  manufacturing  process  is  conducted  under  aseptic  conditions.  CEF  cells  are 
prepared  from  embryonated  eggs  from  SPF  chickens  after  egg  incubation.    Following 
trypsinization steps, the primary CEF cells are isolated by centrifugation.  
The  CEF  cells  are  infected  with  WSV  and  incubated  in  sterile  and  disposable  reaction  vessels. 
Harvests  are  pooled,  homogenized  by  ultrasonication  and  clarified  by  centrifugation.  The 
homogenized  harvest  is  concentrated  and  purified  through  several  TFF  steps.  DNA  is 
enzymatically digested with benzonase. A final diafiltration is conducted with the same buffer as 
is used in drug product formulation.  
A  description  of  the  drug  substance  manufacturing  process  has  been  provided.  The  batch  size 
has  been  defined  as  supported  by  in  process  validation  studies  of  the  proposed  commercial 
manufacturing process. An upper range of eggs for CEF production has been specified.   
Flowcharts are provided for each process step and key details of the manufacturing process and 
process parameters, such as cell number and viability, MOI, incubation times and temperatures, 
are provided in the full description of the manufacturing process.  
MVA-BN vaccine virus 
Genetic  characterization  has  been  conducted  on  re-derived  MVA-BN  MSV.  Details  on  the 
development of MVA-BN are provided in section 2.1.  
Preparation of WSV 
The crude stock, MVA-BN  has been purified through a series of passages in CEF. The re-derived 
stock is the primary stock (Master Virus Bank, MVB). Certificates of analysis have been provided 
for each test conducted on MVB and for each of the materials used in MVB production. 
Generation of the master seed virus (MSV) and working seed virus (WSV) and the testing have 
been adequately described. Sufficient data have been provided to indicate that the properties of 
the  seed  virus  regarding  growth  in  CEF  and  certain  human  cell  types  is  the  same  as  the  re-
derived MVA-BN, although full characterization of MSV, WSV and DS has not been conducted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 14/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During  the  procedure,  the  Company  has  satisfactorily  reviewed  the  testing  program  for 
extraneous agents to overcome the difficulties encountered in extraneous agents testing in CEF 
cells and chicken eggs. MSV and WSV have been tested by PCR testing for potential human virus 
contaminants  and  were  found  to  be  negative.  Details  supporting  the  capacity  and  specificity  of 
the  PCR  assays  implemented  to  detect  the  respective  human  viruses  have  been  provided. 
Although release testing confirms the absence of wild-type vaccinia viruses, the MAA will provide 
additional  results  of  testing  of  MSV  and  WSV  for  the  presence  of  other  poxviruses  post 
authorisation.                       
The  SPF  flocks  used  to  derive  CEF  are  tested  in  compliance  with  Ph.  Eur.  2010:50202.  An 
appropriate  list  of  specifications  for  raw  materials  used  in  drug  substance  production  and 
example CoAs from qualified supplier were provided.  
The  Applicant  has  adequately  described  the  In-Process  Controls  (IPC)  applied  during  drug 
substance manufacture.  Acceptance criteria are based on production of batches produced since 
2007 in addition to recent batch data.  
The Applicant has provided full descriptions of the methods used for IPC tests. The Company  will 
conduct  further testing of virus  harvests  for  human  viruses  as  a  validation  exercise. The  use  of 
TVAC assay is proposed as an IPC to provide an indication of any gross contamination of harvest 
pools.  This  is  acceptable  on  the  grounds  that  microbial  contamination  of  DS  batches  would  be 
detected  by  sterility  testing  of  drug  substance  batches.  Gentamicin  is  used  in  the  virus 
propagation  stage  of  the  manufacturing  process  and  data  have  been  provided  to  demonstrate 
that key tests for microbial contaminants are not adversely affected by its presence. 
Process  validation  studies  have  been  conducted  using  the  different  manufacturing  processes. 
Process  test  runs  were  conducted  early  in  development  to  test  selected  critical  process 
parameters.  The  data  from  these  studies indicate  that  CEF  number  should  be  strictly  controlled 
at  the  inoculation  step  to  ensure  process  consistency.  The  Company  will  narrow  the  ranges  for 
viable  CEF  number  and  MOI  and  will  conduct  process  validation  studies  to  revise  IPC  and 
specifications  based  on  these  studies.  The  process  validation  studies  conducted  to  date  provide 
an adequate control of the process and related impurities.  However it is acknowledged that they 
have not addressed all impurities or all process steps. The Company is currently in the process of 
developing  and implementing  relevant  assays  and  plans  to  undertake  further process  validation 
studies to address additional impurities and process steps. Whether the additional tests for such 
impurities will need to be included as IPC or in release testing of drug substance will depend on 
the process validation data provided post-authorization. 
The  Applicant  proposed  to  allow  hold  times  for  CEF,  pooled  harvest  and  homogenized  harvest 
during  the  manufacturing  process.  Details  of  the  hold  period  and  conditions  have  been  clarified 
and the proposals are acceptable based on the data provided. Data have been provided to justify 
a  hold  period  for  DS  samples  before  virus  titre  determination.  Consistency  of  DP  lots  has  been 
used  to  support  validation  of  the  freezing  process  applied  to  DS.  The  proposed  DS  sampling 
strategy ensures that sterility of DS bags is tested. 
Manufacturing process development 
During  development,  there  have  been  different  versions  of  the  drug  substance  manufacturing 
process at different sites. Key changes for drug substance include: change of manufacturing site, 
increase in egg numbers, change of MOI, change of WSV, change of cell concentration for virus 
propagation,  change  in  diafiltration  and  change  in  the  freezing  process.  Data  to  demonstrate 
comparability  of  batches  produced  with  different  manufacturing  processes  have  been  provided. 
Comparison  of  data  from  2007  production  and  validation  batches,  with  2008  validation  batches 
demonstrate process consistency following optimization. IPC ranges were revised based on batch 
data produced in 2011 and 2012. These data have been used to revise IPC ranges. The batches 
used in pivotal clinical studies appear to contain broadly comparable levels of the impurities that 
were tested for as those produced by the commercial manufacturing process. The data provided 
indicate  that  for  batches  used  in  pivotal  clinical  and  non-clinical  studies,  the  actual  doses  used 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 15/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were in some cases lower than the nominal titres stated in the clinical reports (108 TCID50 in 0.5 
ml  dose).  During  the  procedure,  the  applicant  clarified  that  the  minimum  0.5  ml  dose  used 
contained virus of at least 5 x 107 TCID50. 
Data have been provided to show the range of particles sizes  in early DS batches which appear 
reasonably  consistent  for  different  batches.  The  reports  indicate  a  shift  over  time  following 
storage of drug substance at -20°C. In addition, information provided in responses indicates that 
visible  particles  were  detected  in  some  DP  lots.  Whilst  the  presence  of  these  particles  was 
correlated  to  concentration  at  the  2nd  TFF  step  of  the  DS  manufacturing  process,  a  test  for 
aggregation/particle  size  is  requested  to  be  applied  to  DS  and  DS  intermediates  as  a 
characterization exercise and in future stability studies as necessary. 
The Applicant has process-related impurities and product-related impurities. Whilst the levels of 
some  of  these  impurities  are  determined  during  release  testing  of  drug  substance  and  have 
shown  to  be  acceptable,  additional  tests  for  impurities  are  being  introduced  and  data  from  the 
planned  process  validation  studies  and  leachable  studies  are  awaited.  Risk  assessments  have 
been  provided  for  some  impurities  based  on  maximal  theoretical  concentrations  which  together 
with non-clinical data provide reassurance that the levels of these impurities in DP are acceptable 
from a safety perspective. 
Specification 
Drug  substance  release  testing  includes  appearance,  pH,  endotoxins,  sterility,  virus  titre, 
identity,  total  protein,  host  cell  DNA,  residual  benzonase  and  residual  gentamicin.  The 
acceptance criteria have been revised in line with more recent batches and clinical batch data.  
Adequate descriptions of the analytical procedures including validity criteria have been provided. 
Determination  of  Virus  titer  is  performed  in  a  TCID50-based  ELISA  assay  on  CEF  cells.  Initially, 
the  MAA  proposed  the  RT-PCR  method  used  for  MVA-DNA  titration  as  identity  test.  During  the 
procedure, the DP identity test based on PCR amplification has also been introduced for DS. This 
assay cannot distinguish between MVA-BN and other MVA strains, however its use is acceptable 
as no other MVA strains are used at either DS or DP manufacturing facilities. 
To support the proposed end of shelf-life and release specifications for DS and DP the Company 
refers  to  clinical  data,  estimated  virus  titres  at  the  time  of  use,  and  has  conducted  regression 
analysis  according  to  the  calculation  provided  in  WHO/BS/06.2049-Final,  2006.  The  proposed 
lower limit of the drug substance specification for virus titre will have to be sufficient to ensure 
that DP can be formulated and that DP end-of shelf-life specification (1.0 x 108 TCID50/mL) can 
be met.  
The  Applicant  has  adequately  described  and  listed  the  reference  standards  used  in  DS  release 
assays  and  in  IPC.  The  current  reference  standard  for  virus  titre  by  TCID50  was  produced  using 
the commercial scale process and meets specifications.   
Details of the DS bags used as container closure system, composition of materials, manufacture 
and  testing  conducted  by  the  supplier  for  leachables  and  extractables  have  been  provided.  A 
study  is  on-going  to  investigate  leachables  using  the  drug  substance  container  closure  system. 
One case of leakage of DS bags stored and shipped with this secondary packaging configuration 
was  reported.  Details  of  the  investigations  and  a  revised  packaging  procedure  have  been 
provided.  Further  consideration  of  alternative  DS  containers,  their  storage  and  secondary 
packaging for shipping is expected at post authorisation.  
Stability 
Stability  studies  have  been  conducted  at  the  proposed  storage  conditions,  accelerated 
temperature and ambient temperature.  
The stability trend data indicate a significant decrease of virus titre during the proposed storage. 
A  stability  study  to  confirm  the  effect  of  cumulative  DS  and  DP  storage  periods  is  ongoing 
Preliminary data support the cumulative shelf-life.  
The proposed post-approval stability protocol is acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 16/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
The vaccine is supplied as a frozen suspension for injection in a 2 ml vial containing a single dose 
of 0.5 ml.  
Table: Composition of the vaccine per vial 
Component 
Active Substance 
MVA-BN® 
Excipients 
Quantity per dose 
(0.5 mL) 
Not less than 1.0 x 108 
TCID50/mL  
Function 
Reference to Standards 
Antigen  
In-house specifications  
Trometamol 
(Tris-hydroxymethyl- amino 
methane) 
Sodium Chloride 
Water for Injection 
q.s.  
Buffering agent & stabilizer  
Ph. Eur., USP  
Isotonic agent  
Solvent  
Ph. Eur., USP  
Ph. Eur., USP  
The description of the composition of the vaccine product is generally acceptable and the target 
formulation titre is stated.  
The  current  target  titre  for  DP  is  based  on  evaluation  of  15  Drug  Product  Lots  from  2011  but 
target titre has been changed during development. A study to further investigate whether age of 
the  DS  lot  at  the  time  of  filling  has  any  impact  on  the  release  titre  for  the  DP  lots  will  be 
performed.  Depending on the results, a revision of the batch formula may be necessary to take 
into consideration the age of DS lots at the time of formulation. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Two  different  frozen  liquid  formulations  and  a  freeze-dried  formulation  have  been  used  in 
development.  The  physicochemical  description  of  drug  product  is  acceptable.  The  biological 
properties of the product are described in relation to non-clinical studies and clinical studies.  
A total of 8 drug product manufacturing processes have been used during product development. 
Changes  include  scale-up,  change  of  site,  change  in  thawing  conditions,  change  in  target  titre, 
change  in  mixing  and  change  in  fill  volume.  Comparability  of  pivotal  clinical  and  non-clinical 
batches  with  those  produced  by  the  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  has  been 
broadly demonstrated.  
Manufacture of the product 
The drug product manufacturing process consists of thawing drug substance, formulation of drug 
substance  by  mixing  with  the  formulation  buffer  to  produce  final  bulk  vaccine.  The  final  bulk 
vaccine  is  filled  into  single  dose  vials,  inspected,  labelled  and  packaged.  The  Applicant  has 
provided  an  adequate  description  of  each  step  of  the  drug  product  manufacturing  process  with 
details  of  process  parameters  and  major  equipment.  The  use  of  multiple  bags  of  DS  for 
formulation of DP was introduced to improve the consistency of DP batches.  
The Applicant has provided details of the controls used for formulation buffer, formulation of final 
bulk vaccine and during filling and packaging. Wide limits for pH have been revised and justified. 
The range for fill volume is acceptable. Visual testing is conducted on DS bags on receipt at the 
DP manufacturing site.  
Data from a 2007 process validation study conducted using the initial commercial scale process 
support the stability of the product in terms of virus titre during filling, packaging and storage.  
A  process  validation  study  conducted  in  2008  (re-validated  optimized  commercial  process) 
demonstrated  homogeneity  during  filling  in  addition  to  process  consistency.  Details  of 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 17/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigations  into  visible  particles  seen  during  DP  process  validation  have  been  provided. 
Investigations showed that that the high levels of visible particles were due to the concentration 
at TFF steps during manufacture of the DS and that changing the concentration during the final 
ultrafiltration  step  resolved  the  issue.  The  stability  of  virus  titre  during  thawing  has  been 
adequately validated. Aseptic filling has been adequately validated. The manufacture of batches 
of formulation buffer has been validated for homogeneity and sterility.  
Drug  product  excipients  (trometamol,  sodium  chloride,  WFI  and  HCl)  comply  with  relevant  Ph. 
Eur.  monographs.  All  analytical  methods  are  compendial  methods  for  which  formal  validation  is 
not required.  
Product specification 
Drug  product  release  testing  includes  identity,  appearance,  pH,  extractable  volume,  sterility, 
bacterial  endotoxins,  virus  titre,  and  abnormal  toxicity.  The  stability  specification  includes 
identity, appearance pH, sterility, virus titre and container closure integrity.  
The  Applicant  has  provided  details  of  the  regression  analysis  used  to  determine  the  lower  titre 
specification  for  DP  at  the  end  of  shelf  life  (24  months).  The  regression  analysis  has  been 
conducted using the formula indicated in WHO guideline WHO/BS/06.2049-Final. Data from four 
DP lots included in stability studies of 36 months have been used to determine the rate of loss of 
virus  titre  (slope).  The  Company  has  justified  the  use  of  the  common  slope,  rather  than  the 
worst-case slope in this calculation and the regression analysis can be considered conservative.  
The  Applicant  has  provided  details  of  the  analytical  methods  used  in  drug  product  testing.  The 
level  of  detail  provided  is  acceptable.  Data  from  validation  studies  of  analytical  methods  have 
been  provided.  Most  of  the  test  methods  applied  to  drug  product  are  the  same  as  are  used  for 
drug substance.  
Batch  data  are  provided  for  lots  produced  in  the  2008  re-validation  exercise.  Specifications  are 
appropriate  and  acceptably  justified.  The  reference  standards  for  drug  product  assays  are 
generally the same as for drug substance. 
Details  of  the  drug  product  vials,  stoppers  and  caps,  the  materials  of  construction,  suppliers, 
dimensions  and  tests  conducted  on  receipt  of  the  materials  have  been  provided.  The  container 
closure system components comply with relevant Ph. Eur. monographs and where relevant, are 
tested according to monographs on receipt. Data from leachable studies are awaited. 
Stability of the product 
The claimed shelf-life for drug product is 2 years at -20°C ± 5°C protected from light. The in-use 
shelf-life claimed for thawed product is 12 hours at 2°C to 8°C in the dark. Details of the batches 
used  in  long  term  and  accelerated  stability  studies  have  been  provided.  Stability  indicating 
parameters included in studies are appearance, virus titre and pH. Summaries of the data have 
been provided and indicate a significant decrease in virus titre during the shelf life of the product. 
The Applicant has conducted regression analysis on the combined virus titre data and concludes 
that these data support a shelf-life of 2 years, however all batches used in this study were above 
the  proposed  lower  limit  for  virus  titre  at  release.  A  stability  study  to  confirm  the  effect  of 
cumulative  DS  and  DP  storage  periods  is  ongoing  and  preliminary  data  support  the  cumulative 
shelf-life.  Improvements  to  the  virus  titre  assay  used  at  key  time  points  in  stability  studies  are 
acceptable.  
The proposed post-approval stability protocol is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
Viral safety 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 18/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The potential sources of extraneous viral contamination are biological starting materials  and raw 
materials.  
SPF Eggs are produced by chicken flocks free from specified pathogens (SPF) complying with the 
requirements of Ph. Eur. 5.2.2. and controlled for absence of extraneous agents by in-vivo (adult 
mice, suckling mice and embryonated eggs) and in-vitro testing (CEF, Vero, MRC-5).   
Master and Working Seed Virus (MSV and WSV) are extensively tested during their production or 
at release for the presence of adventitious viruses to exclude contamination of a panel of human 
viruses, porcine viruses, extraneous agents in chicks and replication competent reovirus. In order 
to further ensure viral safety, the applicant will introduce a validated method to test presence of 
possible  contaminating  poxviruses  (FPV  &  VV)  at  post-authorisation.  In  addition,  extraneous 
agents  testing  for  human  viruses  by  PCR  will  also  be  conducted  on  virus  harvests  or  DS 
manufactured using the proposed commercial WSV  
Although  Trypsin  is  inactivated  by  UV  irradiation  and  a  study  evaluating  the  inactivation  of 
Porcine Parvovirus (PPV) in Trypsin by UV irradiation was provided, it was noted that additional 
data of PCV testing of MSV and WSV should be provided at post authorisation to further ensure 
the viral safety. 
TSE safety  
The materials of animal origin present in the manufacturing process of medium components and 
reagents are described as complying with the European Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk 
of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  via  Human  and  Veterinary  Medicinal 
Products  (EMEA/410/01  Rev.  3).  As  for  other  live  viral  vaccines,  no  specific  steps  that  might 
remove or inactivate TSE agents are present in the Imvanex manufacturing process. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Details  of  the  drug  substance,  the  manufacturing  process,  process  validation,  characterization 
studies,  control  of  drug  substance,  reference  standards,  container  closure  system  and  stability 
studies have been provided. Comparability of the 6 drug substance manufacturing processes and 
8  drug  product  manufacturing  processes  has  been  demonstrated.  The  introduction  of  stricter 
process parameters is expected for the inoculation step. Additional tests for impurities are being 
developed  and  will  be  used  in  further  process  validation  studies.  Seed  lots  have  been 
characterized  phenotypically,  and  confirmatory  testing  of  WSV  for  human  viruses  has  been 
conducted. The microbial control is acceptable. 
Details  of  the  drug  product,  the  excipients,  the  formulation  development,  manufacture,  and 
container closure system for drug product have been provided and were considered satisfactory 
to ensure the quality of the product  
The use of existing stability data and regression calculations conducted to date provide a means 
of ensuring that DS and DP release titres are suitable to ensure that an appropriate virus titre is 
present at the end of DP shelf-life. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
The  provided  documentation  is  largely  considered  to  cover  the  quality  requirements  for  a  live 
viral  vaccine.  As  detailed  in  section  2.2.6,  the  CHMP  recommends  the  applicant  to  address  the 
following  quality  issues  in  or  der  to  ensure  an  adequate  maintenance  of  the  quality    of  the 
product.  a  stricter  control  of  key  process  steps,  and  the  introduction  of  additional  tests  for 
impurities  expected  to  be  used  in  further  process  validation  studies.  Subsequent  tightening  of 
IPC acceptance criteria, and specifications as appropriate, is expected to result from the further 
process validation data.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 19/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  16  unresolved  quality  issues  having  which  were 
determined not be sufficiently significant to change the Risk-benefit balance of the product. The 
applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Recommendations  and  committed 
these 
recommendations in the ongoing development of the medicinal product. 
implement 
to 
1.  DS and DP specifications for virus titre at release and end-of shelf life should be 
revised as necessary in case of any modification in the indication, posology and 
acceptable dose after consideration of updated clinical or non-clinical data 
2.  Data from DS and DP stability studies at different temperature should be provided 
to support an improved stability profile. 
3.  Data from process validation studies should be provided. These data should be used 
as the basis for IPC acceptance criteria and/or release tests specifications following 
validation and implementation of additional test methods and to further justify or 
tighten acceptance criteria and specification for existing test methods. In this 
respect:  
a) A suitable test for viable cell number should be introduced. Strict controls should 
be introduced for some manufacturing steps. Data from process validation studies 
using these strict controls should be provided to support the choice of acceptance 
criteria. Downstream IPC should be tightened based on the results of these process 
validation studies. 
b) Data from process validation studies including the results of tests for viable cells, 
residual impurities should be provided. Appropriate acceptance criteria should be 
introduced based on the results of these tests and studies, which should be further 
tightened following additional manufacturing experience.  
c) Additional assays for certain impurities should be applied to DS batches and DS 
intermediates manufactured in process validation studies to further demonstrate 
consistency in DS and during DS manufacture. 
d) A suitably validated method for determining MVA-DNA content should be 
introduced to enable purity of DS and DS intermediates to be evaluated and process 
consistency with regards to this parameter to be assessed. Data from process 
validation studies including a suitable test for MVA-DNA content should be provided 
and appropriate controls and specifications should be introduced based on such 
data. Controls and specifications for MVA-DNA content should be further tightened 
following additional manufacturing experience. 
e) A suitably qualified assay should be applied in process validation studies to 
demonstrate the consistency of a manufacturing step with regard to DNA impurities. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 20/121 
 
  
  
 
 
4.  A method should be introduced to assess aggregation/particles size of DS process 
samples, and DS & DP batches if appropriate. Data from DS process samples tested 
for aggregation/particle size should be provided and appropriate controls or 
specifications should be introduced based on such data. Inclusion of such a test 
method in DS and DP stability studies should be considered or the absence of such 
a test from stability studies should be justified. 
5.  A suitably qualified test for residual trypsin activity should be applied to CEF 
produced. 
6.  A description of the improved method for visual inspection of containers at harvest 
should be provided and should include reference pictures. 
7.  Additional data from viral safety testing of MSV and WSV should be provided prior 
to marketing. 
8.  Appropriately validated method should be introduced to test MSV and WSV for the 
presence of contaminating poxviruses . The results from testing of MSV and WSV 
for FPV and VV should be provided with full details of the analytical procedure(s) 
and validation data to support the suitability of the analytical procedure(s). 
9.  To take account of the special populations who may receive Imvanex, extraneous 
agents testing for human viruses should be conducted on virus harvests or DS 
manufactured using the proposed commercial. The data from such testing should be 
provided. 
10. Data from revalidation studies of the virus titre assay for pool and harvest samples 
should be provided to ensure that the assay is valid for all for the complete range of 
virus titres that may be obtained.  
11. The Company should consider the use of additional packing materials to minimize 
movement of the DS bag within the frame within the transport container. 
12. The Company should evaluate alternative container closure systems and/or 
packaging systems for storage and transport of DS. 
13. Data from leachable studies of the DS container closure systems should be provided 
14. A study to investigate whether age of the DS lot at the time of filling has any impact 
on the release titre for the DP lots should be undertaken and the data provided. If 
necessary, the batch formula should be revised to take into consideration the age of 
DS lots at the time of formulation. 
15. A DP batch that is close to the lower release specification for virus titre should be 
included in post-approval stability studies. 
16. Data from leachables studies of the DP container closure system should be 
provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 21/121 
 
  
  
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Non-clinical pharmacological and toxicology studies were undertaken on Imvanex based on  
•  CPMP Note for Guidance on preclinical pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines 
(CPMP/SWP/465/95), 
•  Note for Guidance on Reproductive Toxicology: Detection of Toxicity to Reproduction for 
Medicinal Products (CPMP/ICH/386/95). 
Based on these guidelines secondary pharmacodynamic, pharmacodynamic drug interaction, 
genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies were not considered necessary to be performed for 
Imvanex. 
To address the non-clinical pharmacology of Imvanex, the applicant’s strategy was to establish 
test systems where challenges with orthopoxviruses elicited death in animals and to show 
protection from death when animals were vaccinated with Imvanex and to compare Imvanex in 
these tests with US-approved smallpox vaccines that contain live replication-competent vaccines 
(Dryvax, ACAM2000).  Studies were done in mice and monkeys.  This strategy rests on 
extrapolating protection of humans infected with variola from data from animal studies showing 
protection from other pox virus challenges, together with data on human immune responses to 
vaccination as outlined in the section on clinical aspects further below. As variola has no animal 
host, challenge studies using live variola virus are not considered informative. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
As direct proof of efficacy cannot be obtained from clinical testing, the applicant’s strategy was 
based on establishing test systems in mice and monkeys in which challenge viruses elicited death 
in animals. Studies were designed to assess protection from death following challenge in animals 
that had been vaccinated with Imvanex or with US-approved replication-competent smallpox 
vaccines (Dryvax, ACAM2000).  Immunogenicity was also assessed using ELISA and PRNT. In the 
ELISA the MVA-derived antigen was used to coat the wells and in the PRNT assay vaccinia virus 
Western Reserve (VV-WR) was used.   
In mice, the applicant characterised testing with the challenge virus VV-WR strain given by the 
intranasal route. A dose-response for morbidity and mortality was shown and a dose equivalent 
to 50-fold the median lethal dose was taken forward for use in testing the protective efficacy of 
Imvanex.  When mice previously vaccinated with Imvanex were then challenged with this lethal 
intranasal dose they survived.  In characterising the dose-response for this protective effect of 
Imvanex, the applicant concluded that the dose of 1x108 TCID50 was optimal.  Lower doses 
protected mice from death but there was greater morbidity than with 1x108 TCID50; still lower 
doses of Imvanex resulted in the death of some mice and therefore loss of protection.  
There was a clear dose-response for antibody elicited by Imvanex (0.1, 0.4 and 2 x108 TCID50).  
Titres were higher with a second dose than after a single dose.  The amount of challenge virus in 
the lungs was also quantified: whereas there were very large titres in unvaccinated mice, 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 22/121 
 
  
  
challenge virus was not detectable in the lungs of mice vaccinated with Imvanex.  Different lots 
of Imvanex, representing the different production methods, were compared and shown not to be 
different in such tests.  In comparative testing with Dryvax and ACAM2000, 100% 
seroconversion rates were achieved by day 14 in mice given Imvanex but it took to days 26 to 
40 for similar seroconversion rates with Dryvax and ACAM2000.  Mice survived a lethal challenge 
provided they seroconverted.   
Subsequently methods were developed to challenge mice with ectromelia, an orthopox virus that 
naturally infects mice.  The applicant showed that mice vaccinated with Imvanex were able to 
survive a lethal challenge with this virus, whereas unvaccinated mice did not. In comparative 
testing with Dryvax, all vaccinated mice that seroconverted survived.  All mice given Imvanex did 
seroconvert; however, only 79% of mice given Dryvax seroconverted.  Immunogenic responses 
to vaccination developed more rapidly with Imvanex than with Dryvax. 
Lung titres of ectromelia virus were reduced to 0 in mice vaccinated with Imvanex but 2 of 10 
mice given Dryvax failed to completely clear the virus, although titres were much lower than in 
unvaccinated mice.   
Data were also provided in challenge studies from monkeys. The CHMP Note for Guidance on the 
Development of Vaccinia Virus based Vaccines against Smallpox for states that ‘the final 
confirmation of protection of the final product should be investigated in monkeys’.  This guidance 
is limited in scope to replicative viral vaccine that is administered by scarification; however, the 
principle is established and is generally accepted by the scientific community that for assessment 
of the potential protective efficacy against variola in humans, studies in primates are appropriate 
and offer additional evidence as compared to testing in rodents alone.   The applicant tested the 
ability of Imvanex to protect against lethal challenges with monkeypox when this was given by 
the intravenous or intratracheal routes.  With the intravenous challenge, two subcutaneous doses 
of Imvanex given 28 days apart at 1x108 TCID50 were shown to induce protection from death 
when monkeys were subsequently exposed to monkeypox at 5x107 pfu/ml monkeypox virus.  
ACAM2000 (US licensed vaccine containing the NYBH strain of vaccinia) was also shown to be 
effective at eliciting protection.   
Exposure of humans to variola is likely to be by inhalation.  The applicant tested two different 
strains of monkeypox virus in methods using intratracheal administration of challenge virus and 
two different doses of one strain of monkeypox virus, at lethal doses.  Again, Imvanex was able 
to prevent death induced by the viral challenge.  For instance, in one of these studies, it was 
shown that 8 out of 10 monkeys that were given two doses of Imvanex, and 9 out of 10 that 
were given one dose of Imvanex, survived a challenge that killed 8 out of 8 unvaccinated 
monkeys.   
The immune response was characterised in monkeys.  A second dose was shown to result in 
higher total and neutralising antibody responses compared to a single dose.   
In monkeys, lower doses of Imvanex, 1x106 and 1x107 TCID50, were compared with 1x108 
TCID50 Imvanex.  At the two higher doses, all monkeys given a lethal challenge survived, 
whereas 3 out of 5 at the lowest dose died, and 3 of 3 unvaccinated monkeys died.  In this 
study, 6/6 monkeys given ACAM2000 survived.  Concerning viraemia, monkeys given Imvanex 
still showed detectable amounts of challenge virus, whereas in monkeys given ACAM2000, there 
was complete absence of detectable challenge virus.   
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 23/121 
 
  
  
Despite reducing mortality and morbidity, vaccination with Imvanex did not show the same 
degree of suppression of challenge virus replication as was seen with the replication-competent 
vaccine.  Findings in mice that Imvanex did suppress challenge virus replication were, thus, not 
repeated in monkeys.  This finding was considered problematic as it might suggest that Imvanex 
is not as effective at suppressing viraemia as replication-competent vaccines. If this were to 
occur in humans there could be transmission from persons who are infected but have no outward 
signs of disease.   
The applicant noted that despite use of the same methods in similar experiments, there 
appeared to be more severe disease induced by monkeypox challenge in one experiment than in 
the other.  The reason for this remains unexplained but the applicant subsequently showed that 
a lower challenge dose of monkeypox virus still elicited substantial toxicity.  The applicant noted 
that use of very high challenge doses does not reflect the likely clinical exposure; clearly, 
humans will not likely be exposed to very large multiples of the human lethal dose of variola.  
The use of high challenge doses was necessary in order to be able to use reduced numbers of 
animals in these experiments.   
Overall, the data supplied showed protective efficacy in mice of Imvanex in a manner that 
correlated with clearance of challenge virus from lung tissue and in conjunction with vaccinia-
specific immune responses.  The applicant concluded that the dose of 1x108 TCID50 was optimal. 
In monkeys, Imvanex prevented death but there was incomplete suppression of challenge virus 
replication in the blood of vaccinated monkeys given monkeypox. In contrast, vaccination with 
ACAM2000 achieved complete viral suppression.  It was also a potential concern that the level of 
antibody response seen in animals was not seen in humans, with unknown implications for the 
protective efficacy of the vaccine.    
In response to concerns regarding the lack of suppression of viraemia and the immune responses 
to Imvanex (as compared to approved vaccines) and the possibility that Imvanex might not be 
as effective as approved vaccines the applicant provided results from two additional monkeypox 
challenge studies. Both studies were dose-response investigations in monkeys of the protective 
efficacy of Imvanex in the dose range of 1x102 and 1x103 to 1x107 TCID50: one study used 
intravenous challenge and one used inhalational challenge methods.  The applicant showed a 
statistically significant correlation between dose of Imvanex and probability of survival and 
between dose of Imvanex and each of PRNT and ELISA titres.  However, it was evident that 
vaccinated monkeys that developed PRNT and ELISA titres at levels comparable to those who 
survived could still succumb to the monkeypox challenge.  Despite the statistically significant 
correlation, survival of an individual monkey could not be accurately predicted based on its PRNT 
or ELISA response.  In one study, there were two monkeys that did not survive despite 
seroconversion by day 42 and there were two monkeys who had not seroconverted by day 42 
but survived.  These results suggest that PRNT and ELISA titres are not sufficient correlates of 
protection and that other immune mechanisms, particularly cellular immunity, may contribute to 
protection.   
An expert scientific panel was convened to consider whether the lack of complete suppression of 
viraemia was sufficient cause to be concerned that Imvanex might not be as effective as 
replication competent vaccine and whether the difference in level of antibody response between 
protected animals and humans is a cause for concern that the vaccine might not be effective.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 24/121 
 
  
  
The panel advised that the evidence indicated that Imvanex produced as good protection as did 
existing vaccines, but that the nature of protection offered by Imvanex might be different and 
that the viraemia seen was insufficient reason to deny approval.  The panel advised that the 
preclinical challenge data for Imvanex support expectation of its protective efficacy in humans 
exposed to variola.  In relation to projecting protection in humans based on the antibody titres 
seen in animals, humans showed reduced titres compared to vaccinated monkeys and it was 
uncertain that protection in humans could be achieved at the titres obtained.        
During the procedure the applicant indicated that additional studies were either ongoing or had 
been completed. Information was supplied on two further studies that are ongoing and three 
completed studies. These will be submitted and fully assessed in a post-approval procedure. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In accordance with CHMP Note for Guidance on the preclinical pharmacological and toxicological 
testing  of  vaccines  (CHMP/SWP/465/95),  pharmacokinetic  studies  are  not  normally  needed.  
However, the Note for Guidance indicates that local deposition and retention at the injection site 
with characterisation of its distribution e.g. into draining lymph nodes and viral shedding or live 
vaccines should be considered.   
The applicant developed methods to allow detection of a vaccinia-specific gene product and used 
this  to  test  distribution  of  virus  after  its  subcutaneous  injection  in  rabbits.    In  this  testing,  the 
applicant  asserted  that  there  was  no  vaccinia  transcripts  identified  in  the  heart:  however,  the 
heart of one rabbit did test positive at 48 hours after injection.  The signal was weak and at the 
limits of detection of the assay and the majority of rabbits tested showed no expression of virus 
in the heart.  The distribution profile indicated that there was exposure at the injection site and 
in the lymph nodes, but that MVA-BN virus was not detected in brain, ovaries and testes.  It was 
also  not  detected  in  spleen  or  kidney.    After  subcutaneous  injection,  there  appeared  to  be  no 
exposure to lung or to liver but both these routes tested positive when the route of injection was 
intramuscular.  
2.3.3.  Toxicology 
The testing done by the applicant was generally consistent with the CHMP Note for Guidance on 
preclinical pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines (CHMP/SWP/465/95).  This 
details that genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies are not normally needed and these studies 
were not provided; dedicated fertility studies have also not been done which is in accordance 
with this guidance which states that histology in toxicity studies may provide sufficient 
information concerning the integrity of reproductive organs; no signal for concern was identified 
in this respect. 
Toxicity testing addressed general toxicity and reproductive toxicity.  The studies were done in 
suitable species, at suitable doses and dose frequencies and, in general, supported human 
dosing.  There were no major objections identified based on review of these studies.  Some 
minor and reversible effects local to the site of injection were seen – there was inflammation of 
the dermis which abated over time – but, no major toxicity was identified.  However, there was a 
suggestion that there may have been an effect on the heart in one rabbit in study 254-03.  In 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 25/121 
 
  
  
 
 
the report, the description at post mortem examination is of ‘Inflammation, pericardium’.  
Although this is a finding in a single animal, the possible link to troponin I in the clinical studies is 
a potential concern, noting that previous vaccines have been associated with rare instances of 
myocarditis.  Its occurrence in one rabbit would not be expected if it occurred in rabbits at the 
same rate as is suggested in humans and there was also the unexpected finding, since concluded 
not to be a true finding, of the presence of virus in the heart of one rabbit in the distribution 
study.  The applicant was asked for further consideration of this point.  Based on the applicant’s 
response, the finding was concluded to have been resolved as a non-clinical issue, but this (ie 
myo/pericarditis) remains a concern clinically.   
The proposed clinical dosing regime and that used in the majority of studies in animals used two 
doses given four weeks apart.  This was not used in toxicity studies where dosing was at 
intervals of one, two or three weeks.  This difference is not judged to be significant as studies 
still support the safety of the proposed dosing regime.  The primary pharmacology studies 
provided evidence that the immune response was generated within several days of vaccination.    
Concerning the dose, the applicant’s proposal is 1x108 TCID50/mL.  This was used in the toxicity 
studies; for instance, rabbits were given the full human dose by subcutaneous injection.  The 
studies provide adequate testing at doses sufficiently in excess of that proposed for use in 
humans.  No objection to the dose is raised on preclinical safety grounds.   
Neurovirulence testing was not done.  This is acceptable as this virus is non-replication 
competent in mammalian tissue and distribution into the brain was not seen. 
In conclusion, the toxicology section of the dossier can be accepted except that additional data 
should be provided from a study in pregnant rats in which vaccine is given close to implantation. 
Genotoxicity, Carcinogenicity 
In accordance with the CPMP Note for Guidance on the development of Vaccinia virus based 
vaccines against smallpox (CPMP/1100/02), the WHO Guideline on nonclinical evaluation of 
vaccines, and the CPMP Note for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological 
Testing of Vaccines, no genotoxicity and carcinogenicity testing was performed for the vaccine. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
In pregnant animals, there was no effect of vaccination on gestation, lactation, maternal 
behaviour or on development of the offspring.  The magnitude of the immune response induced 
in the reproductive toxicity studies in pregnant rats and in rabbits was not especially high.  
However, a dose-response relation was shown.  It is feasible that pregnancy per se resulted in 
reduced immunogenicity but there is no direct proof of this.  There was no vaccination around 
the time of implantation in these studies.  Dosing was at days -14, 0 and 14 in relation to 
mating.  It remains possible that vaccination at this time (i.e. at implantation) could have an 
adverse effect that has not been identified in these studies.  The applicant has committed to 
provide data on effects of vaccination at the point of implantation in rats by the end of 2014.  
The below table provides an overview of the studies submitted: 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 26/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Tabular summary of reproductive toxicity studies 
Dosing 
Study type/ 
period 
Study ID /  
(GLP Compliant) 
Route & dose 
Species; 
Number 
Female/ 
group 
Major findings 
NOAEL  
No data, except from general toxicity studies, indicating no concerns 
Male fertility 
Female fertility 
Embryofetal 
development 
Rat / 18-
22 
Rabbit / 
13-15 
Rat / 18-
22 
Rabbit / 
13-15 
subcutaneous 
subcutaneous 
subcutaneous 
subcutaneous 
Peri & postnatal 
Rat 
subcutaneous 
Days -14, 
0  
Days -14, 
0  
Days -14, 
0  
Days -14, 
0 and +14 
Days -14, 
0 and +14 
No toxicity to 
fertility 
No toxicity to 
fertility 
No 
embryofetal 
toxicity 
No 
embryofetal 
toxicity 
No impairment 
to pup 
development 
1x108 TCID50 
1x108 TCID50 
1x108 TCID50 
1x108 TCID50 
1x108 TCID50 
Dedicated fertility studies have not been performed, which is in accordance with the CHMP Note 
for Guidance on preclinical pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines 
(CHMP/SWP/465/95), which states that histology in toxicity studies may provide sufficient 
information concerning the integrity of reproductive organs. No signal for concern was identified 
in this respect. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Not applicable 
Local Tolerance  
Separate studies to determine local tolerability were not performed. The local tolerance was 
evaluated as part of the repeat-dose toxicity studies. 
Other toxicity studies 
Not applicable 
2.3.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Vaccines are exempt from requirements relating to an assessment of environmental risk in 
accordance with CHMP guidance (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 Guideline on the environmental risk 
assessment of medicinal products for human use).   
Nevertheless, the applicant provided such an assessment. In this, the predicted environmental 
concentration (PEC) was estimated to be 0.0025 μg/ litre (driven by a market penetration 
estimate of 0.01).  The action limit is 0.01 μg/ litre and so the product was considered to pose no 
environmental concerns. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 27/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The testing dose by the applicant was generally consistent with the CHMP Note for Guidance on 
preclinical pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines (CHMP/SWP/465/95). This 
details that genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies are not normally needed and these studies 
were not provided; dedicated fertility studies have also not been done which is in accordance 
with this guidance which states that histology in toxicity studies may provide sufficient 
information concerning the integrity of reproductive organs; no signal for concern was identified 
in this respect. 
Toxicity testing addressed general toxicity and reproductive toxicity.  The studies were done in 
suitable species, at suitable doses and dose frequencies and, in general, supported human 
dosing.  There were no major objections identified based on reviews of these studies.  Some 
minor and reversible effects local to the site of injection were seen – there was inflammation of 
the dermis which abated over time – but, no major toxicity was identified.  However, there was a 
suggestion that there may have been an effect on the heart in one rabbit in study 254-03.  In 
the report, the description at post mortem examination is of ‘Inflammation, pericardium’.  
Although this is a finding in a single animal, the possible link to troponin I in the clinical studies is 
a potential concern, noting that previous vaccines have been associated with rare instances of 
myocarditis.  Its occurrence in one rabbit would not be expected if it occurred in rabbits at the 
same rate as is suggested in humans. The applicant was asked for further consideration of this 
point.  Based on the applicant’s response, the finding was concluded to have been resolved as a 
non-clinical issue, but this (i.e. myo/pericarditis) remains a concern clinically.   
In view of reproduction toxicity no concern arose from the studies in pregnant animals, however, 
the study designs resulted in no vaccination around the time of implantation. It remains 
therefore possible that vaccination at the time of implantation could have an adverse effect that 
has not been identified in these studies. The applicant has committed to provide data on effects 
of vaccination at the point of implantation in rats by the end of 2014. These data will address 
missing information on the effect of Imvanex administration during the early phase of pregnancy 
and are expected in late 2014 (as detailed in the RMP). 
The proposed clinical dosing regime and that used in the majority of studies in animals used two 
doses given four weeks apart.  This was not used in toxicity studies where dosing was at 
intervals of one, two or three weeks.  This difference is not judged to be significant as studies 
still support the safety of the proposed dosing regime.  The primary pharmacology studies 
provided evidence that the immune response was generated within several days of vaccination.    
Concerning the dose, the applicant’s proposal is 5x107 TCID50.  This was used in the toxicity 
studies; for instance, rabbits were given the full human dose by subcutaneous injection.  The 
studies provide adequate testing at doses sufficiently in excess of that proposed for use in 
humans.  No objection to the dose is raised on preclinical safety grounds.   
Neurovirulence testing was not done.  This is acceptable as this virus is non-replication 
competent in mammalian tissue and distribution into the brain was not seen. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 28/121 
 
  
  
2.3.6.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non clinical programme adequately supports the marketing authorisation of Imvanex. 
However, it remains the possibility that vaccination at the time of implantation could have an 
adverse effect that has not been identified in the reproductive toxicity studies conducted.  
Therefore, the applicant committed to conduct an additional toxicity study in pregnant rats to 
provide data on the response effect induced by the vaccine on early pregnancy.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
 Overall content of the clinical programme 
In the absence of smallpox worldwide since 1977, the evaluation of the potential clinical efficacy 
of  MVA-BN  can  only  be  assessed  on  the  basis  of  non-clinical  efficacy  data  and  measurement  of 
immune  responses  to  vaccination  in  human  subjects.  The  clinical  studies  included  in  the 
application were conducted from 2001 onwards and consisted of dose-finding studies as well as 
studies with the final selected vaccine virus titre in different populations.  
The  applicant strategy  for  filing this  application  was  to  demonstrate  comparable protection  with 
and  immune  responses  to  MVA-BN  and  replication-competent  vaccinia  (VV)  vaccine  in  non-
clinical  studies  and  then  demonstrate  comparable  immune  responses  to  MVA-BN  and  to 
replication-competent  NYBH  vaccines  in  humans.  Despite  this  plan  the  applicant  provided  only 
two  prospective  studies  (POX-MVA-002  and  -009)  in  which  very  small  numbers  of  subjects 
received  Dryvax  (15  and  8  per  study)  with  limited  blood  sampling  time  points.  Neither  study 
compared  Dryvax  with  the  final  commercial  formulation  of  MVA-BN.  There  was  also  one 
retrospective study that compared immune responses to MVA-BN and to Dryvax or Wetvax using 
stored sera obtained during a total of 8 studies.   
Formulations 
Vaccine  comprising  the  final  selected  virus  titre  (1  x  108  TCID50/ml)  supplied  as  lyophilised 
vaccine or as frozen liquid in 0.5 ml doses is referred to in the following sections simply as MVA-
BN. The formulations used by study are listed in the table below. Some data from POX-MVA-BN-
028 and 029 were reported at the time of responding to the first list of questions but POX-MVA-
030  was  still  ongoing.  These  additional  three  studies  and  some  of  the  earliest  studies  in  the 
programme were sponsored by NIH.   
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 29/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Overview of clinical studies 
Three  studies  evaluated  test  formulations  containing  more  than  one  viral  titre.  POX-MVA-002 
included Dryvax within all regimens tested except for one group that received two doses of MVA-
BN. POX-MVA-001 and 004 were dose-finding studies with MVA-BN. 
Five studies can be regarded as pivotal. In brief, these comprised: 
POX-MVA-005: The study was conducted during 2006-2007 at a single centre in Germany. It 
compared the safety and immunogenicity of one or two doses of MVA-BN in subjects with and 
without a history of smallpox vaccination. This was a partially randomised, partially double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, non-inferiority study with a last follow-up to 6 months but with year 2 data 
from the booster phase. 
POX-MVA-023: The study was conducted during 2008-2009 to evaluate the safety and 
immunogenicity of a booster dose of MVA-BN administered two years after initial vaccination with 
one or two doses of the same vaccine in POX-MVA-005. The study was open-label with 6 months 
follow-up.  
POX-MVA-008: The study was conducted between 2006 and 2009 at 17 US and 7 Mexican 
study sites. It compared the safety and immunogenicity of MVA-BN in subjects with atopic 
dermatitis vs. healthy subjects. There was a final follow-up visit at 26 weeks after the last 
assigned dose.  
POX-MVA-011: The study was conducted between 2006 and 2009 at 34 US and 2 Puerto Rica 
sites. It compared the safety and immunogenicity of MVA-BN in HIV-infected subjects with CD4 
counts 200-750 cells/µl vs. healthy subjects with sub-division into groups according to prior 
smallpox vaccine. The duration of the follow-up period varied by study group.  
POX-MVA-024: The study was conducted between 2009 and 2010 at 4 study sites in the US. It 
evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of one or two doses of MVA-BN administered to healthy 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 30/121 
 
  
  
 
subjects aged 56-80 years who had received smallpox vaccine in the past. Follow-up was to 6 
months. 
• 
• 
Five other studies (including initial studies in subjects with atopic dermatitis or HIV 
infection) are regarded as supportive. 
In addition the applicant provided a report on a serological study that sought to compare 
antibody levels elicited by Dryvax or Wetvax in NIH/NIAID-sponsored studies with those 
elicited by MVA-BN in three of the applicant’s studies.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
As mentioned in the Note for Guidance on Clinical Evaluation of New Vaccines 
(CHMP/VWP/164653/2005), “Pharmacokinetic studies are usually not required for vaccines”. It 
was found acceptable that the applicant did not conduct pharmacokinetic (PK) studies during the 
clinical development of Imvanex. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
The pharmacological profile of Imvanex is represented by its immunogenicity profile evaluated in 
the clinical trials submitted. The selection of the dose is further described under the section on 
clinical efficacy below. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Design features of the pivotal and other studies 
The major design features of the 13 studies in the initial application were as shown in Table 1.  
Table 1 Overview of study design 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 31/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
The formulations used by study are listed in the table below. Some data from studies POX-MVA-
BN-028 and 029 were reported during the evaluation but POX-MVA-030 was still ongoing. These 
additional three studies and some of the earliest studies in the programme were sponsored by 
NIH.   
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 32/121 
 
  
  
 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
POX-MVA-001 was conducted at a single study site using an early liquid frozen formulation. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  two  doses  of  MVA-BN  by  SC  and  IM 
administration routes vs. a single SC selected dose group. The assessment of immune responses 
was a secondary objective. Subjects were vaccinia-naïve (Groups 1-4) and vaccinia-experienced 
(Group  5;  i.e.  history  of  smallpox  vaccination  [VV])  healthy  male  adults  aged  20-55  years.  A 
single  vaccine  lot  was  used  but  there  were  three  sets  of  vials  containing  the  different  TCID50 
doses. 
In  Part  I  subjects  with  no  history  of  smallpox  vaccination  were  randomised  to  receive  two 
injections of MVA-BN at 0 and 4 weeks at one of three doses (there was double-blinding by dose; 
each being administered as 0.5 ml) and using one of two routes of administration: 
o  Group 1: dose 106 TCID50, subcutaneous 
o  Group 2: dose 107 TCID50, subcutaneous 
o  Group 3: dose 108 TCID50, subcutaneous 
o  Group 4: dose 108 TCID50, intramuscular 
In  Part  II  one  additional  group  (Group  5)  of  subjects  previously  vaccinated  against  smallpox 
received one single subcutaneous injection of MVA-BN at the highest dose tested (108 TCID50). 
Follow-up was planned at Year 1 and Year 2 (subsequent to day 128 in the initial phase of the 
study). 
Of the 90 subjects planned (18 per group) there were 88 enrolled and 86 vaccinated. Subjects in 
part  II  were  ~10  years  older  vs.  Part  I  due  to  the  requirement  for  prior  smallpox  vaccination. 
Time  elapsed  since  the  last  VV  administration  is  not  reported  but  compulsory  vaccination  was 
abolished in 1976 in Germany. 
The ELISA results (note that rates are for titres > 1:100) for groups 1-4 showed that the highest 
TCID50 dose tested elicited the highest results. At this dose the results were comparable for the 
two  routes  of  administration  and  significantly  higher  GMTs  were  observed  vs.  the  two  lower 
doses.  Within  each  of  Groups  2-4  the  second  dose  of  MVA  elicited  a  marked  increment  in 
antibody level.  
The D28 GMT for Group 5 was ~10-fold higher than the D28 GMTs for Groups 3 and 4 and was 
numerically higher vs. the D42 GMTs after two doses in the previously naïve subjects. The data 
showed  that  MVA-BN  boosted  immune  responses  in  subjects  primed  with  VV  (probably  >  20 
years earlier). D128 GMTs were also numerically higher in Group 5, in which all subjects retained 
titres > 1:100. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 33/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Geometric mean titres and seroconversion rates in the ELISA (completers sample) 
N = number of subjects with samples for antibody response 
n/% = number of subjects with antibody response with titres above 1:100 
Group 1: 106 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 2: 107 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 3: 108 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 4: 108 TCID50, intramuscular in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 5: 108 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects previously vaccinated against smallpox 
The  PRNT  data  gave  lower  seroconversion  rates  compared  to  the  ELISA  data.  However,  the 
pattern of results within and between the four dose/route groups was the same as for the ELISA 
data.  D42  responses  to  two  doses  in  Groups  3-4  were  slightly  numerically  lower  vs.  D28 
responses  to  a  single  dose  in  Group  5.  The  D126  titres  (%  with  1:10  and  GMT)  were  higher  in 
Group 5 vs. all other groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 34/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 3 Geometric mean titres and seroconversion rates in the neutralisation assay (Completers 
sample) 
N = number of subjects with samples for neutralisation assay 
n/% = number of subjects with neutralisation assay with titres above 1:10 
Group 1: 106 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 2: 107 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 3: 108 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 4: 108 TCID50, intramuscular in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 5: 108 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects previously vaccinated against smallpox 
The ELISPOT data were generated using lysed MVA-infected CEF cells as the stimulating antigen 
and fixed numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ cells. The pattern of results (see below) was not entirely 
consistent  with  that  for  humoral  immunity,  in  particular  with  regard  to  Group  1  in  which  one 
subject  had  unexpected  results  over  time.  The  study  report  comments  on  high  inter-subject 
variability  and  variable  sample  availability  at  different  time  points.  Nevertheless,  means 
demonstrated  the  effect  of  two  vs.  a  single  dose  and  Group  5  showed  a  robust  response  to  a 
single dose. 
Rates for T-cell-responses above 50 SFU/106 cells were higher after the second dose in Groups 
1-4 and in the highest dose group the rates were comparable between routes of administration.   
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 35/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Summary statistics for T-Cell response (ELISPOT) for subjects of the completers sample 
(N=84) 
Group 1: 106 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 2: 107 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 3: 108 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 4: 108 TCID50, intramuscular in subjects not vaccinated against smallpox 
Group 5: 108 TCID50, subcutaneous in subjects previously vaccinated against smallpox 
N = number of subjects with samples for T-cell immune response 
The follow-up portion of this study reported data from 10-18 subjects per group at Year 1 and 7-
16 per group at Year 2. The ELISA data showed decreasing seropositivity rates over time except 
for  those  who  received  the  lowest  dose  (Group  1),  who  seemed  to  have  comparable 
seropositivity  rates  at  Week  20  (33.3%)  and  at  the  follow-up  visits  (28.6%  and  27.3%).  The 
seropositive  rate  for  Group  5  subjects  decreased  slightly  from  Week  20  (100%)  to  81.3%  at 
week 104. 
Taking  into  account  the  safety  profiles  of  the  various  doses  the  applicant  concluded  that  both 
routes of administration and the middle and highest doses tested merited further evaluation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 36/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
POX-MVA-004 
The primary objective of this monocentric study was to identify a dose of MVA-BN considered to 
have an optimal immunogenicity and reactogenicity profile by evaluating three doses in a double-
blind, randomised and parallel group study. Subjects were healthy males and females aged 18-
30  years  with  no  prior  vaccination  against  smallpox.  The  planned  sample  size  was  165  (55 
subjects  per  Group)  to  achieve  150  subjects  in  the  fully  evaluable  datasets  for  the 
immunogenicity evaluations.  
Follow-up  was  initially  planned  to  week  12.  The  follow-up  was  extended  to  year  2  and  a 
supplementary study report provides limited data on seropositivity rates over time. 
Subjects  received  two  injections  of  MVA-BN  with  a  4-week  interval  at  one  of  three  doses  as 
follows: 
Group 1: dose 2 x 107 TCID50, subcutaneous 
Group 2: dose 5 x 107 TCID50, subcutaneous 
Group 3: dose 1 x 108 TCID50, subcutaneous 
A  single  lot  of  early  process  MVA-BN  was  supplied  in  freeze-dried  form  to  be  reconstituted  in 
sterile water and then diluted in specific vaccine diluent (Tris/saline, pH 7.4) so that the required 
TCID50 dose could be administered in 0.5 ml volumes.  
In  this  study  the  cut-off  for  ELISA  seropositivity  was  at  1:50.  The  results  for  subjects 
seronegative  at  day  0  (only  one  subject  in  the  ITT  population  was  seropositive  at  D0)  showed 
increments in seropositivity rates and GMTs with the second dose in all three groups. The GMTs 
on each of D28, D42 and D84 were highest in the 1x108 TCID50 group. 
Table 5 PP Population: ELISA specific total IgG antibody titer to MVA: Seroconversion rates, 
by Visit - Frequency table 
Group 1: 2x107 TCID50 / Group 2: 5x107 TCID50 / Group 3: 1x108 TCID50; seropositive: a titer above or at the assay cut-
off value of 1:50; seronegative: a titer below the assay cut-off value of 1:50. 
N = total Number of subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 37/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 PP Population: ELISA specific total IgG antibody titer to MVA: Descriptive Statistics 
including GMT and 95% Confidence Interval, by Visit 
Group 1: 2 x107 TCID50 / Group 2: 5x107 TCID50 / Group 3: 1x108 TCID50; 
CL: Confidence Limit: CV: Coefficient of Variation 
N = Total Number of Subjects 
All  subjects  with  PRNT  data  were  seronegative  pre-vaccination.  In  the  PP  population  the 
maximum seropositivity rate and the highest GMT after two doses occurred in the highest TCID50 
group. The rates and GMTs showed rapid waning from D42 to D84 (from weeks 6-12 on study). 
Table  7  PP  Population:  PRNT  specific  antibody  titer  to  MVA:  Seroconversion  rates,  by  Visit  - 
Frequency table 
Group  1:  2x107  TCID50  /  Group  2:  5x107  TCID50  /  Group  3:  1x108  TCID50  seropositive:  a  titer  above  the  assay  cut–off 
value of 1:20; seronegative: a titer below the assay cut–off value of 1:20. 
N = Number of subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 38/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 PP Population: PRNT specific antibody titer to MVA: Descriptive Statistics including GMT 
and 95% Confidence Interval, by Visit 
Group 1: 2x107 TCID50 / Group 2: 5x107 TCID50 / Group 3: 1x108 TCID50; 
CL: Confidence Limit, CV: Coefficients of Variation 
N = Total Number of Subjects 
The  CTL  response  was  assessed  in  subsets  by  measuring  IFN-producing  cells  by  intracellular 
cytokine  staining  (ICS).  It  is  not  clear  from  the  study  reports  how  the  subjects/samples  were 
selected  for  determination  of  CTL  responses.  Numbers  with  data  are  small.  For  CD4+  cells  the 
peak positive response rates were <20% and there was no appreciable difference between dose 
groups.  For  CD8+  cells  there  was  a  trend  for  rates  of  positive  responses  to  increase  from  the 
lowest dose but with no appreciable difference between the two higher dose groups at D42 while 
the D84 rates showed a dose-related trend. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 39/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table  9  PP  Population:  MVA-specific  gamma  interferon  production  measured  by  ICS  (CD4+  T 
cells): Response rates by Visit-Frequency table 
Group 1: 2x107 TCID50 / Group 2: 5x107 TCID50 / Group 3: 1x108 TCID50 
Response rate positive: a titer above or at the assay cut-off value of 0.14% 
Response rate negative: a titer below the assay cut-off value of 0.14% 
N = Number of Subjects 
Table 10 PP Population: MVA-specific gamma interferon production measured by ICS (CD8+ T 
cells): response rates, by Visit-Frequency table 
Group 1: 2x107 TCID50 / Group 2: 5x107 TCID50 / Group 3: 1x108 TCID50 
Response rate positive: a titer above or at the assay cut-off value of 0.25% 
Response rate negative: a titer below the assay cut-off value of 0.25% 
N = Number of Subjects 
The applicant concluded that the immune response to MVA-BN is highly dose dependent. Results 
after the first vaccination and at day 84 indicated that the immune response elicited with the low 
doses was inferior to the highest dose administered. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 40/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
In the follow-up phase of this study all participants in the initial phase were invited to provide a 
blood sample for assay at 2 years (± 10 weeks) after the last assigned vaccine dose. Overall 74 
subjects  provided  a  sample  for  ELISA  and  PRNT  of  which  50  submitted  a  second  sample  for 
determination  of  CMI.  Numbers  per  dose  group  who  were  followed  up  were  inevitably  small, 
which limits the interpretation of the data.  
The ELISA seropositivity rates (titre at least 1:50) and GMTs at year 2 did not show a consistent 
trend  according  to  the  virus  titre  in  the  test  vaccine  received  although  the  lowest  values  did 
occur in the lowest titre group. 
Similarly,  there  was  no  consistent  trend  for  PRNT  titres  according  to  the  initial  virus  titre 
received. 
If  anything,  only  the  CMI  data  at  Year  2  suggested  an  advantage  for  the  lowest  virus  titre 
administered initially. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
Study  POX-MVA  005  –  Groups  1-3  enrolled  vaccinia-naïve  subjects  who  received  one  or  two 
doses  of  MVA-BN  and/or  placebo  in  a  double-blind  fashion.  Group  4  subjects  were  vaccinia-
experienced and received a single dose of MVA-BN in an open-label fashion. 
Study POX-MVA 023 –  The first 75 eligible subjects from each of the original Groups 1 and 2 
were to receive a single dose of MVA-BN approximately two years (-2 to +3 months) after their 
last dose. Other subjects from Groups 1, 2 and 4 were not vaccinated but all available subjects 
attended a single study visit when a sample was taken to assess immune persistence. 
Studies  POX-MVA  008  and  011  –  All  subjects  (healthy,  AD  and  HIV-infected)  received  two 
doses of MVA-BN. In study 008 all subjects were vaccinia-naïve. In study 011 both the vaccinia-
naïve and experienced subjects received two doses of MVA-BN regardless of their HIV status.  
Study 024 - Group 1 (n=60) received two doses of MVA-BN. Group 2 (n=60) received placebo 
first followed by a single dose of MVA-BN. All subjects were vaccinia-experienced. 
Assessment of the immune response 
Humoral immune response  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 41/121 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  humoral  response  was  assessed  by  ELISA  and  by  determination  of  functional  (neutralising) 
antibody titres using a plaque reduction neutralisation test (PRNT). Briefly: 
The human ELISA was initiated as a manual test and was used at a research level and for the 
testing of samples from POX-MVA-001. To allow higher throughput testing, the assay was 
transitioned to automated status, following which there were a number of reagent lot switches 
and some optimisation steps were implemented. Six validations have been performed on the 
human ELISA since 28 August 2002, since when the applicant stated that the assay was used 
under a validated status and performance characteristics have remained consistent since 2002.  
Antibody titres are calculated by linear regression and defined as the serum dilution resulting in 
OD 0.30 (end point titres). End point titres of the samples are determined by generating a 
logarithmic plot. Samples with a titre ≥8000 are repeated with a higher starting dilution. In the 
final assay, a titre of 50 (corresponding to a dilution of 1:50) is the lowest detectable antibody 
level (ACV) and when this titre is reached, the subject is considered seropositive. Titres below 
the cut-off value of the assay are assigned a value of 1 for the purpose of calculations and 
subjects are considered seronegative. 
The human PRNT was initiated and validated using IHD-J virus. The PRNT was then 
subcontracted to Focus Diagnostics (Cypress, California USA) to allow for centralised testing of 
BN and NIH samples. At this time the assay virus inoculum was transitioned to the VV Western 
Reserve (VV-WR) strain. Because Focus Diagnostics had limited laboratory capacity the PRNT 
testing was later returned to BN. During this transition BN made efforts to establish an assay 
capable of reproducing the PRNT results generated at Focus Diagnostics by validation and cross 
validation against the Focus Diagnostics results for the POX-MVA-007 study. The applicant 
reported that this exercise confirmed the comparability of titres obtained from the two assays. 
Following the return of PRNT testing to BN a number of reagent lot switches and optimisation 
steps were implemented. Four validations have been performed on the human PRNT since 28 
July 2003. The applicant reports that performance characteristics have remained consistent since 
2003.  
The BN PRNT assay was used to test for vaccinia responses in the BN and NIH studies except for 
POX-MVA-004 FU phase, -007 and -010 and HIV-NEF-004, in which the testing was performed at 
Focus Diagnostics using a non-validated assay. The antibody titre is calculated based on the 
plaque counts generated from the qualified Neural Network plaque counting package. The 
qualified Excel macro is then used to generate titres, where the number of plaques is fitted as a 
linear function of the log10 of the dilution. This linear curve is then used to determine PRNT titres 
as the point where the virus was neutralised by 50% compared to the 100% virus control (the 
100% virus control is based on the average number of plaques in 40 wells of a 48-well plate). A 
PRNT value ≥ 15 is considered seropositive. 
Antigens and viruses used in the assays 
During the procedure the applicant addressed the ability of the ELISA to bind to, and the PRNT to 
neutralise, the extracellular (EV) form of vaccinia virus as well as the mature virion (MV) form.  
The applicant also justified routine use of the VV-WR strain in the validated PRNT.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 42/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant stated that protective antibody responses have been shown to be directed against 
the viral A33 and B5 glycoproteins of the EV and against at least six viral membrane proteins of 
the MV form. MVA and VV express the same MV and EV antigens in infected cells. Microarray 
analysis of rabbit, non-human primates (NHP) and human sera showed that MVA-BN and Dryvax 
induced comparable immune responses to viral antigens; in particular, to membrane and core 
antigens (Davies et al., 2008) that are known to be involved in protection (Moss, 2007). The 
applicant provided data from EV protein specific ELISA using recombinant variola virus (VARV) 
proteins as antigens and comet reduction induced by sera from MVA-BN vaccinated subjects. 
These data showed that MVA-BN generates substantial antibody responses to EV proteins.  
Sera from MVA-immunized mice and NHP were reported to show EV-neutralizing activity in the 
comet reduction assay as well as in an EV-specific PRNT (Earl, 2007; Wyatt, 2004). The applicant 
provided data from a comet reduction assay for demonstration of EV-specific neutralizing activity 
in sera of MVA-BN vaccinated subjects.  
The VV-WR strain is a derivative of the NYCBH strain. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that MVA 
and Dryvax, including its derivatives, were more closely related to each other than to VV-WR 
(Meisinger-Henschel, 2007) but the protein sequences of MVA are 97 to 99% identical to those of 
other VV strains (Davies, 2008). The seroreactive antigens of VV-WR have been identified. With 
the exception of one antigen, the 30 genes that code for an orthologous protein showed high (≥ 
93) percentages in protein identity when VV-WR was compared to Dryvax, VV-WR to MVA and 
MVA to Dryvax.  
Comparisons between ELISA and PRNT titres 
Within the majority of study reports there were analyses reported on the correlation between the 
ELISA and PRNT titres. 
During the procedure the applicant reported on two additional NHP studies that were claimed to 
support the applicant’s position that antibody titres reported from each of PRNT and ELISA are 
correlates of protection against lethal poxvirus challenge (one study used IV and one used 
inhalation routes of infection). These studies used MVA-BN at a range of TCID50 in order to be 
able to have sufficient cases to be able to examine the correlation between TCID50 in the vaccine 
and protection as well as between antibody titres and protection. A replication-competent vaccine 
control group was not employed. 
Cell-mediated immune response (CMI) 
Evidence points to a conclusion that humoral immune responses constitute only one component 
of immunity conferring protection against smallpox and that CMI responses are also important. 
In the two clinical dose-finding studies the evaluation of CMI was limited. In the pivotal clinical 
studies an interferon-gamma ELISPOT was used to provide a quantitative determination of IFN-γ 
producing cells in cryopreserved PBMCs after stimulation with live MVA-BN.  
A vaccinia-specific signal was defined by a frequency of at least 50 Spot Forming Units (SFUs) 
per 1 x 106 PBMC after correction for background (subtraction of SFU/1 x 106 non-stimulated 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 43/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cells). In addition, any value which was not at least twice the background level was set to zero. 
The ELISPOT number of SFUs was reported as mean, median, maximum and minimum. A 
response at any post-Baseline visit was defined as either a signal in subjects that had no signal 
at Baseline or a relative increase by a factor of at least 1.7 over the Baseline value in subjects 
that had a signal at Baseline. A subject was considered a responder if responses were available 
for at least two post-Baseline visits. The number of SFUs/1 x 106 PBMC after correction for 
background was reported. 
Study Participants  
The table below summarises the features of the study populations.  
* In POX-MVA-010, different age ranges for male and female subjects were introduced to cover for the higher cardiac risk in 
male subjects. 
Some common features to the patient selection criteria were as follows: 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 44/121 
 
  
  
 
 
Main inclusion criteria  
•  Male and female (non-pregnant and with adequate contraception from 30 days pre- to 28 
days post-vaccination) subjects aged 18 - 57 years of age (005/023, 011), 18 - 40 years 
(008) or 56-80 years (024).  
• 
Laboratory tests for healthy subject groups required: troponin I WNL or defined as < 2-
fold ULN; WBC ≥ 2500/mm3 and ≤ 11,000/ mm3; ANC ≥ 1000/mm3 or WNL; negative 
urine glucose; Hb ≥ LLN; platelets 100 – 450/nL or WNL; serum creatinine WNL or CrCl 
> 60 ml/min; urine protein ≤ 30 mg/dL; total bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x ULN; normal 
AST/ALT/ALP; ECG without abnormal findings.  
Study POX-MVA 008 enrolled only vaccinia-naïve subjects and 024 enrolled only subjects with 
history of receipt of a replication-competent smallpox vaccine [VV]. In other studies the 
requirements regarding prior or no prior receipt of VV were defined by study group. Prior VV was 
to be documented and/or there was to be a typical vaccinia scar. A minimum time elapsed since 
last VV was not specified in study 011. In 005 it was specified that prior VV was to have been 
given at least 5 years ago and in 024 at least 10 years ago. 
Other study-specific inclusion criteria by study and/or group were applicable as follows: 
Study POX-MVA 008 – Vaccinia-naïve subjects with diagnosed atopic dermatitis (AD) were to 
have a history of or currently active AD (defined as SCORAD] ≤ 30 (Kunz et al., 1997).  
The study report states that currently active AD included relapsing forms of AD, also when 
subjects were enrolled during inflammation-free intervals.  
Calcineurin inhibitor use was restricted to 10 g/week of tacrolimus (0.1% ointment) or 
pimecrolimus (1% cream) on up to 25% of the face.  
Low dose topical cortisone was not to exceed 30 g/week of an intermediate potency (class IV) 
topical steroid (or equivalent) applied to ≤ 10% of total body surface. 
Study POX-MVA 011 – Subjects were enrolled into groups according to the following additional 
eligibility criteria: 
Group 1: healthy subjects with and without previous VV; after amendment #3 only vaccinia-
naïve subjects were eligible. 
HIV-infected subjects: 
Group 2a: CD4 350 – 500 cells/μl with and without a history of VV  
Group 2b: CD4 200 – 750 cells/μl without a history of VV  
Group 3: CD4 200 – 750 cells/μl with a history of VV 
In Groups 2 (a, b) and 3: 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 45/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  HIV-1 infection was to be documented by ELISA and confirmed by Western blot. Also 
acceptable were positive PCR for HIV-1 DNA, HIV-1 culture, HIV-1 antigen, plasma HIV-1 
RNA or a second antibody test other than ELISA.  
•  Subjects were to have been on stable antiretroviral therapy (ARV) for > 6 months with a 
sustained response at < 400 copies/ml or not on ARV for at least 8 weeks prior to entry 
provided that they had ≤ 50,000 copies/ml and CD4 ≥ 350 cells/μl or ≤ 10,000 
copies/ml and CD4 < 350 cells/μl.  
•  HIV-infected subjects also had to have: Hb ≥ 9.0 g/dl; platelets ≥ 100,000/mm3; normal 
serum glucose; CrCl > 60 ml/min; ≤ +1 proteinuria; total bilirubin ≤ 2 x ULN (unless due 
to ARV); AST, ALT and ALP all ≤ 2.5 x ULN. 
Study POX-MVA 023 – Subject from Groups 1, 2 or 4 who had completed study 005 without 
major protocol violations were eligible for the booster phase study. 
Study POX-MVA 024 – Subjects were aged 56-80 years. The first 30 were to be aged 56-70 
years. Up to 25% of the total study population was projected to be aged 71-70 years. 
Main exclusion criteria  
• 
Pregnant or breast-feeding women, uncontrolled serious infection, history of any serious 
medical condition, history of or active autoimmune disease (except vitiligo and those on 
thyroid replacement), known or suspected impairment of immunologic function and 
history of malignancy (other than local skin). 
•  Specifically regarding cardiac risk, subjects were excluded if they had a history of 
coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, angina, congestive heart failure, 
cardiomyopathy, stroke or transient ischemic attack, uncontrolled high blood pressure or 
any other heart condition under the care of a doctor. Also, if they had an immediate 
family member who died due to ischaemic heart disease before age 50 years of if they 
had a 10% or greater risk of developing a myocardial infarction or coronary death within 
10 years. 
•  Other exclusions were history of IVDA, known allergy to egg or aminoglycoside 
(gentamicin) and any history of anaphylaxis or severe allergic reaction. 
• 
In some studies there was a specific exclusion regarding an ongoing acute infection with 
or without documented fever and ongoing tuberculosis. 
•  Any other live vaccine was precluded within 30 days prior or after study vaccination and 
any killed vaccine within 14 days prior or after study vaccination. Use of immunoglobulin 
or blood products within 3 months prior to vaccination or expected at any time during 
study participation. 
Objectives 
Study POX-MVA 005 - To compare the ELISA response between the group with history of 
smallpox vaccination (Group 4: 1 dose MVA-BN) vs. the group without history of smallpox 
vaccination (Group 1: 2 doses MVA-BN) in order to demonstrate that a single dose is sufficient as 
a booster in a previously vaccinated population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 46/121 
 
  
  
Study POX-MVA 023 - To evaluate the immune response to a booster dose of MVA-BN two 
years after completing vaccination with either one or two doses of MVA-BN in study 005. An 
important secondary objective was to compare the immune responses between subjects 
according to their initial assignment in study 005 (i.e. 1 or 2 doses of MVA-BN in the previously 
vaccinia-naïve Groups 1 and 2). 
Study POX-MVA 008 - To assess the ELISA response to MVA-BN in subjects with atopic 
dermatitis (AD) compared to healthy subjects. 
Study POX-MVA 011 - To investigate the safety of MVA-BN in HIV infected subjects with CD4 
counts ≥ 200–750 cells/μl compared to healthy subjects. 
Study POX-MVA 024 - To expand the database on safety in a vaccinia-experienced population 
56 to 80 years of age after administration of either one or two doses of MVA-BN. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Studies POX-MVA 005, 008 and 011 
The primary immunogenicity variable was the vaccinia-specific ELISA seroconversion rate.  
Seroconversion based on ELISA was defined as either: 
•  
•  
Appearance of a titre ≥ 50 for initially seronegative subjects or 
≥ 2-fold increase in titre vs. baseline for initially seropositive subjects 
The PRNT response was the secondary immunogenicity variable. Seroconversion was defined as: 
•  
or 
•  
Appearance of a titre ≥ 15 (008) or > 6 (005 and 011) in initially seronegative subjects 
≥ 2-fold increase in titre vs. baseline for initially seropositive subjects 
Depending on the study and in some cases the study group, immune responses were assessed at 
D0 (first dose of assigned treatment) and then at weeks 1 (some groups/studies), 2 and 4 (i.e. 
at 2 and 4 weeks after the first dose), 6 and 8 (i.e. at 2 and 4 weeks after the second dose, if a 
second dose was administered). The last visit was at ~6 months after the second assigned dose 
in studies 005, 008 and 011. In study 011 the footnotes to the tables state that immune 
responses were assessed only for subjects enrolled into the main phase of the study and for the 
HIV-infected vaccinia-experienced subjects. It seems this refers to 55 healthy subjects and 110 
HIV-infected subjects. 
Study POX-MVA 023 - The peak booster rate was the primary immunogenicity endpoint. This 
was defined as the individual peak response at either Visit 2, 3 or 4 (i.e. weeks 1, 2 or 4 post-
dose) given as percentage of subjects with either an appearance of antibody titers ≥ 50 in a 
vaccinia-specific ELISA (for initially seronegative subjects) or an increase of the antibody titer 
compared to the baseline titer (for subjects with a pre-existing antibodies). 
Study POX-MVA 024 - The primary endpoint was the rate of SAEs. The secondary 
immunogenicity endpoints are described as ELISA and PRNT seroconversion rates (defined using 
the same criteria applied in 008 as mentioned above) and GMTs. A “response” to the vaccine 
using a particular assay was defined as either the appearance of titres ≥ assay cut-off value for 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 47/121 
 
  
  
initially seronegative subjects or an increase in titre compared to baseline for subjects with a 
pre-existing measurable titre. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 48/121 
 
  
  
Sample size 
Study POX-MVA 005 - The study aimed to demonstrate that the Group 4 seroconversion rate 
was not worse than the Group 1 seroconversion rate using a pre-specified non-inferiority margin 
of 5%. It was anticipated that the seroconversion rate after two doses would be 98-100%. 
Assuming a significance level of 5%, a power of 80% and expected seroconversion rates of 98% 
in both groups, the required sample size was 175 subjects per group (700 subjects in total). 
Study POX-MVA 023 – The first 75 eligible subjects from each of the original Groups 1 and 2 in 
study 005 were enrolled to receive a single dose of MVA-BN. 
Study POX-MVA 008 – The sample size calculation for the main study was based on a primary 
hypothesis that the humoral immune response of the AD group was not statistically inferior vs. 
healthy subjects at Week 6 (Visit 4) using a pre-defined non-inferiority margin of 5%. Assuming 
a significance level of 5%, a power of > 80%, and an expected seroconversion rate of 99% in 
both groups (from the pilot study POX-MVA-007) the required sample size was 124 subjects per 
group and 130 were planned to account for drop outs. In the final protocol 560 individuals were 
to be enrolled. The number included 260 in the main phase [130 healthy and 130 AD subjects] 
plus 100 healthy and 200 AD subjects in the extension phase. 
It was projected that 300 subjects with diagnosed AD (enrolment was tracked to ensure that at 
least 50% had active AD rather than only history) would allow the detection of one unexpected 
AE in 100 subjects with 95% confidence in the absence of a background incidence. The number 
was increased to 330 to account for dropouts. Due to the exchange of MVA-BN lots the number 
of healthy subjects was increased to 230 so that at least 130 were vaccinated with the new lot.  
Study POX-MVA 011 – Target enrolment in the main study was 165 subjects - 55 healthy 
subjects in Group 1 and 110 HIV-infected subjects in Groups 2a/b. Target enrolment for the 
extension was 385 subjects - 35 added in Group 1, 250 added in Groups 2a/b plus enrolment of 
100 into Group 3.  
Group 1 90 provided a probability of 95% to detect SAEs with an incidence of at least 3.3%.  
Group 2a/b 360 provided a probability of 95% to detect SAEs with an incidence of at least 0.9%. 
Group 3 100 provided a probability of 95% to detect SAEs with an incidence of at least 2.7%. 
Study POX-MVA 024 - The sample size calculation was based on the primary endpoint to 
evaluate the incidence of SAEs. A sample size of 60 subjects was to provide a probability of 95% 
to detect serious ADRs with an incidence of at least 5%. 
Randomisation 
Study POX-MVA 005 – The randomisation list was provided by the CRO and was included in the 
eCRF. By entering the subject number in the eCRF, the investigator received the randomisation 
number from the eCRF system. 
Study POX-MVA 023 – There was no randomisation step. 
Study 008 - There was stratification of Group 2 subjects (AD) according to active AD vs. history 
of AD with an aim to include at least 50% with active disease.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 49/121 
 
  
  
Study POX-MVA 011 – There was no randomisation step. Groups were enrolled according to 
baseline characteristics until the pre-defined numbers were achieved. 
Study POX-MVA 024 – The method of randomisation was as for study 005. There was 
stratification of enrolment according to age groups 56 – 70 years and 71 – 80 years. 
Blinding (masking) 
Studies 005 and 024 involved double-blind designs for most or all groups.  
Studies 008, 011 and 023 were conducted in an open label fashion. 
Statistical methods 
Studies pre-specified the Full Analysis (FA) Set (FAS = all treated subjects) and the Per Protocol 
(PP) population (received all the assigned doses and had no major protocol violations). SAPs 
were provided. 
Study POX-MVA 005 - The primary hypothesis was tested based on an exact, unconditional 
test for binomial differences. In addition an exact one-sided 97.5% unconditional confidence 
interval for the difference of proportions was calculated. If the lower limit of this confidence 
interval was greater than 5% then the null hypothesis was rejected. In order to limit the overall 
type-I error to a nominal level of 5%, a hierarchical test procedure was chosen. The primary null 
hypothesis was tested on the measurements of samples collected two weeks after the last 
vaccination and, if this showed a significant result, the comparison of data at four weeks after 
vaccination was performed. The same approach was taken for analyses of the PRNT titres. 
Study POX-MVA 008 – For the test of non-inferiority if the lower limit of the exact one-sided 
97.5% unconditional CI for the difference in ELISA seroconversion rates between Group 2 and 
Group 1 at week 6 (visit 4) was greater than -5% the primary hypothesis of non-inferiority of the 
AD group with respect to the healthy group was confirmed. This inference was repeated for all 
post vaccination time points for the PPS and the subset of initially seronegative subjects (all 
subjects in the FAS with ELISA titres < 50 at baseline). 
Studies POX-MVA 011 and 024 – In these studies immunogenicity was assessed only in the 
secondary endpoints. 
Results 
Vaccinia-naïve subjects (i.e. those with no history of VV receipt) were younger than the VV-
experienced cohorts and showed very low rates of pre-vaccination seropositivity by ELISA or 
PRNT. For example, in study 005 6/545 vaccinia-naïve subjects had ELISA titres > 100 at 
baseline and 7 had PRNT50 titres > 6. Baseline seropositivity rates varied in VV-experienced 
populations. For example, in study 024 in subjects with a history of VV receipt 115/119 were 
seropositive by ELISA (>50) at baseline while 84/119 were seropositive by PRNT. However, not 
all study reports and supplemental tabulations allow for an assessment of baseline seropositivity 
rates.  
The following tabulations summarise the ELISA and PRNT data across all 13 studies, with 
separate tabulations of the initial study phase responses and the follow-up data.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 50/121 
 
  
  
Peak responses are shown i.e. highest titre based on all available time points for the initial and 
later phases.  
The tables have been divided according to the five pivotal studies described above and then the 
other studies included in the initial application. Summary observations accompany each table. 
Pivotal studies - ELISA responses in the initial study phases (M=MVA-BN dose; 
P=placebo dose)  
Note that results are shown for the FAS except for PP in POX-MVA-008. 
Table 11 Comparison of Peak Seroconversion Rate (ELISA), Peak GMT Responses (ELISA) and 
Time to Peak Values (Week 1 to Week 10) in All Studies 
•  After two doses in vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects and those with AD the peak 
seroconversion rates exceeded 90% and the GMTs were close to or higher than 500. 
•  After two doses in vaccinia-naïve HIV-infected subjects the peak seroconversion rates 
exceeded 90% but the GMTs were in the range 240-350.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 51/121 
 
  
  
 
•  After a single dose in vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects the seroconversion rate was 87% 
and the GMT was 60. 
•  After two doses in VV-experienced healthy subjects and HIV-infected subjects the 
seroconversion rate was >90% (except for 84% in 024) and the GMTs were in the range 
420-805. 
•  After a single dose in VV-experienced subjects in 005 and 024 the seroconversion rates 
were 96% and 83% and the GMTs were 569 and 606. 
•  After a single dose in MVA-BN experienced subjects (2 doses given 2 years prior to 
boosting) all subjects seroconverted and the GMT was > 1600. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 52/121 
 
  
  
Pivotal studies - PRNT responses in the initial study phases 
Table 12 Comparison of Peak Seroconversion Rate (PRNT), Peak GMT Responses (PRNT) and 
Time to Peak Values (Week 1 to Week 10) in All Studies 
•  After two doses in vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects and those with AD the peak 
seroconversion rates were 77-90% and the GMTs were in the range 22-46. 
•  After two doses in vaccinia-naïve HIV-infected subjects the peak seroconversion rates 
were from 57-69% with GMTs 12-15.  
•  After a single dose in vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects the seroconversion rate was 62% 
and the GMT was 7. 
•  After two doses in VV-experienced healthy subjects and HIV-infected subjects the 
seroconversion rates were 73-90% (73-78% for HIV-infected) and the GMTs were in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 53/121 
 
  
  
 
 
range 30-358 (30-100 for HIV-infected). In contrast to the ELISA, the PRNT data showed 
differential responses between the healthy and HIV-infected groups.  
•  After a single dose in VV-experienced subjects in 005 and 024 the seroconversion rate 
was 78% and the GMTs were 127 and 175. 
•  After a single dose in MVA-BN experienced subjects (2 doses given 2 years prior to 
boosting) >95% seroconverted while the GMT with GMTs of 81 and 125 in the groups 
primed with one and two doses of MVA-BN, respectively. 
Other studies – ELISA data from the initial phases (D=Dryvax) 
Note that the analysis population varies by study and that subject numbers per group were often 
small. 
• 
The three studies that evaluated two doses of different TCID50 in vaccinia-naïve healthy 
subjects suggested that at least 2 x 107 TCID50 should be used and showed higher (but 
variable) GMTs at 1 x 108 TCID50.  
•  A single dose at the selected TCID50 in VV-experienced subjects showed a comparable 
response to two doses in the vaccinia-naïve. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Presence of AD in vaccinia-naïve subjects did not seem to affect the responses to MVA-
BN. 
In the HIV-infected subjects two doses in the vaccinia-naïve and one dose in the VV-
experienced gave seroconversion >90% but GMTs were lower compared to 
corresponding healthy cohorts. 
In study 009 there was a protocol amendment after 20 subjects to eliminate the Dryvax 
groups. Only Groups A, B and F provide useful data (although available information on 
Dryvax is reported in the clinical assessment). The study did not support a 7-day interval 
between MVA-BN doses.  
In HIV-NEF-004 in HIV-infected subjects with a good response to ART and of mixed VV 
history the third dose of MVA-BN administered at 8 week intervals was shown to elicit a 
further increment in GMT from 193 at week 8 to 564 at week 16 and to 864 at week 24. 
Other studies – PRNT data from the initial phases 
• 
The three studies that evaluated two doses of different TCID50 in vaccinia-naïve healthy 
subjects suggested that at least 1 x 108 TCID50 should be used although even at this 
dose the seroconversion rates after two doses ranged from 71% to 100% with GMTs 
from 19 – 126.  
•  A single dose at the selected TCID50 in VV-experienced subjects showed a comparable 
response to two doses in the vaccinia-naïve completers in POX-MVA-001. A single dose in 
VV-experienced subsets in the PP population in study 010 gave seroconversion at least 
90% and higher GMTs compared to two doses in the vaccinia-naïve subjects in the same 
study.  
• 
Presence of AD in vaccinia-naïve subjects did not seem to affect the responses to MVA-
BN although GMTs were numerically lower. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 54/121 
 
  
  
• 
• 
• 
In the HIV-infected subjects two doses in the vaccinia-naïve and one dose in the VV-
experienced gave seroconversion >90% but GMTs were lower compared to 
corresponding healthy cohorts. 
In study 009, the study did not support a 7-day interval between MVA-BN doses.  
In HIV-NEF-004 in HIV-infected subjects with a good response to ART the third dose of 
MVA-BN administered at 8 week intervals was shown to elicit a further increment in GMT 
from 125 at week 8 to 403 at week 16 and to 545 at week 24. 
Antibody persistence data 
All studies in the tables above except for POX-MVA-004 and POX-MVA-001 collected GMT 
response data at approximately 6 months.  
Two studies - POX-MVA-002 and POX-MVA-001 - collected data at Year 1, while studies - POX-
MVA-001 and POX-MVA-004 - collected data at Year 2. 
POX-MVA-023 collected data pre-boost, which was at Year 2 after initial dosing in POX-MVA-005. 
These data are therefore shown as 24 months persistence below but the rates are for 
seropositivity at year 2 and not for seroconversion (despite the column heading). Please also 
note that the post-booster response data in study 023 are shown in the initial phase tables 
above.  
ELISA data up to year 2 
In the pivotal studies: 
The Month 6 data showed marked drops in seroconversion rates and in GMTs for all groups that 
were vaccinia-naïve prior to receiving two doses of MVA-BN. The pre-boost data from 023 
suggested that the drop occurred sometime within the first 6 months and then reached a 
plateau, which is compatible with the pattern observed for many other vaccines.  
The two VV-experienced groups prior to receiving a single dose of MVA-BN showed 
seroconversion rates at Month 6 of 68% and 59% with GMTs at 180 and 258. Study 024 did not 
suggest an advantage for two doses in terms of antibody persistence. The Month 24 data from 
study 005 suggested much better antibody persistence in those who were VV-experienced at 
baseline even though they received only one dose. In addition, study 023 showed that antibody 
persistence at Month 6 after a third (booster) dose of MVA-BN resulted in much higher 
seroconversion rates and GMTs compared to Month 6 after two doses of MVA-BN.   
In the other studies: 
• 
The data from studies 001 and 009 supported a conclusion that the rapid drop in ELISA 
titres occurred within the first 6 months after MVA-BN. 
• 
Studies 001 and 004 did not show a consistent trend for better antibody persistence 
according to the TCID50 delivered.  
• 
The Month 6 findings were very variable. However, the PP population in study 007 
suggested good persistence at Month 6 regardless of AD and study 010 suggested no significant 
difference between healthy and HIV-infected subsets.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 55/121 
 
  
  
• 
Study 009 pointed to a numerical advantage for two doses 28 days apart compared to 
two doses 7 days apart or a single dose. 
• 
The subgroups that were VV-experienced before receiving a single dose of MVA-BN also 
showed variable results at Month 6 and Month 12 although the picture suggested that even a 
single dose resulted in generally better antibody persistence compared to two doses in the 
previously vaccinia-naïve. 
According to the ELISA data the seroconversion rate in those who were vaccinia naïve before the 
initial two doses of MVA-BN will be < 50% at 2 years and the seropositivity rate will be < 70%. 
PRNT data up to year 2 
In the pivotal studies: 
The Month 6 data showed drops in seroconversion rates and in GMTs for all groups that were 
vaccinia-naïve prior to receiving two doses of MVA-BN. The pre-boost data from 023 suggested 
that the drop in PRNT was not confined to the initial 6-month period. 
The two VV-experienced groups prior to receiving a single dose of MVA-BN showed 
seroconversion rates at weeks 30 and 35 of 64% and 41% with GMTs at 106 and 28 at these 
respective time points. Study 024 did not suggest a significant advantage for two doses in terms 
of antibody persistence. The Month 24 data from study 005 suggested better antibody 
persistence in terms of GMTs but not seroconversion rates after a single dose in VV-experienced 
compared to two doses in vaccinia-naïve.  
Study 023 showed that antibody persistence at Month 6 after a third (booster) dose of MVA-BN 
resulted in higher seroconversion rates and GMTs compared to Month 6 after two doses of MVA-
BN.   
In the other studies: 
• 
The data from study 001 at the selected dose suggested little change in PRNT beyond 
month 12.  
• 
Study 001 (Groups 1-3) and study 004 suggested a trend for better antibody persistence 
according to the TCID50 delivered.  
• 
The Month 6 findings were variable. However, the PP population in study 007 suggested 
comparable persistence at Month 6 regardless of AD. 
• 
Study 010 suggested lesser antibody persistence in the HIV-infected vs. healthy vaccinia-
naïve groups and a lower GMT for the HIV-infected vs. healthy VV-experienced groups.  
• 
Study 009 did not point to a convincing benefit for two doses 28 days apart compared to 
two doses 7 days apart but two doses appeared better than a single dose. 
• 
The subgroups that were VV-experienced before receiving a single dose of MVA-BN also 
showed variable results at Month 6 and Month 12 but study 001 suggested that even a single 
dose resulted in generally better antibody persistence compared to two doses in the previously 
vaccinia-naïve. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 56/121 
 
  
  
According to the PRNT data the seroconversion rate in those who were vaccinia naïve before the 
initial two doses of MVA-BN and in those who were VV-experienced before a single dose of MVA-
BN will be <50% at 2 years. 
Additional data on dose and formulation 
During the procedure the applicant provided preliminary data from two NIH-sponsored studies as 
follows: 
POX-MVA-029 directly compared the freeze-dried formulation of MVA-BN (lot 130303; as used 
in POX-MVA-002) to the liquid frozen formulation (final commercial scale process). The 
comparison was to be based on the GMTs derived from individual peak PRNTs following 2 doses 
of 1 x 108 TCID50 administered at Day 0 and 28 as liquid frozen and as freeze-dried MVA-BN. 
Based on the data generated using the applicant’s ELISA and PRNT assays and on the pre-
defined acceptance margin of ≤2.0-fold difference in GMTs it was concluded that non-inferiority 
was demonstrated. However, both the applicant’s and the SLU assays showed numerically higher 
GMTs with lyophilised vaccine and the 95% CI did not overlap at several time points. 
POX-MVA-028 compared a single high dose of MVA-BN with the standard 2-dose regimen using 
2 lots - 2x108 TCID50/mL (for standard dose) and 5x108 TCID50/mL (for high dose).  
The SLU ELISA gave maximal seroconversion rates around 50% after a single dose but 96% 
after two standard doses and proportions with positive titres (>50) closely matched these rates. 
The GMTs showed a marked increase after the second standard dose. In contrast, the BN ELISA 
showed that all subjects seroconverted after a single high dose but the GMTs showed a clear 
difference between groups after the second standard dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 57/121 
 
  
  
Table 13 BN ELISA – ITT population – Summary of geometric mean titers 
* First vaccination, ** Second vaccination 
The SLU PRNT GMTs showed the differential effect of the second standard dose but there was no 
substantial difference by Day 208. Proportions with positive titres (at least 1:20) showed an early 
advantage for the high dose but there was a benefit from the second dose. However, by Day 208 
there was no substantial difference. As in POX-MVA-029 the GMTs obtained with the BN PRNT 
were notably lower vs. the SLU PRNT. Nevertheless, the patterns were comparable with the SLU 
data and both assays showed no substantial difference between dose groups at Day 208. 
Table 14 SLU PRNT - ITT population – Summary of geometric mean titers 
* First vaccination, ** Second vaccination 
Proportions with titres at least 1:15 showed augmentation after the second standard dose but 
there was no appreciable difference by Day 208. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 58/121 
 
  
  
 
 
It was concluded that vaccination with a single high dose produces higher titres more rapidly 
than a single standard dose but the titres do not reach the same magnitude as after the second 
standard dose. Based on the median time to seroconversion, use of a single high dose vaccine 
may be an alternative to a 2-dose vaccine series during a post-event emergency and may 
warrant further study.  
CMI data 
The results of the non-clinical efficacy studies pointed to the importance of both humoral and 
cell-mediated immunity. The following is a brief summary of the data from some of the clinical 
studies: 
In the dose-finding study POX-MVA-001 ELISPOT data were generated using lysed MVA-
infected CEF cells as the stimulating antigen and fixed numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ cells. The 
pattern of results was not entirely consistent with that for humoral immunity. The study report 
comments on high inter-subject variability and variable sample availability at different time 
points. Nevertheless, means demonstrated the effect of two vs. a single dose and the VV-
experienced group showed a robust response to a single dose.  
Rates for T-cell-responses above 50 SFU/106 cells were higher after the second dose in the 
previously vaccinia-naïve subjects.  
In the dose-finding study POX-MVA-004 the CTL response was assessed in subsets by 
measuring IFN-producing cells by intracellular cytokine staining (ICS). It is not clear from the 
study reports how the subjects/samples were selected for determination of CTL responses. 
Numbers with data are small. For CD4+ cells the peak positive response rates were < 20% and 
there was no appreciable difference between dose groups. For CD8+ cells there was a trend for 
rates of positive responses to increase from the lowest dose but with no appreciable difference 
between the two higher dose groups at D42 while the D84 rates showed a dose-related trend. 
In the pivotal studies (note that CMI data were not reported for 005/023 and 024): 
In POX-MVA-008 a lower percentage in the healthy group (28.3%) showed a vaccinia-specific 
ELISPOT response at Week 1 vs. the AD group (47.9%) but the 95% CI overlapped. Response 
rates increased to 56.5% and 63.4% at Week 6. 
Table 15 Vaccinia-specific ELISPOT: IFN-γ producing cells – response rates (EAS, N=117) 
Healthy (=N=46) 
Diagnosed AD (N=71) 
Week 
(Visit) 
Week 
1(Visit 2) 
Week 
6(Visit 4) 
n 
46 
46 
R 
13 
26 
% 
28.3 
56.5 
95% CI 
(%) 
(16.0, 
43.5) 
(41.1, 
71.1) 
n 
71 
71 
R 
34 
45 
% 
47.9 
63.4 
95% CI 
(%) 
(35.9), 
60.1) 
(51.1, 
74.5) 
In addition, cells from 67% of healthy and 78% of AD subjects responded at least once to 
stimulation in the vaccinia-specific ELISPOT.  
In POX-MVA-011, 20 - 27% of vaccinia-naïve healthy (n=24) and HIV-infected (n=34) subjects 
in the PP population with data showed a vaccinia-specific ELISPOT response at weeks 1 and 4. 
Response rates increased to 30% and 40% in respective groups at week 6. In the FAS, ELISPOT 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 59/121 
 
  
  
 
data were available for 40 vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects and 75 vaccinia-naïve HIV-infected 
subjects. Throughout the study the response rates were not significantly different between 
vaccinia-naïve healthy and overall HIV-infected subjects. The highest response rates were 
generally seen at week 6.  
In the VV-experienced PP population there were data from up to 71 HIV-infected subjects. The 
vaccinia-specific ELISPOT response rate in HIV-infected subjects increased from 27% of 71 
subjects at week 1 to 35% of 68 subjects at week 4. Only 12 subjects were followed to week 32, 
when 3 were still classified as responders. In the FAS, ELISPOT data were available for 5 healthy 
and up to 96 HIV-infected subjects. The peak responder rate (33%) was again observed at week 
4. 
Comparisons between MVA-BN and replication-competent VV vaccines  
Retrospective analysis of sera obtained from MVA-BN and NIH studies 
The application included ELISA and PRNT data generated on testing sera obtained from subjects 
who had received MVA-BN, Dryvax (Wyeth; NYBH strain, freeze-dried; manufactured 1978) or 
Wetvax (Sanofi-Pasteur; NYBH strain, liquid; manufactured 1958). Antibody levels in sera from 
251 vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects that received a single dose of Dryvax or Wetvax during five 
NIH/NIAID-sponsored clinical studies (2000-2002) were compared to those in sera obtained from 
419 vaccinia-naïve subjects during three MVA-BN studies POX-MVA-005, 008 and 011) that used 
commercial scale liquid frozen vaccine and were conducted between 2006-2010. Subjects were 
healthy, young and vaccinia-naïve of both genders. Vaccinees in each set of studies received a 
range of lots (some data were missing).  
All samples were tested from July 20 2006 to May 20 2010 at the applicant’s laboratories. The 
highest antibody titres measured in samples obtained on day 28 or 56 from subjects who 
received Dryvax or Wetvax and on day 42 or 56 for subjects who received MVA-BN were used for 
the comparisons between vaccines. Data were provided to support stability of antibody titres 
during storage at -70°C 
The ELISA data for Dryvax and Wetvax demonstrated a 15-26% decline in GMT from Day 28 to 
56 but 190 subjects had a peak ELISA titre on day 28, 47 on day 56 and 14 had the same titre 
on both days.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 60/121 
 
  
  
Table 16 ELISA Titer by Study Dryvax/Wetvax Immunised Subjects 
Trial ID 
N 
Total Antibody Titer (GMT) 
Individual peak 
Bas
elin
e 
3 
3 
1 
2 
2 
Day 28 
Day 56 
Individual 
peak 
95% CI 
lower limit 
CV (%) 
95% CI 
upper 
limit 
265 
261 
203 
384 
375 
NA 
194 
NA 
327 
297 
265 
270 
203 
405 
377 
112 
206 
137 
349 
342 
631 
353 
302 
469 
415 
30 
12 
10 
12 
9 
DMID# 00-005 
17 
DMID#01-632 
26 
DMID#01-651 
10 
DMID#02-009 
86 
DMID#02-054 
112 
The peak ELISA titre was observed 2 weeks post-dose 2 of MVA-BN (i.e. Day 42). There were 
364 (86.9%) with a peak ELISA response on day 42, 28 (6.7%) on day 56 and 21 (5.0%) had 
the same titre on both days. The CV% for the peak ELISA titres ranged from 9-30% across the 
NIH and MVA-BN studies. 
Table 17 Elisa Titer by Study Imvamune Immunised Subjects 
Trial ID 
N 
Total Antibody Titer (GMT) 
Individual peak 
Baseline  Day 42 
Day 56 
Individual 
peak 
95% CI 
lower limit 
CV (%) 
95% CI 
upper 
limit 
POX-MVA 005 
168 
DMID#05-0128 
POX-MVA 008 
194 
DMID#05-0133 
POX-MVA 011 
57 
DMID#05-0132 
1 
1 
2 
492 
327 
515 
456 
581 
13 
499 
298 
511 
428 
611 
20 
526 
313 
541 
405 
721 
17 
There were slightly higher GMTs after MVA-BN vs. those resulting from Dryvax and Wetvax. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 61/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on individual peak data the ELISA response to MVA-BN was concluded to be non-inferior 
vs. responses to the NYBH vaccines. 
Table 18 Summary of the ELISA Titer by Treatment 
Vaccine 
N 
Individual peak 
GMT 
CV (%) 
95% CI 
lower limit 
95% CI 
upper limit 
Imvamune 
419 
Dryvax/Wetvax 
251 
517 
356 
17 
13 
466 
324 
573 
390 
Ratio of 
GMTs 
(95% CI) 
Pr > 1 
1,453 
< 0.0001 
(1,250, 
1,690) 
PRNT data showed significant variability in the timing of the individual peak neutralising 
antibody response. For Dryvax and Wetvax 109 (43.3%) had a peak PRNT titre on day 28, 113 
(45.0%) on day 56 and 29 (11.6%) had the same titre on both days.  
In MVA-BN studies the peak response was on day 42 for 224 (53.5%) subjects, day 56 for 96 
(22.9%) and the same titre occurred on both days for 93 (22.2%). The CV% ranged from 42 to 
131%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 62/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 19 PRNT Titer by Study Dryvax/Wetvax Immunised Subjects 
Trial ID 
N 
Total Antibody Titer (GMT) 
Individual peak 
Baseline 
Day 28 
Day 56 
Individual 
peak 
95% CI 
lower limit 
CV (%) 
95% CI 
upper 
limit 
DMID# 00-
005 
DMID#01-
632 
DMID#01-
651 
DMID#02-
009 
DMID#02-
054 
17 
26 
10 
86 
112 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
19 
17 
5 
29 
8 
NA 
15 
NA 
35 
12 
19 
45 
5 
58 
23 
6 
21 
1 
40 
16 
55 
96 
19 
83 
31 
72 
50 
131 
42 
54 
Table 20 PRNT Titer by Study Imvamune Immunised Subjects 
Trial ID 
N 
Total Antibody Titer (GMT) 
Individual peak 
Baseline 
Day 42 
Day 56 
Individual 
peak 
95% CI 
lower limit 
CV (%) 
95% CI 
upper 
limit 
168 
1 
45 
33 
82 
67 
100 
30 
194 
1 
35 
16 
39 
30 
50 
50 
57 
1 
21 
15 
36 
24 
56 
45 
POX-MVA 
005 
DMID#05-
0128 
POX-MVA 
008 
DMID#05-
0133 
POX-MVA 
011 
DMID#05-
0132 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 63/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The peak GMT was 31 for 251 subjects vaccinated with Dryvax or Wetvax vs. 52 for the 419 that 
received MVA-BN. The applicant concluded that the neutralising antibody response to MVA-BN 
was non-inferior vs. that to the NYBH strain vaccines.  
Table 21 PRNT Titer by Treatment 
Vaccine 
N 
Individual peak 
Peak GMT 
Peak CV 
(%) 
95% CI 
lower limit 
95% CI 
upper limit 
Imvamune 
419 
Dryvax/Wetvax 
251 
52 
31 
42 
54 
44 
25 
61 
39 
Ratio of 
GMTs 
(95% CI) 
Pr > 1 
1,681 
< 0.0001 
(1,282, 
2,204) 
Subsequently, the applicant added to the analyses of these data by repeating the assessments of 
non-inferiority using each of a fixed effect model, mixed effect model and marginal model to 
account for study and subject variability and missing samples. These analyses were adjusted for 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 64/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
potential baseline differences to account for possible bias from different study populations and 
individual peak titres were imputed to account for missing samples. All analyses led to the same 
interpretation of results that humoral immune responses induced by MVA-BN are non-inferior to 
those induced by Dryvax/Wetvax. The analyses were applied to ELISA and neutralising antibody 
datasets.  
In response to questions regarding the timing of sampling and possibility that the peak 
responses to Dryvax/Wetvax had not actually been captured the applicant stated that the 
humoral immune response to replication-competent vaccine develops about 10 days after 
scarification, with almost all vaccinees having seroconverted by day 14 and neutralizing antibody 
titers being significantly developed by day 16 (McCarthy 1958; Henderson 1999). NIH sponsored 
clinical trials performed since 2000 with remaining stocks of Dryvax applied sample time points 
at week 4 (day 28), while some of the studies additionally included immunogenicity assessments 
at week 8 (day 56). The applicant asserted that the peak response to Dryvax is observed at day 
28 after vaccination and that this is supported by the lower GMTs at day 56 compared to the day 
28 time point reported by Belshe 2004 but in fact Belshe et al. obtained samples only at day 28 
and Day 56. 
POX-MVA-002 
This study was sponsored by NIH under the number DMID 02-017. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The CDC published (Damon et al., 2009) on the variola neutralisation titres following 
administration of MVA-BN and Dryvax in this study (see below). 
The original CSR, including the long term follow-up report, were prepared by the NIH and 
included ELISA, PRNT and ELISPOT data.  
Three separate ELISA assays and two PRNT assays based on different poxvirus antigens 
were used but none was validated except for the BN ELISA using MVA-BN as the antigen. 
In response to a request from FDA the applicant went on to develop a validated PRNT 
using VV-WR as the test strain. Subsequently the applicant analysed the sera from POX-
MVA-002 using this validated PRNT in BN’s laboratories.   
The study was conducted during 2004-2006 in the US in 90 vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects aged 
18-32 years. Subjects (90) were randomised in a double-blind study design (with the exception 
of Group F) to one of six treatment groups, each of 15 subjects.  
There were three MVA-BN dose groups (M/M/D) as follows: 
Group A:  
MVA-BN 2x107 TCID50 SC on Days 0 and 28 
Dryvax by scarification (15 strokes bifurcated needle) on Day 112 
Group B:  
MVA-BN 5x107 TCID50 SC on Days 0 and 28 
Dryvax by scarification on Day 112 
Group C:  
MVA-BN 1x108 TCID50 SC on Days 0 and 28 
Dryvax by scarification on Day 112 
Two groups included placebo controls and two used alternative routes of administration:  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 65/121 
 
  
  
Group D (P/P/D):  
Placebo SC on Days 0 and 28 
Dryvax  by scarification on Day 112 
Group E (M/M/P): 
MVA-BN 1x108 TCID50 SC on Days 0 and 28 
Placebo by scarification on Day 112 
Group F (M/M/D): 
MVA-BN 1x108 TCID50 IM on Days 0 and 28 
Dryvax by scarification on Day 112 
All 13 subjects with no prior MVA-BN (Group D) had a “take” compared to 10/11 when Dryvax 
was given after two sc doses of MVA-BN at the selected TCID50 (Group C).  
Table 22 Summary of Clinical Take rates by Group 
Treatment group 
# Subjects 
evaluated 
Group A 2x107 Sc 
MMD 
Group B 5x107 Sc 
MMD 
Group C 1x108 Sc 
MMD 
Group D N/A SC 
PPD 
Group E 1x108 Sc 
MMD 
Group F 1x108 Sc 
MMD 
14 
13 
11 
13 
9 
12 
# with a take 
Take rate 
95% 
95% 
13 
7 
10 
13 
0 
8 
In % 
92.9 
53.8 
90.9 
100 
0.0 
Lower CI 
Upper CI 
66.1 
99.8 
25.1 
80.8 
58.7 
99.8 
75.3 
100 
0.0 
33.6 
66.7 
34.9 
90.1 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 66/121 
 
  
  
 
 
The vaccination lesion size and the time to healing (6-10 days for M/M/D vs. 14 days for P/P/D) 
were significantly reduced when Dryvax was given after MVA-BN. There were significantly larger 
diameters for erythema, induration and lesion size in the P/P/D group vs. the combined M/M/D 
groups. Based on culture of viral swabs of the vaccination site on Days 3-5 and 6-8 and any 
further visits before lesion healing, prior MVA-BN significantly reduced the post-Dryvax lesion 
viral titres at the site of scarification. There was no significant trend for lesion size or titre across 
the three MVA-BN dose groups.  
PRNT using MVA VR-1508 or Dryvax in the assay 
• 
The GMTs increased in the M/M/D groups after each dose and after Dryvax when using 
either antigen in the assay. The report states that there were significant linear dose 
response correlations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 67/121 
 
  
  
 
•  At  4  weeks  and  10  weeks  after  administration  of  Dryvax  the  GMTs  were  significantly 
lower  in  the  combined  M/M/D  groups  compared  to  the  P/P/D  group  when  Dryvax  was 
used as the antigen assay. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 68/121 
 
  
  
 
 
• 
In  contrast  the  GMTs  were  significantly  higher  at  these  time  points  in  the  combined 
M/M/D groups compared to the P/P/D group when MVA VR-1508 was used as the assay 
antigen. 
•  Using  Dryvax  as  the  assay  antigen  and  a  titre  ≥  20  to  define  seroconversion  86.7  to 
100% in the MVA-BN groups seroconverted at 2 weeks after the second dose (D42) and 
all M/M/D and P/P/D subjects seroconverted at 4 weeks after Dryvax.  
•  When MVA VR-1508 was used as the antigen all M/M/D subjects seroconverted within 2 
weeks  of  the  second  dose  (D42)  while  85%  in  the  P/P/D  group  seroconverted  4  weeks 
after Dryvax. 
•  One-year  follow-up  of  groups  D  (P/P/D)  and  E  (M/M/P)  showed  that  between  Day  140 
and  364  the  GMT  dropped  from  692  to  141  after  P/P/D  (Group  D)  and  from  39  to  18 
after M/M/P (Group E) when Dryvax was used as the assay antigen. When MVA VR-1508 
was used as the antigen the drops were from 110 to 39 and from 127 to 83 in respective 
groups.  
ELISA using MVA-BN, MVA VR-1508 or Dryvax in the assay 
•  At Day 28 there was no significant difference in GMTs among all the groups regardless of 
the  assay  antigen  but  there  was  a  difference  between  the  M/M/D  and  P/P/D  groups  at 
D42. GMTs in the P/P/D group were significantly lower vs. the combined M/M/D group at 
4 weeks after Dryvax. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 69/121 
 
  
  
 
•  Significant  linear  correlations  of  increasing  GMT  were  observed  for  increasing  MVA-BN 
doses  after  each  dose.  The  route  of  administration of  MVA-BN  (IM  or  SC)  did  not  affect 
the antibody titres. 
•  Using a cut-off of ≥ 50 to define seroconversion all M/M/D subjects had seroconverted by 
2 weeks post-dose 2 when Dryvax was used as the assay antigen with rates of 92-100% 
when MVA-BN was used as the assay antigen. In the P/P/D group 62% seroconverted at 
4 weeks post Dryvax. 
•  One-year follow-up showed no difference in GMTs (141 for Group D and 148 for Group E) 
or seroconversion rates (73% vs. 86%, respectively) when Dryvax was used as the assay 
antigen. GMTs were 66 for group D and 177 for Group E and seroconversion rates were 
82% versus 100%, respectively, when MVA was used as the assay antigen. 
ELISPOT using Dryvax as the stimulating antigen 
There were no significant differences in the GMTs between the P/P/D and M/M/D groups after 
Dryvax was given. Significant trends of higher amounts of IFN-γ secreting T cells (methodology 
not specified except for the stimulating antigen) at increasing doses of MVA-BN were observed 
on Day 28 and at 56 and 112 days after the second dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 70/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Using a cut-off of >15 spots to define a response 93 - 100% in the M/M/D groups showed T-cell 
responses after the second dose. At 4 weeks after Dryvax seroconversion rates were at least 
92% for the M/M/D groups and 100% for the P/P/D group. After 1 year, all of group E were still 
responders compared to 80% in group D. 
Re-assay using the applicant’s validated PRNT assay and using WR-VV as the assay 
antigen 
After the first dose of MVA-BN the Day 28 seroconversion rates were from 40-70%. The highest 
GMT was recorded in Group F (11). On Day 42 all except one subject in each of groups B and C 
(who took until Day 56 to seroconvert) demonstrated seroconversion. The GMTs increased after 
the second dose but there was no trend with respect to virus titre in the vaccine. 
At Day 112 seroconversion rates were 92% and 100% for the highest vaccine virus titre 
compared to 62% and 85% at the lower titres. The lowest GMT occurred in group A. All subjects 
in M/M/D and P/P/D groups seroconverted by D140 (4 weeks after Dryvax). 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 71/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trends in PRNT titres were comparable with those observed using the other (non-validated) 
assays.  
At 4 weeks after the first dose of MVA-BN the seroconversion rates (40% - 73%) were lower 
than the 100% observed after Dryvax. As shown in the figure below, for the highest dose of 
MVA-BN the GMTs were 108 (group C) and 86 (group E) on Day 42. These values were not 
significantly different from the GMT induced by Dryvax (GMT 149; Day 140).  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 72/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The  comparison  of  titres  reported  from  the  validated  ELISA  (MVA-BN  as  antigen)  and  validated 
PRNT (VV-WR antigen) showed a highly significant correlation. 
Table 23 Linear regression analysis of the PRNT and ELISA data 
Time (Day) 
42(2 weeks after 2nd Imvamune vaccination 
56(4 weeks after 2nd Imvamune vaccination 
112(12 weeks after 2nd Imvamune vaccination 
140(4 weeks after Dryvax vaccination 
184(10 weeks after Dryvax vaccination 
p-value 
0.004 
0.003 
0.0008 
0.0002 
1.7E-09 
PRNT against variola virus 
The CDC paper from Damon et al. 2009 (Evaluation of smallpox vaccines using variola 
neutralization) reports PRNT titres against variola strain Solaimen. 
The paper describes results on testing 106 sera from 53 subjects in DMID02-017 (i.e. POX-MVA-
002) including 14 who received Dryvax (sera obtained 28-30 days post-dose) plus 26 and 15 
who received two doses 28 days apart of SC or IM MVA-BN (sera obtained 14 days after the 
second dose) at the selected TCID50. The assessor presumes that the 26 sera tested from 
subjects who received SC MVA-BN comprised Groups C+E, which conflicts with the applicant’s 
summary description that refers only to Group C in this regard. VIG was used as a positive 
control. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 73/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is stated that the sera obtained represented peak response sera. However, as mentioned 
above, humoral antibody was measured on D0 and at D14 and D28 after each dose of MVA-BN, 
immediately prior to administration of Dryvax and then at D28 and D70 after Dryvax. These data 
do not substantiate a claim that the comparison between vaccines represents a comparison of 
peak titres. 
It appears that four technicians performed the assays but it is not stated how the four sets of 
results were used to derive the reported data. It is stated that non-parametric statistics were 
used for comparisons between groups because the data were not normally distributed. 
Percentage plaque reductions were compared between groups for each dilution using a Wilcoxon 
rank-sum test. Linear regression was applied to a log transformation of serum dilutions per 
individual to facilitate linear interpolation of their actual PRNT60 and PRNT90 titres. PRNT60 
beyond 1:1280 was extrapolated based on 6 dilution points.  
Subjects in this study (n=90) were to have been vaccinia-naïve and aged 18-32 years. However, 
the pre-vaccination PRNT60 GMTs using this assay ranged from 15-28 while PRNT90 GMTs were 
from 3-6 (see Table below).  
Table 24 Number of persons achieving 60 and 90% neutralisation at each dilution by vaccine 
treatment group and GMTs using log linear transformation for 60 and 90% neutralisation at pre 
and post-vaccination by vaccine group 
Vaccine 
treatment 
Dilution 
N 
1:40 
1:80 
1:160 
1:320 
1:640 
1:1280 
> 1:1280 
Number (%) persons achieving 60 % neutralisation 
MVA SC 
Dryvax 
MVA IM 
26 
12 
15 
26(100) 
12(100) 
15(100) 
25(96.2)  23(88.5)  20(76.9)  11(42.3) 
5(41.6) 
12(100) 
6(40) 
15 
(100.0) 
10(83.3) 
7(58.3) 
14(93.3)  10(66.7) 
10(38.5) 
3(25) 
4(26.7) 
9(34.6) 
2(16.7) 
4(26.7) 
Number (%) persons achieving 90 % neutralisation 
MVA SC 
Dryvax 
MVA IM 
Vaccine 
treatment 
N 
26 
12 
15 
18(69.2)  11(42.3) 
2(16.7) 
4(33.3) 
11(73.3) 
8(55.3) 
Pre-vaccination 
8(30.8) 
1(8.3) 
1(6.7) 
4(15.4) 
0(0) 
1(6.7) 
1(3.8) 
0(0) 
0(0) 
Post-vaccination 
0(0) 
0(0) 
0(0) 
0(0) 
0(0) 
0(0) 
GMT 
95% 
LCL 
95% 
UCL 
GMT 
95% 
LCL 
95% 
UCL 
GMTs at 60% neutralisation 
MVA SC 
Dryvax 
MVA IM 
25 
10 
14 
GMTs at 90% neutralisation 
MVA SC 
Dryvax 
MVA IM 
16 
12 
15 
27.83 
27.00 
15.34 
4.15 
5.96 
2.96 
16.96 
14.70 
9.94 
3.15 
3.79 
2.13 
46.68 
49.61 
23.66 
5.46 
9.39 
4.13 
1735.62 
688.23 
1617.50 
551.59 
247.82 
289.82 
5461.28 
1915.95 
9027.28 
79.23 
43.81 
73.60 
55.77 
29.34 
47.82 
112.56 
65.41 
113.30 
The footnote of the table below shows that four subjects had PRNT60 titres of at least 1:40 prior 
to vaccination and were not included in the analysis. After exclusion, the authors state that there 
was no difference between vaccines in proportions with 4-fold and 8-fold increases in PRNT60 
titres but there was a difference for the PRNT90 titres as shown below.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 74/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At dilutions > 1:40 all sera neutralised > 60% of the variola virus used per neutralisation. The 
Table below shows that there was a difference between groups that reached significance only at 
the 1:40 dilutions (p = 0.02).  
Table 25 Aggregate mean percentage plaque reductions at each dilution level by vaccine 
treatment group 
Vaccine 
N 
treatment 
MVA SC 
Dryvax 
MVA IM 
26 
12 
15 
Dilution 
1:40 
90.86 
86.77 
91.10 
1:80 
85.63 
82.23 
86.61 
1:160 
78.47 
74.68 
78.79 
1:320 
69.53 
64.58 
71.34 
1:640 
59.98 
54.99 
60.09 
1:1280 
52.42 
44.05 
47.26 
The authors concluded that the data suggest the vaccines (2 doses MVA-BN; one dose Dryvax) 
elicited at least comparable variola neutralising antibody.  
The applicant was requested to provide the vaccinia PRNT data and ELISA data for individual 
subjects for whom variola neutralisation titres were available. It was not possible to use the 
same method for the determination of neutralization titres for all samples for the two assays.  
The CDC used a fixed series of dilutions for pre- (1:10 - 1:40) and post-immunisation sera (1:40 
- 1:1,280). Due to the limitations imposed re use of variola, repeat testing was not performed. 
Instead extrapolations were used for the determination of 60% and 90% PRNT titres for sera 
that did not provide plaque counts that allowed direct quantitation of titres.  
BN routinely uses a linear regression method for the determination of 50% PRNT titres and does 
not extrapolate titres for subjects not achieving 50% plaque counts; only direct quantitation is 
allowed.  
For the purpose of the requested analysis, BN calculated 50% PRNT titres from the CDC variola 
PRNT raw data using the "closest dilution method". All available quantitative results (log10 titres) 
obtained from the variola PRNT were subjected to a correlation analysis against the 
corresponding results from the BN PRNT and ELISA and r2 value, slope and intercept were 
calculated. However, due to the limitations imposed by the variola PRNT (lack of repeat testing at 
alternative specimen dilutions), quantitative PRNT titres could not be obtained from all samples. 
Some samples resulted in discrete PRNT titres (e.g. < 10, > 40 and > 1,280) and these data 
could not be used in the correlation analysis, which was confined to the numbers shown in Table 
26.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 75/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26 Pre- and post-vaccination sera used for the correlation analysis 
Group 
Treatment 
Post-vaccination 
C 
D 
E 
F 
All groups 
combined 
SC MVA MVA 
Dryvax 
SC Placebo Placebo 
Dryvax 
SC MVA MVA 
Placebo 
IM MVA MVA 
Dryvax 
NA 
D42, 2 weeks post 
2nd MVA 
D140, 28 d-30 
days post Dryvax 
D42, 2 weeks post 
2nd MVA 
D42, 2 weeks post 
2nd MVA 
D42, 2 weeks post 
2nd MVA or 28-20 
days post Dryvax 
Number of pre-
vaccination sera 
8 
Number of post-
vaccination sera 
10 
8 
5 
9 
30 
9 
5 
9 
33 
The Figure below shows the pooled results from all treatment groups and all time points for 
which quantitative variola PRNT titres were available. A Spearman Rank Order Correlation 
analysis was performed on the CDC variola PRNT titres vs. the BN PRNT titres (n=63) resulting in 
a correlation coefficient of 0.82 and a p-value <0.0001. 
A correlation analysis was also performed separating the individual treatment groups. Although 
the number of results was limited, the r2 values obtained from the MVA-BN and Dryvax groups 
were > 0.73. The slopes and intercepts were very similar for the two groups, indicating that the 
correlation between the two PRNTs was not dependent upon the vaccine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 76/121 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
Table 27 Correlation analysis – BN PRNT vs variola PRNT 
R2 
Treatment 
Group 
Slope 
Intercept 
Number of 
sera (n) 
28 
17 
18 
C+E 
D 
F 
SC Imvanex 
Dryvax 
IM Imvanex 
0.8113 
0.8113 
0.7332 
1.2227 
1.4027 
0.9831 
-1.267 
-1.4950 
-1.0209 
A Spearman Rank Order Correlation analysis between the CDC variola PRNT titres vs. the BN 
ELISA titres (n=63) resulted in a correlation coefficient of 0.85 and a p-value <0.0001.  
Table 28 showed r2 values > 0.79 for results obtained from MVA-BN and Dryvax subjects and 
the slopes and intercepts were very similar, indicating that the correlation between assays was 
not dependent upon the vaccine. 
Table 28 Correlation analysis – BN ELISA vs. variola PRNT 
R2 
Treatment 
Group 
Slope 
Intercept 
Number of 
sera (n) 
28 
17 
18 
C+E 
D 
F 
SC Imvanex 
Dryvax 
IM Imvanex 
0.8269 
0.7945 
0.8847 
1.8564 
1.4963 
1.7480 
-1.6764 
-1.5181 
-1.6038 
This additional analysis concerned 63 sera, which is less than the 106 sera reported on by 
Damon et al. 2009. The pre-vaccination PRNT60 GMTs using the CDC’s assay ranged from 15-28 
while PRNT90 GMTs were from 3-6 although subjects in POX-MVA-002 were to have been 
vaccinia-naïve and aged 18-32 years. While there were several issues regarding how Damon and 
co-workers analysed the results the authors pointed out that there was no difference between 
vaccines in proportions with 4-fold and 8-fold increases in PRNT60 titres but there was a 
difference for the PRNT90 titres. 
It can be observed that for the most part individual subjects that showed increments in titres 
post-vaccination did so whether the CDC or BN PRNT or BN ELISA assay was applied. However, 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 77/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
some subjects in both the MVA-BN and the Dryvax groups showed quite large differences 
between assay results.  
POX-MVA-009 
The study was conducted during 2007-2009 at 7 US study sites. The initial study protocol was 
amended after 20 subjects had been enrolled (8 received Dryvax not following or with MVA-BN; 
antibody response data are included in the figures below) due to FDA concern regarding the use 
of Dryvax. The final protocol required that 195 vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects were to be 
randomly assigned to one of three MVA-BN dose groups as shown below.  
Sera were assayed using both ELISA and PRNT but with different methodologies at Saint Louis 
University (SLU) and in the applicant’s laboratories. Comparisons between groups were made on 
days 4, 8, 14, 28, 180 and 365 after the second assigned dose. In the 8 subjects who received 
Dryvax on Day 0 sampling was at days 4, 8, 14, 28 and then on days 180 and 365.  
PRNT performed by SLU: The comparison of GMTs showed that non-inferiority of Group A vs. B 
was not demonstrated at any of the six time points after the second dose, including day 14. The 
figure also shows GMTs in the original protocol Group C, in which 8 subjects were enrolled and 
received Dryvax on D0. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 78/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRNT performed by Bavarian Nordic: The comparison of GMTs showed that Group A was non-
inferior to Group B only on Days 4, 180 and 365 after the second assigned dose. The proportions 
with positive titres (at least 1:15) in Group B were statistically significantly greater than in Group 
A on Days 8, 14 and 28. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 79/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
ELISA performed by SLU: Based on the comparison of GMTs, Group A was non-inferior to Group 
B on Days 4, 180 and 365. The proportions with positive titres were statistically significantly 
greater in Group B vs. Group A at Days 8, 14, 28 and 180 after the second dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 80/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
ELISA performed by Bavarian Nordic 
Based on comparisons of GMTs, Group A was non-inferior to Group B on Days 4, 180 and 365. 
The proportions with a positive titre in Group B were significantly greater than in Group A on 
Days 4 and 180 after the second dose.  
IFN-γ ELISPOT performed by CTL 
The applicant stated that a second dose of MVA-BN at Day 28 compared to Day 7 provided a 
greater antibody response and the maximal number of responders with at least a 4-fold rise. CMI 
data were not provided for the Dryvax group. 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the 
present application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on 
clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Summary of Immunogenicity for trial POX-MVA-005 
A partially randomized, partially double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II non-inferiority study 
to evaluate immunogenicity and safety of one and two doses of MVA-BN (IMVANEX) smallpox 
vaccine in 18-55 year old healthy subjects 
Study identifier 
POX-MVA-005 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Partially randomised, partially double-blind, placebo-controlled  
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
 Non-inferiority 
Group 1 (blinded), vaccinia-
naïve    
8 weeks 
4 weeks 
6 months 
2 doses IMVANEX®; 4 weeks apart 
N = 183 (randomised) 
N = 183 (vaccinated) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 81/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group 2 (blinded), vaccinia-
naïve  
Group 3 (blinded), vaccinia-
naïve  
Group 4 (open label vaccinia-
experienced 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Immunogenici
ty 
Immunogenici
ty 
1st dose IMVANEX® , 2nd dose placebo; 4 
weeks apart; 
N = 184 (randomised) 
N = 181 (vaccinated) 
2 doses placebo; 4 weeks apart;  
N = 182 (randomised) 
N = 181 (vaccinated) 
1 dose IMVANEX®;  
N = 204 (randomised) 
N = 200 (vaccinated) 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by 
ELISA at the peak visit  
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by 
ELISA 4 weeks after the last vaccination 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by 
PRNT at the peak visit and 4 weeks after 
the last vaccination 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Database lock 
15-Nov-2007 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat (Full Analysis Set) 
Treatment group 
Group 1 
Group 3 
Group 4 
Number of subject 
183 
181 
200 
Peak visit ELISA SC 
 (%)  
98.9%  
3.4%  
95.5%  
95% exact confidence 
interval 
(96.0,99.9) 
(1.3, 7.3) 
(91.6, 97.9) 
Peak visit PRNT SC 
 (%) 
89.2% 
1.1% 
78.5% 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 82/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
95% exact confidence 
interval 
(83.7, 93.4) 
(0.1, 4.0) 
(72.2, 84.0) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
Peak Visit ELISA SC  
Comparison groups 
Group 4 – Group 1 
Difference SC rate (%) 
Lower limit 95% CI  
P-value (Non-inferiority) 
Comparison groups 
-3.4 % 
-7.36% 
0.2162 
Group 4 – Group 1 
Secondary endpoint 
Peak Visit PRNT SC 
Difference SC rate (%) 
Lower limit 95% CI  
P-value (Non-inferiority) 
SC = Seroconversion (defined as an at least two-fold rise in titres, or 
becoming seropositive in originally seronegative subjects) 
Non-inferiority analysis using a 5% non-inferiority margin (delta) 
-10.7 % 
  -18.18% 
0.9353 
Notes 
Analysis description 
 Other Secondary Immunogenicity analyses  
Seroconversion rates and Geometric Mean Titers were calculated at each visit for both ELISA and PRNT 
Seroconversion rates by ELISA and PRNT at each visit 
Seroconversion Rate % (95% CI) 
Week (Day) 
ELISA 
Week 0 (0) 
Week 2 (14) 
Week 4 (28) 
Week 6 (42)  
Week 8 (56) 
Up to Week 35 (245): 
FUV – Groups 1, 2 
and 3 
Up to Week 30 (210): 
FUV – Group 4 
PRNT 
Week 0 (0) 
Week 2 (14) 
Week 4 (28) 
Week 6 (42) 
Week 8 (56) 
Group 1 
(N=183) 
Group 2 
(N=181) 
Group 3 
(N=181) 
Group 4 
(N=200) 
NAP 
70.9 
(63.7, 77.4) 
88.9 
(83.4, 93.1) 
98.9 
(96.0, 99.9) 
98.9 
(96.0, 99.9) 
73.0 
(65.9, 79.4) 
NAP 
45.1 
(37.7, 52.6) 
56.7 
(49.1, 64.0) 
89.2 
(83.7, 93.4) 
86.0 
(80.0, 90.7) 
NAP 
72.6 
(65.5, 79.0) 
87.4 
(81.5, 91.9) 
82.2 
(75.7, 87.6) 
72.0 
(64.7, 78.5) 
37.9 
(30.7, 45.6) 
NAP 
52.0 
(44.4, 59.5) 
62.1 
(54.4, 69.3) 
56.3 
(48.6, 63.8) 
47.4 
(39.8, 55.1) 
NAP 
2.8 
(0.9, 6.4) 
2.9 
(0.9, 6.5) 
3.4 
(1.3, 7.3) 
2.8 
(0.9, 6.5) 
2.3 
(0.6, 5.7) 
NAP 
1.1 
(0.1, 4.0) 
0.6 
(0.0, 3.1) 
0.0 
(0.0, 2.1) 
0.0 
(0.0, 2.1) 
NAP 
95.5 
(91.6, 97.9) 
93.0 
(88.5, 96.1) 
NAP 
NAP 
67.8 
(60.9, 74.3) 
NAP 
78.5 
(72.2, 84.0) 
69.8 
(63.0, 76.1) 
NAP 
NAP 
Up to Week 35 (245): 
FUV – Groups 1, 2 
and 3 
Up to Week 30 (210): 
FUV – Group 4 
N= number of subjects in specified group, NAP = Not applicable , 
23.6 
(17.5, 30.6) 
65.2 
(57.7, 72.1) 
0.6 
(0.0, 3.1) 
63.8 
(56.7, 70.5) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 83/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GMT Responses by ELISA and PRNT at all visits 
GMT Response (95% CI) 
Group 1 
(N=183) 
Group 2 
(N=181) 
Group 3 
(N=181) 
Group 4 
(N=200) 
Week (Day) 
ELISA 
Week 0 (0) 
Week 2 (14) 
Week 4 (28) 
Week 6 (42)  
Week 8 (56) 
Up to Week 35 (245): 
FUV – Groups 1, 2 
and 3 
Up to Week 30 (210): 
FUV – Group 4 
PRNT 
Week 0 (0) 
Week 2 (14) 
Week 4 (28) 
Week 6 (42) 
Week 8 (56) 
1.4 
(1.2, 1.7) 
27.8 
(20.1, 38.3) 
71.8 
(56.9, 90.7) 
495.8 
(431.9, 569.3) 
328.7 
(288.5, 374.4) 
27.9 
(20.7, 37.6) 
1.3 
(1.1, 1.5) 
29.3 
(21.5, 39.9) 
60.3 
(47.6, 76.5) 
42.3 
(32.7, 54.8) 
23.2 
(17.4, 31.0) 
5.3 
(3.9, 7.2) 
1.1 
(1.0, 1.2) 
4.8 
(3.6, 6.3) 
7.5 
(5.7, 10.0) 
45.6 
(35.1, 59.2) 
34.0 
(26.4, 43.9) 
1.1 
(1.0, 1.1) 
5.1 
(3.9, 6.6) 
7.2 
(5.5, 9.4) 
5.9 
(4.5, 7.6) 
4.2 
(3.3, 5.4) 
Up to Week 35 (245): 
FUV – Groups 1, 2 
and 3 
Up to Week 30 (210): 
FUV – Group 4 
N= number of subjects in specified group, NAP = Not applicable  
1.9 
(1.6, 2.2) 
7.2 
(5.6, 9.4) 
1.1 
(1.0, 1.3) 
1.2 
(1.1, 1.4) 
1.3 
(1.1, 1.4) 
1.2 
(1.1, 1.4) 
1.2 
(1.1, 1.4) 
1.2 
(1.0, 1.3) 
1.0 
(1.0, 1.1) 
1.1 
(1.0, 1.1) 
1.0 
(1.0, 1.1) 
1.0 
(1.0, 1.1) 
1.0 
(1.0, 1.1) 
38.8 
(29.4, 51.3) 
568.8 
(473.3, 683.7) 
452.3 
(388.8, 526.2) 
NAP 
NAP 
179.9 
(148.9, 217.4) 
21.6 
(16.3, 28.5) 
175.2 
(140.0, 219.1) 
144.3 
(117.9,176.5) 
NAP 
NAP 
1.0 
(1.0, 1.1) 
106.5 
(89.1, 127.2) 
Summary of Immunogenicity for trial POX-MVA-008 
A multicenter, open-label, controlled phase II study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of 
MVA-BN (IMVANEX) smallpox vaccine in 18-40 year old subjects with diagnosed atopic 
dermatitis 
Study identifier 
POX-MVA-008 
Design 
 Open-label, controlled 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Non-inferiority 
Group 1, vaccinia-naïve, 
healthy 
8 weeks 
4 weeks 
6 months 
2 doses IMVANEX®; 4 weeks apart 
N = 282 (vaccinated) 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 84/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Group 2; vaccinia-naïve, 
Diagnosed Atopic Dermatitis  
2 doses IMVANEX®; 4 weeks apart 
N = 350 (vaccinated) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Immunoge
nicity 
Immunoge
nicity 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by ELISA 2 
weeks after the last vaccination (visit 4) 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by ELISA at 
all other time points 
Vaccinia-specific GMT by ELISA at all blood 
sampling time points  
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMT by 
PRNT at all blood sampling time points  
IFN gamma producing T-cells in response to 
stimulation with MVA-BN® detected by Enzyme-
Linked Immunospot  (subgroup only) 
Group 2 
257 
97.3%  
Database lock 
09-Apr-2010 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability 
Primary Analysis 
Per Protocol 
Treatment group 
Group 1 
194 
98.5% 
Number of 
subject 
ELISA SC rate 
(%) Visit 4 
95% exact CI  
PRNT SC rate (%) 
Visit 4 
95% exact CI  
(95.5, 99.7) 
(94.5, 98.9) 
86.6% 
90.3% 
(81.0, 91.1) 
(86.0, 93.6) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
Comparison groups 
Group 2 – Group 1  
Notes 
Analysis description 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Difference SC rate (%) 
Lower 95% CI limit 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
-1.2% 
-4.31 
Non-inferiority passed 
Group 2 – Group 1  
Difference SC rate (%) 
Lower 95% CI limit 
P-value 
3.7% 
-2.31% 
Non-inferiority passed 
SC = Seroconversion (at least a two fold rise in titers, or becoming seropositive 
in originally seronegative subjects) 
Non-inferiority analysis using a 5% non-inferiority margin (delta) 
  Secondary immunogenicity analysis  
Geometric Mean titers at Visit 4 were: 
ELISA:  
Group 1 GMT = 499.4 (417.1, 598.0)  
Group 2 GMT = 532.9 (452.9, 627.1) 
PRNT: 
Group 1 GMT = 34.6 (26.4, 45.3) 
Group 2 GMT = 47.7 (38.1, 59.8) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 85/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Immunogenicity for trial POX-MVA-011 
A multicenter, open-label, controlled phase II study to evaluate safety and immunogenicity of 
MVA-BN (IMVANEX) smallpox vaccine in 18-55 year old naive and previously vaccinated 
HIV infected subjects with CD4 counts > 200 – 750/µl. 
Study identifier 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
8 weeks 
4 weeks 
6 months 
POX-MVA-011 
Multicenter, open-label, controlled, phase II study 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Exploratory: Safety and Immunogenicity 
Group 1  
Healthy 
Vaccinia-naïve or vaccinia-
experienced 
Group 2 a 
HIV-1, CD4 cells ≥ 350-500 
cells/µL  
Vaccinia-naïve or vaccinia-
experienced 
Group 2 b 
HIV-1, CD4 cells ≥ 200-750 
cells/µL  
Vaccinia-naïve 
Group 3  
HIV-1, CD4 cells ≥ 200-750 
cells/µL,  
Vaccinia-experienced 
2 doses IMVANEX®; 4 weeks apart 
N= 88 (vaccinia-naïve) 
N= 9 (vaccinia-experienced) 
2 doses IMVANEX®; 4 weeks apart 
N= 351 (vaccinia-naïve) 
N= 131 (vaccinia-experienced) 
HIV (CD4 750-501/µl) 
N= 99 (vaccinia-naïve) 
N= 46 (vaccinia-experienced) 
HIV (CD4 500-350/µl) 
N= 163 (vaccinia-naïve) 
N= 61 (vaccinia-experienced) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Safety 
HIV (CD4 349-200/µl) 
N= 89 (vaccinia-naïve) 
N= 24 (vaccinia-experienced) 
Occurrence, relationship and intensity of any    
serious and or unexpected adverse reaction at any 
time during the study. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Immuno-
genicity 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMT by 
PRNT at all blood sampling time points.  
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMT by 
ELISA at all blood sampling time points.  
IFN gamma producing T-cells in response to 
stimulation with MVA-BN detected by Enzyme-
Linked Immunospot (subgroup only). 
Database lock 
30-Jun-2009 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability 
Secondary Immunogenicity Analysis 
Intent to treat (FAS) 
Visit 4 (2 weeks after second vaccination) 
Treatment group 
Healthy 
Vaccinia-
naive  
HIV 
Vaccinia-
naive 
Healthy 
Vaccinia-
experienced   
HIV 
Vaccinia-
experienced  
Number of 
subject 
ELISA SC rate 
(%) 
95% exact CI 
88 
351 
9 
131 
98.7%  
96.2% 
100%  
92.7%  
(93.1, 100) 
(93.4, 98.0) 
(59.0, 100) 
(86.6, 96.6) 
PRNT SC rate (%)  77.2% 
60.3%  
85.7% 
75.6%  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 86/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95% exact CI 
(66.4, 85.9) 
(54.7, 65.8) 
(42.1, 99.6) 
(67.0, 82.9) 
ELISA GMT 
95% CI 
PRNT GMT 
95% CI 
560.6 
(441.3, 
712.3) 
21.7  
(13.7, 34.6) 
282.9  
(241.2, 
331.7) 
13.1  
(10.1, 17.0) 
610.2 
(211.3, 
1762.0) 
358.4  
(117.5, 
1093.3) 
525.8  
(435.2, 
635.2) 
69.0  
(48.3, 98.6) 
No hypothesis tests of comparison were made between the above subject strata.  
SC = Seroconversion (at least a two fold rise in titers, or becoming seropositive 
in originally seronegative subjects) 
GMT = Geometric Mean Titer. The Confidence Interval (CI) was calculated under 
the assumption that the log titers have a normal distribution. 
Tertiary Analysis  
No significant differences (trends) were detected across the HIV CD4 substrata 
for either the naïve or experienced subjects for PRNT or ELISA 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Notes 
Analysis description 
Summary of Immunogenicity for trial  POX-MVA-023 
An Open-Label Phase II Study to Evaluate Immunogenicity and Safety of a Single IMVANEX  
Booster Vaccination Two Years after the Last IMVANEX Vaccination in Former POX-MVA-
005 Vaccinees 
Study identifier 
POX-MVA-023 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Open label 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
 Non-inferiority 
Group 1 IMVANEX®-
experienced / vaccinia-naive 
Group 2  IMVANEX®-
experienced / vaccinia-naive 
Group 4 IMVANEX®-
experienced / vaccinia-
experienced 
Primary 
endpoint 
Immunoge
nicity 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Immunoge
nicity 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
4 weeks 
6 weeks 
6 months 
One booster dose  
N = 75 (vaccinated) 
Blood draw only 
N = 17 
One booster dose 
N = 77 (vaccinated) 
Blood draw only 
N = 14 
Blood-draw only 
N = 121  
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate (booster 
rate) by ELISA after booster vaccination with 
IMVANEX® from the individual peak response 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMTs 
by ELISA after booster vaccination with 
IMVANEX® measured for all individual blood 
sampling time-points. 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMTs 
by PRNT for all individual blood sampling time-
points. 
Database lock 
02-Oct-2009 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat (Full Analysis Set) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 87/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Notes 
Treatment group 
Group 1 
75 
100%  
Group 2 
77 
100% 
(95.2, 100) 
(95.3, 100) 
98.7%  
96.1% 
(92.8, 100) 
(89.0, 99.2) 
Comparison groups 
Group 1 – Group 2 
Number of subject 
ELISA individual 
peak SC rate (%) 
95% exact CI  
PRNT individual 
peak SC rate (%) 
95% exact CI  
Primary endpoint 
Difference in 
individual peak 
ELISA SC rate 
Difference SC rate (%) 
95% exact CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Difference SC rate (%) 
95% exact CI 
P-value 
0.0% 
NAP 
NAP 
Group 1 – Group 2 
2.6% 
(-2.5, 7.6) 
0.620 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Difference in 
individual peak 
PRNT SC rate 
SC = Seroconversion (at least a two fold rise in titers, or becoming seropositive 
in originally seronegative subjects) 
Analysis description  Other, specify: Long-term persistence of anti-vaccinia antibody titers after 
two years in former POX-MVA-005 study Groups 1, 2 and 4. 
Seropositivity rates (ELISA and PRNT) and GMT Responses (ELISA and 
PRNT) 2 years after priming vaccination with 1 or 2 doses of IMVANEX® 
in vaccinia-naïve subjects (Group 1 and Group 2) and 2 years after one 
booster dose in vaccinia-experienced subjects (Group 4) 
ELISA 
PRNT 
Group 
1  
Group 
2  
Group 
4  
N 
92 
91 
121 
GMT 
(95% CI) 
23.3 
(15.2, 35.9) 
6.2 
(4.0, 9.7) 
134.6 
(111.9, 
162.0) 
S+% 
(95% CI) 
GMT 
(95% CI) 
S+% 
(95% CI) 
71.7  
(61.4, 
80.6) 
42.9  
(32.5, 
53.7) 
97.5  
(92.9, 
99.5) 
1.3 
(1.0,1.5) 
1.1 
(1.0,1.1) 
10.3 
(7.2, 
14.6) 
5.4 
(1.8, 
12.2) 
1.1 
(0.0, 6.0) 
68.6 
(59.5, 
76.7) 
GMT= Geometric Mean Titer 
S+ = Seropositivity 
CI = confidence interval 
N = total number of subjects 
Summary of Immunogenicity for trial POX-MVA-024 
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II study to evaluate safety and 
immunogenicity of one and two doses of IMVANEX smallpox vaccine in 56-80 year old 
vaccinia-experienced subjects 
Study identifier 
POX-MVA-024 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase II study  
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Exploratory: Safety and Immunogenicity 
Group 1 (MM) 
8 weeks 
4 weeks 
6 months 
2 doses IMVANEX®; 4 weeks apart 
N= 62 (randomised) 
N= 61 (vaccinated) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 88/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group 2 (PM) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Safety 
1 dose Placebo and 1 dose IMVANEX® 4 weeks 
apart,  
N= 58 (randomised) 
N= 58 (vaccinated) 
Occurrence of any serious adverse events 
associated with the study vaccine occurring until 
the last active study visit. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Immuno-
genicity 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by ELISA 
at the peak visit. 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMTs 
by ELISA for all individual blood sampling time-
points. 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate by PRNT at 
the peak visit. 
Vaccinia-specific seroconversion rate and GMTs 
by PRNT for all individual blood sampling time-
points. 
Database lock 
20-Oct-2010 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate variability 
Secondary Immunogenicity Analysis 
Intent to treat (Full Analysis Set) 
Treatment group 
Group 1 (MM) 
Group 2 (PM) 
Number of subject 
ELISA SC rate (%) 
(peak visit) 
95% exact CI 
PRNT SC rate (%) 
(2 weeks after final 
vaccination) 
95% exact CI 
61 
  83.6% 
58 
82.8% 
(71.9, 91.8) 
(70.6, 91.4) 
90.0% 
77.6% 
(79.5, 96.2) 
(64.7, 87.5) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
 Primary endpoint 
Comparison groups 
Group 1 – Group 2 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Difference Response rate 
95% Exact CI  
P-value (superiority) 
Comparison groups 
0.6% 
(-15.8, 17.0) 
0.9828 
Group 1 – Group 2 
Difference Response rate 
95% Exact CI  
P-value (superiority) 
12.4% 
(-3.1, 28.7) 
0.0700 
Notes 
SC = Seroconversion (at least a two fold rise in titers, or becoming seropositive 
in originally seronegative subjects) 
Analysis description 
Secondary Immunogenicity analysis  
Geometric Mean titers of the individual peak titres were: 
ELISA:  
Group 1 GMT = 804.1 (636.3, 1016.0)  
Group 2 GMT = 605.8 (479.6, 765.2) 
PRNT: 
Group 1 GMT = 210.3 (146.1, 302.7) 
Group 2 GMT = 126.7 (82.4, 194.8)  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 89/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
1. 
General comment on the dossier 
Taking into account the particularities of this condition and that the studies were performed 
during the last decade it is accepted by the CHMP that only non-clinical efficacy and 
immunogenicity data and human immune response data can be provided to support the likely 
efficacy of MVA-BN against smallpox. As a consequence of the inability to provide comprehensive 
clinical data on the efficacy under normal conditions of use of the vaccine the CHMP requested 
specific post-authorisation obligations to gather effectiveness data in observational prospective 
non-interventional cohort studies (see section 2.8). Status update reports are expected annually. 
In addition, post-authorisation studies will be conducted in children to provide effectiveness data 
in this population. 
2. 
Non-clinical efficacy 
The additional NHP studies supported correlations between each of dose and antibody titres and 
survival but the results clearly showed some discrepancies between each of ELISA and PRNT 
titres and survival, indicating that humoral antibody does not alone predict protection. 
3. 
Formulations of MVA-BN 
The dose-finding studies and the two studies with a comparison to Dryvax were not performed 
using final commercial process vaccine. In particular, POX-MVA-002 (dose-finding vs. Dryvax 
[n=15]) used the freeze-dried version while POX-MVA-009 (regimen-finding vs. Dryvax [n=8]) 
did not use the final industrial process vaccine. The CHMP recommended to provide data on 
immune responses induced by different vaccine formulations (liquid frozen and freeze dried, see 
also POX-MVA-027). 
4. 
Assays  
The results of the PRNT assay were more variable than the ELISA, which is not an uncommon 
finding when both functional and total binding antibody assays are applied to the same sera. In 
non-clinical models and in humans the post-vaccination ELISA titres are always higher than the 
PRNT titres, as would be expected.  
Agreement between assays in terms of seropositivity rates is rather better post-vaccination than 
pre-vaccination. This is not an unusual finding and most likely reflects the prevalence of samples 
with titres very close to the assay cut-off limits.     
With regard to the timing of sampling, details of the kinetic of the antibody response to MVA-BN 
in man were explored in some studies with additional early samplings. However, in POX-MVA-002 
and 009 it cannot be concluded that the sampling times necessarily captured the peak immune 
response in the Dryvax group. 
Although there is no standardised methodology, the non-clinical data and the past experience 
with replication-competent vaccines suggest that the role of CMI could be very important. 
However, only one study used alternative antigens to MVA-BN to stimulate the T-cells. Overall, 
the CMI data were not obtained in a uniform fashion and it is not possible to draw any 
conclusions. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 90/121 
 
  
  
 
5. 
Humoral immune responses 
There was evidence of a dose-related increment in antibody titres in the short term but longer-
term data did not show a consistent advantage for the higher TCID50 formulations, including the 
selected titre in MVA-BN. However, POX-MVA-028 compared two standard doses with a single 
dose of a slightly higher TCID50. The NIH concluded from this study that vaccination with the 
latter formulation produced higher titres more rapidly than a single standard dose but the titres 
did not reach the same magnitude as after the second standard dose. Based on the median time 
to seroconversion, NIH stated that use of a single high dose vaccine may be an alternative to a 
2-dose vaccine series during a post-event emergency and may warrant further study.  
More than two initial doses have not been evaluated except in two small studies in HIV-infected 
subjects.  
POX-MVA-009 showed that a dose interval of one week was sub-optimal. No other dose intervals 
have been assessed except in one study in HIV-infected subjects (8 weeks). 
In vaccinia-naïve subjects the data across all the studies showed low responses to a first dose of 
MVA-BN with a considerable increase in titre following a second dose administered four weeks 
later. The PRNT seroconversion rates (which approximate to the seropositivity rates in most 
cases) were at a maximum of 90% and mostly less than this at Day 42. Both ELISA and PRNT 
data indicated a very rapid waning of antibody titres within the first 3-4 months after a second 
dose. One study (POX-MVA-023) evaluated the response to a third dose of MVA-BN but only at 
two years after an initial course of two doses administered 4 weeks apart.  
A single dose of MVA-BN was administered to VV-experienced subjects in POX-MVA-001, 005, 
010, 011 and 024. The data from POX-MVA-001 and 005 showed that a single dose of MVA-BN in 
VV-experienced subjects elicited greater immune responses compared to a first dose of MVA-BN 
in the vaccinia-naïve study groups. The data suggest that the antibody response to MVA-BN in 
these VV-experienced subjects was rapid, with high seroconversion rates at 14 days post-dose, 
indicating effective stimulation of memory B-cells. The applicant compared immune responses by 
age group only in POX-MVA-024, which was confined to VV-experienced subjects and compared 
administrations of one or two doses of MVA-BN. Only 15 subjects were aged > 70 years and the 
data did not show a clear trend for immune responses by age but the PRNT titres showed better 
responses to two doses compared to one dose in this older VV-experienced population (e.g. 
overall seroconversion rates 90% vs. 77%; the difference was maintained at follow-up – 65% vs. 
49%), which is not reflected in the SmPC.  
It is not possible to conclude that the timing of sampling after Dryvax in POX-MVA-002 and 009 
or in the past NIH studies was adequate to capture the peak immune response. In contrast, the 
data from MVA-BN studies suggested that this likely was captured. Therefore it is considered that 
the comparisons made are very likely inherently biased in favour of MVA-BN regardless of the 
antigen or strain used in the assay. 
In POX-MVA-002 the PRNT GMT as measured against the NYBH strain was greater after Dryvax 
than after two doses of MVA-BN. The PRNT titres measured against MVR showed a lower GMT 
after Dryvax compared to after MVA-BN while the PRNT titres against VV-WR were 149 at week 4 
post-Dryvax compared to 86 and 108 at 2 weeks after the second dose of MVA-BN. The PRNT 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 91/121 
 
  
  
titres against variola reported by CDC raise several issues in terms of study conduct and design 
beyond the authors’ assumption that the comparison is valid based on the timing of the samples.  
POX-MVA-009 provided data on 8 subjects who received only Dryvax. PRNT data indicated that 
neutralising antibody first appeared at about day 14 with a linear increase across the day 8, 14 
and 28 time points. The next sample after day 28 was not until day 180. As measured, the peak 
titre after Dryvax was lower than after two doses of MVA-BN when measured at St. Louis 
University (SLU) but the opposite observation applied using the applicant’s PRNT assay. 
The retrospective study compared antibody titres (using the applicant’s assays only) after 
administration of Dryvax or Wetvax in 5 NIH studies and after MVA-BN in three MVA-BN studies 
(POX-MVA-005, 008 and 011). It is not appropriate to place too much weight on this 
retrospective analysis of samples of different ages, with assays conducted over a 4-year period. 
In addition, the sera were obtained from several different study populations although subjects 
were to be healthy young and vaccinia-naïve adults. Peak immune responses were determined 
from samples obtained on days 28 or 56 for subjects who received Dryvax or Wetvax and on 
days 42 or 56 for subjects who received MVA-BN.  
It is of value to note that the ELISA data for Dryvax and Wetvax demonstrated that 190 subjects 
had a peak ELISA titre on day 28, 47 on day 56 and 14 had the same titre on both days. The 
spread for MVA-BN was narrow and 87% had a peak at day 42. Not surprisingly the ELISA GMTs 
(measured against MVA-BN) were slightly higher in the MVA-BN recipients compared to the NIH 
study subjects. Even more important is the finding that PRNT data showed significant variability 
in the timing of the individual peak neutralising antibody response. These observations indicate 
that a comparison of immune responses between MVA-BN and Dryvax based on very limited 
sampling time points cannot support a conclusion that the humoral immune response to MVA-BN 
is at least as good as that to a replication-competent vaccine.  
6. 
Use in populations in which the use of VV is problematical  
POX-MVA-008 enrolled only vaccinia-naïve subjects and the data suggest that AD subjects can 
be dosed as healthy subjects.  
POX-MVA-011 enrolled vaccinia-naïve and VV-experienced subjects and all received two doses of 
MVA-BN 4 weeks apart. After two doses the PRNT seroconversion rates were just under 80% in 
the healthy but from about 55-68% in the HIV-infected although by week 32 there was no 
appreciable difference between subsets. The PRNT data for the VV-experienced showed 
seroconversion rates in the 70% range after two doses, with much higher rates at week 32 
compared to the corresponding vaccinia-naïve groups. The applicant agreed that two doses 
should be recommended for VV-experienced HIV-infected individuals to boost the memory 
response.  
Currently, there are insufficient data to determine whether a third dose would be useful in 
clinically immunocompromised individuals, therefore the CHMP requested to evaluate a higher 
dose and/or different time interval in this patient population. This study will generate important 
information that is currently missing and the results are expected by in 2016 (as detailed in the 
RMP). 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 92/121 
 
  
  
 
7. 
Cell Mediated Immune response data 
The MVA-BN strain does not replicate after injection. This would imply that its ability to elicit a 
useful cell mediated immune (CMI) response would be less than a replication-competent VV 
strain. Overall, even between the studies that appear to have used the same methodology, the 
results have been very variable. In the pivotal studies the method used mostly suggested lack of 
any detectable response in the majority of subjects. In those studies that have reported data 
separately for interferon gamma-producing CD4 and CD8 cells very few subjects showed any 
response among CD4 cells.  
The currently available CMI data are variable and inconclusive. The CHMP considered that more 
reliable data from planned studies should be collected, therefore CMI data will be generated 
during study POX-MVA-027. The results of the T cell analysis are planned to be reported in 
Q2/2016 (as detailed in the RMP). 
8. 
Effect of prior MVA-BN on the response to Dryvax  
There was attenuation of takes when Dryvax was administered after MVA-BN in POX-MVA-002.  
However, takes still occurred in most subjects and virus was still detected in swabs up to day 8. 
Importantly, the time interval between MVA-BN and administration of Dryvax in the four groups 
that included two doses of MVA-BN followed by Dryvax was 84 days (12 weeks), which is too 
short to assess the duration of the immune response against NYBH elicited by MVA-BN. 
Prior MVA-BN could interfere with subsequent responses to a replication competent vaccine. In 
this regard, the PRNT data against NYBH that are available from the groups that received Dryvax 
on day 112 indicate lower GMTs at day 140 and day 184 in the 4 groups that had received MVA-
BN before Dryvax vs. the group that received only placebo on days 0 and 28. This finding has 
important implications for any government or institution that might consider using MVA-BN for 
priming in a non-emergency setting with intent to give a single dose of a replication-competent 
vaccine in the case of an emergency situation.  
9. 
Impact of MVA-BN vaccination on other vaccines 
Strains of MVA (including specifically MVA-BN) are under evaluation as live viral vector vaccines 
(LVVVs) intended to elicit immunity to infections unrelated to the poxvirus diseases. The 
applicant was requested to consider whether prior MVA-BN could seriously interfere with the 
development of immunity to these other infections or at least reduce the magnitude of the 
immune responses to the foreign antigens encoded by the vectors. The applicant responded by 
stating that pre-existing immunity against MVA does not hamper the ability of this virus to 
significantly boost the B and T cell memory originally stimulated by a smallpox vaccine, even in 
the presence of high circulating antibodies against MVA.  
One may argue that the same effect may not occur when MVA-BN is being used as a LVV to 
stimulate and/or boost immunity against one or more encoded antigens (or transgenes). In this 
case the antigen load of the transgene(s) would be lower compared to the backbone LVV and 
may be inhibited by vector immunity stimulated by earlier vaccination(s). However, there is 
really no evidence that pre-existing immunity against MVA hampers the ability to stimulate 
immune response to encoded genes within MVA-BN. BN has recently published data that show 
certain poxvirus promoters are able to stimulate a higher T cell response to an encoded antigen 
compared to the normally dominant response to MVA. This was only achieved by repeat 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 93/121 
 
  
  
vaccination with the recombinant MVA-BN-based vaccine in the presence of high circulating 
antibodies against MVA. These findings argue against vector immunity giving rise to poor 
immune responses to encoded antigens within MVA. 
10. 
Confirmation of immunogenicity of MVA-BN 
The CHMP requested two additional Phase III studies to provide confirmation in terms of 
immunogenicity, one study will provide this information against placebo and the second study 
will provide comparative information against the active comparator currently available. These 
studies are considered key for the benefit risk of the product. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Taking into consideration the current scientific knowledge, the particularities of this condition and 
the non-feasibility to perform efficacy studies as it would be contrary to medical ethics, it is not 
possible to conclude that MVA-BN will provide protection against smallpox that is comparable to 
that afforded by replication-competent vaccines nor is it possible to determine how long after 
vaccination some degree of protection will occur and how long it will persist. Therefore it is not 
possible to make specific recommendations regarding booster doses. 
Nevertheless, taking into account the non-clinical data and the safety profile of MVA-BN, the 
CHMP concluded that it was not appropriate to restrict the use of MVA-BN to persons at high risk 
of life-threatening complications of vaccination with a replication-competent vaccine. Rather, it 
was concluded that the actual mode of use of MVA-BN should be in accordance with individual 
national recommendations. The SmPC carefully documents what is known and what remains 
unknown. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
A  total of  3,432  subjects received  Imvanex  in  this  study  program.  The  number  of  subjects  that 
received one or more doses of MVA-BN containing 1 × 108 TCID50 (the selected dose) were: 
• 
1854 vaccinia-naïve subjects received two doses 4 weeks apart 
• 
534 vaccinia-experienced subjects received a single dose 
Included in the numbers above, there were: 
• 
152 subjects that received a single dose after an earlier priming regimen with MVA-BN 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 94/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 29 Summary of Subjects who Received the Standard Imvanex Dosing Regimen 
Abbreviations: AD, atopic dermatitis; HIV, Human Immunodeficiency Virus; 1 × 108 TCID50, 1 × 108 tissue culture 
infected dose 50. 
The  pooled  disposition  of  healthy  subjects  (from  POX-MVA-005,  POX-MVA-008,  POX-MVA-011, 
POX-MVA-023, and POX-MVA-024) is summarised in Table 30, with the numbers of subjects who 
received the standard dosing regimens highlighted in bold.  
Table 30 Pooled Disposition of Healthy Subjects (Safety Dataset) 
N = Number of subjects per treatment group; n = number of subjects with specified variable; % = Percentage 
based on N. 
Note: Numbers in bold represent subjects who received the standard dosing regimen for vaccinia-naïve subjects 
(2 standard injections of 1 × 108 TCID50 IMVANEX, 4 weeks apart) and vaccinia-experienced subjects (booster 
injection of 1 × 108 TCID50 IMVANEX). 
Abbreviations: AE, adverse event; HNM, healthy vaccinia-naïve subjects with 1 dose IMVANEX; HNMM, 
healthy vaccinia-naïve subjects with 2 doses of IMVANEX; HEM, healthy vaccinia-experienced subjects with 1 
dose of IMVANEX; HEMM, healthy vaccinia-experienced subjects with 2 doses of IMVANEX. 
There  were  3  US  NIH-sponsored  clinical  studies  of  MVA-BN  on-going  at  time  of  the  initial  MAA. 
Two of these NIH sponsored clinical trials have recently been completed (POX-MVA-028 and POX-
MVA-029).  These  studies  add  more  than  300  VV-naïve  subjects  vaccinated  with  the  standard 
dose regimen of MVA-BN to the total safety database. The third study is ongoing (POX-MVA-030) 
in  24  HSCT  recipients  (> 2  years  previously).  According  to the  latest  information  received  from 
the NIH, enrolment has been completed and all subjects have received their second dose.  
These numbers bring the totals up to those shown in the tables below for subjects who received 
at least one dose of at least the standard dose of MVA-BN. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 95/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects that received the MVA-BN standard dose and higher (≥  1x108 TCID50) according to any 
schedule  in  BN  and  NIH  sponsored  clinical  trials  (i.e.  at  Day  0,  Day  0+7,  Day  0+28  or  Day 
0+56+112  in  vaccinia-naives;  at  Day  0,  Day  0+28  or  Day  0+56+112  in  vaccinia-experienced 
(see Tables below with Standard dose and higher (≥  108 TCID50), any regimen). 
Vaccinia Naives 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 96/121 
 
  
  
 
 
Vaccinia Experienced 
The total that received 2 doses of 1 x 108 TCID50 of MVA-BN 4 weeks apart if VV- naïve or one 
dose  of  1  x  108  TCID50  if  VV-experienced  subjects  is  now  2,388.  This  total  includes  healthy 
subjects  as  well  as  HIV-infected  subjects  (N=  425)  and  subjects  with  atopic  dermatitis  (N  = 
362). The population includes subjects from 18 up to 80 years of age. A total of 3,066 subjects 
received at least one MVA-BN dose of 1 x 108 TCID50 (or higher). 
Adverse events 
Solicited AEs 
Typically, after each vaccination subjects were asked to document the occurrence of five general 
symptoms  on  the  day  of  vaccination  and  the  7  days  post-vaccination  in  a  diary  card  (i.e. 
increased  body  temperature,  headache,  myalgia,  nausea  and  fatigue).  Additionally,  the  grading 
of  severity  was  recorded.  However,  studies  varied  considerably  in  the  list  of  solicited  systemic 
events and the mode of capture of the information and therefore no reliable synthesis across all 
the studies is possible. In addition, subjects documented the occurrence of local symptoms at the 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 97/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
injection  site  (i.e.  erythema,  swelling,  induration  and  pain)  for  each  day  of  the  7  days  post-
injection.  The  intensity  of  erythema,  swelling  and  induration  was  documented  and  graded 
according  to  size  of  the  lesion  (diameter  measurement).  As  an  example,  solicited  AEs  for  POX-
MVA-005/023 are summarised. Study 005 compared one (Group 2) and two (Group 1) doses in 
naïve subjects with two doses of placebo (Group 3) and a single dose in VV-experienced (Group 
4). Study 023 involved a single booster dose of MVA-BN at Year 2 in the original Groups 1 and 2 
from study 005.  
For local solicited symptoms (see Table 32) erythema (70.3%) and pain (70.9%) were reported 
at  the  injection  site  after  at  least  one  injection  while  over  half  reported  swelling  (55.5%)  and 
induration  (63.2%).  Most  symptoms  were  of  mild  to  moderate  severity.  There  were  20 
incidences  of  Grade  3  symptoms  in  Groups  1  and  4  but  rates  did  not  exceed  3.3%  and  there 
were no Grade 4 symptoms. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 98/121 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 31 Study POX-MVA 005 Summary of Maximum Intensity of Solicited General Symptoms 
(7-day Follow-up Period after Vaccination) as Recorded in the Subject Diary, Safety dataset 
N: Number of subjects in the specified group with subject diaries recording general symptoms 
%: Percentage based on total number of subjects in each group 
*Grade 0 indicates that the subject did not experience the particular symptom. 
~ Chi-square test (p-values from Chi-square test to detect differences in proportions between all treatment groups) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 99/121 
 
  
  
 
 
Table 32 Study POX-MVA 005 - Summary of Maximum Intensity of Solicited Local Symptoms 
(7-day Follow-up Period after Vaccination) as Recorded in the Subject Diary, Safety dataset 
N: Number of subjects in the specified group with subject diaries recording general symptoms 
%: Percentage based on total number of subjects in each group 
*Grade 0 indicates that the subject did not experience the particular symptom. 
~ Chi-square test (p-values from Chi-square test to detect differences in proportions between all treatment groups) 
Rates are not shown or described for the individual doses of MVA-BN in Group 1, i.e. it cannot be 
discerned  if  rates  were  higher  or  lower  with  the  second  vs.  first  dose.  There  were  significant 
differences between the placebo group and subjects who received at least one dose of MVA-BN. 
Note that in the tables presented above Grade 0 means no symptom reported. 
More subjects had an increased body temperature in Groups 1 and 2 (9.9% and 11.7%) than in 
Groups 3 and 4 (5.6% and 5.0%). Headache was reported most frequently in Group 2 (46.9%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 100/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
compared to other groups (26.5 – 33.0%). Myalgia was most often reported in Group 4 (21.0%) 
with the lowest rates in Groups 2 and 3 (12.3% and 11.2%). 
In  the  booster  study  POX-MVA-023  local  solicited  symptoms  were  observed  in  43.4%-82.2%. 
The highest rates were for erythema (82.2%) and pain (80.3%) at the injection site. There were 
no  significant  differences  in  the  frequencies  of  local  symptoms  between  Groups  1  (MM)  and  2 
(MP). 
Table 33 Study POX-MVA 023 - Summary of maximum intensity of solicited local symptoms 
by subject: category Grade > 0 (or diameter > 0 mm, FAS 
N: Number of subjects in the specified group with patient diaries recording general symptoms 
%: Percentage based on total number of subjects 
Two subjects in Group 1 and four in Group 2 had at least one solicited local AE of intensity Grade 
3.  Severe  injection  site  symptoms  included  pain  (in  2.6%),  erythema  (1.3%),  swelling  (1.3%), 
induration  (0.7%)  and  pruritus  (0.7%).  Grade  3  symptoms  improved  after  maximal  three  days 
and in all but two subjects they had resolved by day 8. 
The commonest general solicited symptoms were fatigue, headache and myalgia (23.7%). There 
were  no  significant  differences  in  frequencies  of  general  symptoms  between  the  two  groups. 
Rates of Grade 3 were low (e.g. headache 2.0%, myalgia 1.3% and fatigue 1.3%). 
Table 34 Study POX-MVA 023 - Summary of maximum intensity of solicited general 
symptoms recorded within 8-day follow-up period by subject: category Grade > 0, FAS 
N: Number of subjects in the specified group with patient diaries recording general symptoms 
%: Percentage based on total number of subjects 
Across  other  studies  with  MVA-BN  pain,  erythema  and  swelling  at  the  injection  sites  were 
consistently  collected  but  pruritus  at  the  injection  site  was  only  assessed  in  POX-MVA-023  and 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 101/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
024  and  in  the  NIH-sponsored  studies  POX-MVA-002,  009,  028  and  029.  With  the  exception  of 
POX-MVA-001,  008  and  011,  induration  was  also  assessed  in  all  studies.  There  were  some 
differences  in  the  grading  of  solicited  local  and  systemic  reactions  between  the  NIH  and  BN 
studies.  On  request,  the  applicant  analysed  the  available  data  on  solicited  local  reactions  and 
standardised the grading intensities used in NIH-sponsored studies to match those applied by the 
applicant.  
The  applicant  concluded  that  local  reactions  at  the  injection  site  (pain,  erythema,  swelling, 
induration and pruritus) are very common. There was a tendency for higher local reactogenicity 
with freeze-dried vaccine vs. the proposed commercial liquid frozen product. The lower incidence 
of  solicited  local  AEs  in  HIV-infected  subjects  could  be  partly  due  to  under-reporting  and/or 
lesser  reactogenicity  associated  with  the  consequences  of  CD4  cell  depletion.  Rates  were  not 
clearly  higher  in  AD  subjects.  The  majority  of  the  reactions  resolved  completely  without 
intervention within the first seven days. 
Unsolicited AEs 
Unsolicited AEs were most commonly reported in the SOCs General Disorders and Administration 
Site Conditions and Infections and Infestations. At the PT level, the most commonly experienced 
individual unsolicited AE was injection site pruritus. Other common individual AEs, excluding local 
injection site reactions, were nasopharyngitis, increased troponin I levels (see below), headache 
and respiratory tract infection.  
Across the studies in healthy subjects the proportions reporting at least one unsolicited AE and at 
least  one  causally-related unsolicited  AE  were  comparable  between  vaccinia-naïve  subjects  who 
received  2 doses of  MVA-BN  and  vaccinia-experienced  subjects  who  received one  dose of  MVA-
BN.  The  distribution  of  SOCs  and  PTs  for  healthy  subjects  appeared  to  reflect  the  distribution 
overall. The applicant’s summary states that no clear pattern emerged regarding reporting rates 
with  first  and  second  doses  but  in  some  individual  studies  slightly  more  subjects  reported  AEs 
following the first dose vs. the second dose. 
Data  from  healthy  subjects  aged  56–80  years  come  only  from  POX-MVA-024  and  all  these 
subjects  were  VV-experienced.  The  AE  reporting  rates  were  compared  with  those  for  subjects 
aged 18–55 years in other studies. The distribution of SOCs and PTs for older subjects appeared 
to reflect the distribution observed in younger subjects and the distribution overall. 
Regarding HIV-infected subjects (enrolled in four studies) the proportions reporting at least one 
unsolicited  AE  and  at  least  one  causally-related  unsolicited  AE  were  comparable  for  healthy 
subjects  and  HIV-infected  subjects.  In  POX-MVA-011  an  increasing  incidence  of  unsolicited  AEs 
was observed with decreasing CD4 count in VV-experienced subjects but there was no consistent 
relationship  between  AE  rates  and  CD4  counts  detected  in  the  vaccinia-naïve  HIV-infected 
groups.  The  distribution  of  SOCs  and  PTs  for  HIV-infected  subjects  appeared  to  reflect  the 
distribution for healthy subjects. 
Proportions  with  at  least  one  unsolicited  AE  or  at  least  one  causally  related  AE  were  slightly 
higher  for  subjects  with  atopic  dermatitis  (AD)  and  allergic  rhinitis  (AR)  compared  with  healthy 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 102/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
subjects.  All  subjects  with  AD  and  AR  were  vaccinia-naïve.  The  pattern  of  unsolicited  AEs 
resembled that in the overall VV-naïve population. 
The rates of unsolicited AEs were higher with an earlier liquid-frozen formulation compared with 
the  current  liquid-frozen  formulation  and  the  freeze-dried  formulation.  Rates  for  unsolicited  AEs 
were comparable between the current liquid-frozen formulation and the freeze-dried formulation.  
In  the  dose-finding  studies  (POX-MVA-001,  -002  and  -004)  a  clear  dose-response  was  seen  for 
all AEs and for vaccine-related unsolicited AEs in 004 and 001. Proportions of subjects with AEs 
increased with increasing doses in vaccinia-naïve subjects in these studies. No clear pattern with 
regards to the most common unsolicited AEs for the different doses was evident. 
Details of unsolicited AEs in POX-MVA-005, 008, 011, 023 and 024 
The  comparison  focuses  on  the  vaccinia-naïve  subjects  who  received  two  doses  of  MVA-BN 
(HNMM)  and  the  VV  or  MVA-BN-experienced  subjects  who  received  a  single  dose  of  MVA-BN 
(HEM). The following observations can be made: 
•  470 (43.8%) HNMM subjects experienced 835 unsolicited AEs 
•  164 (48.4%) HEM subjects experienced 240 unsolicited AEs 
•  249 (23.2%) HNMM subjects experienced 351 causally-related unsolicited AEs 
•  94 (27.7%) HEM subjects experienced 128 causally-related unsolicited AEs 
•  5 (0.5%) HNMM subjects experienced 6 severe (Grade 3) causally-related unsolicited AEs 
•  2 (0.6%) HEM subjects experienced 2 severe causally-related unsolicited AEs 
The  most  common  individual  AEs  for  HNMM  subjects  were  injection  site  pruritus  (13.8%  of 
vaccination periods), nasopharyngitis (5.2%), increased troponin I (4.3%) and headache (3.1%). 
The most common individual causally-related AEs for HNMM subjects were injection site pruritus 
(13.5% of vaccination periods), increased troponin I (2.2%), and injection site warmth (1.4%). 
For  HEM  subjects,  the  most  common  individual  AEs  were  injection  site  pruritus  (14.5%  of 
vaccination  periods),  nasopharyngitis  (7.4%)  and  injection  site  warmth  and  headache  (both 
3.2%). Increased troponin was not observed in vaccinia-experienced subjects. The most common 
individual  causally-related  AEs  were  injection  site  pruritus  (13.9%  of  vaccination  periods), 
injection site warmth (3.2%) and injection site haematoma (1.8%).  
On a per subject basis, at least one unsolicited AE was experienced by more HNMM subjects (345 
[64.2%]  for  overall  AEs  and  192  [35.8%]  for  causally-related  AEs)  than  HEM  subjects  (164 
[48.4%]  for  overall  AEs  and  94  [27.7%]  for  causally-related  AEs).  For  HNMM  subjects  the 
proportions  of  subjects  with  unsolicited  AEs,  both  overall  and  causally-related,  were  largely 
similar after the second vs. first dose of MVA-BN (overall, 45.6% versus 41.7%; causally-related 
24.4% versus 22.0% for the first and second vaccinations, respectively). 
The  events  reported  as  “rash”  usually  did  not  provide  information  as  to  the  extent  of  such 
eruptions.  According  to  CTCAE  version  3.0  (which  was  applicable  during  conduct  of  the  clinical 
studies)  a  mild  rash  (grade  1)  is  defined  as  “macular  or  papular  eruption  or  erythema  without 
associated symptoms”, a moderate rash (grade 2) is a “macular or papular eruption or erythema 
with  pruritus  or  other  associated  symptoms;  localised  desquamation  or  other  lesions  covering 
<50%  of  body  surface  area”  while  a  severe  rash  (grade  3)  would  be  a  “severe,  generalised 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 103/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
erythroderma or macular, papular or vesicular eruption; desquamation covering ≥  50% of body 
surface area”. 
Following this definition, only rash with severe intensity would be regarded as generalised. Only 
one case of severe rash was found in the database and this was also the only case of rash rated 
as serious. This occurred in an HIV-infected female aged 37 years with CD4 counts in the 300s 
and the rash, described as herpetic, had onset 4 months after the second dose of MVA-BN. The 
investigator  assessed  the  events  as  unrelated  to  the  vaccination  and  definitely  related  to  other 
conditions. 
If  moderate  rashes  are  classified  as  generalised  then  12  additional  cases  were  found  in  the 
database. All of them were rated as non-serious. 
AEs of special interest (SIAEs) 
In the main study period 61 SIAEs in 53 subjects were considered possibly related to study 
vaccine, 4 SIAEs in 4 subjects were considered probably related and 4 SIAEs in 4 subjects were 
considered definitely related. All probably related SIAEs and all except 1 definitely related SIAEs 
were increased troponin I levels. 
In the follow-up period 13 SIAEs in 13 subjects were considered possibly related to study 
vaccine, one SIAE in a single subject was considered probably related and 3 SIAEs in three 
subjects were considered definitely related. All possibly, probably, and definitely related SIAEs in 
the follow-up period were increased troponin I levels except for i) a possibly related SIAE of 
Grade 1 intensity palpitations in one diagnosed AD, vaccinia-naïve subject (MM) in POX-MVA-008 
and ii) a possibly related SIAE of Grade 1 intensity ST segment elevation in one HIV-infected 
vaccinia-naïve subject (CD4 ≥  501– 750/μl subgroup; MM) in POX-MVA-011. 
In POX-MVA-005 and POX-MVA-024 safety laboratory tests were performed at the screening visit 
and 10 - 15 days after each vaccination. In POX-MVA-008 and 011 testing was at 7-14 days after 
each dose. The safety laboratory measurements were performed at a central laboratory. Tests 
included AST, ALT and troponin I. 
A standard 12-lead ECG was recorded from all subjects at screening and 10-15 days after each 
vaccination in POX-MVA-005 and POX-MVA-024 and at 7-14 days post-dose in POX-MVA-008 and 
011. In 005 ECGs were evaluated by the investigator and transmitted electronically to a central 
database. In the other studies ECGs were read by a central cardiologist. Abnormal and unclear 
ECG findings at screening or throughout the study were evaluated and were to be followed-up by 
an external cardiologist, including a thorough examination and performance of an 
echocardiogram and/or treadmill ECG. 
In the booster study POX-MVA-023 post-dose ECG data were not collected except in a few 
subjects with pre-dose abnormalities, while safety laboratory testing was carried out post 
vaccination at visit 3. Further ECG testing was performed at follow-up visits only if clinically 
indicated. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 104/121 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Across studies the proportions with at least one SIAE were comparable for vaccinia-naïve healthy 
subjects who received 2 doses of MVA-BN. There was no clear pattern regarding the proportion 
of healthy subjects with SIAEs and causally-related SIAEs for vaccinia-naïve versus vaccinia-
experienced subjects. Most SIAEs in healthy subjects were increased troponin I levels. Other 
common SIAEs were palpitations, tachycardia and ECG abnormalities. Proportions with SIAEs 
were comparable between healthy elderly vs. younger subjects. There was a slight increase in 
the number of healthy subjects with SIAEs with increasing dose in POX-MVA-002. There was no 
clear pattern for the most common SIAEs by dose. 
Across the five pivotal studies (see table below) 56 SIAEs occurred in 52 vaccination periods 
(4.8%) for HNMM subjects and 10 SIAEs occurred in 9 vaccination periods (2.7%) for HEM 
subjects. SIAEs that were considered causally-related were experienced in 26 vaccination periods 
(2.4%) for HNMM subjects (27 events) and in 2 vaccination periods (0.6%) for HEM subjects (3 
events). Thus, on a per dose basis, SIAEs and causally-related SIAEs were more frequently 
reported for HNMM subjects.  
On a per subject basis, more HNMM group subjects experienced SIAEs (9.5% of subjects) and 
causally-related SIAEs (4.8%) than HEM group subjects (SIAEs 2.7%, causally-related SIAEs 
0.6%). In HNMM subjects the most common SIAEs (4.3% of vaccination periods) were increased 
troponin I levels. More SIAEs (overall and related) were reported during vaccination period 2 
(overall 6.1% vs. 3.5% of vaccination periods; causally-related 2.6% vs. 2.2%) but again most 
events were increased troponin I levels.  
In HEM subjects 9 (2.7%) experienced SIAEs and only 2 had SIAEs considered causally-related 
to study vaccination. These SIAEs included palpitations (5) and one case each of AV block first 
degree, bundle branch block left, bundle branch block right, supraventricular extrasystoles and 
tachycardia. In the SOC of Cardiac Disorders 4 SIAEs were experienced in 4 vaccination periods 
(0.4%) for HNMM subjects and 10 SIAEs were experienced in 9 vaccination periods (2.7%) for 
HEM subjects. Three events in the HEM group were considered causally-related. 
In POX-MVA-005, 023 and 024 and in supportive studies HIV-POL-002, POX-MVA-001 and HIV-
NEF-004 all ECG recordings were assessed to be normal or not clinically significant (i.e. abnormal 
but considered to represent natural fluctuations of no concern). ECG measurements were not 
included in the safety evaluations in POX-MVA-004. 
In POX-MVA-008 and 011 and in supportive studies POX-MVA-002, 007, 009 and 010 abnormal 
ECG findings were reported but were mostly considered to be not clinically significant and 
unrelated or unlikely to be related to study vaccination. 
In the initial summary provided, numerous troponin I values between ULN (0.04 μg/l) and 2 x 
ULN (0.08 μg/l) were observed. These elevated values were reported for many subjects in the 
screening phase. Following extensive analysis of these minimally elevated values by the applicant 
together with DSMB members it was concluded that isolated troponin I values < 2 x ULN do not 
correlate with any cardiac abnormalities and therefore do not represent a relevant safety signal.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 105/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, the applicant maintained that the troponin I assay is not intended for screening 
purposes in asymptomatic individuals and elevated troponin I values are only meaningful in 
connection with cardiac symptoms and/or ECG abnormalities.  
Subjects with elevated troponin I values were confirmed to be asymptomatic and all but one 
subject showed no corresponding ECG abnormalities. Subjects with elevated values were to be 
sent for a cardiac consultation and the results of all examinations ruled out any acute cardiac 
conditions, particularly no cases of myo-/pericarditis were identified. Hence, with the exception 
of one 23-year old healthy male subject who showed an ST segment elevation in two leads (V2 & 
V3) at the same visit when an elevated troponin I value of 0.06 μg/l was measured, all elevated 
troponin I values measured to date have been isolated, clinically insignificant measurements.  
Further details on troponin I measurements were requested. The response showed that 
throughout the clinical trials with MVA-BN numerous troponin I values between the ULN (0.04 
μg/l) and 2 x ULN (0.08 μg/l) were measured. Elevated values were reported also for many 
subjects still in the screening phase prior to vaccination.  
Most of the increased troponin I values were detected in two studies that enrolled only (POX-
MVA-008) or mainly (POX-MVA-011) vaccinia-naïve subjects after the central laboratory 
implemented a change from a troponin I assay with an ULN < 0.08 μg/l to a more sensitive 
assay with a normal range < 0.04 μg/l. This more sensitive normal range meant that additional, 
asymptomatic cases of increased troponin I levels were detected than would be the case under 
normal circumstances. 
A pooled analysis of the available data was conducted. All results for all studies were given in the 
same units of ng/mL (or equivalently in SI Units μg/L). The analysis focussed on the actual 
observed values rather than the number of subjects considered beyond the normal ranges. The 
normal ranges and severity grading for troponin I values were confirmed to vary by study and 
study sites/central laboratories used. 
The numbers of subjects from POX-MVA-005/-008/-011/-023/-024 and HIV-POL-002 with 
available troponin I values at screening and after the first and second vaccination are shown in 
the Table 35.  
Table 35 Number of subjects with troponin I values available in POX-MVA-005/-008/-011/-023/-
024 and HIV-POL-002 
•  Using the mid-range of the assay cut-off value for values below the cut-off (worst case 
scenario) there were 158/1,743 (9%) subjects with a doubling between screening and 
post-first vaccination and 122/1109 (11%) with doubling after the second vaccination.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 106/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Using the assay cut-off value itself to impute the values below the cut-off value (best 
case scenario) there were 71 doublings (4.07%) after the first and 25 cases after the 
second vaccination (2.25%).  
In vaccinia-naïve subjects depending on how values below the assay cut-off were handled.  
•  Between 139 (11.82%) and 31 (2.64%) out of 1,176 subjects had a doubling after the 
first vaccination 
•  Between 117 (12.43%) and 24 (2.55%) out of 941 had a doubling after the second 
vaccination  
In vaccinia experienced subjects 
•  Between 49 (8.64%) and 31 (5.47%) of 567 had doubling after the first vaccination 
•  Between 5 (2.98%) and 1 (0.60%) of 168 had doublings after the second vaccination 
In POX-MVA-007 and POX-MVA-010, no values (0/211) were above the assay cut-off (0.20 μg/l) 
at screening or after vaccination 1 while 3/118 subjects had values above the assay cut-off 
values after the second vaccination. All three subjects were from POX-MVA-010 with one value of 
0.20 μg/l and two values of 0.24 μg/l. Hence it is unclear how much of a rise these three cases 
represent. However, as a conservative approach these were counted as cases of doubling.  
All subjects in the NIH-sponsored studies POX-MVA-002 and POX-MVA-028 had troponin I values 
< 1.5 μg/l at screening and after both MVA-BN vaccinations so no cases of doubling were 
observed. Because of the high assay cut-off value this is the only statement that can be made. In 
the NIH-sponsored study POX-MVA-009, troponin I was only assessed at screening. BN presumes 
that the same approach applied in POX-MVA-029. Also, no data are available from POX-MVA-001 
and POX-MVA-004. 
The applicant concluded that numbers with a doubling of troponin I values were relatively low 
and that no increase in the proportion presenting with doublings was observed after the second 
vs. first dose. Most of the values representing a doubling were still below the upper range of 
normal of the reference value for the particular study.  
In the listing of the cases with doublings the majority of the doublings were from < cut-off at 
screening to just above the cut off at one or both post-vaccination measurements. 
Values recorded as grade 2 or higher (at least 0.08 μg/l) were observed only in POX-MVA-008 
and POX-MVA-011. With one exception, all subjects were vaccinia-naïve and received two doses. 
The exception was subject 2040-012 in POX-MVA-011, who was HIV-infected and vaccinia-
experienced. The subject’s troponin I values increased to 0.20 μg/l after MVA-BN (0.27 μg/l on 
repeat testing), then decreased again back to normal values at follow-up. Subject 26-050 had a 
value of 1.90 μg/l recorded after the second dose only and 2022-043 had a value of 1.34 μg/l on 
follow-up only. For the other 7/10 with Grade 3 values two occurred after the first dose and 5 
after the second dose. One of these (31-008) had a high screening value (0.82 μg/l) which 
remained above 0.2 μg/l throughout but the local lab values were within normal limits (i.e. < 
0.02 μg/l). There were 19 other subjects listed with Grade 2 values but in a few cases these 
occurred at screening.  
While all the subjects with abnormal troponin I were supposed to have been investigated, it was 
not clear if this rule was followed with rigour. In addition, not all studies captured troponin I 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 107/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
and/or used appropriate assays. In response to the CHMP concerns, it was finally clarified that 
less than a quarter (54/229) of those who had cardiac events (experienced AEs of elevated 
cardiac enzymes, abnormal ECGs or cardiovascular AEs which were reported during active 
treatment phases and follow-up phases) were actually fully assessed by a cardiologist.  
A thorough cardiac assessment will be performed for all subjects enrolled in clinical trial POX-
MVA-013. Before enrolment into the trial, subjects will undergo a thorough screening with a 
special focus on cardiologic aspects. Throughout the trial a close cardiac monitoring will be 
performed. However, this study has not yet been initiated. It can only be stated at this time that 
it remains unknown whether MVA-BN may be associated with any risk of peri/cardiomyopathy. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
There was one death in POX-MVA-011 in a vaccinia-naïve HIV-infected subject who took an 
overdose of Xanax and developed rhabdomyolysis followed by renal failure with subsequent 
death. The subject had a history of bipolar disorder and suicidal thoughts.  
In the overall study programme 53 SAEs were reported in 44 subjects during the main study 
period and 60 SAEs were reported in 47 subjects during the follow-up period. In 109/113 cases 
the SAEs were considered unrelated or unlikely to be related to study vaccine and none was 
considered to be definitely related. There was no particular pattern with regard to the nature of 
the individual SAEs.  
Proportions of subjects who experienced at least one SAE were comparable across the studies for 
vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects who received 2 scheduled doses of MVA-BN and vaccinia-
experienced healthy subjects who received one dose. Rates in older subjects and HIV-infected 
subjects were each comparable to those in younger healthy subjects. In POX-MVA-011 there was 
an increasing incidence of SAEs with increasing CD4 count in vaccinia-experienced subjects but 
not in vaccinia-naïve HIV-infected subjects. There was no evidence that the incidence of SAEs 
increased with viral titre in MVA-BN.  
In the main study period the single SAE that was considered probably related to vaccination was 
a case of Grade 3 intensity extraocular muscle paresis with onset 8 days after the second 
vaccination in a healthy vaccinia-naïve subject in POX-MVA-008. The single SAE considered 
possibly related was a case of Grade 3 pneumonia after the second vaccination in a HIV-infected 
vaccinia-naïve subject [CD4 ≥  200– 349/μl] in POX-MVA-011. In the follow-up period two SAEs 
were considered possibly related to vaccination. One was Grade 2 sarcoidosis in a healthy 
vaccinia-naïve subject in POX-MVA-005. The other was cardiomyopathy in a HIV-infected 
vaccinia-naïve subject in POX-MVA-010 with onset 133 days after the second dose. She was also 
participating in a GH-RH study. Laboratory data are not reported from this subject. 
Across the five pivotal studies there were 7 SAEs in 6 [1.1%] HNMM subjects compared with 5 
SAEs in 5 [1.5%] HEM subjects. For HNMM subjects who received two doses of MVA-BN there 
were 4 SAEs in 3 [0.6%] subjects after dose 2, 3 SAEs in 3 [0.6%] subjects during follow-up but 
none after dose 1. All but 2 SAEs were considered unrelated or unlikely to be related to study 
vaccination. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 108/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Haematology 
In POX-MVA-011 more HIV-infected subjects than healthy subjects presented with at least one 
out-of-range variable at each clinic visit. One male vaccinia-naïve HIV-infected subject with a 
CD4 count of 349–200/μl had a Grade 4 abnormal low neutrophil value (0.43×103/μl) at Week 6 
that was reported as an AE with an unlikely relationship to the study vaccination. Another male 
vaccinia-experienced HIV-infected subject with CD4 counts of 750–501/μl had a Grade 3 
abnormal low neutrophil value (0.68×103/μl) at Week 2 that was reported as an AE with possible 
relationship to the study vaccination. 
In POX-MVA-024 two subjects who received two doses of MVA-BN and 3 who received placebo 
followed by MVA-BN had clinically significant abnormal low neutrophil counts at Visit 2 after the 
first dose or Visit 4 after the second dose and all were reported as AEs.  
In POX-MVA-010 at Week 30 haematology values below LLN that had been within the normal 
range at Screening were documented in ≥  10% of subjects in any treatment group for:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
Haematocrit in both vaccinia-naïve groups 
RBC in both HIV groups 
Neutrophils in the HIV vaccinia-naïve group 
MCHC in HIV vaccinia-experienced and both healthy groups 
No treatment-emergent abnormal haematology values of Grade 3 or 4 were reported. 
Biochemistry 
In POX-MVA-008 clinically significantly abnormal biochemistry values that fulfilled the toxicity 
Grade 3 criterion were reported for 17 subjects, including 7 with low potassium values, 4 with 
high AST and ALT, one with a high ALT and 5 with elevated troponin I values (reported as SIAEs 
- 4 assessed as possibly related and one not related). In POX-MVA-011 HIV-infected subjects 
with abnormal biochemistry values not present at Screening included three vaccinia-naïve 
subjects with Grade 3 troponin I values (0.49 μg/l, 0.22 μg/l, and 1.34 μg/l, respectively) and 
one vaccinia-experienced subject with Grade 3 increased troponin I value at Week 2 (0.2 μg/l). 
In POX-MVA-024 significant abnormal biochemistry values in 6 subjects were related to 
concentrations of AST, ALT or CK. 
Pregnancies 
Thirteen pregnancies occurred during 5 of the studies. One of the pregnancies was terminated 
with an elective abortion and one pregnancy ended as spontaneous abortion. All other 
pregnancies were followed up and all women gave birth to healthy babies. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Across the studies 28 AEs in 18 (0.6%) subjects led to withdrawal either from the study or from 
vaccination and all occurred within the main study periods. Although leading to withdrawal, 
23/28 were considered unrelated or unlikely to be related to study vaccine with no definitely 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 109/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
related AEs. Four AEs in 4 subjects were considered possibly related to study vaccine and one 
other AE was considered probably related (Grade 2 intensity injection site dermatitis after the 
first vaccination in an HIV-infected vaccinia-naïve subject [CD4 ≥  350– 500/μL] in POX-MVA-
011). On a PT level, there was no particular pattern with regard to the nature of the individual 
AEs leading to withdrawal. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Across the 15 reported studies the total that received 2 doses of 1 x 108 TCID50 of MVA-BN 4 
weeks apart if VV- naïve or one dose of 1 x 108 TCID50 if VV-experienced subjects was 2,388. 
The population includes subjects from 18 up to 80 years of age. A total of 3,066 subjects 
received at least one MVA-BN dose of 1 x 108 TCID50 (or higher). This total included healthy 
subjects as well as HIV-infected subjects (N= 609) and subjects with atopic dermatitis (N = 
381). No trends for unexpected and/or serious adverse reactions were detected and no 
difference in the safety profile has been observed between vaccinia-naïve and vaccinia-
experienced subjects receiving MVA-BN. The majority of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are 
related to local, injection-site reactions of mild to moderate intensity, which were completely 
reversible within days. The feature that stands out is the rate of reporting raised troponin I as 
a laboratory AE. The applicant clarified that < 25% of subjects with abnormal troponin I 
and/or abnormal ECG findings were actually investigated by a cardiologist and therefore it was 
not possible to reach a definitive conclusion regarding lack of any effect of MVA-BN on 
myopericardial tissue.  
The CHMP requested two additional Phase III studies to provide confirmation of the safety of 
MVA-BN, one study will provide this confirmation against placebo and the second study will 
provide comparative safety data against the active comparator currently available. These 
studies are considered key for the benefit risk of the product. 
As a consequence of the inability to provide comprehensive clinical data on the safety under 
normal conditions of use of the vaccine the CHMP requested specific post-authorisation 
obligations to gather safety data in observational prospective non-interventional cohort studies 
(as detailed in the RMP ). In addition, post-authorisation studies will be conducted in children 
in case of a declared outbreak situation to provide safety data in this population. 
Furthermore, the CHMP considered essential that planned studies should provide reliable 
information on the effects of the vaccine by systematic collection of data from troponin I 
assays, ECGs and echocardiograms. The risk of myopericarditis or other adverse events of 
special interest will be monitored in all phase III clinical studies (as detailed in the RMP). 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The CHMP considered the safety data package as sufficient to support the marketing 
authorisation. The Product Information adequately reflects the currently known safety profile of 
the product. 
The planned studies will provide reliable information on the effects of the vaccine by systematic 
collection of data from troponin I assays, ECGs and echocardiograms. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 110/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils 
the legislative requirements.   
2.8.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
PRAC Advice 
Based  on  the  PRAC  review  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  version  3.3,  the  PRAC  considers  by 
consensus that the risk management system for modified Vaccinia Ankara virus (Imvanex) in 
the treatment against smallpox infection and disease in persons 18 years of age and older is 
acceptable.  
Advice on conditions of the marketing authorisation  
Risk management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The PRAC considers that no additional risk minimisation measures will be necessary for the safe 
and effective use of the medicinal product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 111/121 
 
  
  
 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The PRAC recommends that the following studies should be conditions or specific obligations of 
Due date 
Status Reports  
updates with 
PSURs in the 
annual re-
assessment 
application 
Status Reports 
updates with 
PSURs in the 
annual re-
assessment 
application 
Final clinical 
study report 
Q2 2016 
Final clinical 
study report 
Q4 2016 
Final clinical 
study report 
Q4 2017 
the MA: 
Description 
POX-MVA-038:  An observational, non-interventional post-authorisation 
safety study for the prophylactic vaccination with IMVANEX in adults. 
POX-MVA-039: An observational, non-interventional post-authorisation 
safety and efficacy study for the prophylactic vaccination with IMVANEX 
following re-emergence of circulating smallpox infections 
POX-MVA-027: A randomized, double-blind, multicenter Phase II trial to 
compare the immunogenicity and safety of a liquid-frozen and a freeze-dried 
formulation of IMVAMUNE (MVA-BN) smallpox vaccine in vaccinia-naïve 
healthy subjects. 
POX-MVA-013: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III 
trial to evaluate immunogenicity and safety of three consecutive production 
lots of MVA-BN smallpox vaccine in healthy, vaccinia-naïve subjects 
POX-MVA-006: A randomized, open-label Phase III non-inferiority trial to 
compare the immunogenicity of IMVAMUNE (MVA-BN) with the conventional 
smallpox vaccine ACAM2000 in 18-40 year old healthy vaccinia-naïve 
subjects 
This advice is based on the following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
•  Safety concerns 
The he following safety concerns were identified: 
Summary of safety concerns 
Identified risks 
Potential risks 
None 
Myo-/pericarditis 
Vaccinia rash, eczema vaccinatum 
Generalised vaccinia 
Progressive vaccinia 
Erythema multiforme 
Post-vaccinial encephalitis 
Incorrect route of drug administration 
Additional 
provided: 
information 
to 
be 
Children and adolescents (<18 years) 
Pregnant and lactating women 
Elderly subjects 
Individuals with organ impairment 
Clinically immunocompromised individuals 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 112/121 
 
  
  
 
 
Safety  experience  in  mass  vaccination  due  to 
smallpox outbreak 
Interactions  with 
concomitantly administered immunoglobulins 
vaccines 
other 
and 
•  Pharmacovigilance plans 
Pharmacovigilance measures included in the RMP: 
Study/ 
Pharmacovigila
nce measure  
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
Nonclinical 
Protocol: 
Developmental 
Toxicity Study of 
Subcutaneously 
Administered 
MVA-BN Vaccine 
in Early Pregnant 
Wistar Rats 
Category 3 
POX-MVA-006: A 
randomized, 
open-label Phase 
III non-inferiority 
trial to compare 
the 
immunogenicity 
of IMVAMUNE 
(MVA-BN) with 
the conventional 
smallpox vaccine 
ACAM2000 in 18-
40 year old 
healthy vaccinia-
naïve subjects 
Category 1 
POX-MVA-013:   
A Randomized, 
Double-Blind, 
Placebo-
Controlled Phase 
III Trial to 
Evaluate 
Immunogenicity 
and Safety of 
Three 
Consecutive 
Production Lots of 
IMVAMUNE (MVA-
BN) Smallpox 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Objectives 
Safety concerns 
addressed 
Status 
(planned, 
started)  
Date for 
submission of 
final reports  
To investigate the 
effect of Imvanex 
administration 
during the early 
phase of 
pregnancy 
important missing 
information of 
potential 
relevance to use 
of IMVANEX in 
pregnant women  
Planned 
(protocol 
submission 
planned for 30 
September 2013 
Final data 31 
December 
2014 
myopericarditis or 
other AESI for 
Imvanex 
Planned  
Protocol 
submission 
planned for  
31 March 2014 
Final data 31 
December 
2017 
myopericarditis or 
other AESI for 
Imvanex 
Planned 
Final CSR 31 
December 
2016 
Primary: To 
assess non-
inferiority of 
Imvamune 
compared to a 
conventional 
smallpox vaccine 
Secondary: 
immune 
response, safety 
and 
reactogenicity,  
Primary: To 
assess 
consistence of 
three 
consecutively 
produced 
Imvamune lots 
Secondary: 
uncommon ADRs 
including 
myo/pericarditis 
Collection of 
vaccinia specific 
humoral immune 
Page 113/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
response data 
Primary: non-
inferiority of 
immune 
responses 
induced by 
different 
formulations 
Secondary: safety 
and reactogenicity  
myopericarditis or 
other AESI for 
Imvanex 
Planned  
Final CSR 30 
June 2016 
Missing data in 
children 
Planned 
To investigate 
safety and 
immunogenicity 
of Imvanex in 
children 
Dependent on 
start of mass 
vaccination 
programs, 
according to an 
agreed 
protocol 
Vaccine in 
Healthy, 
Vaccinia-Naïve 
Subjects 
Category 1 
POX-MVA-027: A 
randomized, 
double-blind, 
multicenter Phase 
II trial to 
compare the 
immunogenicity 
and safety of a 
liquid frozen and 
a freeze-dried 
formulation of 
IMVAMUNE (MVA-
BN) smallpox 
vaccine in 
vaccinia-naïve 
healthy subjects 
Category 1 
POX-MVA-035:  
Open-label, non-
controlled, 
multicenter 
immunogenicity 
and safety study 
of MVA-BN 
smallpox vaccine 
in children from 
birth to less than 
12 years of age 
Category 3 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 114/121 
 
  
  
 
 
POX-MVA-037: 
Clinical study in a 
selected highly 
immunocomprom
ised population 
that explores the 
dose of virus per 
injection 
including a dose 
higher than 1 x 
108 TCID50/ml, 
the number of 
injections and/or 
the time interval 
between 
injections 
Category 3 
POX-MVA-038: 
An observational, 
non-
interventional 
post-
authorisation 
safety study for 
the prophylactic 
vaccination with 
IMVANEX in 
adults  
Category 2 
POX-MVA-039: 
An observational 
post-
authorisation 
safety and 
efficacy study for 
the prophylactic 
vaccination with 
IMVANEX 
following re-
emergence of 
circulating 
smallpox 
infections 
Category 2 
To investigate 
safety and 
immunogenicity 
of Imvanex in an 
immunocompromi
sed population 
Missing data in 
clinically 
immunocompromi
sed individuals 
Planned 
CSR 31 May 
2016 
Protocol 
submissio
n no later 
than 28 
February 
2014  
Updates with 
PSURs in 
annual re-
assessment 
application 
FSR within 12 
months of end 
of data 
collection 
Dependent on 
start of mass 
vaccination, 
according to an 
agreed 
protocol 
Identified and 
potential risks in 
RMP 
Planned 
Submissio
n of core 
protocol 
no later 
than 31 
December 
2013  
Planned 
Protocol 
submissio
n no later 
than 31 
December 
2013  
Identified and 
potential risks in 
RMP 
Missing 
information: 
children, elderly, 
immunocompromi
sed, safety in 
mass vaccination, 
interactions with 
vaccines, 
immunoglobulins. 
Primary: 
investigate 
incidence of AEs 
across all age 
groups >18 years 
following active 
surveillance of 
vaccinated 
subjects 
Secondary: 
assessment of 
incidence of 
important and 
potential risks in 
RMP 
Primary: 
investigate 
incidence of AEs 
across all age 
groups >18 years 
following active 
surveillance of 
vaccinated 
subjects 
Secondary: 
assessment of 
incidence of 
important and 
potential risks in 
RMP 
Effectiveness of 
Imvanex 
*Category 1 are imposed activities considered key to the benefit risk of the product. 
Category 2 are specific obligations 
Category 3 are required additional PhV activity (to address specific safety concerns or to measure effectiveness of risk minimisation 
measures) 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 115/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the proposed post-
authorisation PhV development plan is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the 
product. 
The PRAC also considered that routine PhV is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. 
•  Risk minimisation measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 116/121 
 
  
  
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures  Additional 
risk 
minimisation 
measures 
Identified risks  
None 
Potential risks 
Myo-/pericarditis 
Vaccinia rash, eczema 
vaccinatum 
Generalised vaccinia 
Progessive vaccinia 
Erythema multiforme 
Post-vaccinal encephalitis 
Incorrect route of 
administration 
NA 
None (Applicant commits to updating the product 
information to include a warning should 
information become available to suggest a causal 
relationship between Imvanex and 
myo/pericarditis) 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
SmPC section 4.2 (posology and method of 
administration) indicates the correct route of 
administration 
Additional information to be 
provided: 
Children and adolescents (<18 
years) 
SmPC section 4.1 ‘Therapeutic indications’ 
indicates correct age group (persons 18 years of 
age and older). 
Pregnant and lactating women 
SPC Section 4.6 ‘Pregnancy and lactation’ states 
that vaccinating pregnant or 
lactating women is not recommended 
Elderly subjects 
Patients with organ impairment 
Clinically immunocompromised 
patients 
Safety experience in mass 
vaccination due to smallpox 
outbreak 
Interactions with other vaccines 
and concomitantly administered 
immunoglobulins 
None 
None 
None 
None 
SPC section 4.5 states: ‘No interaction studies 
with other vaccines or drugs have been 
performed. Therefore, concomitant administration 
with other vaccines should be avoided’ 
NA 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
The CHMP endorsed this advice with changes: 
Study “POX-MVA-027: A randomized, double-blind, multicenter Phase II trial to compare the 
immunogenicity and safety of a liquid frozen and a freeze-dried formulation of IMVAMUNE (MVA-
BN) smallpox vaccine in vaccinia-naïve healthy subjects” should not be a condition of the MA as 
it is not considered by the CHMP as key for the benefit/risk.  
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 117/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.9.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet 
submitted by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as 
set out in the Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal 
products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
MVA-BN elicits antibody against itself and against Vaccinia Virus Western Reserve and New York 
City Board of Health strains. It is able to elicit an anamnestic immune response in subjects who 
have previously received replication competent vaccine or MVA-BN.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Due to the current scientific knowledge, the particularities of this condition and the non-feasibility 
to perform challenge studies and efficacy studies as it would be contrary to medical ethics, there 
is inadequate evidence from non-clinical and clinical studies to determine the level of protection 
MVA-BN may provide against smallpox in human. The clinical data do not provide definitive 
support for the current posology, including the number of doses and the possible timing of 
sequential (booster) doses by population sub-group.  
In particular, there is uncertainty regarding the posology for healthy or HIV-infected subjects, 
whether vaccinia-naïve or experienced. There are also doubts about doses needed in older 
persons and there are no data in immunocompromised persons other than HIV-infected persons.  
Although the cell-mediated immune response is considered to be important in protection against 
and recovery from smallpox no conclusions can be drawn from available data regarding the CMI 
response to MVA-BN.  
In light of the limitations of the submitted data supportive of the claimed indication, additional 
data will be generated from post-authorisation studies. In particular, confirmation on 
immunogenicity will be provided from the phase III trials as detailed in the Annex II of the CHMP 
opinion (conditions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product). 
Furthermore, specific procedures to monitor the use of this vaccine have been agreed and are 
mentioned as specific obligations.  
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
Vaccination has been associated with elevations in troponin I. 
MVA-BN is associated with considerable local reactogenicity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 118/121 
 
  
  
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The data on troponin I were not collected in a comprehensive systematic fashion. Less than 25% 
of all subjects with abnormal troponin I and/or ECG findings were consistently investigated by a 
cardiologist across studies. At this point in time, it cannot be ruled out that MVA-BN may have 
unwanted effects on the myopericardium. 
Confirmation of the safety profile will be supported by additional data to be generated from the 
post-authorisation studies, in particular in the phase III trials as detailed in Annex II (conditions 
with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product). Furthermore, the 
requirements defined in the specific obligations will ensure the adequate safety monitoring of the 
vaccine. 
In non-clinical studies MVA-BN did not achieve consistent suppression of viraemia whereas no 
viraemia was detected in the control replication-competent vaccine groups. This raises the 
possibility that MVA-BN could suppress clinically apparent infection in some humans but not 
prevent transmission.  
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Smallpox (variola major form) carries a high mortality and morbidity. The replication-competent 
vaccines were collectively shown to be effective during the global eradication campaign. 
However, these vaccines are not suitable for use in some subjects and their overall safety profile 
points to the occurrence of well-documented rare and very rare SAEs that can be life-threatening 
or even fatal such as eczema vaccinatum, progressive vaccinia, generalized vaccinia, and 
postvaccinal encephalitis. 
The level and duration of protection that MVA-BN may provide against smallpox in human is 
unknown and the time to onset of any degree of protection cannot be determined so that its 
value in a deliberate release situation cannot be assessed. However, the lack of vaccine virus 
replication in man implies that it is less likely to be associated with the same types of SAEs 
observed with the replication-competent vaccines. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Based on the current evidence the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk balance is favourable in 
the claimed indication. A substantial proportion of the population for whom a replication 
competent vaccine is contraindicated can benefit from the protective effect of MVA-BN. The use 
of the vaccine should occur in accordance with official national recommendations.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by majority 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Imvanex for active immunisation against smallpox in 
adults is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation 
under exceptional circumstances subject to the following conditions: 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 119/121 
 
  
  
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Official batch release  
In accordance with Article 114 Directive 2001/83/EC, the official batch release will be 
undertaken by a state laboratory or a laboratory designated for that purpose. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
• 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within six months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation 
holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
• 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Due date 
POX-MVA-013: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III 
trial to evaluate immunogenicity and safety of three consecutive production 
lots of MVA-BN smallpox vaccine in healthy, vaccinia-naïve subjects. 
Final clinical 
study report 
Q4 2016 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 120/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
POX-MVA-006: A randomized, open-label Phase III non-inferiority trial to 
compare the immunogenicity of IMVAMUNE (MVA-BN) with the conventional 
smallpox vaccine ACAM2000 in 18-40 year old healthy vaccinia-naïve 
subjects. 
Due date 
Final clinical 
study report 
Q4 2017 
Specific Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures for the marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the 
following measures: 
Description 
In order to confirm the validity of the applicant’s claims regarding changes 
in antibody titres over time, the applicant should provide status reports on 
additional batched serum analysis of future clinical studies 
To ensure adequate monitoring of safety and/or effectiveness, the applicant 
should perform the following studies to collect data where IMVANEX is used 
as a prophylactic vaccine and/or use in case of re-emergence of circulating 
smallpox. 
• 
• 
POX-MVA-038:  An observational, non-interventional post-
authorisation safety study for the prophylactic vaccination with 
IMVANEX in adults 
POX-MVA-039: An observational, non-interventional post-
authorisation safety and efficacy study for the prophylactic 
vaccination with IMVANEX following re-emergence of circulating 
smallpox infections 
Due date 
Status to be 
reported 
annually within 
each annual re-
assessment 
application 
Status Reports 
updates with 
PSURs in the 
annual re-
assessment 
application 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that Modified Vaccinia Ankara - Bavarian Nordic (MVA-BN) virus is qualified as a new 
active substance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/369203/2013 
Page 121/121 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
