ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See 
section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Inaqovi 35 mg/100 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 35 mg decitabine and 100 mg cedazuridine. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 306 mg lactose (as lactose monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
Red, oval biconvex shaped tablet, 14 mm diameter, plain on one side and debossed with ‘H35’ on the 
other side.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Inaqovi is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) who are ineligible for standard induction chemotherapy.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of anticancer therapies.  
Posology 
The recommended dose of Inaqovi is 1 tablet once daily on Days 1 through 5 of each 28-day cycle. 
Cycles are to be repeated every 28 days. Treatment is to be continued for a minimum of 4 cycles until 
disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. A complete or partial response may take longer than 
4 cycles.  
• 
• 
• 
Substitution with an intravenous decitabine product within a cycle is not recommended. 
Premedication with standard antiemetic therapy prior to each dose to minimise nausea and vomiting 
is to be considered (see section 4.4). 
A delay or reduction in the dose per cycle is to be considered for patients who experience 
haematologic and non-haematologic toxicities (see “Dose adjustments”). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missed or vomited dose 
• 
• 
• 
If the patient misses a dose within 12 hours of the time it is usually taken, the patient must take the 
missed dose as soon as possible and resume the normal daily dosing schedule.  
If the patient misses a dose by 12 or more hours, the patient must wait and take the missed dose the 
following day at the usual time and then extend the dosing period by one day for every missed dose 
to complete 5 daily doses for each cycle. 
If the patient vomits following dosing, no additional dose is to be taken that day. The next dose 
must be taken at the usual time and resume the normal daily dosing, with no extension of the dosing 
period. 
Dose adjustments 
Haematologic adverse reactions 
The next cycle must be delayed if absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is less than 1.0 × 109/L and platelets 
are less than 50 × 109/L in the absence of active disease. Complete blood cell (CBC) counts must be 
monitored until ANC is 1.0 × 109/L or greater and platelets are 50 × 109/L or greater. 
In the absence of active disease: 
• 
• 
If haematological recovery occurs (ANC at least 1.0 × 109/L and platelets at least 50 × 109/L) within 
2 weeks of the last treatment cycle, treatment is to be continued at the same dose. 
If haematological recovery does not occur (ANC at least 1.0 × 109/L and platelets at least 
50 × 109/L) within 2 weeks of the last treatment cycle: 
o 
o 
Treatment must be delayed for up to 2 additional weeks AND 
The patient must resume treatment at a reduced dose on Days 1 through 4. Further dose 
reductions have to be considered in the order listed in Table 1 if myelosuppression persists 
after a dose reduction.  
Dose has to be maintained or increased in subsequent cycles as clinically indicated. 
o 
Patients are to be treated with a minimum of 4 cycles of treatments with active disease.  
Table 1: Recommended dose reductions for myelosuppression 
Dose reduction 
First 
Second 
Third 
Dose 
1 tablet once daily on Days 1 through 4 
1 tablet once daily on Days 1 through 3 
1 tablet once daily on Days 1, 3 and 5 
Persistent severe neutropaenia and febrile neutropaenia have to be managed with supportive treatment (see 
section 4.4). 
Non-haematologic adverse reactions 
Subsequent treatment cycles must be delayed for the following non-haematologic adverse reactions and 
resumed at the same or reduced dose upon resolution: 
• 
• 
• 
Serum creatinine 2 mg/dL or greater 
Serum bilirubin 2 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or greater  
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 2 times the ULN or 
greater  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Active or uncontrolled infection 
Dose adjustments for all other Grade 3 or higher adverse reactions should follow institutional guidelines. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Studies in patients with hepatic impairment have not been conducted. The need for dose adjustment in 
patients with hepatic impairment has not been evaluated. If worsening hepatic function occurs, patients 
should be carefully monitored (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No adjustment of starting dose is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance [CrCl] ≥ 30 mL/min/1.73 m2). Due to the potential for increased adverse reactions, 
patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl 30 to 59 mL/min/1.73 m2) must be monitored. Inaqovi has 
not been studied in patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl 15 to 29 mL/min/1.73 m2) or end stage 
renal disease (CrCl <15 mL/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Inaqovi in the paediatric population (aged less than 18 years) have not been 
established. No data are available.  
Method of administration   
Inaqovi is for oral use. The tablets must be swallowed whole with water at approximately the same time 
each day. Food is not to be consumed 2 hours before and 2 hours after taking treatment in order to avoid a 
risk for lack of efficacy (see section 4.5).  
The tablets must not be chewed, crushed, or broken in order to avoid skin contact or release of active 
substance into the air. 
Inaqovi is a cytotoxicmedicinal product. For proper handling and disposal procedures see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Myelosuppression 
Fatal and serious myelosuppression can occur with treatment (see section 4.8).  
Complete blood cell counts must be obtained prior to the initiation of treatment, prior to each cycle, and as 
clinically indicated to monitor response and toxicity. Growth factors and anti-infective therapies must be 
administered for treatment or prophylaxis as appropriate. The next cycle must be delayed and resumed at 
the same or reduced dose as recommended (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). Patients must be monitored for signs 
and symptoms of infection and treated promptly. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neutropaenia 
Supportive treatments include, administration of prophylactic antibiotics and/or growth factor support 
(e.g., G-CSF) for neutropaenia according to institutional guidelines. For situations where administration 
must be delayed, see section 4.2. 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Cases of interstitial lung disease (ILD) (including pulmonary infiltrates, organising pneumonia and 
pulmonary fibrosis) without signs of infectious aetiology have been reported in patients receiving 
intravenous decitabine. Patients with an acute onset or unexplained worsening of pulmonary symptoms 
must be carefully assessed to exclude ILD. If ILD is confirmed, appropriate treatment must be initiated 
(see section 4.8). 
Hepatic impairment 
Use in patients with hepatic impairment has not been established. Caution must be exercised in the 
administration of medicinal product to patients with hepatic impairment and in patients who develop signs 
or symptoms of hepatic impairment. Liver function tests must be performed prior to the initiation of 
therapy, prior to each treatment cycle, and as clinically indicated (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
Renal impairment 
Use in patients with severe renal impairment has not been studied. Caution must be exercised in the 
administration of the medicinal product to patients with severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 mL/min). 
Renal function tests must be performed prior to the initiation of therapy, prior to each treatment cycle, and 
as clinically indicated (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
Cardiac disease 
Patients with a history of severe congestive heart failure or clinically unstable cardiac disease were 
excluded from clinical studies and therefore, the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product in these 
patients has not been established. Cases of cardiomyopathy with cardiac decompensation, in some cases 
reversible after treatment discontinuation, dose reduction or corrective treatment, have been reported in 
the postmarketing setting with intravenous decitabine (see section 4.8). Patients, especially those with a 
history of cardiac disease, must be monitored for signs and symptoms of heart failure. 
Differentiation syndrome 
Cases of differentiation syndrome (also known as retinoic acid syndrome) have been reported during the 
post-marketing period with intravenous decitabine (see section 4.8). Differentiation syndrome may be 
fatal (see section 4.8). Treatment with high-dose intravenous corticosteroids and haemodynamic 
monitoring must be considered at first onset of symptoms or signs suggestive of differentiation syndrome. 
Treatment must be temporarily discontinued until symptoms resolve, and if resumed, caution is advised. 
Administration of antiemetics 
Nausea and vomiting may occur during treatment. Administration of standard antiemetic therapy prior to 
each dose should be considered to minimise nausea and vomiting. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effect of other medicinal products on Inaqovi 
Decitabine and cedazuridine are not substrates or inhibitors for cytochrome P450 (CYP450); thus 
interactions with CYP inhibitors or inducers are not expected. 
Cytidine deaminase inhibitors 
Because decitabine is a substrate for the cytidine deaminase (CDA) enzyme, which metabolises decitabine 
resulting in an inactive deaminated form, other medicinal products inhibiting CDA should be avoided, as 
co-administration may result in increased decitabine exposure. 
Effect of Inaqovi on other medicinal products 
Medicinal products metabolised by cytidine deaminase 
Cedazuridine is an inhibitor of CDA and thereby increases the exposure of decitabine following oral 
administration. Concomitant administration of Inaqovi with medicinal products metabolised by CDA (i.e., 
cytarabine, gemcitabine, azacitidine) may result in increased systemic exposure with a potential for 
increased toxicity of these medicinal products. Co-administration of Inaqovi with medicinal products 
metabolised primarily by CDA should be avoided. 
Food 
Overall decitabine exposure has been shown to be reduced when decitabine is administered with a high-
fat, high-calorie meal (see section 4.2). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in men and women 
Due to the genotoxic potential of decitabine (see section 5.3), women of childbearing potential must use 
effective contraceptive measures and avoid becoming pregnant while being treated with Inaqovi and for 
6 months following completion of treatment. Men should use effective contraceptive measures and be 
advised to not father a child while receiving Inaqovi, and for 3 months following completion of treatment 
(see section 5.3). 
The use of decitabine and cedazuridine with hormonal contraceptives has not been studied. 
Pregnancy 
There are no or a limited amount of human data from the use of decitabine and cedazuridine in pregnant 
women. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the results of embryo-foetal toxicity studies conducted in animals (see section 5.3), Inaqovi may 
harm the foetus when administered to pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Inaqovi is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using effective 
contraception. A pregnancy test should be performed on all women of childbearing potential before 
treatment is started. If Inaqovi is used during pregnancy, or if a patient becomes pregnant while receiving 
this medicinal product, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether decitabine, cedazuridine, or their metabolites are excreted in breast milk.  
A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. 
Inaqovi is contraindicated during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of decitabine and cedazuridine on fertility are available. Ovarian and 
testicular toxicity, including mutagenicity, has been observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice. 
Because of the possibility of infertility as a consequence of therapy, men should seek advice on 
conservation of sperm and female patients of childbearing potential should seek consultation regarding 
oocyte cryopreservation prior to initiating treatment. Before starting treatment or planning pregnancy, 
consider the above guidance (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Inaqovi has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be advised that 
they may experience undesirable effects, such as anaemia during treatment. Therefore, caution should be 
observed when driving a car or operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
The safety of Inaqovi was evaluated in one Phase 3 study (ASTX727-02-EU) where 80 AML patients 
received the medicinal product. The overall safety profile for Inaqovi is described below and also reflects 
the known safety profile of intravenous decitabine. 
Among the 80 patients who received treatment, the most common adverse drug reaction (≥ 20%) 
including Grade ≥ 3 was thrombocytopaenia.  
The most common serious adverse reactions (≥ 20%) were febrile neutropaenia and pneumonia. 
Deaths while on treatment occurred in 24% of patients. The most frequent adverse reactions resulting in 
death included pneumonia (8%), sepsis (3%) and central nervous system haemorrhage in the setting of 
thrombocytopaenia (3%). 
Permanent discontinuation occurred in 14% of patients while on treatment. The most frequent adverse 
reaction resulting in permanent discontinuation was pneumonia (5%).  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment interruption and dose reductions occurred in 48% of patients. The most frequent adverse 
reaction resulting in treatment interruption and dose reduction was myelosuppression occurring in 19% of 
patients (n=15) (neutropaenia [13%, n=10], febrile neutropaenia [5%, n=4], and thrombocytopaenia [3%, 
n=2]). The adverse reaction pneumonia led to treatment interruption and dose reduction in 5% of patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The safety evaluation of adverse reactions is largely based on experience with Dacogen in patients with 
AML. The safety of Inaqovi in adult patients was evaluated in a safety population that included AML 
patients from one Phase 3 study (ASTX727-02-EU, N=80). 
Among the 80 patients who received Inaqovi, 38% were exposed for 6 months or longer and 6% were 
exposed for greater than 1 year. 
Table 2 lists adverse drug reactions associated with Inaqovi (N=80), or that have been associated with 
intravenous decitabine, according to system organ class (SOC) in MedDRA. Within each SOC, the 
adverse drug reactions are ranked by frequency and then presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The 
corresponding frequency category for each adverse drug reaction is defined as: very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); very rare 
(<1/10 000); not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
Table 2: Adverse drug reactions observed with Inaqovi or with intravenous decitabine therapy in 
AML patients  
MedDRA SOC 
MedDRA Term a 
All CTCAE Grades 
% 
Frequency 
CTCAE Grade 3-4 
% 
Frequency 
AML (N=80) 
All other infections 
(viral, bacterial, 
fungal) b 
Pneumonia c 
Sepsis d 
Urinary tract 
infection e 
Sinusitis (including 
fungal f and 
bacterial g) 
Leukopenia h 
Thrombocytopaenia 
h,i 
Anaemia h 
Neutropaenia h,j 
Febrile neutropaenia 
Infections and 
infestations  
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
50.0 
Very common 
25.0 
Very common 
Very common 
18.8 
Very common 
23.8 
10.0 
Very common 
17.5 
Very common 
2.5 
81.3 
73.8 
67.5 
41.8 
28.8 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
6.3 
2.5 
2.5 
67.5 
67.5 
60.0 
41.8 
26.3 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Pancytopaenia k 
Not known  Uncommon k  Not known  Uncommon k 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hyperglycaemia h,m 
Differentiation 
syndrome l 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps) 
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders  
Nervous system 
disorders  
Cardiac disorders  Cardiomyopathy o 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Headache n 
Epistaxis n 
Interstitial lung 
disease l 
Stomatitis p 
Nausea q 
Diarrhoea r 
Vomiting r 
Neutropaenic 
colitis s 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased h,t 
Alanine 
aminotransferase 
increased h,u 
Alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased h,v 
Bilirubin 
increased h,w,q 
Acute febrile 
neutrophilic 
dermatosis (Sweet’s 
syndrome) x 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders  
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
61.1 
Very common 
4.2 
Common 
2.5 
Common 
Not known 
Common n 
Not known  Uncommon 
Not known  Uncommon 
6.3 
Common 
Not known 
Common n 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
10.0 
21.3 
13.8 
12.5 
1.3 
1.3 
Very common 
Very common  Not known  Uncommon q 
Very common  Not known 
Very common  Not known 
Common r 
Common r 
Common 
Common 
1.3 
Common 
30.6 
Very common 
2.8 
Common 
28.8 
Very common 
2.7 
Common 
43.7 
Very common 
0 
Not 
applicable 
23.3  
Very common  Not known  Uncommonf 
Not known  Uncommon x 
Not 
applicable y 
Not 
applicable y 
23.8 
Pyrexia z 
Very common 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
a  The corresponding frequency category for each adverse drug reaction is based on the CIOMS III convention 
b  Grouped terms include anal abscess, anorectal infection, bacteraemia, cellulitis, cellulitis staphylococcal, corona 
virus infection, coronavirus test positive, enterococcal bacteraemia, enterocolitis viral, erythema, escherichia 
bacteraemia, folliculitis, furuncle, gingival swelling, herpes virus infection, infection, klebsiella bacteraemia, 
nasal congestion, nasopharyngitis, oral candidiasis, oral herpes, oropharyngeal candidiasis, otitis externa, 
periodontitis, pharyngitis, polyserositis, pseudomonal bacteraemia, staphylococcal bacteraemia, staphylococcal 
infection, streptococcal bacteraemia, respiratory tract infection, skin infection, tooth abscess, tooth infection, 
upper respiratory tract infection, varicella zoster virus infection 
Common 
1.3 
c  Grouped terms include bronchitis, pneumonia 
d  Grouped terms include sepsis, septic shock, systemic candidiasis, urosepsis 
9 
e  Grouped terms include bacteriuria, cystitis, dysuria, escherichia urinary tract infection, urinary tract infection, 
urinary tract infection enterococcal 
f  Grouped terms include sinusitis aspergillus, sinusitis fungal 
g  Sinusitis bacterial was not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however sinusitis (organism not specified)  
was observed in clinical trials with IV decitabine at a frequency of common (3%, 1%) 
h  Based on laboratory values  
i  Thrombocytopaenia may lead to bleeding and haemorrhagic reactions that may be fatal 
j  Neutrophils decreased (n=79) 
k  Pancytopaenia, including fatal events, was not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however it was 
observed in clinical trials with IV decitabine at a frequency of uncommon (< 1%) 
l  Differentiation syndrome and interstitial lung disease were not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, 
however they were observed in post-market setting with the use of IV decitabine 
m  Hyperglycemia (n=72)  
n  Headache and epistaxis Grade 3-4, were not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however they were 
observed in clinical trials with IV decitabine at a frequency of common (1% and 2%) 
o  Cardiomyopathy was not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however it was observed in clinical trials 
with IV decitabine at a frequency of uncommon (< 1%) 
p  Grouped terms include aphthous ulcer, glossitis, oral discomfort, oropharyngeal discomfort, oropharyngeal pain, 
stomatitis, tongue ulceration, toothache  
q  Nausea and bilirubin increased, Grade 3-4, were not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however it was 
observed in clinical trials with IV decitabine at a frequency of uncommon (< 1%) 
r  Diarrhoea and vomiting, Grade 3-4, were not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however they were 
observed in clinical trials with IV decitabine at a frequency of common (2% and 1%) 
s  Caecitis (including fatal events) was not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however they were observed 
in post-market setting with the use of IV decitabine 
t  Aspartate aminotransferase increased (n=72) 
u  Alanine aminotransferase increased (n=73) 
v  Alkaline phosphatase increased (n=71) 
w  Bilirubin increased (n=73) 
x  Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis was not observed in the clinical trial with Inaqovi, however it was observed 
in clinical trials with IV decitabine (all Grades) at a frequency of uncommon (< 1%) 
y  Not applicable (Grade 3-4): Adverse drug reaction has not been observed with either Inaqovi or IV decitabine in 
both clinical trials and post-market 
z  Grouped terms include chills and pyrexia 
CTCAE= Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Haematologic adverse drug reactions 
The most commonly reported haematologic adverse drug reactions associated with treatment included 
leukopaenia, thrombocytopaenia, anaemia, neutropaenia and febrile neutropaenia. These adverse drug 
reactions are manifestations of myelosuppression and may present as pancytopenia. 
Serious bleeding-related adverse drug reactions, such as gastrointestinal haemorrhage and cerebral 
haemorrhage in the context of severe thrombocytopaenia, were reported in patients receiving treatment. 
Bleeding may also occur with the eyes, skin, and mucous membranes (mouth and anorectal). 
Haematological adverse drug reactions must be managed by routine monitoring of CBCs and early 
administration of supportive treatments as required. Supportive treatments include administration of 
prophylactic antibiotics and/or growth factor support (e.g., G-CSF) for neutropaenia and transfusions for 
anaemia or thrombocytopaenia according to institutional guidelines. For situations where treatment must 
be delayed, see section 4.2.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections and infestations adverse drug reactions 
Serious infection-related adverse drug reactions, with potentially fatal outcome, such as septic shock, 
sepsis, pneumonia, and other infections (viral, bacterial and fungal) were reported in patients receiving 
treatment.  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Occurrences of enterocolitis, including neutropaenic colitis, have been reported during treatment. 
Enterocolitis may lead to septic complications and may be associated with fatal outcome.  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders  
Cases of interstitial lung disease (including pulmonary infiltrates, organising pneumonia and pulmonary 
fibrosis) without signs of infectious aetiology have been reported in patients receiving intravenous 
decitabine.  
Differentiation syndrome  
Cases of differentiation syndrome (also known as retinoic acid syndrome) have been reported in patients 
receiving intravenous decitabine. Differentiation syndrome may be fatal and symptoms and clinical 
findings include respiratory distress, pulmonary infiltrates, fever, rash, pulmonary oedema, peripheral 
oedema, rapid weight gain, pleural effusions, pericardial effusions, hypotension and renal dysfunction. 
Differentiation syndrome may occur with or without concomitant leucocytosis. Capillary leak syndrome 
and coagulopathy can also occur (see section 4.4). 
Other special populations 
Elderly 
Of the 80 patients in clinical studies who received Inaqovi, 39% were younger than 75 years, and 61% 
were 75 years and older. No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between patients 
aged 75 years and older and younger patients.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Overdose could cause increased myelosuppression and neutropaenia-related infections such as pneumonia 
and sepsis. 
Management 
There is no known antidote for overdose with the medicinal product. In the event of an overdose, patients 
must be closely monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse reactions and appropriate symptomatic 
treatment instituted.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, antimetabolites, pyrimidine analogues; cytidine 
deaminase inhibitor; ATC code: L01BC58. 
Mechanism of action 
Decitabine is a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor that is believed to exert its antineoplastic effects after 
phosphorylation and direct incorporation into DNA and inhibition of DNA methyltransferase, causing 
hypomethylation of DNA and cellular differentiation and/or apoptosis. Decitabine-induced 
hypomethylation in neoplastic cells may restore normal function to genes that are critical for the control of 
cellular differentiation and proliferation. In rapidly dividing cells, the cytotoxicity of decitabine may also 
be attributed to the formation of covalent adducts between DNA methyltransferase and decitabine 
incorporated into DNA.  
Cytidine deaminase (CDA) is an enzyme that is responsible for the degradation of cytidine nucleosides, 
including the cytidine analog decitabine. High levels of CDA in the gastrointestinal tract and liver rapidly 
degrade these nucleosides and prohibit or limit their oral bioavailability. Cedazuridine inhibits CDA. Oral 
administration of cedazuridine with decitabine increases the systemic exposure of decitabine via inhibition 
of first pass metabolism of decitabine in the gut and liver by CDA.  
Clinical efficacy and safety  
Inaqovi was evaluated in a Phase 3 (ASTX727-02-EU, NCT03306264) open-label, randomised, 2-cycle, 
2-sequence crossover study that included adult patients with de novo or secondary AML as defined by 
World Health Organisation (WHO) criteria, who were not candidates for standard induction 
chemotherapy. A total of 89 patients were randomised 1:1 to receive Inaqovi (35 mg decitabine and 
100 mg cedazuridine) orally in Cycle 1 and decitabine (20 mg/m2) intravenously in Cycle 2 (n=44) or the 
reverse sequence (n=45). Both Inaqovi and intravenous decitabine were administered once daily on 
Days 1 through 5 of the 28-day cycle. Starting with Cycle 3, all patients received Inaqovi orally once daily 
on Days 1 through 5 of each 28-day cycle until disease progression, death, or unacceptable toxicity. Two 
of the patients randomised did not receive any study treatment and fifteen were treated in Cycle 1 alone: 
8 with Inaqovi, and 7 with intravenous decitabine. 
The median treatment duration was 5 months (range 0 to 18 months).   
Demographic and baseline disease characteristics are shown in Table 3. 
Table 3: Demographic and disease baseline characteristics (Phase 3) 
Characteristic 
Age (years) 
Median (min, max)  
Gender (%) 
Male 
Female 
ECOG Performance Score (%) 
0 
Phase 3 
Inaqovi 
(N=89) 
78 (61, 92) 
54 (60.7) 
35 (39.3) 
36 (40.4) 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Characteristic 
1 
Disease Category (%) 
de novo AML 
Secondary AML 
MDS 
Other antecedent haematological 
disorder 
Therapy-related AML 
Prior HMA Therapy (%) 
Prior azacitidine  
Transfusion Dependencea (%) 
RBC transfusion dependence 
Platelet transfusion dependence 
Phase 3 
Inaqovi 
(N=89) 
53 (59.6) 
57 (64.0) 
32 (36.0) 
18 (20.2) 
7 (7.9) 
7 (7.9) 
2 (2.2) 
37 (41.6) 
14 (15.7) 
a   Defined as documentation of ≥ 2 units of transfusion within 56 days of the first day of study treatment. 
AML=acute myeloid leukaemia; ECOG=Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group; HMA=hypomethylating agent; 
MDS=myelodysplastic syndrome; RBC=red blood cell. 
The primary outcome measure of the Phase 3 study was 5-day cumulative decitabine AUC between 
Inaqovi and intravenous decitabine. Inaqovi achieved AUC0-24h exposures equivalent to intravenous 
infusion of decitabine at 20 mg/m2 (see section 5.2).  
Secondary efficacy endpoints included complete response (CR) and the rate of conversion from 
transfusion dependence to transfusion independence. Descriptive summaries of efficacy are shown in 
Table 4. 
Table 4: Efficacy results in patients with AML study ASTX727-02-EU AML (Phase 3) 
Efficacy endpoints 
Complete response (%) [95% CI] 
Median duration of CR* - months [95% CI] 
Median time to CR - months [range] 
Overall response† (%) [95% CI] 
*  From start of CR until relapse or death 
†  OR included patients with a best response of CR, CRi, and PR 
CI=confidence interval; CR=complete response; NE=not evaluable; OR=overall response; PR=partial response. 
Inaqovi 
(N=89) 
21 [13.4, 31.3] 
5.8 [3.3, NE] 
3.0 [1.8, 7.4] 
32 [22.0, 42.2] 
A patient was considered transfusion independent if the patient was both RBC and platelet transfusion free 
post-treatment for ≥ 56 consecutive days. Among a total of 41 patients (out of the 87 treated patients) who 
were dependent on either RBC and/or platelet transfusions at baseline, 14 (34%) became independent of 
RBC or platelet transfusions during any 56-day post-baseline period. Of the 46 patients who were 
independent of both RBC and platelet transfusions at baseline, 12 (26%) remained 
transfusion-independent during any 56-day post-baseline period.  
Paediatric population 
The obligation to submit the results of studies with Inaqovi in one or more subsets of the paediatric 
population in AML has been deferred by the European Medicines Agency. See section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of decitabine and cedazuridine were studied following 
administration of Inaqovi at the recommended dose in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), 
chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia (CMML), and AML. 
Decitabine AUC exposures equivalent to those achieved with intravenous infusion of decitabine at 
20 mg/m2 was achieved with the recommended dose of Inaqovi for 5 consecutive days. The geometric 
mean ratio (GMR) of 5-day total decitabine AUC0-24h between Inaqovi and intravenous decitabine was 
99% for patients with MDS/CMML and 100% for patients with AML (90% confidence interval [CI] 93%, 
106% and 91%, 109% for MDS/CMML and AML, respectively). 
At steady state (achieved with the second dose), circulating plasma concentrations were typically 
1.8 times and 1.1 times the Day 1 plasma concentrations for decitabine and cedazuridine, respectively.  
In the MDS population (highest number of subjects available; data from AML were similar), decitabine 
mean (% coefficient of variation [CV]) AUC0-24h exposure at steady state was 189 (55%) ng×h/mL and 
Cmax was 145 (55%) ng/mL, respectively. Cedazuridine mean AUC0-24h exposure at steady state (Day 2) 
was 3290 (45%) ng×h/mL and Cmax was 349 (49%) ng/mL.  
Absorption 
After oral administration of Inaqovi, the median time to peak concentration (tmax) at steady state was 
3 hours (range: 0.5 to 7.9 ) for cedazuridine and 1 hour (range: 0.3 to 3) for decitabine. Co-administered 
with cedazuridine increased decitabine oral relative bioavailability to achieve systemic AUC exposures 
seen with intravenous decitabine. The bioavailability of cedazuridine was 20.7% (range: 12.7% to 25.6%). 
In a crossover food effect study conducted in 16 patients, administration of the medicinal product with a 
high-fat, high-calorie meal reduced the overall decitabine exposure (AUC) by approximately 40% and 
Cmax by 54%. Cedazuridine time to maximum concentration (tmax) was slightly delayed but its systemic 
exposure was not significantly affected by the meal. 
Distribution  
Decitabine 
Decitabine is approximately 5% bound to human plasma proteins in vitro. The geometric mean (CV%) of 
apparent volume of distribution at steady state is 417 L (54%). 
Cedazuridine 
Cedazuridine is approximately 35% bound to human plasma proteins in vitro. The geometric mean (CV%) 
of apparent volume of distribution for cedazuridine is 296 L (51%). 
Biotransformation  
Decitabine 
Decitabine is metabolised primarily via deamination by cytidine deaminases and also physiochemical 
degradation at physiological conditions.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cedazuridine 
The primary metabolic pathway for cedazuridine is conversion to its epimer by physiochemical 
conversion in GI tract preabsorption.  
Elimination 
Decitabine 
Following a single oral dose of Inaqovi, the mean (CV%) terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) of decitabine 
was 1.2 (23%) hours. The apparent oral clearance (CL/F) was 197 L/h at steady state. The main pathway 
of elimination for decitabine is metabolic/degradation. Metabolites and degradation products are excreted 
mainly renally.  
Cedazuridine 
Following a single oral dose of Inaqovi, the mean (CV%) t1/2 of cedazuridine was 6.3 (18%) hours. The 
mean (CV%) apparent oral clearance (CL/F) was 25.6 (159%) L/h at steady state.  
The two major elimination pathways of cedazuridine are renal elimination as parent drug and conversion 
to its epimer (which is then renally excreted). Following a single oral dose of 100 mg radiolabeled 
cedazuridine, 46% (17.1% unchanged) of the administered dose was recovered in urine and 51% was 
recovered in the faeces. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
An approximately dose-proportional increase in peak concentrations (Cmax) and AUC over the dosing 
interval was observed for decitabine over a dose range from 20 mg to 40 mg in combination with 100 mg 
cedazuridine. 
Exposure for cedazuridine over the dose range evaluated from 40 mg to 100 mg once daily were dose 
proportional. 
Special populations 
Age, sex, body weight, and body surface area  did not have a clinically relevant effect on the PK 
parameters of decitabine or cedazuridine after dosing with Inaqovi.  
Renal impairment 
The PK of decitabine and cedazuridine have not been formally studied in patients with impaired renal 
function. Patients with normal renal function (N=65) as well as mild (N=129) and moderate (N=103) renal 
impairment were included in the clinical studies. Renal impairment increases the exposure of cedazuridine 
(as renal elimination of parent drug is a major elimination pathway) and potentially also increases the 
exposure of decitabine (due to inhibition of decitabine metabolism caused by increased cedazuridine 
exposure). Decitabine is mainly metabolised and not excreted renally as unchanged drug. Only three 
patients with severe renal impairment and no patient with end stage renal disease were included in the 
studies. See also sections 4.2 and 4.4. 
Hepatic impairment 
The PK of decitabine and cedazuridine have not been formally studied in patients with hepatic 
impairment. Very few patients with impaired liver function were included in the clinical studies. Large 
effects of hepatic impairment on decitabine or cedazuridine exposure are not expected as cedazuridine is 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not hepatically metabolised and decitabine is metabolised by cytidine deaminase, which is present in 
several tissues.   
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Carcinogenicity, mutagenesis, and impairment of fertility 
Carcinogenicity studies with decitabine, cedazuridine, or their combination have not been conducted. 
Decitabine was mutagenic in in vitro and in vivo studies. Decitabine increased mutation frequency in 
L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells and mutations were produced in an Escherichia coli lac-I transgene in 
colonic DNA of decitabine-treated mice. Decitabine caused chromosomal rearrangements in larvae of fruit 
flies.  
Cedazuridine was mutagenic in the reverse bacterial mutation assay (Ames assay) and was genotoxic in 
the in vitro chromosomal aberration study using human lymphocytes. Cedazuridine was negative for the 
genotoxicity assessment in three in vivo studies including the mouse micronucleus, Comet assay, and the 
Pig-A assay.  
Fertility and repeat-dose toxicity studies in animals showed adverse outcomes on reproductive function 
and fertility.  
In male mice given intraperitoneal injections of 0.15, 0.3, or 0.45 mg/m2 decitabine (approximately 0.3% 
to 1% the recommended clinical dose) 3 times a week for 7 weeks, testes weights were reduced, abnormal 
histology was observed, and significant decreases in sperm number were found at doses ≥ 0.3 mg/m2. In 
females mated to males dosed with ≥ 0.3 mg/m2 decitabine, pregnancy rate was reduced, and 
preimplantation loss was significantly increased. 
Decitabine was administered orally to male rats at 0.75, 2.5, or 7.5 mg/kg/day in cycles of 
5-days-on/23-days-off for a total of 90 days. Low testes and epididymis weights, abnormal histology, and 
reduced sperm number were observed at doses ≥ 0.75 mg/kg (approximately ≥ 3 times the exposure in 
patients at the recommended clinical dose based on AUC).  
Cedazuridine was administered orally to male and female mice at 100, 300, or 1,000 mg/kg/day in cycles 
of 7-days-on/21-days-off for a total of 91 days. Adverse reactions including abnormal histology in the 
testes, epididymis, and ovaries, as well as reduced sperm numbers were observed at the 1,000 mg/kg dose 
(approximately 108 times the exposure in patients at the recommended clinical dose). These findings 
showed evidence of reversibility following 3 weeks off-dose.  
Teratogenic effects 
Evidence from the literature indicates that decitabine has carcinogenic potential. The available data from 
in vitro and in vivo studies provide sufficient evidence that decitabine has genotoxic potential. Data from 
the literature also indicate that decitabine has adverse effects on all aspects of the reproductive cycle, 
including fertility, embryo-foetal development and post-natal development. Multi-cycle repeat-dose 
toxicity studies in rats and rabbits indicated that the primary toxicity was myelosuppression, including 
effects on bone marrow, which was reversible on cessation of treatment. Gastrointestinal toxicity was also 
observed and in males, testicular atrophy that did not reverse over the scheduled recovery periods.  
Decitabine administration to neonatal/juvenile rats showed a comparable general toxicity profile as in 
older rats. Neurobehavioural development and reproductive capacity were unaffected when 
neonatal/juvenile rats were treated at dose levels inducing myelosuppression.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate  
Hypromellose (E464) 
Croscarmellose sodium (E466) 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous  
Magnesium stearate (E572) 
Film-coating 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Polyethylene glycol (E1521) 
Talc (E553b) 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
5 film-coated tablets in PVC/Aluminum blisters with laminated desiccant (3-ply cold formable aluminum-
plastic).  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Safe handling of Inaqovi film-coated tablets 
The handling of Inaqovi film-coated tablets should follow guidelines for the handling of cytotoxic 
medicinal products according to prevailing local recommendation and/or regulations.  
Provided the outer coating of the tablet is intact, there is no risk in handling Inaqovi film-coated tablets.  
Inaqovi film-coated tablets must not be crushed or divided. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product should be destroyed in accordance with relevant local requirements 
concerning the disposal of cytotoxic medicinal products.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Herikerbergweg 292 
1101 CT Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1756/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 15 September 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
BSP Pharmaceuticals S.p.A. 
Via Appia Km. 65,561  
04013 Latina Scalo (LT) 
Italy 
R-PHARM Germany GmbH 
Heinrich-Mack-Straße 35 
89257 lllertissen 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. The marketing 
authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 6 months following 
authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Inaqovi 35 mg/100 mg film-coated tablets 
decitabine/cedazuridine  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 35 mg decitabine and 100 mg cedazuridine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
5 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Swallow tablets whole. Do not chew, crush or break tablets. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Herikerbergweg 292 
1101 CT Amsterdam 
Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1756/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Inaqovi 35 mg/100 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Inaqovi 35 mg/100 mg tablets 
decitabine/cedazuridine  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Otsuka 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Inaqovi 35 mg/100 mg film-coated tablets 
decitabine/cedazuridine 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
  What Inaqovi is and what it is used for  
  What you need to know before you take Inaqovi 
  How to take Inaqovi 
  Possible side effects  
  How to store Inaqovi  
  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Inaqovi is and what it is used for 
What Inaqovi is 
Inaqovi is a cancer medicine. It contains the active substances decitabine and cedazuridine. 
What Inaqovi is used for 
Inaqovi is used alone to treat acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in adults, when chemotherapy is not 
considered suitable. You will be given Inaqovi when you are first diagnosed with AML. 
AML is a type of cancer affecting white blood cells called myeloid cells. In AML, myeloid cells multiply 
and grow very quickly in bone marrow and blood. 
How Inaqovi works 
Inaqovi contains two active substances that work in different ways. Decitabine works by stopping cancer 
cells from growing. It also kills cancer cells. Cedazuridine does not affect the cancer cells directly, but it 
inhibits the break down of decitabine. This increases the amount of decitabine that is available in the body, 
and so helps to increase the effects of decitabine.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Inaqovi 
Do not take Inaqovi  
- 
if you are allergic to decitabine or cedazuridine, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
If you are breast-feeding (see section 2, Breast-feeding).  
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Inaqovi if you: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
have lung problems  
have liver problems  
have kidney problems  
have heart problems 
Myelosuppression and ‘differentiation syndrome’ 
Inaqovi can cause serious myelosuppression (a condition in which the bone marrow cannot make enough 
blood cells), or a serious immune reaction called ‘differentiation syndrome’. Both may be fatal.  
Seek urgent medical attention if you notice any signs and symptoms (for symptoms see section 4) 
Cardiovascular disease 
Talk to your doctor if you have a history of heart problems so that you can be monitored for signs and 
symptoms of heart failure. 
Blood tests 
You will have blood tests while on treatment. These will occur before you start treatment with Inaqovi, at 
the start of each treatment cycle or if you notice any signs and symptoms of myelosuppression. These tests 
are to check that: 
- 
- 
you have enough blood cells, and 
your liver and kidneys are working properly 
Your doctor may change or delay your dose of Inaqovi. Your doctor may also give you medicines to help 
prevent infections. 
Children and adolescents 
Children and adolescents under 18 years of age must not be given Inaqovi. This medicine has not been 
studied in this age group. 
Other medicines and Inaqovi 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines before you begin treatment with Inaqovi. Inaqovi may affect the way some medicines work, 
especially if you are also taking the following medicines to treat:  
cancer, such as cytarabine, gemcitabine or azacitidine 
- 
Pregnancy, contraception, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for advice 
before taking this medicine. 
You should not take Inaqovi during pregnancy as it may harm your unborn baby. If you are able to 
become pregnant, a pregnancy test is recommended before starting treatment with Inaqovi. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contraception 
Women who are able to become pregnant must use effective contraception both during treatment with 
Inaqovi, and for 6 months after taking the last dose of Inaqovi.  
Men with female partners who are able to become pregnant must use effective contraception both during 
treatment with Inaqovi, and for 3 months after the last dose. 
Talk to your doctor about the most effective methods of contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment with Inaqovi. This is because it is not known if Inaqovi passes into 
breast milk and whether this could harm your baby. 
Male and female fertility 
Inaqovi may affect fertility. It is not known if the effect on fertility is permanent. Talk with your doctor 
before taking this medicine if you have any concerns, or if you wish to conserve your sperm or freeze your 
eggs before starting treatment.  
Driving and using machines 
Inaqovi may affect your ability to drive or use tools or machines. If you feel tired or dizzy after taking 
Inaqovi, do not drive or use tools or machinery until you feel better. 
Inaqovi contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
3. 
How to take Inaqovi 
You will be prescribed this medicine by a doctor experienced in the use of anti-cancer medicines. Always 
take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not sure.  
The recommended dose is 1 tablet once a day for the first 5 days of a treatment cycle. This is followed by 
23 days without taking this medicine. One treatment cycle has 28 days.  
- 
- 
- 
Swallow your tablets whole, with water, at approximately the same time each day.  
Do not chew, crush, or break your tablets to avoid skin contact or powdered medicine in the air.  
Since taking Inaqovi with food can decrease the effectiveness of the medicine, Inaqovi must be 
taken without food. Take Inaqovi 2 hours before or 2 hours after a meal. 
You will usually take Inaqovi for at least 4 cycles. Your doctor will do regular blood tests to check on how 
well you respond to the treatment. Your doctor may delay your dose and change the total number of 
cycles, depending on how you respond to the treatment. 
If you vomit 
If you vomit after taking a dose, do not take an additional dose that day. Take the next dose at the usual 
time the following day. 
Your doctor may prescribe you additional medicine to take before each Inaqovi dose to avoid you feeling 
sick or having to vomit during the treatment. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more Inaqovi than you should 
Overdose can result in myelosuppression, sepsis or pneumonia (see section 4, Possible side effects). If you 
take more Inaqovi than you should, seek urgent medical attention. 
If you forget to take Inaqovi 
If you miss a dose within 12 hours of the time you usually need to take it, you should take the missed dose 
as soon as possible and resume the normal daily dosing schedule.  
If you miss a dose by 12 or more hours: Do no take a dose and take the next dose the following day at the 
usual time. Extend the dosing period by one day for every missed dose. Please ensure that you complete a 
total of 5 daily doses for each cycle. 
If you stop taking Inaqovi 
If you stop taking this medicine your cancer may no longer be controlled, and your symptoms from the 
cancer may reoccur. Therefore, you should only stop taking this medicine if your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on how to take this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Tell your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse immediately if you notice any of the following serious side 
effects: 
- 
fever: this may be a sign of an infection caused by low levels of white blood cells (very common - 
may affect more than 1 in 10 people).  
chest pain or shortness of breath (with or without fever or cough): these may be signs of 
pneumonia (very common- may affect more than 1 in 10 people) or inflamed lungs (interstitial lung 
disease (frequency not known). 
- 
-  bleeding, including blood in the stools or nose bleed or bruising more easily: this may be a sign of 
low blood cells (platelets and red blood cells) (common - may affect up to 1 in 10 people).  
-  difficulty moving, speaking, understanding or seeing; sudden severe headache, seizure, 
- 
- 
numbness or weakness in any part of the body: these may be signs of bleeding inside your head 
(common - may affect up to 1 in 10 people).  
feeling dizzy or faint, confusion or disorientation, weakness, breathlessness, decreased urination, 
diarrhoea, feeling sick/vomiting, fever, shivering or feeling very cold, clammy skin or sweating, 
or cough: these may be signs and symptoms of an infection of the blood (sepsis) (very common - 
may affect more than 1 in 10 people). 
fever, cough, difficulty breathing, rash, decreased urine, hypotension (low blood pressure), 
swelling of the arms or legs and rapid weight gain:  these may be signs of a serious immune 
reaction (differentiation syndrome) (frequency not known). 
Other side effects: 
urinary tract infection 
infection caused by bacteria, viruses or fungi  
high blood glucose levels  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
-  mouth or tongue ulcers because of painful inflammation of the lining of the mouth 
- 
- 
- 
diarrhoea 
feeling sick and vomiting 
altered liver function tests (increased ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin) 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of the sinuses  
headache  
inflamed gut (neutropaenic colitis)  
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
a drop in the number of red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets 
sudden fever with, multiple red or bluish-red raised painful patches on the skin, usually on the arms, 
legs, trunk, face or neck. (‘Acute Febrile Neutrophilic Dermatosis’ or ‘Sweet’s Syndrome’) 
heart muscle disease 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Inaqovi 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister strip after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Inaqovi contains  
- 
- 
The active substances are decitabine and cedazuridine. Each film-coated tablet contains 
35 mg decitabine and 100 mg cedazuridine. 
The other ingredients are: 
Inaqovi contains lactose and sodium, see section 2. 
Tablet core 
lactose monohydrate, hypromellose (E464), croscarmellose sodium (E466), silica, colloidal 
anhydrous, magnesium stearate (E572). 
Film-coating 
polyvinyl alcohol (E1203), titanium dioxide (E171), polyethylene glycol (E1521), talc (E553b), 
iron oxide red (E172). 
What Inaqovi looks like and contents of the pack 
Inaqovi are red, oval biconvex shaped film-coated tablets, 14 mm diameter, plain on one side and 
debossed with ‘H35’ on the other side.  
They are supplied in foil blister packs containing 5 tablets.  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Herikerbergweg 292 
1101 CT Amsterdam 
Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
BSP Pharmaceuticals S.p.A. 
Via Appia Km. 65,561  
04013 Latina Scalo (LT) 
Italy 
R-PHARM Germany GmbH 
Heinrich-Mack-Straße 35 
89257 lllertissen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Lietuva 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
България 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Česká republika 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Magyarország 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Danmark 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tlf: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Deutschland 
Otsuka Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 69 1700 860 
Malta 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Nederland 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Eesti 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Norge 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tlf: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Ελλάδα 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Österreich 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
España 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 550 01 00 
Polska 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0)1 47 08 00 00 
Portugal 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Hrvatska 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
România 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Ireland 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Slovenija 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 (0) 535 7000 
Slovenská republika 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Italia 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 (0) 2 0063 2710 
Suomi/Finland 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tlf: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Κύπρος 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
Sverige 
Otsuka Pharma Scandinavia AB 
Tlf: +46 (0) 8 545 286 60 
Latvija 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 20 85 46 555 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments.  
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
