Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Inbrija. The RMP details important risks of 
Inbrija and the measures to be taken in order to ensure that Inbrija is used as safely as possible.  
Inbrija's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Inbrija should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Inbrija should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Inbrija's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Inbrija (levodopa inhalation powder) is indicated for the intermittent treatment of episodic motor 
fluctuations (OFF episodes) in adult patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) treated with dopa-
decarboxylase inhibitor/levodopa. 
Further information about the evaluation of Inbrija’s benefits can be found in Inbrija’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/inbrija.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Inbrija, together with measures to minimise such risks and any proposed studies for 
learning more about Inbrija's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Inbrija is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Inbrija are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Inbrija. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
  None 
Important potential risks 
  Bronchospasm in patients with lung disease 
Missing information 
•  Use in patients with asthma, COPD, or other chronic 
underlying lung diseases 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Bronchospasm in patients with lung disease 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
There was a potential safety signal in non-PD subjects with 
medicine 
asthma experiencing asymptomatic acute decreases in 
FEV1, but the clinical significance in the PD population is 
not clear because subjects with ongoing asthma were 
excluded from studies in PD subjects. Declines in FEV1 
described above in asthma patients without PD were 
reversible and did not require rescue treatment. Other than 
cough, the changes in spirometry parameters were not 
accompanied by any AEs associated with bronchospasm.  
In clinical trials in PD patients the acute and chronic 
pulmonary safety evaluations showed no notable 
differences between treatment with Inbrija compared to a 
placebo or observational control in spirometry parameters 
and DLco.  Evaluations of vital signs, clinical laboratory, 
and ECG showed no apparent safety signals. There was no 
evidence of acute pulmonary effects in smokers. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
PD patients with asthma, COPD, or other chronic underlying 
lung diseases may be at risk for bronchospasm. The safety 
of Inbrija has not been established in these patients.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 
PL section 2 
Legal status (prescription only medicine) 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None 
Missing information: Use in patients with asthma, COPD, or other chronic underlying lung 
diseases 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 
PL section 2 
Legal status (prescription only medicine) 
Additional risk minimisation measures:  
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Inbrija. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Inbrija. 
