EMA/452546/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004786 
Inbrija (levodopa) 
An overview of Inbrija and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Inbrija and what is it used for? 
Inbrija is a medicine used to treat adults with Parkinson’s disease (a progressive brain disease that 
causes shaking and muscle stiffness and slows movement).  
Inbrija is used to treat symptoms during ‘off’ periods (times when the patient has more difficulty 
moving about) that occur while the patient is taking their usual treatment of a combination of levodopa 
and an inhibitor of dopa-decarboxylase. 
Inbrija contains the active substance levodopa. 
How is Inbrija used? 
Inbrija is available as capsules containing a powder for inhalation and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
Inbrija should be inhaled using the Inbrija inhaler device when the patient recognises the symptoms of 
an ‘off’ period. The recommended dose is 2 capsules in each ‘off’ period up to a maximum of 10 
capsules per day.  
For more information about using Inbrija, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
How does Inbrija work? 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells in the brain that produce dopamine, a neurotransmitter 
important for controlling movement, begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. 
Inbrija contains levodopa which converts into dopamine in the brain and helps to restore dopamine 
levels, thereby improving the symptoms of the condition. Because Inbrija is inhaled, it can supply extra 
levodopa (and hence dopamine) quickly when needed during an ‘off’ period. 
What benefits of Inbrija have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies have shown that Inbrija is effective at improving patients’ symptoms during ‘off’ 
periods. Effects were measured using a standard symptom scale known as the unified Parkinson’s 
disease rating scale, UPDRS, part III.   
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The first study involved 226 patients who had 12 weeks of standard treatment with levodopa and a 
dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor. In this study, patients who took Inbrija during their ‘off’ periods had an 
average improvement of 10 points on the scale 30 minutes later, compared with 6 points for patients 
taking placebo (a dummy treatment). Of patients treated with Inbrija, 71% reported that their 
symptoms were improved, compared with 46% of patients on placebo.  
In the second study involving 77 patients who had 4 weeks of standard treatment, patients who took 
Inbrija during ‘off’ periods had an average improvement of 10 points on the scale 10 to 60 minutes 
later, compared with 3 points for patients taking placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Inbrija? 
The most common side effect with Inbrija is cough (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people). Other 
common side effects, which may affect up to 1 in 10 people, are falls, upper respiratory tract infection 
(nose and throat infection), dyskinesia (difficulty controlling movement) and discoloured sputum 
(phlegm). 
Allergic oedema (swelling) and gastrointestinal haemorrhage (bleeding in the gut) have been reported 
for other medicines containing levodopa. Medicines containing levodopa and a dopa-decarboxylase 
inhibitor have shown side effects of symptoms like neuroleptic malignant syndrome (a nervous 
disorder) and rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle fibres). 
Inbrija must not be used in patients with narrow angle glaucoma (an eye disorder) or 
pheochromocytoma (a tumour of the adrenal glands). It must also not be used in patients taking 
medicines known as non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors or in patients with a history of 
neuroleptic malignant syndrome or rhabdomyolysis. For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see 
the package leaflet. 
Why is Inbrija authorised in the EU? 
Studies show that Inbrija is effective at reducing symptoms during ‘off’ periods in patients with 
Parkinson’s disease on levodopa/dopa-decarboxylase-inhibitor treatment. The safety of the medicine is 
in line with other similar medicines. Because it is inhaled, Inbrija provides rapid relief of symptoms, 
which improves patients’ quality of life. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that 
Inbrija’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Inbrija? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Inbrija have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Inbrija are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Inbrija are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Inbrija 
Inbrija received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 September 2019. 
Further information on Inbrija can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Inbrija.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2019. 
Inbrija (levodopa)  
EMA/452546/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
