10 November 2016 
EMA/42943/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): umeclidinium bromide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010263/201604 
Period covered by the PSUR: 16 October 2015 – 15 April 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for umeclidinium bromide, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
“Urinary retention” is a known class effect of anticholinergic drugs and a warning is already included 
in  the  SmPC  recommending  the  use  of  umeclidinium  bromide  (UMEC)  with  caution  in  patients  with 
urinary retention. 
“Bladder outflow obstruction and Urinary retention” are potential risks in the current RMP. 
In  this  PSUR  for  UMEC,  3  serious  cases  of  urinary  retention  were  retrieved in  the  interval  period  (3 
cumulatively), 1 non serious case of urinary flow decreased (1 cumulatively), 5 non serious cases of 
dysuria (7 cumulatively).  
Based  on  the  results  of  the  cumulative  evaluations  for  UMEC  and  considering  the  pharmacological 
plausibility  of  anticholinergic  effect  on  urinary  function,  there  is  sufficiently  evidence  to  warrant  an 
update  of  the  Product  Information  with  “urinary  retention,  and  dysuria"  as  ADRs  associated  to 
UMEC. 
From  a  cumulative  review  provided  by  the  MAH  23  adverse  events  in  the  Glaucoma  SMQ  (broad) 
from 20 spontaneous case reports and 1 post marketing surveillance case report were observed.  
A  total  of  7  serious  AE  was  reported  (angle  closure  glaucoma,  n=2;  blindness,  n=1;  eye  pain,  n=1 
and  vision  blurred,  n=3).  Of  these,  2  serious  case  reports  (1  of  narrow  angle  glaucoma  and  1  of 
vision blurred) contained sufficient information for a causal relationship with UMEC.  
Three  further  cases  of  glaucoma  (one  of  them  from  consumer)  and  1  further  case  of  angle  closure 
glaucoma, all submitted after the DLP of this PSUR, were retrieved from EV database.  
Taking  into  account  that  :  i)  glaucoma  is  a  class  effect  of  antimuscarinic  drugs;  ii)  glaucoma  is  a 
potential  risk  in  the  RMP;  iii)  a  warning  stating  that  umeclidinium  bromide  (UMEC)  should  be  used 
with caution in patients with narrow angle glaucoma already exist in the current Product Information 
(PI); iv) the PI of UMEC/VI has been updated to include  the undesirable effect glaucoma, the PRAC 
considers that there is sufficient evidence of association with UMEC in monotherapy to update the PI  
to  include  the  ADR  "glaucoma".  In  addition,  it  is  noted  that  in  3  well  documented  cases,  “vision 
blurred” occurred  with  a close  temporal  association  (≤  4 days)  with  start of  treatment  with  UMEC. 
Therefore, the PRAC concluded that the PI should be updated also to reflect these undesirable effects. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considers that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing umeclidinium bromide are warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for umeclidinium bromide the CHMP is of the opinion that 
the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing umeclidinium bromide is unchanged 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
 
 
 
