ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INCRELEX 10 mg/ml solution for injection
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each ml contains 10 mg of mecasermin*. 
Each vial of 4 ml contains 40 mg of mecasermin*. 
*Mecasermin is a recombinant DNA-derived human insulin-like growth factor-1(IGF-1) produced in 
Escherichia coli. 
Excipient with known effect: 
One ml contains 9 mg of benzyl alcohol.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Solution for injection (injection). 
Colourless to slightly yellow and clear to slightly opalescent liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
For the long-term treatment of growth failure in children and adolescents from 2 to 18 years with 
confirmed severe primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD).
Severe Primary IGFD is defined by: 
•
•
•
•
height standard deviation score ≤ –3.0 and 
basal IGF-1 levels below the 2.5th percentile for age and gender and
GH sufficiency.
Exclusion of secondary forms of IGF-1 deficiency, such as malnutrition, hypopituitarism, 
hypothyroidism, or chronic treatment with pharmacologic doses of anti-inflammatory steroids.
Severe Primary IGFD includes patients with mutations in the GH receptor (GHR), post-GHR signaling 
pathway, and IGF-1 gene defects; they are not GH deficient, and therefore, they cannot be expected to 
respond adequately to exogenous GH treatment. In some cases, when deemed necessary, the physician 
may decide to assist in the diagnosis by performing an IGF-I generation test.
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Treatment with mecasermin should be directed by physicians who are experienced in the diagnosis 
and management of patients with growth disorders.
Posology
The dose should be individualised for each patient. The recommended starting dose of mecasermin is 
0.04 mg/kg of body weight twice daily by subcutaneous injection. If no significant adverse reactions
2 
occur for at least one week, the dose may be raised in increments of 0.04 mg/kg to the maximum dose 
of 0.12 mg/kg given twice daily. Doses greater than 0.12 mg/kg twice daily should not be exceeded as 
this may increase the risk of neoplasia (see section 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8).  
If the recommended dose is not tolerated by the patient, treatment with a lower dose can be 
considered. Treatment success should be evaluated based on height velocities. The lowest dose that 
was associated with substantial growth increases on an individual basis was 0.04 mg/kg twice daily 
(BID). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of mecasermin in children below age of 2 have not been established (see 
section 5.1). No data are available. 
Therefore, this medicinal product is not recommended in children below age of 2. 
Special Populations 
Hepatic impairment 
There are limited data concerning the pharmacokinetics of mecasermin in children with hepatic 
impairment, in this specific population of severe primary IGFD patients. It is recommended that the dose 
be individualised for each patient as described under posology 
Renal impairment 
There are limited data concerning the pharmacokinetics of mecasermin in children with renal impairment, 
in this specific population of severe primary IGFD patients. It is recommended that the dose be 
individualised for each patient as described under posology 
Method of administration 
INCRELEX should be administered by subcutaneous injection shortly before or after a meal or snack. 
If hypoglycaemia occurs with recommended doses, despite adequate food intake, the dose should be 
reduced. If the patient is unable to eat, for any reason, this medicinal product should be withheld.  
Pre-prandial glucose monitoring is recommended at treatment initiation and until a well-tolerated dose 
is established. If frequent symptoms of hypoglycaemia or severe hypoglycaemia occur, blood glucose 
monitoring should continue regardless of pre-prandial condition and if possible, in case of 
hypoglycaemic symptoms.  
The dose of mecasermin should never be increased to make up for one or more omitted doses. 
Injection sites should be rotated to a different site with each injection to help prevent lipohypertrophy. 
INCRELEX should not be administered intravenously. 
Precaution to be taken before manipulating or administering the medicinal product 
The solution should be clear immediately after removal from the refrigerator. If the solution is cloudy, 
or contains particulate matter, it must not be injected. 
INCRELEX should be administered using sterile disposable syringes and injection needles. The 
syringes should be of small enough volume that the prescribed dose can be withdrawn from the vial 
with reasonable accuracy. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCRELEX is contraindicated in children and adolescents with active or suspected neoplasia, or any 
condition or medical history which increases the risk of benign or malignant neoplasia.  
Therapy should be discontinued if evidence of neoplasia develops. 
As INCRELEX contains benzyl alcohol, it must not be given to premature babies or neonates. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Benign and malignant neoplasms 
There is an increased risk of benign and malignant neoplasia in children and adolescents treated with 
INCRELEX, since IGF-1 plays a role in the initiation and progression of benign and malignant 
tumours. 
There have been post-marketing reports of both benign and malignant neoplasms in children and 
adolescents who have received treatment with INCRELEX.  These cases represented a variety of 
different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually not seen in children (see section 4.8). 
The increased risk of neoplasia may be higher in patients who receive INCRELEX for unapproved 
uses or at higher than recommended doses.  Current knowledge of IGF-1 biology suggests that IGF-1 
plays a role in malignancies in all organs and tissues. Physicians should therefore be vigilant of any 
symptoms of potential malignancy.  
If benign or malignant neoplasia develops, INCRELEX treatment should be discontinued definitely 
and appropriate expert medical care sought.  
Mecasermin is not a substitute for GH treatment. 
Mecasermin should not be used for growth promotion in patients with closed epiphyses. 
Mecasermin should be administered shortly before or after a meal or snack, because it may have 
insulin-like hypoglycaemic effects. Special attention should be paid to young children, children with a 
history of hypoglycaemia and children with inconsistent food intake. Patients should avoid engaging 
in any high-risk activities within 2-3 hours after dosing, particularly at the initiation of mecasermin 
treatment, until a well-tolerated dose of INCRELEX has been established. If a person with severe 
hypoglycemia is unconscious or otherwise unable to ingest food normally, an injection of glucagon 
may be required. Persons with a history of severe hypoglycemia should have glucagon available. At 
the time of initial prescription, physicians should educate parents on the signs, symptoms and 
treatment of hypoglycaemia, including injection of glucagon. 
Doses of insulin and/or other hypoglycaemic medicinal products may need to be reduced for diabetic 
subjects using this medicinal product. 
Echocardiogram is recommended before initiation of mecasermin treatment in all patients. Patients 
who terminate treatment should also have an echocardiogram. Patients with abnormal echocardiogram 
findings or cardiovascular symptoms should be followed regularly with echocardiogram procedures. 
Lymphoid tissue (e.g., tonsillar) hypertrophy associated with complications, such as snoring, sleep 
apnoea, and chronic middle-ear effusions have been reported with the use of this medicinal product. 
Patients should have examinations periodically and at the occurrence of clinical symptoms to rule out 
such potential complications or to initiate appropriate treatment. 
Intracranial hypertension (IH) with papilloedema, visual changes, headache, nausea and/or vomiting 
has been reported in patients treated with mecasermin, as has been reported with therapeutic GH 
administration. IH-associated signs and symptoms resolved after interruption of dosing. Funduscopic 
examination is recommended at the initiation, periodically during the course of mecasermin therapy 
and at the occurrence of clinical symptoms. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (with the potential to lead to avascular necrosis) and progression of 
scoliosis can occur in patients who experience rapid growth. These conditions and other symptoms 
and signs known to be associated with GH treatment in general should be monitored during 
mecasermin treatment. Any patient with the onset of a limp or complaint of hip or knee pain should be 
evaluated. 
In post-marketing experience in patients treated with INCRELEX, cases of hypersensitivity, urticaria, 
pruritus and erythema have been reported. These have been observed both as being systemic and/or 
local to the injection site. A small number of cases indicative of anaphylaxis requiring hospitalisation 
have been reported. Parents and patients should be informed that such reactions are possible and that if 
a systemic allergic reaction occurs, treatment should be interrupted and prompt medical attention 
should be sought. 
Treatment should be reconsidered if after a year patients remain non-responsive. 
Persons who have allergic reactions to injected IGF-1, who have unexpectedly high blood values of 
IGF-1 after injection, or who fail to show a growth response without any identified cause may be 
having an antibody response to injected IGF-1. This may be through the production of anti-IGF-1 
IgEs, sustaining antibodies or neutralizing antibodies respectively. In such instances, instructions for 
antibody testing should be considered. 
Excipients 
INCRELEX contains 9 mg/ml benzyl alcohol as a preservative.  
Benzyl alcohol may cause toxic reactions and anaphylactoid reactions in infants and children up to 3 
years old. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Doses of insulin and/or other hypoglycaemic medicinal products may need to be reduced (see section 
4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential / Contraception in males and females 
A negative pregnancy test is recommended for all women of child bearing potential prior to treatment 
with mecasermin. It is also recommended that all women of childbearing potential use adequate 
contraception during treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data for the use of mecasermin in pregnant women. 
Animal studies are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential 
risk for humans is unknown. 
This medicinal product should not be used during pregnancy. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
Breast-feeding while taking INCRELEX is not recommended, because there is insufficient 
information on the excretion of mecasermin in human milk. 
Fertility 
Mecasermin has been tested in a rat teratology study with no effects on fœtus up to 16 mg/kg (20 fold 
the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) based on body surface area) and in a rabbit 
teratology with no effects on foetus at dose of 0.5 mg/kg (2 fold the MRHD based on body surface 
area). Mecasermin has no effects on fertility in rats using intravenous doses 0.25, 1, and 4 mg/day (up 
to 4 times the clinical exposure with the MRHD based on AUC). 
The effects of mecasermin on the unborn child have not been studied. Therefore there is insufficient 
medical information to determine whether there are significant risks to a foetus. Studies have not been 
conducted with mecasermin in breast-feeding mothers. INCRELEX should not be given to pregnant or 
nursing women. A negative pregnancy test and adequate contraception is required in all pre-
menopausal women receiving INCRELEX. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
INCRELEX may have a major influence on the ability to drive or use machines in case of a 
hypoglycaemic episode. Hypoglycaemia is a very common adverse reaction. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adverse reaction data was taken from a total of 413 clinical trial patients with IGFD, including 92 
patients with severe primary IGFD. Data was also collected from post-marketing sources. 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions from the clinical trials were headache (44%), 
hypoglycaemia (28%), vomiting (26%), injection site hypertrophy (17%), and otitis media (17%).  
Intracranial hypertension/increased intracranial pressure occurred in 4 (0.96%) of patients from the 
clinical trials and occurred in 7 – 9 year old treatment naïve subjects. 
During clinical trials in other indications totaling approximately 300 patients, reports of local and/or 
systemic hypersensitivity were received for 8% of patients. There were also reports of systemic 
hypersensitivity from post-marketing use, of which some cases were indicative of anaphylaxis. Post-
marketing reports of local allergic reactions were also received.  
Some patients may develop antibodies to mecasermin. No attenuation of growth was observed as a 
consequence of the development of antibodies. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 contains very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) and uncommon (≥ 1/1000, < 
1/100) adverse reactions which occurred in clinical trials. Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Other adverse reactions have been 
identified during post approval use of INCRELEX. As these reactions are reported voluntarily from a 
population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency (not known). 
System Organ Class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Table 1:  Adverse reactions 
Reactions observed in the 
clinical trials 
Reactions observed from the 
post-marketing environment 
Common: Thymus hypertrophy  
Not known: Systemic 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypersensitivity (anaphylaxis, 
generalized urticaria, 
angioedema, dyspnoea), local 
allergic reactions at the injection 
site (pruritus, urticaria) 
Not known: alopecia 
Not known: Benign and 
malignant neoplasms 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very common: Hypoglycaemia 
Common: Hypoglycaemic 
seizure, hyperglycaemia 
Uncommon: Depression, 
nervousness 
Very common: Headache 
Common: Convulsions, 
dizziness, tremor 
Uncommon: Benign intracranial 
hypertension 
Common:  Papilloedema 
Very common: Otitis media 
Common:  Hypoacusis, ear pain, 
middle ear effusion 
Common:  Cardiac murmur, 
tachycardia 
Uncommon: Cardiomegaly, 
ventricular hypertrophy, mitral 
valve incompetence, tricuspid 
valve incompetence 
Common: Sleep apnoea 
syndrome, adenoidal 
hypertrophy, tonsillar 
hypertrophy, snoring 
Very common: Vomiting, upper 
abdominal pain 
Common: Abdominal pain 
Common: Skin hypertrophy, 
abnormal hair texture 
Very common: Arthralgia, pain 
in extremity 
Common: Scoliosis, myalgia 
Common: Melanocytic naevus 
Common: Gynaecomastia 
Very common: Injection site 
hypertrophy, injection site 
bruising 
Common: Injection site pain, 
injection site reaction, injection 
site haematoma, injection site 
erythema, injection site 
induration, injection site 
haemorrhage, injection site 
irritation 
Uncommon: Injection site rash, 
injection site swelling, 
lipohypertrophy 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investigations 
Surgical and medical 
procedures 
Uncommon: Increased weight  
Common: Ear tube insertion 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Neoplasms 
There have been post-marketing reports of benign and malignant neoplasms in children and 
adolescents who have received treatment with INCRELEX. These cases represented a variety of 
different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually not seen in children (see section 4.4 and 
4.3). 
Systemic/local hypersensitivity 
Clinical Trial 
During clinical trials in other indications (totaling approximately 300 patients) 8% of patients reported 
a local and/or systemic hypersensitivity reactions. All cases were mild or moderate in severity and 
none was serious.  
Post-marketing reports 
Systemic hypersensitivity included symptoms such as anaphylaxis, generalized urticaria, angioedema 
and dyspnoea. The symptoms in the cases indicative of anaphylaxis included hives, angioedema and 
dyspnoea. Some patients required hospitalization. Upon re-administration, symptoms did not re-occur 
in all patients. There were also reports of local allergic reactions at the injection site. Typically these 
were pruritus and urticaria. 
Hypoglycaemia 
Of the 115 (28%) subjects who experienced one or more episode of hypoglycaemia, 6 subjects 
experienced a hypoglycaemic seizure on one or more occasion. Symptomatic hypoglycaemia was 
generally avoided when a meal or snack was consumed either shortly before or after the administration 
of INCRELEX. 
Injection site hypertrophy 
This reaction occurred in 71 (17%) subjects from the clinical trials and was generally associated with 
lack of proper rotation of injections. When injections were properly dispersed, the condition resolved. 
Tonsillar hypertrophy 
This was noted in 38 (9%) subjects, particularly in the first 1 to 2 years of therapy with lesser tonsillar 
growth in subsequent years. 
Snoring 
This occurred generally in the first year of treatment and was reported in 30 subjects (7%). 
Intracranial hypertension/increased intracranial pressure 
This occurred in 4 subjects (0.96%); in two subjects INCRELEX was discontinued and not restarted; 
in two subjects the event did not recur after restarting INCRELEX at a reduced dose. All 4 subjects 
recovered from the event without sequelae.   
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Acute overdose could lead to hypoglycaemia. Treatment of acute overdose of mecasermin should be 
directed at alleviating any hypoglycaemic effects. Oral glucose or food should be consumed. If the 
overdose results in loss of consciousness, intravenous glucose or parenteral glucagon may be required 
to reverse the hypoglycaemic effects. 
Long-term overdose may result in signs and symptoms of acromegaly or gigantism.  Overdosing may 
lead to supraphysiological IGF-1 levels and may increase the risk of benign and malignant neoplasm. 
In case of an acute or a chronic overdose, Increlex must be discontinued immediately. If Increlex is 
restarted, the dose should not exceed the recommended daily dosage (see section 4.2) 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Pituitary and hypothalamic hormones and analogues, somatropin and 
somatropin agonists, ATC code: H01AC03 
Mecasermin is a human insulin-like growth factor-1 (rhIGF-1) produced by recombinant DNA 
technology. IGF-1 consists of 70 amino acids in a single chain with three intramolecular disulfide 
bridges and a molecular weight of 7649 daltons. The amino acid sequence of the product is identical to 
that of endogenous human IGF-1. The rhIGF-1 protein is synthesised in bacteria (E. coli) that have 
been modified by the addition of the gene for human IGF-1.  
Mechanism of action 
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is the principal hormonal mediator of statural growth. Under 
normal circumstances, growth hormone (GH) binds to its receptor in the liver and other tissues and 
stimulates the synthesis/secretion of IGF-1. In target tissues the Type 1 IGF-1 receptor, which is 
homologous to the insulin receptor, is activated by IGF-1, leading to intracellular signalling which 
stimulates multiple processes leading to statural growth. The metabolic actions of IGF-1 are in part 
directed at stimulating the uptake of glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids so that metabolism supports 
growing tissues. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The following actions have been demonstrated for endogenous human IGF-1: 
Tissue Growth 
Skeletal growth is accomplished at the epiphyseal plates at the ends of a growing bone. Growth and 
metabolism of epiphyseal plate cells are directly stimulated by GH and IGF-1. 
Organ growth: treatment of IGF-1 deficient rats with rhIGF-1 results in whole body and organ growth. 
Cell growth: IGF-1 receptors are present on most types of cells and tissues. IGF-1 has mitogenic 
activity that leads to an increased number of cells in the body. 
Carbohydrate Metabolism 
IGF-1 suppresses hepatic glucose production, stimulates peripheral glucose utilization, and can reduce 
blood glucose and cause hypoglycaemia. 
IGF-1 has inhibitory effects on insulin secretion. 
Bone/Mineral Metabolism 
Circulating IGF-1 plays an important role in the acquisition and maintenance of bone mass. IGF-1 
increases bone density. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Five clinical studies (4 open-label and 1 double-blind, placebo-controlled) were conducted with 
INCRELEX. Subcutaneous doses of mecasermin, generally ranging from 60 to 120 µg/kg given twice 
daily (BID), were administered to 92 paediatric subjects with severe Primary IGFD. Patients were 
enrolled in the studies on the basis of extreme short stature, slow growth rates, low IGF-1 serum 
concentrations and normal GH secretion. Eighty-three (83) out of 92 patients were naïve to 
INCRELEX at baseline and 81 completed at least one year of INCRELEX treatment. Baseline 
characteristics for the 81 patients evaluated in the primary and secondary efficacy analyses from the 
combined studies were (mean ± SD): chronological age (years): 6.8 ± 3.8; age range (years): 1.7 to 
17.5; height (cm): 84.1 ± 15.8; height standard deviation score (SDS): -6.9 ± 1.8; height velocity 
(cm/yr): 2.6 ± 1.7; height velocity SDS: -3.4 ± 1.6; IGF-1 (ng/ml): 24.5 ± 27.9; IGF-1 SDS: -4.2 ± 2.0; 
and bone age (years): 3.8 ± 2.8. Of these, 72 (89%) had Laron syndrome-like phenotype; 7 (9%) had 
GH gene deletion, 1 (1%) had neutralizing antibodies to GH and 1 (1%) had isolated genetic GH 
deficiency. Forty-six (57%) of the subjects were male; 66 (81%) were Caucasian. Seventy-four (91%) 
of the subjects were prepubertal at baseline. 
Annual results for height velocity, height velocity SDS, and height SDS until year 8 are shown in 
Table 2. Pre-treatment height velocity data were available for 75 subjects. The height velocities at a 
given year of treatment were compared by paired t-tests to the pre-treatment height velocities of the 
same subjects completing that treatment year. The height velocities for years 2 through 8 remained 
statistically greater than baseline. For the 21 treatment naïve subjects with near-adult height, the mean 
(± SD) of the difference between observed increase in height versus that expected from Laron was 
approximately 13 cm (± 8 cm) after an average of 11 years of treatment. 
10 
 
Table 2:  Annual Height Results by Number of Years Treated with INCRELEX 
Pre-Tx  Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8 
Height Velocity 
(cm/yr) 
N 
75 
Mean (SD) 
2.6 (1.7) 
Mean (SD) for 
change from pre-Tx 
P-value for change 
from pre-Tx [1] 
Height Velocity SDS 
N 
75 
Mean (SD) 
-3.4 (1.6) 
Mean (SD) for 
change from pre-Tx 
P-value for change 
from pre-Tx [1] 
Height SDS 
75 
8.0 
(2.3) 
+5.4 
(2.6) 
63 
5.9 
(1.7) 
+3.2 
(2.6) 
62 
5.5 
(1.8) 
+2.8 
(2.4) 
60 
5.2 
(1.5) 
+2.5 
(2.5) 
53 
4.9 
(1.5) 
+2.1 
(2.1) 
39 
4.8 
(1.4) 
+1.9 
(2.1) 
25 
4.3 
(1.5) 
+1.4 
(2.2) 
19 
4.4 
(1.5) 
+1.3  
(2. 8) 
<0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001 <0.0001  0.0042  0.0486 
75 
1.7 
(2.8) 
+5.2 
(2.9) 
<0.0001 
62 
-0.0 
(1.7) 
62 
-0.1 
(1.9) 
58 
-0.2 
(1.9) 
50 
-0.3 
(1.7) 
37 
-0. 2  
(1. 6) 
22 
-0. 5 
(1.7) 
15 
-0.2 
(1.6) 
+3.4 
(2.4) 
<0.0001 
+3.3  
(2. 3) 
<0.0001 
+3.2 
(2.1) 
<0.0001 
+3.2 
(2.1) 
0.0001 
+3.3 
(2.0) 
<0.0001 
+3.0 
(2.1) 
<0.0001 
+3.3 
(2.7) 
0.0003 
N 
81 
Mean (SD) 
-6.9 (1.8) 
81 
-6.1 
(1.8) 
67 
-5.6 
(1.7) 
66 
-5.3 
(1.7) 
64 
-5.1 
(1.7) 
57 
-5.0 
(1.7) 
41 
-4.9 
(1.6) 
26 
-4.9 
(1.7) 
19 
-5.1 
(1.7) 
Mean (SD) for 
change from pre-Tx 
P-value for change 
from pre-Tx [1] 
+0.8 
(0.6) 
<0.0001 
+1.2 
(0.9) 
<0.0001 
+1.4 
(1.1) 
<0.0001 
+1.6 
(1.2) 
<0.0001 
+1. 7 
(1.3) 
<0.0001 
+1. 8 
(1.1) 
<0.0001 
+1. 7 
(1.0) 
0.0001 
+1.7 
(1.0) 
<0.0001 
Pre-Tx = Pre-treatment; SD = Standard Deviation; SDS = Standard Deviation Score 
[1] P-values for comparison versus pre-Tx values were computed using paired t-tests. 
For subjects with bone age available for at least 6 years after treatment initiation, the mean increase in 
bone age was comparable to the mean increase in chronological age; for these subjects, there does not 
appear to be any clinically significant advance of bone age relative to chronological age. 
Efficacy is dose dependent. The dose of 120 μg/kg given subcutaneously (SC) and twice daily (BID) 
was associated with the greatest growth responses. 
Among all subjects included for safety evaluation (n=92), 83% of the subjects reported at least one 
adverse event during the course of the studies. There was no death during the studies. No subject 
discontinued the studies due to adverse events. 
Hypoglycaemia was the most frequently reported adverse event and a proper attention has to be given 
to meals in relation to dosing. 
This medicinal product has been authorised under “exceptional circumstances”.  
This means that due to the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information 
on this medicinal product.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become available every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The absolute subcutaneous bioavailability of mecasermin in severe Primary IGFD subjects has not 
been determined. The bioavailability of mecasermin after subcutaneous administration in healthy 
subjects has been reported to be approximately 100%. 
Distribution 
In blood, IGF-1 is bound to six IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs), with ~80% bound as a complex with 
IGFBP-3 and an acid-labile subunit. IGFBP-3 is reduced in subjects with severe Primary IGFD, 
resulting in increased clearance of IGF-1 in these subjects relative to healthy subjects. The total IGF-1 
volume of distribution (mean ± SD) after subcutaneous administration of INCRELEX in 12 subjects 
with severe Primary IGFD is estimated to be 0.257 (± 0.073) l/kg at a mecasermin dose of 
0.045 mg/kg, and is estimated to increase as the dose of mecasermin increases. Limited information is 
available on the concentration of unbound IGF-1 after the administration of INCRELEX. 
Biotransformation 
Both the liver and the kidney have been shown to metabolise IGF-1.   
Elimination 
The mean terminal t1/2 of total IGF-1 after single subcutaneous administration of 0.12 mg/kg in three 
paediatric subjects with severe Primary IGFD is estimated to be 5.8 hours.  Clearance of total IGF-1 is 
inversely proportional to serum IGFBP-3 levels and total IGF-1 systemic clearance (CL/F) is 
estimated to be 0.04 l/hr/kg at 3 mg/l IGFBP-3 in 12 subjects. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
The pharmacokinetics of INCRELEX have not been studied in subjects greater than 65 years of age. 
Children 
The pharmacokinetics of INCRELEX have not been studied in subjects younger than 12 years of age. 
Gender 
In adolescents with Primary IGFD and in healthy adults there were no apparent differences between 
males and females in the pharmacokinetics of INCRELEX. 
Race 
No information is available. 
Renal impairment 
No studies have been conducted in children with renal impairment.   
Hepatic impairment 
No studies have been conducted to determine the effect of hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of mecasermin. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity or genotoxicity. 
Adverse reactions not observed in clinical studies, but seen in animals at exposure levels similar to 
clinical exposure levels and with possible relevance to clinical use were as follows: 
Toxicity to reproduction 
In rats and rabbits reproductive toxicity was studied after intravenous but not after subcutaneous 
application (the normal clinical route). These studies did not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects 
with respect to fertility and pregnancy, but due to the different route of application the relevance of 
these findings is unclear. Placental transfer of mecasermin was not studied. 
Carcinogenic potential 
Mecasermin was administered subcutaneously to Sprague Dawley rats at doses of 0, 0.25, 1, 4, and 
10 mg/kg/day for up to 2 years. An increased incidence of adrenal medullary hyperplasia and 
pheochromocytoma was observed in male rats at doses of 1 mg/kg/day and above (≥ 1 times the 
clinical exposure with the maximum recommended human dose [MRHD] based on AUC) and female 
rats at all dose levels (≥ 0.3 times the clinical exposure with the MRHD based on AUC).  
An increased incidence of keratoacanthoma in the skin was observed in male rats at doses of 4 and 
10 mg/kg/day (≥ 4 times the exposure with the MRHD based on AUC). An increased incidence of 
mammary gland carcinoma in both male and female rats was observed in animals treated with 
10 mg/kg/day (7 times the exposure with the MRHD based on AUC). Excess mortality secondary to 
IGF-1 induced hypoglycaemia was observed in the carcinogenesis studies. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Benzyl alcohol 
Sodium chloride 
Polysorbate 20 
Glacial acetic acid 
Sodium acetate 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years 
After opening 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 30 days at 2°C to 8°C.   
From a microbiological point of view, once opened, the medicinal product may be stored for a 
maximum of 30 days at 2°C to 8°C.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
5 ml vial (type I glass) closed with a stopper (chloro-butyl/isoprene polymer) and a seal (Coloured 
plastic). 
Each vial contains 4 ml of solution. 
Pack size of 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
INCRELEX is supplied as a multi-dose solution. 
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Ipsen Pharma 
65, quai Georges Gorse 
92100 Boulogne-Billancourt  
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/07/402/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 August 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 16 June 2017 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
  C. 
D. 
  E. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE  
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Lonza AG  
Lonzastrasse  
CH-3930 Visp  
Switzerland 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Beaufour Ipsen Industrie 
Rue Ethé Virton 
28100 Dreux 
France 
Tjoapack Netherlands B.V.  
Nieuwe Donk 9  
4879 AC Etten-Leur  
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency;  
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH must ensure that, at launch, all physicians who are expected to prescribe INCRELEX are 
provided with a “physician information pack” containing the following: 
•  Product information 
•  Physician information about INCRELEX (information card, dosing guide, and a dose 
calculator) 
•  Patient information pack 
The physician information about INCRELEX should contain the following key elements: 
•  To document severe primary IGF-1 deficiency diagnosis. 
•  To educate parents on the signs, symptoms and treatment of hypoglycaemia, including 
injection of glucagon. 
•  To advise parents regarding the benefit of INCRELEX versus the increased risk of benign and 
• 
malignant neoplasia. 
INCRELEX is contraindicated in case of active or suspected neoplasia, or any condition or 
medical history which increases the risk of benign or malignant neoplasia , and therapy should 
be discontinued definitely if evidence of neoplasia develops. 
•  To document assessment of patient history and risk factors for malignancy to ensure 
contraindications are excluded. 
•  To inform parents that they should monitor for development of any new growth or signs and 
symptoms potentially related to benign or malignant neoplasm and report immediately to an 
appropriate healthcare professional in case of suspicion. 
•  To prevent overdose by strictly following the label and manage any overdose effects by 
discontinuation of the treatment or dose reduction 
•  That patients should have examinations of the ears, nose and throat periodically and at the 
occurrence of clinical symptoms to rule out such potential complications or to initiate 
appropriate treatment. 
•  To perform a routine funduscopic examination prior to beginning treatment and periodically 
during treatment or at the occurrence of clinical symptoms. 
•  Slipped capital femoral epiphysis and progression of scoliosis can occur in patients who 
experience rapid growth. These conditions should be monitored during INCRELEX treatment. 
•  To inform parents and patients that systemic allergic reactions are possible and that if this 
occurs treatment should be interrupted, and prompt medical attention should be sought. 
Immunogenicity sampling information. 
• 
The patient information about INCRELEX should contain the following information: 
•  That INCRELEX should be administered shortly before or after a meal or snack because it has 
insulin-like hypoglycaemic effects. 
•  The signs and symptoms of hypoglycaemia. Instructions on the treatment of hypoglycaemia. 
That parents and caregivers should always ensure that the child has a source of sugar. 
Instructions on the administration of glucagon should severe hypoglycaemia occur. 
INCRELEX should not be administered if the patient is unable to eat for any reason. The dose 
of INCRELEX should not be doubled to make up for one or more omitted doses. 
• 
•  To avoid engaging in any high-risk activities (such as vigorous physical activity) within 2 - 3 
hours after dosing, particularly at the initiation of INCRELEX treatment, until a well-tolerated 
dose of INCRELEX has been established. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The patients or parents should report immediately to the appropriate healthcare professional as 
• 
soon as there is a suspicion of the patient developing a benign or malignant neoplasm. 
Instructions to change and rotate the site of injection for each injection to avoid the 
development of lipohypertrophy. 
Instructions to report the onset or worsening of snoring that may indicate an increase in 
growth of tonsils and/or adenoids following the beginning of treatment with INCRELEX.  
•  To report the onset of severe headache, blurred vision and associated nausea and vomiting to 
• 
their physician. 
•  To report any onset of a limp or complaint of hip or knee pain to their physician so it can be 
evaluated. 
In addition there will be a dosing guide, and a dose calculator, for use by physician and patients to 
include information on the individualised dose escalation to minimise the risk of medication errors and 
hypoglycaemia. 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
Non-interventional PASS: In order to assess the long-term safety of mecasermin 
initiated  in  early  phase  of  childhood  and  continued  into  adulthood,  the  MAH 
should conduct and submit the results of a non-interventional safety study (Global 
Increlex Patient Registry): 
Due date 
N/A, annual study 
reports will be 
submitted with 
the annual 
reassessment 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
INCRELEX 10 mg/ml solution for injection 
mecasermin  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 10 mg of mecasermin. 
Each vial contains 40 mg of mecasermin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Other ingredients: benzyl alcohol, sodium chloride, polysorbate 20, glacial acetic acid, sodium acetate 
and water for injections. 
See the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection. 
One multi-use vial of 4 ml. 
40mg/4ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After first opening, use within 30 days. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Ipsen Pharma 
65, quai Georges Gorse 
92100 Boulogne-Billancourt  
France  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/07/402/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INCRELEX 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN:  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
INCRELEX 10 mg/ml injection  
mecasermin 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40mg/4ml 
6. 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user
INCRELEX 10 mg/ml solution for injection
Mecasermin
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1.  What INCRELEX is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use INCRELEX
3.  How to use INCRELEX  
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store INCRELEX
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What INCRELEX is and what it is used for
-
-
INCRELEX is a liquid that contains mecasermin which is a man-made insulin-like growth 
factor-1 (IGF-1), which is similar to the IGF-1 made by your body. 
It is used to treat children and adolescents from 2 to 18 years old who are very short for their 
age because their bodies do not make enough IGF-1. This condition is called primary IGF-1 
deficiency.
2.  What you need to know before you use INCRELEX   
Do not use INCRELEX
-
-
-
-
If you currently have any tumour or growth, either cancerous or non-cancerous
if you have had cancer in the past 
if you have any conditions which may increase the risk of cancer
if you are allergic to mecasermin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
in premature babies or neonates because it contains benzyl alcohol.
-
Warnings and precautions 
There is an increased risk of tumours and growths (both cancerous and non-cancerous) in children and 
adolescents treated with INCRELEX.  If any new growth, skin lesion or any unexpected symptom 
occurs during treatment or after treatment, see your doctor immediately since mecasermin may play a 
role in cancer development.  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using INCRELEX
-
-
-
if you have a curved spine (scoliosis). You should be monitored for progression of scoliosis. 
if you develop a limp or hip or knee pain 
if you have enlarged tonsils (tonsillar hypertrophy). You should have examinations periodically. 
25
- 
- 
- 
if you have symptoms of increased pressure in the brain (intracranial hypertension), such as 
visual changes, headache, nausea and/or vomiting, contact the doctor for advice. 
if you have a localised reaction at the injection site or generalised allergic reaction with 
INCRELEX. Call the doctor as soon as possible if you get a localised rash. Get medical help 
immediately if you have a generalised allergic reaction (hives, trouble breathing, faintness or 
collapse and feeling generally unwell). 
if you have finished growing (the bone growth plates are closed). In this case INCRELEX 
cannot help you grow and should not be used. 
Children under 2 years old 
The use of this medicine has not been studied in children under 2 years of age and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Other medicines and INCRELEX 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Especially tell the doctor if you take insulin or other anti-diabetes medicines. A dose adjustment may 
be needed for these medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before using this medicine. 
A negative pregnancy test is recommended for all women of child bearing potential prior to treatment 
with mecasermin. It is also recommended that all women of childbearing potential use adequate 
contraception during treatment. 
Mecasermin therapy should be discontinued if pregnancy occurs. 
Mecasermin should not be administered to a breast-feeding mother. 
Driving and using machines 
Mecasermin may cause hypoglycaemia (very common side effect, see section 4) that may impair your 
ability to drive and use machines because your ability to concentrate or react may be reduced. 
You should avoid engaging in any high-risk activities (e.g., driving, etc.) within 2-3 hours after 
dosing, particularly at the start of INCRELEX treatment, until a dose of INCRELEX has been found 
which does not cause side effects that make these activities risky. 
INCRELEX contains benzyl alcohol and sodium 
INCRELEX contains benzyl alcohol as a preservative which may cause toxic reactions and allergic 
reactions in infants and children up to 3 years old. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to use INCRELEX 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The typical dose is 0.04 to 0.12 mg/kg of patient weight administered twice a day. See the 
‘Instructions for Use’ at the end of this leaflet. 
Inject INCRELEX just under your skin shortly before or after a meal or snack because it may have 
insulin-like hypoglycaemic effects and so it may decrease blood sugar levels (see hypoglycaemia in 
section 4). Do not inject your dose of INCRELEX if you cannot eat for any reason. Do not make up 
the missed dose by giving two doses the next time. The next dose should be taken as usual, with a 
meal or snack. 
Inject INCRELEX just below the skin in your upper arm, upper leg (thigh), stomach area (abdomen), 
or buttocks. Change the injection site for each injection. Never inject it into a vein or muscle.  
Only use INCRELEX that is clear and colourless. 
Treatment with mecasermin is a long-term therapy. For further information ask the doctor. 
If you use more INCRELEX than you should 
Mecasermin, like insulin, may lower blood sugar levels (see hypoglycaemia in section 4). 
If more INCRELEX than recommended was injected, contact your doctor immediately. 
Acute overdose could lead to hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar).  
Treatment of acute overdose of mecasermin should be directed at reversing hypoglycaemia. Sugar-
containing fluids or food should be consumed. If the patient is not awake or alert enough to drink 
sugar-containing fluids, an injection of glucagon into the muscle may be necessary to reverse the low 
blood sugar. Your doctor or nurse will instruct you how to give the injection of glucagon. 
Long-term overdose may result in enlargement of certain body parts (e.g., hands, feet, parts of the 
face) or excessive growth of the whole body. If you suspect long-term overdose, contact your doctor 
immediately. 
If you forget to use INCRELEX 
Do not use a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If a dose is skipped, the next dose should not be made larger to compensate. The next dose should be 
taken as usual, with a meal or snack. 
If you stop using INCRELEX 
A disruption or early ending of treatment with mecasermin may impair the success of the growth 
therapy. Please ask the doctor for advice before stopping the treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. If you get 
any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. 
The most frequently occurring side effects with mecasermin are: low blood sugar (hypoglycemia), 
vomiting, injection site reactions, headache and middle ear infections. Serious allergic reactions have 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
also been reported with INCRELEX. If you develop any of these events, please follow the advice 
given for each event in the sections below.  
Frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Cancerous and non-cancerous tumours 
An increase in both cancerous and non-cancerous tumours has been reported in patients treated with 
INCRELEX.  The risk of such tumours may be higher if INCRELEX is used for condition other than 
what is stated in Section 1 or used at higher than recommended dose as per Section 3.  
Serious allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) 
Generalised hives, difficulty in breathing, dizziness, swelling of the face and/or throat have been 
reported following mecasermin use. Stop INCRELEX immediately and seek urgent medical advice if 
you develop a serious allergic reaction. 
Local allergic reactions at the injection site (itching, hives) have also been reported. 
Hair loss (alopecia) 
Hair loss has also been reported following mecasermin use. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
Low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia)  
Mecasermin may lower blood sugar levels. Signs of low blood sugar are: dizziness, tiredness, 
restlessness, hunger, irritability, trouble concentrating, sweating, nausea and fast or irregular 
heartbeats.  
Severe hypoglycaemia may cause unconsciousness, seizures/fits or death. Stop INCRELEX 
immediately and seek urgent medical advice if you develop seizures/fits or become unconscious.  
If you take INCRELEX, you should avoid participating in high risk activities (such as vigorous 
physical activity) within 2 to 3 hours after INCRELEX injection, especially at the beginning of 
INCRELEX treatment. 
Before beginning treatment with INCRELEX the doctor or nurse will explain to you how to treat 
hypoglycaemia. You should always have a source of sugar such as orange juice, glucose gel, sweets, 
or milk available in case symptoms of hypoglycaemia occur. For severe hypoglycaemia, if you are not 
responsive and cannot drink sugar-containing fluids, you should give an injection of glucagon. The 
doctor or nurse will instruct you how to give the injection. Glucagon raises the blood sugar when it is 
injected. It is important that you have a well-balanced diet including protein and fat such as meat and 
cheese in addition to sugar-containing foods. 
You should be monitored at fingertip for blood sugar (glucose) before each meal at treatment initiation 
and until a well-tolerated dose is established. If frequent symptoms of hypoglycaemia or severe 
hypoglycaemia occur, blood sugar monitoring should continue regardless of eating condition and if 
possible, in case of hypoglycaemic symptoms.  
Injection site hypertrophy (tissue at injection site increases in size) and bruising 
These can be avoided by changing the injection site at each injection (injection site rotation).  
Digestive system  
Vomiting and pain in the upper belly have occurred with mecasermin treatment. 
Infections 
Infections of the middle ear have been observed in children with mecasermin treatment.  
Musculoskeletal system 
Joint pains and pains in the limbs have occurred with mecasermin treatment.  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system 
Headache has occurred with mecasermin treatment. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Seizures 
Seizures (fits) have been observed with mecasermin treatment. 
Dizziness and tremor have also been reported with mecasermin treatment. 
Heart abnormalities  
A fast heart rate and abnormal heart sounds have been reported with mecasermin treatment. 
Increased blood sugar (hyperglycaemia) 
Increased blood sugar has also been observed with mecasermin treatment. 
Enlarged tonsils/adenoids 
Mecasermin may enlarge your tonsils/adenoids. Some signs of enlarged tonsils/adenoids include: 
snoring, difficulty breathing or swallowing, sleep apnoea (a condition where breathing stops briefly 
during sleep), or fluid in the middle ear, as well as infections of the ear. Sleep apnea can cause 
excessive daytime sleepiness. Call the doctor should these symptoms bother you. The doctor should 
regularly examine your tonsils/adenoids.  
Enlarged thymus 
An enlarged thymus (a specialized organ of the immune system) has been observed with mecasermin 
treatment. 
Papilloedema 
A swelling at the back of the eye (due to increased pressure within the brain) may be observed by a 
doctor or optician during mecasermin treatment.  
Hypoacusis (hearing loss) 
Hypoacusis (hearing loss), ear pain and fluid in the middle ear have been observed with mecasermin 
treatment. Tell the doctor if you develop hearing problems. 
Worsened scoliosis (caused by rapid growth) 
If you have scoliosis, you will need to be checked often for an increase in the curve of the spine.  
Pain in muscles has also been seen with mecasermin treatment. 
Reproductive system 
Breast enlargement has been observed with mecasermin treatment. 
Digestive system  
Pain in the belly has occurred with mecasermin treatment. 
Skin and hair changes 
Skin thickening, moles and abnormal hair texture have been seen with mecasermin treatment. 
Reactions at the injection site 
Reactions including pain, irritation, bleeding, bruising, redness and hardening have been reported with 
INCRELEX treatment. Injection site reactions can be avoided by changing the injection site at each 
injection (injection site rotation). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
Increased pressure in the brain (intracranial hypertension) 
INCRELEX can sometimes cause a temporary increase in pressure within the brain. The symptoms of 
intracranial hypertension can include visual changes, headache, nausea and/or vomiting. Tell the 
doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms. Your doctor can check to see if intracranial 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypertension is present. If it is present, your doctor may decide to temporarily reduce or discontinue 
mecasermin therapy. Mecasermin may be started again after the episode is over.  
Heart abnormalities 
In some patients treated with mecasermin, an ultrasound examination of the heart (echocardiogram) 
showed an increased size of the heart muscle and abnormalities of heart valve function. Your doctor 
may perform an echocardiogram before, during and after mecasermin treatment.  
Reactions at the injection site 
Reactions including rash, swelling and fatty lumps have been reported with INCRELEX treatment. 
Injection site reactions can be avoided by changing the injection site at each injection (injection site 
rotation). 
Weight increase 
Weight increase has been observed with mecasermin treatment. 
Other uncommon side effects seen with mecasermin treatment include depression, nervousness. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store INCRELEX 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and label after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
After first use, the vial may be stored for up to 30 days at 2°C to 8ºC. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What INCRELEX contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is mecasermin. One ml contains 10 mg of mecasermin. Each vial contains 
40 mg of mecasermin. 
The other ingredients are: benzyl alcohol, sodium chloride, polysorbate 20, glacial acetic acid, 
sodium acetate and water for injections (see section 2 "INCRELEX contains benzyl alcohol and 
sodium"). 
What INCRELEX looks like and contents of the pack 
INCRELEX is a colourless to slightly yellow and clear to slightly opalescent solution for injection 
(injection) supplied in a glass vial closed with a stopper and a seal. The vial contains 4 ml of solution.  
Pack size of 1 vial. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Ipsen Pharma 
65, quai Georges Gorse 
92100 Boulogne-Billancourt  
France  
Manufacturer: 
Beaufour Ipsen Industrie 
Rue Ethé Virton 
28100 Dreux 
France  
Tjoapack Netherlands B.V.  
Nieuwe Donk 9  
4879 AC Etten-Leur  
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien,  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Ipsen NV 
België /Belgique/Belgien  
Tél/Tel: + 32 9 243 96 00 
България 
Biomapas UAB 
Tel: +370 37 366307 
Česká republika 
Ipsen Pharma, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 242 481 821 
Hrvatska  
Biomapas Zagreb d.o.o.,  
Tel: +385 17 757 094 
Italia 
Ipsen SpA 
Tel: + 39 02 39 22 41 
Latvija 
Ipsen Pharma pārstāvniecība Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67622233 
Lietuva 
Ipsen Pharma Lietuvos filialas 
Lietuva 
Tel. + 370 37 337854 
Danmark, Norge, Suomi/Finland, Sverige, 
Ísland 
Institut Produits Synthèse (IPSEN) AB 
Sverige/Ruotsi/Svíþjóð 
Tlf/Puh/Tel/Sími: +46 8 451 60 00 
Magyarország 
Ipsen Pharma SAS Magyarországi  
Tel.: + 36 1 555 5930 
Deutschland, Österreich 
Ipsen Pharma GmbH 
Deutschland 
Tel.: +49 89 262043289 
Nederland 
Ipsen Farmaceutica B.V. 
Tel: + 31 23 55 41 600 
Eesti 
Centralpharma Communications OÜ 
Tel: +372 6015540  
Polska 
Ipsen Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0) 22 653 68 00 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα, Κύπρος, Malta 
Ipsen Μονοπρόσωπη EΠΕ  
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: + 30 210 984 3324 
España 
Ipsen Pharma S.A. 
Tel: + 34 936 858 100 
France 
Ipsen Pharma 
Tél: + 33 1 58 33 50 00 
Ireland, United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Ipsen Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Ireland 
Tel: + 44(0)1753 627777 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Portugal 
Ipsen Portugal - Produtos Farmacêuticos S.A. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 3550 
Slovenija 
Biomapas UAB 
Tel: +370 37 366307 
Slovenská republika 
Ipsen Pharma, organizačná zložka  
Tel: + 420 242 481 821   
România 
Ipsen Pharma 
România 
Tel/Тел.: + 40 (021) 231 27 20  
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that because of the 
rarity of this disease it has been impossible to get complete information on this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information on this medicine every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
INCRELEX should be administered using sterile disposable syringes and injection needles which 
could be provided by your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. The syringes should be of small enough 
volume that the prescribed dose can be withdrawn from the vial with reasonable accuracy. 
Preparing the dose 
1.  Wash your hands before getting INCRELEX ready for your injection. 
2. 
3. 
Use a new disposable needle and syringe every time you give a dose. Use syringes and needles 
only once. Throw them away properly in a sharps container (such as a biohazard container), 
hard plastic container (such as a detergent bottle), or metal container (such as an empty coffee 
can). Never share needles and syringes. 
Check the liquid to make sure it is clear and colourless. Do not use after the expiry date (which 
is stated on the label after EXP and it refers to the last day of the month) or if it is cloudy or if 
you see bits. If a vial freezes, dispose appropriately. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away 
medicines you no longer use. 
4. 
If you are using a new vial, remove the protective cap. Do not remove the rubber stopper. 
5.  Wipe the rubber stopper of the vial with an alcohol swab to prevent contamination of the vial by 
germs that may be introduced by repeated needle insertions (see Figure 1). 
Figure 1: Wipe top 
with alcohol 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Before putting the needle into the vial, pull back on plunger to draw air into the syringe equal 
to the prescribed dose. Put the needle through the rubber top of the vial and push the plunger to 
inject air into the vial (see Figure 2). 
Figure 2: Inject air 
into vial 
7. 
Leave the syringe in the vial and turn both upside down. Hold the syringe and vial firmly (see 
Figure 3). 
Figure 3: Prepare for 
extraction 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.   Make sure the tip of the needle is in the liquid (see Figure 4). Pull the plunger to withdraw the 
correct dose into the syringe (see Figure 5). 
Figure 4: Tip in 
liquid    
Figure 5: Extract 
correct dose 
9.   Before you take the needle out of the vial, check the syringe for air bubbles. If bubbles are in the 
syringe, hold the vial and syringe with needle straight up and tap the side of the syringe until the 
bubbles float to the top. Push the bubbles out with the plunger and draw liquid back in until you 
have the correct dose (see Figure 6). 
Figure 6: Remove air bubbles 
and refill syringe 
35 
 
 
          
 
                    
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.   Remove the needle from the vial and replace the protective cap. Do not let the 
needle touch anything. You are now ready to inject (see Figure 7). 
Figure 7: Ready to 
inject 
Injecting the dose: 
Inject INCRELEX as instructed by the doctor. 
Do not give the injection if you are unable to eat shortly before or after the injection. 
1. 
Decide on an injection area – upper arm, thigh, buttock, or abdomen (see below). The injection 
site should be changed for each injection (rotate the injection site) , to avoid formation of a 
lump of fatty tissue under your skin (lipohypertrophy) caused by repeated injections in the same 
place. 
Upper arm 
Thigh 
Buttock 
Abdomen  
2. 
Use alcohol or soap and water to clean the skin where you are going to inject you. The injection 
site should be dry before you inject. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
                
                
                    
 
 
 
 
3. 
Lightly pinch the skin. Insert the needle in the way the doctor showed you. Release the skin (see 
Figure A). 
Figure A: Lightly pinch 
the skin and inject as 
instructed 
4. 
Slowly push in the plunger of the syringe all the way, making sure you have injected all the 
liquid. Pull the needle straight out and gently press on the spot where you injected you with 
gauze or a cotton ball for a few seconds. Do not rub the area (see Figure B). 
Figure B: Press (don’t rub) 
with gauze or cotton 
5. 
Follow the doctor’s instructions for throwing away the needle and syringe. Do not recap the 
syringe. Used needle and syringe should be placed in a sharps container (such as a biohazard 
container), hard plastic container (such as a detergent bottle), or metal container (such as an 
empty coffee can). Such containers should be sealed and disposed of properly in the way your 
doctor described. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
