EMA/494300/2021 
EMEA/H/C/002178 
Incresync (alogliptin/pioglitazone) 
An overview of Incresync and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Incresync and what is it used for? 
Incresync is a diabetes medicine containing  the active substances alogliptin and pioglitazone. It is used 
as an addition  to diet and exercise in adults  with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of glucose 
(sugar) levels in the blood: 
• 
• 
in patients  who are not satisfactorily controlled with  pioglitazone alone, and who cannot be treated 
with  metformin (another diabetes medicine);  
together with  metformin in patients who are not  satisfactorily controlled with  a combination of 
pioglitazone and metformin. 
Incresync can also be used to replace separate alogliptin  and pioglitazone tablets  in adults who are 
already being treated with  this  combination. 
How is Incresync used? 
Incresync is available as tablets and can only be obtained with  a prescription. It is taken by mouth 
once daily. The recommended dose depends on the patient’s  current treatment  for diabetes. For more 
information about using Incresync, see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Incresync work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in  which the pancreas does not  make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in  the blood or in which  the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substances in 
Incresync, alogliptin and pioglitazone, work in  different ways to help correct this. 
Alogliptin is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of incretin 
hormones in the  body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas to 
produce insulin.  By blocking the breakdown of incretin hormones in the blood, alogliptin  prolongs their 
action in stimulating  the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. 
Alogliptin does not work when the blood glucose is low. Alogliptin also reduces the amount of glucose 
made by the liver by increasing insulin  levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. 
Together, these processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. Alogliptin  is 
licensed in  the EU as Vipidia. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Pioglitazone makes cells (fat, muscle and liver) more sensitive to insulin,  which means that  the body 
makes better use of the insulin  it produces. Pioglitazone is authorised in the EU as Actos and 
associated names. 
As a result of the action of both active substances, glucose levels in the blood are reduced, which  helps 
to control type 2 diabetes. 
What benefits of Incresync have been shown in studies? 
Incresync has been investigated in two main studies involving 1,296 patients  with  type 2 diabetes that 
was not well controlled by previous treatment. One of the studies compared the  effects of alogliptin 
with  placebo (a dummy treatment)  when used as an add-on to existing treatment with pioglitazone, 
with  or without  metformin or another diabetes medicine. In the other study, the effects of adding 
alogliptin to  existing treatment with  pioglitazone and metformin were compared with  increasing the 
doses of pioglitazone. In both studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level 
of glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c),  which is the percentage of haemoglobin in the  blood that  has 
glucose attached.  HbA1c levels give an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. HbA1c 
levels were measured after 26 weeks in the  first study and 52 weeks in the second study. 
Both studies showed that the  combination of the  active substances in Incresync could produce a small 
but  clinically relevant improvement in HbA1c. When alogliptin was added to pioglitazone, the 
improvement was a reduction of HbA1c of 0.47%  at an alogliptin dose of 12.5  mg and 0.61% at an 
alogliptin dose of 25 mg. Incresync was at least as effective as pioglitazone and metformin in reducing 
HbA1c. 
What are the risks associated with Incresync? 
The most common side effects with  Incresync (which may affect up to 1  in 10 people) are upper 
respiratory tract infections (nose and throat  infections), sinusitis (inflammation  of the sinuses), 
headache, nausea (feeling sick), dyspepsia (heartburn), abdominal pain (tummy ache), pruritus 
(itching),  myalgia (muscle pain), peripheral oedema (swelling in arms and legs) and weight  gain. For 
the full list  of side effects of Incresync, see the  package leaflet. 
Incresync must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substances or 
any of the ingredients or who have had serious allergic reactions to any dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) 
inhibitor.  It must also not be used in patients  who have or have ever had heart failure or bladder 
cancer, those with  reduced liver function,  diabetic ketoacidosis (a serious condition that  can occur in 
diabetes), or blood in the urine that  has not been properly investigated. For the full  list of restrictions, 
see the package leaflet. 
Why is Incresync authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that  Incresync’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. The Agency considered that  adding alogliptin to existing treatment 
with  pioglitazone with or without  metformin had shown to produce modest but  clinically relevant 
improvements in HbA1c. The Agency therefore considered that  the combination of alogliptin and 
pioglitazone in Incresync is of benefit to patients.  Incresync’s safety profile was consistent with  that 
seen with  the individual components.  
(alogliptin/pioglitazone)  
EMA/494300/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Incresync? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Incresync have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Incresync are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Incresync are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to  protect patients. 
Other information about Incresync 
Incresync received a marketing authorisation  valid throughout  the EU on 19 September 2013.   
Further information on Incresync can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/incresync.  
This overview was last updated in  09-2021. 
(alogliptin/pioglitazone)  
EMA/494300/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
