Part VI: Summary of the Risk Management Plan     
Summary of Risk Management Plan for INCRESYNC 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for INCRESYNC. The RMP details important risks 
of  INCRESYNC,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
INCRESYNC's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
INCRESYNC's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how INCRESYNC should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for INCRESYNC should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public 
Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of INCRESYNC's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
INCRESYNC is authorised for second- or third-line treatment in adult patients aged 18 years and older 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in adult 
patients inadequately controlled on pioglitazone alone, and for whom metformin is inappropriate due to 
contraindications or Intolerance (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains ALOGLIPTIN/ 
PIOGLITAZONE as the active substance and it is taken by mouth as a tablet.  
Further information about the evaluation of INCRESYNC’s benefits can be found in INCRESYNC’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/incresync   
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of INCRESYNC, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about INCRESYNC's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The  authorised  pack  size  —  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without prescription) 
can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute Routine Risk Minimisation Measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
CONFIDENTIAL 
 
  
 
 
 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of INCRESYNC are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
INCRESYNC. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
Pancreatic cancer (alogliptin) 
Use during pregnancy and lactation (alogliptin) 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
Important Identified Risk Pancreatic cancer (alogliptin) 
Evidence for Linking the Risk to 
the Medicine 
Risk Factors and Risk Groups 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
A publication by a group of academic researchers has raised 
concerns  of  an  increased  risk  of  pancreatitis  and  cellular 
changes in patients treated T2DM with GLP-1 based therapies 
and  DPP-4  inhibitors.  In  March  2013,  the  CHMP  were 
requested  in  consultation  with  the  PRAC  to  give  an  opinion 
under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) 726/2004, regarding this 
recently  published  data,  to  determine  its  potential  impact  on 
the  centrally-authorized  GLP-1  agonists  and  DPP-4  inhibitor 
products,  considering  other  data  already  available.  This 
procedure  is  completed  on  25  July  2013.  On  this  basis 
pancreatic  cancer  has  been  included  as  a  potential  risk  for 
alogliptin at the request of the CHMP.  
There are known risk factors associated with development of 
pancreatic  cancer;  among  these  are  gender  (men  are  30% 
more  at  risk),  age  (70%  are  age  65  years  or  older),  race 
(African-Americans are at higher risk, possibly due to smoking, 
obesity and diabetes), smoking (responsible for 20%-30% of 
pancreatic  cancers),  obesity,  diabetes,  chronic  pancreatitis, 
liver  cirrhosis, 
to 
pesticides, dyes, chemicals used in metal refining, and genetic 
syndromes,  such  as  mutations  in  genes  such  as  BRCA2, 
p16/CDKN2A  (familial  melanoma),  and  PRSSi  (familial 
pancreatitis),  Lynch  syndrome  (also  known  as  hereditary 
nonpolyposis  colorectal  cancer),  Peutz-Jeghers  syndrome, 
von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, neurofibromatosis type 1 (gene 
mutation), and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. 
family  history,  occupational  exposure 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Targeted Malignancy Follow-up Form for Alogliptin for 
Pancreatic cancer AEs 
CONFIDENTIAL 
 
 
 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
Not applicable. 
Missing Information Use during pregnancy and lactation (alogliptin) 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.6, 5.3 and PL section 2 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None required 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
INCRESYNC. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for INCRESYNC. 
CONFIDENTIAL 
 
 
 
 
