SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Primary  IGFD  or  Laron  syndrome  results  typically  from  a  defect  in  the  growth  hormone  receptor 
(GHR). Dysfunction of GHR is characterized by clinical hyposomatotropism manifest by short stature, 
delayed  bone  age,  and  occasionally  blue  sclerae  and  hip  degeneration.  Additional  features  include 
delayed  bone  maturation  and  the  absence  of  bone  dysplasias  and  chronic  diseases.  Laron  syndrome 
patients have low IGF1 despite normal or increased levels of GH. The GH is functionally normal by 
the criteria that it reacts normally with a variety of antisera and binds normally to GH receptors. IGF-1 
is  low  in  GHIS,  and  exogenous  GH  does  not  induce  an  IGF-1  response  or  restore  normal  growth. 
Plasma  levels  of  GH-binding  proteins  (GHBP),  which  are  derived  from  the  extracellular  domain  of 
GHR, are often low. 
INCRELEX (mecasermin) is recombinant human insulin-like growth factor-1 (rhIGF-1) designed for 
use as replacement therapy in severe primary insulin-like growth factor deficiency. Studies about its 
use in IGFD date back to 1989 and its efficacy has been proven also by the scientific literature. 
The  term  of  “Primary  IGF-1  Deficiency”  for  this  disorder  was  proposed  by  Z.  Laron  to  distinguish 
between disorders in which a defect in GH action leads to IGF-1 deficiency and its associated effects 
on statural growth, compared to “secondary IGFD” which is caused by abnormalities in the GH/IGF-1 
axis such as GH deficiency.  
There  are  currently  no  products  authorised  in  the  European  Union  to  treat  patients  affected  by  the 
condition.  Recombinant  human  IGF-I,  though  not  authorised,  has  been  used  for  the  treatment  of 
patients  with  growth  hormone  insensitivity  syndrome  and  primary  IGF-I  deficiency  due  to  an  IGF-I 
gene defect.  
The application for INCRELEX according to Article 8.3.(i), is a complete application for a new active 
substance within the centralised procedure.  
The proposed indication for INCRELEX was for the long-term treatment of growth failure in children 
with severe primary IGD-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD) or with growth hormone (GH) gene deletion 
who have developed neutralising antibodies to GH. 
Mecasermin  was  granted  orphan  status  in  the  EU  for  “Treatment  of  growth  hormone  insensitivity 
syndrome” (EU/3/05/307) on 26 August 2005.  
In  December  2005,  in  parallel  to  the  marketing  authorisation  application,  the  sponsor  submitted 
another application for orphan designation for “Long-term treatment of growth failure in children with 
primary  insulin-like  growth  factor-1  deficiency  (Primary  IGFD)”.  On  the  05  April  2006  the 
application  was  granted  a  positive  opinion.  It  was  considered  that  for  the  purpose  of  orphan 
designation the condition should be described as “primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency due 
to molecular or genetic defects”. The prevalence of the condition was established as affecting not more 
than  2  in  10,000  persons  in  the  Community  when  the  application  was  made,  being  the  condition 
chronically debilitating due, in particular, to growth failure and dysmorphic features. Orphan status in 
the EU for this indication (EU/3/06/373) was granted on 22 May 2006. 
©EMEA 2007 
1/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Tercica  Europe  Ltd.  has  filed  an  application  for  marketing  authorisation  for  INCRELEX  (INN: 
mecasermin).    INCRELEX  is  a  medicinal  product  supplied  as  a  sterile  solution  for  the  treatment  of 
children with severe Primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD) or with growth 
hormone  (GH)  gene  deletion,  who  have  developed  neutralizing  antibodies  to  GH.  The  product  is  a 
sterile, aqueous, clear and colorless solution intended for subcutaneous injection. Each multi-dose vial 
contains  10  mg/mL  mecasermin,  9  mg/mL  benzyl  alcohol,  5.84  mg/mL  sodium  chloride,  2  mg/mL 
polysorbate 20, and 0.05M acetate at a pH of approximately 5.4. The product is supplied as a sterile 
solution in 5 mL multiple dose glass vials (40 mg/vial). 
The active substance of INCRELEX is recombinant human Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (rhIGF-1), a 
single-chain,  non-glycosylated  polypeptide,  composed  of  70  amino  acids.  Its  structure  is  stabilized 
with 3 intra-chain disulphide bonds. 
rhIGF-1  is  a  7.6  kDa  peptide  structurally  identical  to  naturally  occuring  human  IGF-1.  It  is  highly 
homologous  (45-52  %)  with  human  insulin  and  has  67  %  sequence  identity  with  human  IGF-2. 
Synthesis  and  release  of  natural  occurring  IGF-1  and  IGF-2  is  induced  by  human  growth  hormone 
(GH), whereas most of the growth-promoting effects of human growth hormone are mediated through 
IGF-1.  In  target  tissues  IGF-1  has  one  specific  receptor,  IGFR1,  and  in  blood  circulation  IGF-1  is 
bound  to  carrier  proteins  called  Insulin-like  Growth  Factor  Binding  Proteins  (IGFBPs),  from  which 
IGFBP3 is the most important carrier for IGF-1. 
Composition: 
Component  
rhIGF-1  
Sodium Chloride  
Glacial Acetic Acid  
Sodium Acetate, 
Trihydrate  
Polysorbate 20  
Benzyl Alcohol  
Water for Injection  
Drug Substance  
Function  
Drug Substance  
Tonicity modifier  
Buffer  
Quantity per 
mL  
Quantity per 
Vial  
Reference to Quality 
Standard  
10.0 mg  
5.84 mg  
0.43 mg  
42.5 mg  
24.8 mg  
1.8 mg  
In-house Specification  
USP/Ph. Eur.  
USP/Ph. Eur.  
Buffer  
5.82 mg  
24.7 mg  
USP/Ph. Eur.  
Stabilizer  
Preservative  
Solvent  
2.0 mg  
9.0 mg  
qs to 1.0 mL  
8.5 mg  
38.3 mg  
qs to 4.25 mL 
USP/NF/Ph. Eur.  
NF/Ph. Eur.  
USP/Ph. Eur.  
General Information 
INCRELEX (mecasermin) is a recombinant human IGF-1, produced in E.coli bacteria. The biological 
activity of rhIGF-1 is based on its ability to stimulate cell growth both in vitro and in vivo. 
Nomenclature 
INCRELEX  (mecasermin  [rDNA  origin]  injection)  is  the  trade  name  for  the  proposed  recombinant 
human  insulin-like  growth  factor-1  (rhIGF-1).  The  International  Nonproprietary  Name  (INN)  is 
mecasermin,  CAS  registry  number  68562-41-4.  The  molecule  is  also  referred  to  as  IGF-1,  human 
IGF-1 or as Somatomedin C.   
Structure 
Mecasermin  is  a  basic,  single-chain,  non-glycosylated  70  amino  acid  protein  connected  via  three 
disulphide  bonds.  The  amino  acid  sequence  of  mecasermin  is  identical  to  the  native  IGF-1  as 
described in the literature. 
©EMEA 2007 
 2/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
Cambrex Bio Sciences Baltimore, Inc., 5901 East Lombard Street, Baltimore Maryland 21224, USA. 
is responsible for the manufacture of the Drug Substance, bulk Drug Product formulation and part of 
the Bulk Product release testing. 
Development genetics 
Cell source 
The transcriptional and translational initiation sequences required for the expression of the IGF-1 gene 
in  E.  coli  are  provided  by  the  Applicant.    The  nucleotide  and  amino  acid  sequences  encoding  the 
signal sequence and the IGF-1 gene are presented. 
Cell banking 
The  MCB  was  carefully  tested  for  viability,  microbial  purity  and  identity.  The  expression  plasmid 
content was examined for segregational and structural stability. All the test were satisfactory and the 
phenotypes of the host strain fit to the genotype and the DNA sequence of the expression cassette is 
identical to the original E. coli strain and expression plasmid respectively. A working cell bank was 
prepared  and  tested  under  similar  conditions  as  the  MCB.  The  WCB  passed  the  tests  and  is  apt  for 
large scale fermentations. 
Master Cell Bank 
The  original  rhIGF-1  MCB  was  produced  by  Genentech.  From  this  MCB,  the  currently  used  MCB  
was produced.  Results from the MCB testing are described. 
Working Cell Bank 
A  Working  Cell  Bank  was  produced  from  the  MCB.  Testing  and  qualification  of  the  WCB  was 
performed. 
Manufacturing process of the drug substance: 
The  rhIGF-1  is  initially  produced  and  deposited  in  an  inactive  form  in  the  periplasmic  space  of  the 
bacterial cells. Protein recovery involves isolating crude rhIGF-1. The protein is then refolded, under 
controlled  conditions,  to  obtain  the  biologically  active  form.  The  purification  process,  using  column 
chromatography and ultrafiltration, removes process-related and product related impurities, as well as 
product variants, prior to final bulk drug substance formulation. 
The  Applicant  has  followed  the  critical  operation  parameters  during  the  manufacture  of  multiple 
commercial  scale  batches  and  most  of  the  presented  values  are  well  within  the  acceptance  limits. 
Results from in-process testing from the same batches are also provided and they mainly comply with 
the specifications.  
Process validation and/or evaluation 
Each  individual  manufacturing  step  has  been  validated  for  execution,  expected  performance, 
robustness and impurity clearance. The validation campaign consisted of three consecutive full scale 
lots.  Validation  data  of  the  chromatographic  purification  steps  include  results  of  the  critical  process 
parameters and in-process controls. 
The  presented  process  validation  contained  also  removal  of  process  and  product-related  impurities. 
The  analysis  of  process-related  impurities  was  performed  from  different  purification  steps  and  the 
final  amount  of  each  impurity  was  measured.  The  clearance  of  process-related  impurities  from  the 
drug substance is also presented. 
Product related impurities 
Removal of product-related impurities along the purification process has been described. The current 
manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  substance  (Tercica)  is  well  described  and  the  chosen  in-process 
controls are acceptable. The minor issues associated to the manufacturing process and its consistency, 
are  mostly  properly  addressed  by  the  Applicant  and  only  two  minor  issues  are  retained  as 
commitments. The presented process validation is considered acceptable. For chemical process-related 
©EMEA 2007 
 3/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
impurities  the  company  has  provided  safety  risk  analysis  using  available  toxicological  information. 
The lack of data for chemical impurities regarding materials produced by different process variants is 
considered acceptably covered. The levels of the only product-related impurity are properly controlled 
during the manufacturing process.  
Characterisation  
The observed amino acid sequence of rhIGF-1 was identical to the amino acid sequence predicted by 
the  DNA  sequence.  The  complete  amino  acid  sequence  of  the  same  rhIGF-1  lot  was  confirmed. 
Characterization  studies  were  mainly  performed  with  Tercica  rhIGF-1,  however,  older  material  was 
included in some of the studies as part of the comparability testing. The company has put a lot of effort 
to further characterize the protein molecule with state-of-art methods. Product heterogeneity has been 
assessed by chromatographic methods. Product variants have been isolated and identified from Tercica 
lots, and most of them have been identified as active forms. The only variant regarded as an impurity, 
is the inactive misfolded form of rhIGF-1.  
Post translational modifications 
rhIGF-1  is  a  non-glycosylated  protein  produced  in  E.coli  and  thus  most  post-translational 
modifications  are  not  expected  to  take  place.  The  lack  of  modifications  is  supported  by  the  results 
presented.  Additionally,  the  company  has  provided  supportive  evidence  of  the  correctly  folded 
protein.  
Physicochemical properties 
The  molecular  mass  of  Tercica  produced  rhIGF-1  was  confirmed.  According  to  the  result,  the 
molecular mass of mecasermin is 7649 Da, which is in agreement with the theoretical, calculated mass 
of rhIGF-1 (7649.6 Da). 
Biological properties 
Potency: Bioassay. An in vitro cell based bioassay is used to evaluate potency during routine release 
and stability testing of rhIGF-1 formulated bulk drug substance.  
An  International  Standard  (NIBSC  rhIGF-1)  approved  by  WHO  is  used  as  reference  material  in  the 
bioassay.  The bioassay is an in vitro cell based assay developed to measure the bioactivity of rhIGF-1.  
A  validation  study  has  been  performed,  the  parameters  examined  and  results  are  presented.  The 
Applicant  has  also  validated  the  storage  of  the  reference  material  and  submitted  the  requested  data. 
Thus the bioassay is considered acceptable for the intended use. 
Process-related impurities 
The  rhIGF-1  drug  substance  manufacturing  process  contains  several  process–  related  impurities 
including  cell  substrates  (E.  coli  proteins  and  DNA),  fermentation  and  recovery  media  and  process 
components, and downstream processing buffer components comprising a residual solvent and buffer 
salt. Details for each process-related impurity are  provided and summary data analysis from  clinical 
lots,  primary  stability  lots,  and  conformance  lots  are  given  within  the  drug  substance  process 
validation  section.  Validation  of  contaminant  removal  during  process  validation  and  justification  of 
the  final  bulk  contaminant  limits  for  ECP  and  DNA  were  based  on  results  obtained  by  the  use  of 
validated analytical methods for all impurities tested.  
Specification 
The  Applicant  has  provided  description  of  the  analytical  tests  used  for  In  Process  -testing  and  for 
process validation purposes. Specifications defined for the drug substance are considered acceptable. 
Validation of Analytical procedures 
Specifications defined for the drug substance are considered acceptable. The analytical procedures are 
state-of-art  methods  and  most  of  them  are  properly  validated  for  the  intended  use,  except  one 
procedure requiring further development and for which a follow-up measure has been identified 
Batch analysis data is provided not only for the consistency lots, but also for the early development 
batches.  Analysis  of  the  Tercica  batches  with  the  proposed  methodology  provides  assurance  of 
acceptable batch consistency for the current manufacturing process. 
©EMEA 2007 
 4/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Release  and  stability  assays  and  tests  used  for  process  validation  purposes  have  been  validated 
according  to  ICH  requirements.  Validation  of  critical  in-process  assays  has  also  been  performed  as 
appropriate for the intended use of the assays. Additionally, stress studies were performed to further 
demonstrate the validity of methods. Validation reports for all methods are provided. 
Batch Analyses 
Summaries have been provided for batches used in non-clinical evaluation and clinical trials, as well 
as the consistency lots conducted at full scale. The batches comply with the proposed specifications. 
The  company  used  three  reference  materials  in  the  characterization  and  release  testing  of  rhIGF-1. 
Both  the  older  reference  materials  and  the  new  Tercica  reference  material  have  been  extensively 
characterized.  
Stability 
The formulated drug substance bulk is stored at 2 to 8ºC and has a proposed shelf life of 12 months. 
The  current  drug  substance  stability  program  is  ongoing  and  the  company  commits  to  continue  the 
stability  testing  of  these  batches  to  the  end  of  the  shelf-life.  Additionally  the  Applicant  commits  to 
retest all batches prior to filling until full stability data is available. 
Drug Product  
The drug product is a sterile liquid formulation containing a preservative, and is intended for multiple 
administrations. It is supplied in a single configuration of 40 mg at a strength of 10 mg/mL rhIGF-1, 
and is stored at 2 to 8°C. 
The  active  ingredient  of  drug  product  is  recombinant  human  IGF-1  produced  in  E.coli.  The  drug 
substance is manufactured as a formulated bulk, stored at 2 to 8°C and shipped for sterile filtration and 
aseptic filling. 
The formulated bulk drug substance pooled, mixed, sterile-filtered and automatically filled into sterile 
vials  through  aseptic  processing.  The  manufacturing  process  is  adequately  validated  and  the  quality 
control of the drug product is acceptable. All excipients are compendial, non-novel excipients and are 
sourced from approved vendors. The drug product contains no excipients of human or animal origin. 
The  container  closure  system  used  for  immediate  packaging  of  the  drug  product  has  been  found 
suitable and compatible with the product. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
rhIGF-1 has always been formulated for use as a sterile parenteral (subcutaneous injection) product. 
The development process of the product vials is well described. The formulation development module 
consists  of  summary  of  formulations  used  in  clinical  development  and  overages  and  the 
physicochemical and biological properties. The manufacturing process development module consists 
of  the  older  manufacturing  process  and  the  Tercica  manufacturing  process  and  the  changes.  The 
dossier contains detailed information about the formulation and manufacturing development as well as 
on  the  development  of  the  container  closure  system,  its  integrity  and  extractables  and  leachables 
testing.Extractables  testing  concerning  extraction  conditions  and  limits  has  been  provided.  The 
microbiological attributes including the issue of  preservatives  and the container closure integrity are 
addressed.  
Modifications have been implemented in the manufacturing processes used to formulate, sterilize, and 
aseptically  fill  INCRELEX.  A  summary  of  the  different  processes,  manufacturing  sites,  and 
corresponding  drug  substance  manufacturing  processes  is  presented.  All  drug  product  lots  of 
INCRELEX have been manufactured by sterilization of the formulated bulk via 0.2 µm filtration and 
subsequent filling into sterile vials via aseptic processing.  
The current container closure system is well documented and putative leachables have been studied. 
INCRELEX  (mecasermin  injection)  is  a  sterile  solution  containing  0.9%  Benzyl  Alcohol  NF  as  a 
preservative. During drug product manufacturing, the formulated bulk drug substance is sterilized by 
filtration  and  filled  into  sterile  vials  under  aseptic  conditions.  All  aseptic  operations  have  been 
©EMEA 2007 
 5/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
validated by media fills. All sterile components, including vials, stoppers, and product contact filling 
equipment,  are  sterilized  by  validated  methods.  Each  lot  of  INCRELEX  is  tested  for  sterility  by 
compendial methods. 
Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacture  of  INCRELEX  is  performed  by  Baxter  Pharmaceutical  Solutions  (BPS).  The  BPS 
facility  is  a  multiple-product  contract  manufacturing  facility.  All  biologic  products  currently 
manufactured at the facility have dedicated (and/or single use) product contact equipment and parts. 
The manufacturing process flow is presented. 
The autoclaves used for sterilization of tubing, needles, filter assemblies, primary packaging material 
(vials  and  closures)  and  the  surge  tank  were  validated  for  worst-case  durable  load  conditions  that 
included  all  applicable  components.  The  studies  used  challenge  biological  indicators  (spore  forming 
bacteria) to evaluate the suitability of the sterilization cycle with worst-case loads. 
The  sterile  filtration  process  was  validated  by  microbial  retention  validation  study  for  rhIGF-1 
formulated  bulk  drug  substance  using  Hydrophilic  0.2  µm  Durapore  Membrane  Filters.  A  summary 
report of the validation is provided. 
Vial filling and stoppering are conducted under aseptic conditions. Routine media fills are performed 
that  are  adequate  in  design  to  validate  aseptic  processing  under  normal  established  operating 
conditions (duration of aseptic operations, vial configuration, fill volume, batch size). Results from the 
most current media fills are provided in the dossier. 
The  process  validation  contained  the  appropriate  evaluations  and  the  validation  data  is  provided. 
Release data is provided for commercial full-scale lots of drug product manufactured using the process 
described. 
Excipients used in formulation of INCRELEX are Sodium Chloride, Sodium Acetate, Glacial Acetic 
Acid,  Polysorbate  20,  Benzyl  Alcohol  and  WFI.  Sodium  chloride,  sodium  acetate,  polysorbate  20, 
benzyl alcohol, glacial acetic acid, and water for injection are all tested per procedures described in the 
current  revisions  of  the  USP,  NF,  or  Ph.  Eur.  Compendial  analytical  procedures  used  for  excipient 
testing  have  been  verified  to  be  suitable  under  actual  conditions  of  use.  All  INCRELEX  excipients 
meet  either  USP,  NF,  or  Ph.  Eur.  specifications,  or  are  multi-compendial,  ensuring  that  they  meet 
stringent international standards for identity, quality, purity, and safety.  
The rhIGF-1 Drug Product contains no excipients of human or animal origin. 
Product Specification 
The  specifications  for  INCRELEX  drug  product  are  summarized.  The  Applicant  has  provided 
description  of  the  analytical  tests  used  for  release  testing,  including  the  appropriate  method 
validations.  Specifications  defined  for  the  drug  product  are  considered  acceptable,  and  as  follow-up 
measures the applicant has committed to further refine and submit specifications for several key test 
methods, including the bioassay. 
As an exemption to the defined Drug Product release tests, the biological activity of the final 
product  is  determined  by  an  HPLC  method  instead  of  the  bioassay.  The  validation  of  the 
HPLC  assay,  including  bridging  of  the  HPLC  assay  with  the  bioassay,  has  been  performed 
and  a  specification  has  been  accepted.  Additionally,  Tercica  has  agreed  to  perform  the 
bioassay as a Drug Product in process test.    
Stability of the Product 
Drug  product  lots  are  being  monitored  for  stability  at  the  proposed  long-term  refrigerated  storage 
condition 2-8°C. In addition, accelerated stability testing is being conducted at 25°C ± 2°C/60% RH ± 
5% RH. The stability program is intended to extend up to 60 months and vials in upright and inverted 
position are included in the program, as well as vials put on accelerated storage conditions (25 °C/60 
% RH). 
©EMEA 2007 
 6/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According  to  the  results,  the  product  is  well  preserved  and  no  clear  deterioration  of  the  rhIGF-1 
material can  be observed. The statistical analysis is performed according to ICH Q1E. However, as 
the company does not have full stability data for 24 months, the Applicant committed to continue the 
long term studies through the proposed shelf life and to provide the data as soon as it is available.   
The finished INCRELEX drug product was also tested for stability over its period of intended use by 
the patient as each vial of product contains multiple doses. The in-use stability study encompassed a 
30-day  period  in  which  the  product  was  stored  at  2-8°C  and  sampled  multiple  times  in  order  to 
simulate typical handling while in use. A 30-day in use shelf life is proposed from the time of initial 
penetration and will be indicated on the product label. 
Adventitious Agents 
There is no risk of viral contamination from the production cell line, as this bacterial cell line, unlike 
mammalian  host  cell  lines,  does  not  support  the  replication  of  mammalian  viruses  that  might  be 
introduced during the cell growth and fermentation phases from raw or starting materials. 
The  rhIGF-1  manufacturing  process  contains  one  starting  material  and  one  raw  material  that  are 
derived  from  animal  sources.  Details  of  each  of  these  animal-sourced  materials,  including  their 
origins,  categorical  risk  assessments,  manufacturing  controls  and  other  manufacturing  information 
relative  to  the  rhIGF-1  production  process  were  provided.  It  is  concluded  that  the  use  of  the  two 
materials derived from animal sources does not affect the safety of INCRELEX. 
GMP 
Satisfactory compliance with GMP has been demonstrated for: 
-the manufacturer of the active substance Cambrex Bio Science Baltimore Inc, USA. 
-the manufacturer of the medicinal product Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC, USA. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact  on  the  Risk-benefit  balance  of  the  product.  The  Applicant  gave  a  Letter  of  Undertaking  and 
committed to resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  non-clinical  programme  consisting  of  pharmacology,  ADME/toxicokinetics  and  toxicology 
studies  was  performed.  Data  from  the  literature  supporting  the  use  of  rhIGF-1  at  doses  of  0.080  to 
0.120  mg/kg  given  twice  daily  as  subcutaneous  (SC)  replacement  therapy  for  growth  failure  in 
children with primary IGFD was also submitted. The published literature was searched from 1966 to 
September  2004  using  the  National  Library  of  Medicine  database.  Selected  relevant  references 
describing the use of rhIGF-1 produced by others were submitted. 
All  of  the  pivotal  toxicological  studies  and  toxicokinetic  studies  were  conducted  according  to  GLP 
guidelines.  Considering  types  of  preclinical  models  used  to  examine  mechanism  of  action  of 
mecasermin as well as relevant guidelines for biotechnologically derived drugs, deviations from GLP 
in some ADME and secondary pharmacology studies can be accepted. 
Several early development formulations of mecasermin were used in different studies. 
©EMEA 2007 
 7/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
IGF-1 is a 7.649 kDa non-glycosylated protein of 70 amino acids with three intra-molecular disulfide 
bridges  and  is  structurally  homologous  to  proinsulin.  IGF-1  is  a  mediator  of  statural  growth 
(somatomedin) and it is obligate for GH to be able to stimulate bone and body growth. In target tissues 
the Type 1 IGF-1 receptor, which is homologous to the insulin receptor, is activated by the binding of 
rhIGF-1  leading  to  intracellular  signalling  which  stimulates  multiple  processes  leading  to  statural 
growth, as well as mitogenic and “insulin-like” metabolic activities. The hypoglycaemic effect of IGF-
1 is the most frequent adverse reaction observed during the clinical studies in primary IGFD. Insulin 
and IGF-1 stimulate glucose uptake in muscle in a qualitatively similar manner, but quantitatively the 
hypoglycaemic  potency  of  IGF-1  is  ≤  10%  of  that  of  insulin  in  animals  and  humans.  Low  doses  of 
rhIGF-1  have  been  reported  to  restore  bone  and  body  growth  without  exerting  a  glucose-lowering 
effect in diabetic rats.  
Non-clinical pharmacology studies to characterize the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of mecasermin 
included  examination  of  metabolic  and  tissue  growth  responses.  The  pharmacological  activity  of 
mecasermin  observed  in  all  laboratory  species  (mice,  rat,  rabbit,  rhesus  monkey)  examined  are 
consistent with the fact that the amino acid sequence of IGF-1 and IGF receptors are highly conserved 
among species. 
The primary pharmacodynamic endpoint, bone growth, was evaluated in two different GH and IGF-1 
deficient  rat  models;  the  hypophysectomized  rat  and  the  dwarf  (dw/dw)  rat.  Additionally,  the 
ovarectomized rat was used as a model of bone loss and growth retardation. These animal models can 
be  considered  to  be  relevant  enough  and  predictive  of  the  bone  growth  response  that  was  seen  in 
human clinical trials of mecasermin treatment of children with primary IGFD. In all of these studies, 
mecasermin was administered as a continuous SC infusion. The reasons for using this route and mode 
of administration instead of SC bolus injection (widely used, no evidence for qualitative differences 
between  injections  and  infusions,  and  minimization  of  hypoglycaemic  effect)  were  reviewed  and 
considered  acceptable  for  evaluation  of  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  endpoint,  bone  growth.  The 
effect  of  mecasermin  on  bone  growth  was  measured  using  three  methods  depending  on  the  study: 
measuring  the  absolute  length  of  the  tibia,  measuring  the  width  of  the  epiphyseal  growth  plate,  and 
determining  the  amount  of  new  calcified  bone  formed  between  the  oxytetracycline  marker  and  the 
cellular growth plate in the tibia. A dose-related increase in bone growth was seen in all studies after 7 
to 14 days of mecasermin SC infusion. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
To  determine  the  secondary  PD  effects  of  mecasermin  on  blood  glucose,  body  weight  gain  and 
immune  function,  several  studies  in  mice,  rat,  rabbit,  and  monkey  were  performed.  In  addition,  the 
changes in weight of various organs were monitored in several pharmacology studies (see Toxicology 
section). All doses 1.0 mg/kg or greater and both routes of administration (SC bolus and intravenous 
(IV)  bolus)  caused  a  fall  in  the  blood  glucose  levels  in  rats.  The  glucose  response  appeared  to  be 
greatest in animals with the lowest pre-dose glucose levels.  
In most studies there was a dose-related effect of mecasermin on body weight gain. Mecasermin was 
shown  to  affect  the  immune  system  by  inducing  hypertrophic  and  hyperplasic  effects  on  lymphoid 
organs (thymus and spleen). In addition direct effects on immune function were demonstrated.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No  formal  studies  were  performed  regarding  possible  activity  of  mecasermin  or  the  formulation 
components on known pharmacologic receptors. 
In  addition,  no  formal  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  performed.  Specific  evaluations  of 
cardiovascular and respiratory parameters (electrocardiography, blood pressure, respiration rate) were 
©EMEA 2007 
 8/39 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
performed however as part of the pivotal GLP repeat-dose toxicity studies in beagle dogs. This was 
considered acceptable as the effects of rhIGF-1 were similar to that of the referent insulin, and there 
are  many  literature  references  regarding  the  cardioprotective  effects  of  the  compound.  It  has  to  be 
considered  that  there  is  no  relationship  between  the  cardioprotective  effect  and  QT  interval 
prolongation. 
The  absence  of  CNS  safety  pharmacology  studies  was  justified  by  the  Applicant  in  view  of  the 
existence  of  very  large  literature  on  the  effects  of  IGF-1  on  the  nervous  system  which  rather  than 
suggesting neurotoxicity, suggest that rhIGF-1 has overall a beneficial effect on the nervous system. 
Though this did not give any information on the neurotoxicity of the mecasermin in this application, it 
was considered that the safety aspects of IGF-I treatment were been sufficiently taken into account in 
the toxicological studies. The observed symptoms related to CNS in these studies were concluded to 
result mainly from the hypoglycaemic effect. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were performed with mecasermin and rhGH in mice, and 
normal, aged, hypophysectomized, and dwarf rats. Effects on bone growth, changes in blood glucose, 
changes  in  body  weight,  and  immune  function  were  evaluated  when  these  two  hormones  were 
coadministered. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In  biological fluids,  mecasermin  is  highly  bound  (95%  to  99%)  to  a  family of  IGF  binding  proteins 
(IGFBP 1-6) that play important roles in modulating pharmacokinetics and distribution, and hence its 
biological activity. Free IGF-1 is cleared more rapidly than IGF-1 bound to the endogenous binding 
proteins. In rats and dogs, the total IGF-1 generally increased proportionately with increasing dose, but 
the percent that was free increased greater than proportionately from a low of approximately 3% at 0.1 
mg/kg/day to a high of approximately 73% at 10.0 mg/kg/day. 
The  species  used  in  the  ADME/toxicokinetic  evaluations  were  normal  adult  Sprague  Dawley  rats 
(males and females, single and multiple SC and IV doses), New Zealand White rabbits (males, single 
IV and SC doses), Beagle dogs (males and females, multiple SC doses), and rhesus monkeys (males, 
single SC doses). Validated radioimmunossay (RIA) and associated methodologies to quantitate total 
and free IGF-1 in plasma were used for the pivotal toxicokinetic support studies and the majority of 
other studies. 
Appropriate physicochemical in vitro and in vivo non-clinical and/or clinical studies were conducted 
to  demonstrate  that  the  material  from  each  new  process  was  comparable  to  the  material  from  the 
previous process. 
After  SC  doses  as  high  as  10.0  mg/kg/day,  mecasermin  was  relatively  quickly  absorbed.  The  SC 
bioavailability for total and free IGF-1 was 38 to 57% in rats and rabbits. The mean Cmax and AUC 
for total and free IGF-1 overall increased with increasing dose, less than dose proportionally for total 
IGF-1 and greater than or approximately equal to dose proportionally for free IGF-1. The mean half-
life values for total IGF-1 decreased with increasing dose. The mean free IGF-1 t1/2 overall did not 
show  consistent  changes  with  increasing  dose.  The  data  in  rats  suggested  absorption  rate  limited 
kinetics. 
One  single  dose  tissue  distribution  study  was  conducted  in  male  rats  after  IV  administration  of  125I-
labeled rhIGF-1 at 10, 60, 200, and 400 minutes post-dose for tracer only and at 60 minutes for tracer 
plus  excess  unlabeled  rhIGF-1  was  examined  after  a  radiolabeled  tracer-only  dose  and  after  a 
radiolabeled  tracer  dose  plus  an  excess  of  unlabeled  mecasermin.  The  organs/tissues  examined 
included adrenal, bladder (empty), blood, bone, brain, fat, heart, injection site, kidney, large intestine, 
liver, lung, muscle, pituitary, plasma, reproductive tract, skin, small intestine, snout, spleen, stomach, 
thymus and thyroid. The volume of distribution of IGF-1 was relatively small, likely due to its high 
protein  binding.  Radioactivity  was  distributed  primarily  to  highly  perfused  organs,  and/or  possible 
©EMEA 2007 
 9/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
organs  of  elimination/action  (kidney  and  liver)  for  up  to  200  minutes  post-dose.  The  brain  showed 
negligible accumulation of radioactivity. 
Two  metabolism  studies  were  conducted  in  male  and  female  Sprague  Dawley  rats  after  IV 
administration  of  125I-labeled  mecasermin.  A  large  percentage  of  the  plasma  radioactivity  (76-80%) 
was  associated  with  intact  protein  for  up  to  210  minutes.  Relative  clearance  differed  for  free  125I-
mecasermin and radioactivity associated with the binding protein complexes. Radioactivity associated 
with  the  high  molecular  weight  binding  protein  complex  cleared  slowly  (0.5  to  10  mL/min/kg), 
radioactivity associated with the  low molecular weight binding protein complex was intermediate in 
clearance  (16  to  48  mL/min/kg),  and  free  125I-mecasermin  was  cleared  most  rapidly  (168  to  204 
mL/min/kg).  The  expected  consequence  of  metabolism  of  therapeutic  proteins  is  the  degradation  to 
small peptides and individual amino acids. Some of the degradation products of IGF-1, like Des(1-3) 
IGF-1, may be active.  
Literature reports submitted by the Applicant supporting their claim that the capability for degradation 
of  IGF-1  exists  in  the  liver,  as  in  many  other  cell/tissue-types  were  reviewed  and  considered 
acceptable.  
Urinary,  biliary,  or  faecal  excretion  studies  were  not  conducted  for  mecasermin.  Excretion  in  milk 
studies were not conducted for mecasermin, as such the SPC states that “Breastfeeding while taking 
INCRELEX  is  not  recommended.”  Pharmacokinetic  drug  interaction  studies,  like  induction  or 
inhibition of drug metabolizing enzymes, were not performed. 
Toxicology 
Toxicological studies were conducted in normal laboratory animals and did not investigate toxicity of 
mecasermin  in  situations  reflecting  the  clinical  situation  in  children  with  primary  IGF-1  deficiency 
(low blood IGF-1 levels) with normal (or elevated) GH levels.  
•  Single dose toxicity 
A series of single dose SC and IV toxicology studies were performed in CD-1 mice, Sprague Dawley 
rats, New Zealand White rabbits, Beagle dogs, and Rhesus monkeys. The primary findings from these 
studies  were  anticipated  reductions  in  serum  glucose  and  clinical  manifestations  associated  with 
profound  hypoglycaemia  seen  at  higher  dose  levels.  In  the  rat  and  dog  GLP  single  dose  toxicology 
studies,  hypoglycaemic  responses  were  exacerbated  by  the  animals  being  fasted  overnight  prior  to 
dosing and deaths occurring. As expected for single dose studies, no evidence of anti-IGF-1 antibody 
formation was noted. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeat Dose Subcutaneous Studies in Sprague Dawley Rats 
Four repeat dose SC toxicology studies were performed in rats. The results were consistent with the 
known and expected pharmacological effects of mecasermin. In these studies animals were fasted the 
night prior to the postdose serum glucose measurements. 
In  a  4-week  study  with,  rats  were  dosed  with  0  (vehicle),  0.2,  0.6,  or  2.0  mg/kg/day  by  daily  SC 
injection.  Body  weight  gain  was  increased  and  there  were  transient  alterations  in  haematology  and 
clinical  chemistry  parameters.  These  effects,  generally  attributable  to  the  pharmacological  effects  of 
mecasermin, were observed most notably at doses ≥ 0.6 mg/kg/day. The most dramatic  effect noted 
was hypoglycaemia.  
There  were  no  gross  or  microscopic  changes  except  for  an  increased  incidence  of  extramedullary 
haematopoiesis  in  the  liver  and  spleen,  which  was  not  judged  to  be  adverse,  and  all  changes  were 
generally reversible after a 4-week recovery period.  
©EMEA 2007 
 10/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A second 4-week study gave results consistent with the first SC study. Daily SC injections resulted in 
increases  in  body  weight  and  similar  changes  in  haematology  and  clinical  chemistry  parameters. 
Hypoglycaemia was seen at doses ≥ 0.3 mg/kg/day. At a dose of 1.0 mg/kg/day at Week 4, glucose 
values in males and females were 65% and 30% of controls, respectively. There were no anatomical 
pathology changes and all clinical changes were reversible.  
In a 26-week SC study rats were dosed daily with 0 (vehicle), 0.25, 1.0, or 4.0 mg/kg/day. All doses 
resulted in increases in body weight and increases in absolute or relative weight of the salivary glands 
and  lungs.  At  a  dose  of  4.0  mg/kg/day  urinalysis  changes  were  noted.  In  blood  clinical  chemistry 
alterations  consisted  of  decreases  in  serum  glucose  and  β-globulin  (males  only).  Histopathology 
revealed increased cortical area of the thymus in high-dose males. In rats dosed with 4.0 mg/kg/day, 
following a 5-week treatment-free recovery, increases in body weight, increases in food consumption, 
alterations in selected clinical pathology parameters, and increases in weights of some organs (heart, 
lung,  liver,  kidneys,  thymus,  adrenal  gland  (females)  were  still  present,  and  histopathology  revealed 
decreased cortex area in the thymus of 1 out of 6 high-dose males and decreased thymic weight. On 
the basis of anatomical pathology and/or clinical pathology findings noted in 4.0 mg/kg/day rats, the 
No-Observed-Adverse-Effect-Level (NOAEL) for this study was determined to be 1.0 mg/kg/day. 
Repeat Dose Intravenous Studies in Sprague Dawley Rats 
Three repeat dose IV studies were performed in rats. In a 10-day study performed to define dose levels 
in a subsequent 4-week study, mecasermin was administered at doses of 0 (vehicle) or 1.0 mg/kg/day. 
The  only  mecasermin-related  effects  noted  were  significant  reductions  in  serum  glucose  15  to  30 
minutes  following  administration.  In  the  rat  IV  studies,  as  in  the  rat  SC  studies,  serum  glucose  and 
clinical pathology determinations were conducted in fasted animals. 
In a 4-week study, mecasermin derived from the fusion process was administered daily at doses of 0 
(vehicle), 0.05, 0.25, or 1.0 mg/kg. Mecasermin-related effects were confined to effects upon clinical 
pathology and an increase in heart weight (≥ 0.25 mg/kg/day females). The most significant clinical 
pathology changes consisted of reductions in serum glucose and inorganic phosphorus.  
In a 13-week study, mecasermin was administered daily at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.25, 1.0 or 4.0 mg/kg 
and was well tolerated at doses up to 4.0 mg/kg/day. Aside from anticipated dose-related increases in 
body  weight  and  food  consumption,  an  increase  in  serum  phosphorus  (considered  to  be  a  rebound 
effect  from  the  prior  day’s  dose)  and  transient  increases  in  urinary  sodium,  potassium  (statistically 
significant  in  males),  and  chloride  excretion  and  increases  in  urine  volume  were  observed  in  4.0 
mg/kg/day  treated  males  and/or  females.  Following  a  5-week  recovery  period,  the  absolute  (but  not 
relative)  weights  of  several  tissues  (thyroid,  thymus,  heart,  lungs,  liver,  kidneys,  and  adrenal  gland) 
were increased in females treated with 4.0 mg/kg/day. There were no mecasermin-related microscopic 
findings noted in this study. 
Repeat Dose Subcutaneous Studies in Beagle Dogs 
Two repeat dose SC toxicology studies were performed in dogs. In a 4-week study with mecasermin 
derived  from  the  ds  process  dogs  were  dosed  daily  at  doses  of  0  (vehicle),  0.1,  0.3,  or  1.0  mg/kg. 
Doses of 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg/day resulted in decreases in eosinophils, serum cholesterol (slight and not 
biologically significant) and, as expected, serum glucose. All animals in the 1.0 mg/kg/day group were 
sacrificed moribund due to apparent hypoglycaemic-induced convulsions during the first week of the 
study (Day 6). The condition of these animals was likely to be the result of an overnight fast.  
In a 26-week study with mecasermin, dogs were dosed daily at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.15, 0.3, or 0.6 
mg/kg. Body weight tended to be higher in dogs receiving mecasermin. Serum glucose was reduced in 
all groups dosed with mecasermin. Serum potassium and phosphorus levels were decreased post-dose 
across all dose groups tested whereas pre-dose phosphorus levels were increased. At the cessation of 
treatment,  increases  in  absolute  or  relative  weights  of  adrenal,  thymus,  heart,  submandibular  gland, 
and pituitary tissues were observed. Microscopic findings in animals that survived until the scheduled 
sacrifice  consisted  of  adrenal  medullary  hyperplasia  and  fibrosis  at  doses  ≥  0.3  mg/kg/day.  For  this 
©EMEA 2007 
 11/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study, the NOAEL was determined to be 0.15 mg/kg/day. Full recovery was evident from doses of 0.3 
mg/kg. 
Repeat Dose Intravenous Studies in Beagle Dogs 
Three  repeat  dose  IV  toxicology  studies  were  performed  in  dogs.  In  these  studies,  dogs  were  fasted 
overnight  prior  to  the  collection  of  blood  for  glucose  and  clinical  pathology  analyses.  In  a  10-day 
study  performed  with  mecasermin  derived  from  the  fusion  process,  dogs  were  dosed  daily  at  0 
(vehicle) or 0.5 mg/kg. Transient clinical signs consistent with hypoglycaemia occurred sporadically. 
Hypo-activity  was  also  noted  2  to  4  hours  following  the  first  administration.  An  increase  in  body 
weight gain and transient reductions in serum glucose were also observed in mecasermin treated dogs. 
In a 4-week study with mecasermin, dogs were dosed daily at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.025, 0.125 or 0.5 
mg/kg.  Ocular  discharge  and  increased  body  weight  and/or  body  weight  gain  and  food  intake  were 
observed most notably at doses ≥ 0.125 mg/kg/day. Observations consistent with hypoglycaemia were 
seen at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day. No mortalities occurred. Clinical pathology changes included: lower 
absolute  eosinophil  count  at  doses  ≥  0.125  mg/kg/day;  dose-related  reductions  in  serum  glucose, 
phosphorus, and/or potassium levels. All changes exhibited evidence of reversibility and there were no 
mecasermin-related microscopic alterations. 
In a 13-week study with mecasermin, dogs were dosed daily IV at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.025, 0.125, 
or 0.5 mg/kg. In the high dose group two of five females died due to hypoglycaemia. Increases in body 
weight and body weight gain were seen at 0.5 mg/kg/day. Reductions in serum glucose, potassium and 
phosphorus and/or increases in chloride were noted across all dose groups. Increased adrenal weights 
were the only anatomical pathology findings noted in all treatment groups at the scheduled 13 weeks 
or after 5 weeks of recovery. 
There  was  no  detectable  antibody  formation  to  IGF-1  in  the  majority  of  multiple  dose  studies 
conducted in dogs.  
•  Genotoxicity 
No evidence of genotoxicity was observed with mecasermin in an in vitro chromosomal aberration test 
conducted in Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts at concentrations up to 487 µg/mL. Concentrations that 
limited exposure were determined in previous cytotoxicity studies. No evidence of genotoxicity was 
observed in an in vivo mouse micronucleus test employing IV doses up to 97.4 mg/kg. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
In a 2-year carcinogenicity study, rats were dosed daily SC at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.25, 1.0, 4.0, or 
10.0  mg/kg.  Mortality  was  increased  in  a  statistically  significant  manner  at  doses  ≥  1.0  and  4.0 
mg/kg/day,  respectively.  Hypoglycaemia  appeared  to  be  a  major  contributor  to  death/moribundity. 
Conversely,  a  trend  toward  a  reduction  in  mortality  was  observed  in  females  at  a  dose  of  0.25 
mg/kg/day.  
Benign  proliferative  lesions  of  the  adrenal  medulla  (hyperplasia  and/or  benign  pheochromocytoma) 
were  each  increased  in  males  and  females  given  doses  ≥  1.0  mg/kg/day.  At  0.25  mg/kg/day, 
comparisons  with  concurrent  controls  showed  that  combined  lesions  of  the  adrenal  medulla  were 
elevated  in  females  only.  The  pathology  report  cited  that  there  was  a  dose-related  increase  in 
proliferative lesions of the adrenal medulla which was most evident in females and was significantly 
increased at all dose levels 
Benign epithelial neoplasms of the skin (primarily keratocanthoma and squamous cell papilloma) were 
increased in a statistically significant manner in males given doses ≥ 4.0 mg/kg/day. The incidence of 
palpable masses (primarily in the mammary gland region) for females and males was also increased at 
doses  of  ≥  4.0  mg/kg/day  by  the  end  of  the  study  (Weeks  84  to  105).  The  overall  incidence, 
multiplicity,  and  type  of  mammary  gland  neoplasms  (fibroadenoma,  carcinoma,  and  galactoceles) 
©EMEA 2007 
 12/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  similar  across  all  female  dose  groups.  When  adjusted  for  survival,  a  statistically  significant 
increase in the incidence of mammary fibroadenomas (4.0 and 10.0 mg/kg/day) and carcinomas (10.0 
mg/kg/day)  was  observed.  Marginal  increases  in  mammary  gland  carcinomas  in  males  and  possibly 
benign skin neoplasms in females were also seen at the 10.0 mg/kg/day dose level (due to their low 
rate of occurrence of these tumors, statistics were not performed as designated in the study protocol).  
The increased incidence of selected spontaneous tumors commonly seen in Sprague Dawley rats in the 
carcinogenicity  study  could  be  related  to  a  potential  direct  mitogenic  or  anti-apoptotic  effect  of 
mecasermin  and/or  indirect  contributing  factors  including  effects  upon  calcium  metabolism,  blood 
glucose,  body  weight,  and  food  consumption.  With  regard  to  the  benign  adrenal  medullary 
pheochromocytomas,  their  clinical  relevance  is  uncertain  based  upon  the  marked  differences  in 
background  tumor  patterns  between  rats  and  humans,  and  the  possible  effects  of  altered  calcium 
metabolism,  repeated  hypoglycaemic  episodes,  and increased  food  intake  and body  weight acting  to 
increase the incidence of these lesions. An increased incidence of benign skin (definitively in males) 
and mammary neoplasms (when adjusted for survival, statistically significant in females) were noted 
at doses ≥ 4.0 mg/kg/day; the No-Observed-Effect-Level for these lesions was 1.0 mg/kg/day which 
represents a 3 to 6-fold multiple of the clinical exposure on an AUC basis. 
The Applicant has calculated (based on the toxicokinetic findings in carcinogenicity study and repeat-
dose toxicity study) that animal to human exposure ratios are between 0.5 and 10 depending whether 
Cmax- or AUC-values are used. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Three repeat dose fertility and developmental toxicology studies were performed. In a multi-week IV 
rat study, mecasermin was administered daily to male and female rats at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.25, 1.0 
or 4.0 mg/kg. There were no effects on the reproductive performance and no effects on the foetuses.  
In  another  rat  study,  mecasermin  was  administered  IV  daily  at  doses  of  0  (vehicle),  1.0  4.0  or  16.0 
mg/kg to pregnant rats from days 7 through 17 of gestation. No test article related effects on foetuses 
or  live-born  pups  were  observed.  In  a  developmental  toxicity  rabbit  study,  mecasermin  was 
administered IV daily at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.125, 0.5, or 2.0 mg/kg to pregnant rabbits from days 6 
to 18 of gestation. At the high dose of 2.0 mg/kg there was a statistically significant increase in the 
number of resorbed/dead foetuses per number of implantations, but no teratogenic effects. Increases in 
this  parameter  at  doses  of  0.125  and  0.5  mg/kg  were  not  statistically  significant.  The  increase  in 
resorptions/dead foetuses is not unexpected given the glucose lowering effects of mecasermin. 
Although animal studies did not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
these studies were conducted by the IV route (not the normal clinical route) and the results may not be 
relevant. However, taking into account the intended paediatric use of mecasermin, the insufficiency or 
lack of reproductive toxicity studies is approvable, provided that pregnancy is contraindicated. This is 
reflected in the SPC.  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  and  serum  glucose  analyses  performed  following  the  initiation  and  conclusion  of  the 
dosing  period  in  all  repeat  dose  toxicology  studies  indicated  that  exposure  and  pharmacological 
responsiveness  to  mecasermin  was  maintained  in  the  repeat  dose  rat  and  dog studies  throughout the 
intended  duration  of  treatment.  Increase  in  body  weights  and  hypoglycaemic  effects  continued 
throughout the majority of rat studies, indicating there was no cross reactive antibody formation which 
interfered with responsiveness to the hormone. In the rat carcinogenicity study dosing for up to 104 
weeks caused sustained effects on food intake, whole body growth, and acute hypoglycaemia. These 
maintained  pharmacological  effects  also  indicated  that  in  the  rat  biologically  significant  antibodies 
against mecasermin are not generated during prolonged or life-time drug exposure.  
•  Local tolerance  
©EMEA 2007 
 13/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local tolerance studies performed in New Zealand White rabbits indicated no significant local toxicity 
following SC or IV application. Mecasermin also tested negative, in vitro, for haemolytic potential and 
plasma incompatibility in human and canine blood and plasma. 
•  Antigenicity and immunotoxicity 
There  was  no  detectable  antibody  formation  to  IGF-1  in  the  rat  toxicology  studies  or  in  the  vast 
majority  of  studies  conducted  in  dogs.  Barely  detectable  but  positive  antibody  titers  to  IGF-1  were 
detected  in  2  out  of  12  dogs  treated  with  0.5  mg/kg/day  and  2  out  of  12  dogs  treated  with  0.125 
mg/kg/day in the 4-week IV toxicology study confirming the ability of the assay utilized to measure 
anti-IGF-1  antibodies.  There  was  no  evidence  of  antibody-mediated  toxicity  in  any  rat  or  dog 
toxicology study.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In accordance with the Draft Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products 
for Human Use (CHMP/SWP/4447/00) applicable at the time of submission, an Environmental Risk 
Assessment  was  not  submitted  for  INCRELEX.  Substances  such  as  peptides  and  proteins  can  be 
exempted from testing because they are unlikely to result in significant exposure of the environment 
and  will  consequently  be  of  low  environmental  risk.  This  is  considered  to  be  the  case  with 
INCRELEX where the active substance (mecasermin) is a recombinant human protein that is identical 
to the native human protein.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
No stand-alone safety pharmacology has been carried out in the preclinical program. The omission of 
selected  types  of  stand-alone  studies  (safety  pharmacology)  typically  performed  with  conventional 
pharmaceutical  agents  is  not  considered  to  be  of  major  significance  based  upon  the  nature  of  the 
product, especially when cardiovascular/respiratory endpoints in the repeat dose dog studies, and the 
existing  clinical  symptomatology  data  are  included.  Nevertheless,  when  administered  at  single  dose 
levels  as  required  in  safety  pharmacology,  drugs  can  actually  exert  effects  qualitatively  and 
qualitatively different from those produced after prolonged administration of toxic doses.  
While  potential  exceptions  from  current  regulatory  guidance  exist  with  respect  to  reproductive 
toxicology  (studies  were  performed  by  the  IV  route  instead  of  the  proposed  clinical  route  of  SC 
administration, maternal toxicity not being achieved in rat and rabbit reproductive toxicology studies, 
selected  endpoints  omitted  (i.e.,  sperm  count/viability)  and  no  prenatal  or  postnatal  data  obtained), 
these  exceptions  are  thought  to  be  not  of  critical  importance  relative  to  assessing  the  potential 
reproductive  risks  posed  by  mecasermin  in  the  clinical  population,  which  will  be  a  paediatric 
population.  
Although regulatory guidance recommends that as part of a standard battery of genotoxicity tests for 
conventional pharmaceuticals, a bacterial gene  mutation assay be performed, it has been agreed that 
the range and type of genotoxicity studies routinely performed for conventional pharmaceuticals are 
not  applicable  for  biotechnology  derived  products.  Other  regulatory  guidance  recommends  an 
assessment  of  mitogenic  and  carcinogenic  potential  of  insulin  analogs.  The  indication  for  which 
approval is sought is whole body growth promotion, for which a compound needs to have mitogenic 
activity, so the mitogenicity assessment was not performed. However a life-time carcinogenicity study 
was performed which obviates the need for the mitogenicity test. 
Given that a paediatric population will be receiving mecasermin, toxicology studies in young and/or 
IGF-1-deficient  and  IGFBP-3  deficient  animals  could  provide  additional  information  beyond  that 
provided  in  the  existing  studies  performed  in  young  adult  or  normal  adult  animals.  It  is  uncertain, 
however, whether such data would provide additional relevant information beyond that in the existing 
toxicology and clinical studies. While the age, stage of development, and physiology of the intended 
patient population may differ from the animals used in the toxicology studies, it is important to note 
that  even  in  adult  rats,  the  epiphyseal  plates  of  the  long  bones  remain  open  for  the  majority  of  the 
©EMEA 2007 
 14/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lifespan, making the young adult rat a suitable animal model for assessing mecasermin’s effects upon 
bone  growth  and  related  statural  endpoints  in  a  human  paediatric  population.  This  physiologic 
characteristic also explains the large size attained by the rats in the two year carcinogenicity study as 
they  remained  pharmacologically  responsive  to  mecasermin  during  prolonged  treatment  throughout 
their mature lifespan. 
Mecasermin  is  intended  to  be  given  to  children  for  many  years.  During  this  time  children  may  be 
affected by several, occasionally chronic diseases, with need for appropriate treatment. Consequently, 
the effect of mecasermin may potentially be influenced by several drugs. Though animal interactions 
studies would provide a relatively simple approach to this problem, no such studies with mecasermin, 
except the interaction study between rhIGF-1 and azathioprine, have been carried out.  
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The application for INCRELEX according to Article 8.3.(i), is a complete application for a new active 
substance within the centralised procedure.  
The  clinical  development  program  of  was  initiated  by  Genentech  with  studies  in  GH  insensitivity 
syndrome. This development program was accepted by the FDA as a basis for a new drug application. 
During  the  course  of  the  development,  the  indication  of  mecasermin  treatment  was  extended  for 
patients with type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus, and cachexia of patients with HIV infection.  
The pharmacokinetics of mecasermin was studied in healthy volunteers and diabetic patients (type 1 
and type 2). One PK study in the target population was also submitted, however, due to limitations of 
this study the Applicant agreed to provide additional population PK data. 
In  2002  Tercica  acquired  all  rights  and  documentation  related  to  mecasermin.  To  date,  4  safety  and 
efficacy studies in children with IGF-1 have been completed and one study (1419) remains ongoing. 
No scientific advice was sought or given during the development. 
GCP  
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the Applicant.  
During the development process of mecasermin studies have been conducted by sponsors other than 
the Applicant. Parts of the records referred to in this application are from those studies.  
Five studies (F0206s, F0375g, F0632g, F0671g and 1419) have been conducted to evaluate the long-
term  safety  and  efficacy  of  mecasermin  in  children  with  severe  Primary  IGFD.  These  studies  were 
conducted at 2 primary investigative sites in the United States in conjunction with multiple other sites 
worldwide, which were designated as sub-investigative sites under the primary U.S. sites.  
Studies F0375g, F0632g, F0671g were conducted under a Genentech-sponsored U.S. Investigational 
New  Drug  Application  (IND);  study  F0206s  was  conducted  under  Dr.  Underwood’s  investigator-
sponsored IND and monitored by Genentech. These studies were carried out in accordance with the 
relevant international research guidelines and requirements established by the principles described in 
the Declaration of Helsinki (and its amendments), the World Health Organization, and the U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration (FDA) under the standards of Good Clinical Practice (GCP) set forth by the 
International Committee on Harmonization (ICH). 
Between  1990  and  October  1998  Genentech  was  responsible  for  monitoring  the  studies.  In  1998 
Genentech  discontinued  the  development  program  for  mecasermin,  and  in  October  1998,  the 
continuation of the project was assumed by Dr. Louis Underwood at the University of North Carolina 
(UNC) under his IND. In October 2002 Tercica took over the responsibility for monitoring the studies.  
©EMEA 2007 
 15/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Much  of  the  clinical  use  of  INCRELEX  in  the  period  between  1998  and  2002  seems  to  be  from  a 
“compassionate  use”  setting.    It  is  acknowledged  that  the  data  taken  from  such  settings  can  never 
equal in accuracy with those obtained in controlled clinical trials. However, the Applicant has shown 
reasonable  efforts  in  collecting  and  confirming  the  data  and  has  also  committed  to  performing  a 
number  of  post  authorisation  follow-up  measures  and  specific  obligations  to  further  confirm  the 
efficacy and safety of the product.   
According to the Applicant, the pivotal PK-PD study MS302 was conducted in accordance with the 
ICH  Guideline  for  Good  Clinical  Practice  (ICH  E6,  1996),  with  local  regulatory  and  ethical 
requirements, and with the Declaration of Helsinki (version in force at the time of study initiation).  
Pharmacokinetics   
A total of 9 primarily pharmacokinetic (PK) studies were carried out with mecasermin, all except one 
with healthy volunteers. In F0188g there was also a small subgroup of diabetic patients, primarily type 
1. Study MS302 was carried out to evaluate safety and PK-characteristics in patients with moderate or 
severe  IGFD  compared  to  healthy  people.  The  table  below  describes  the  Pk  ("F0"  omitted  for 
shortness). All subjects were healthy young adults (19 - 39 years) unless otherwise stated.  
Study 
Completed 
subjects 
Design 
Group size 
Product  Dose 
µg/kg 
Route  Aim 
176g 
580g 
24 M 
19 M, 13 F 
X-over 
X-over 
115g 
152g 
174 
183g 
188g 
317g 
MS302 
6 + 11 M 
12 M 
9 M 
7 M, 3 F 
38 M, 19 F 
6 + 6 
17 M, 19 F 
3/group 
12 
TPN 
Conc. Ster. 
Age,DM 
6/gr  
12/gr 
Fs,ds 
Ds, ps,  
1 K 
Fs 
Fs 
Ds 
Ds 
Ds  
Ds 
Ps, 1K 
50 
80 
10-100 
30 x 5 
5-200 
5-10 
10-40 
100-120 X 4 
15-120 
IV 
SC 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
IV 
SC 
SC 
Bioequiv. 
Bioequiv. 
Dose escal. 
Repeated  
Metab. eff. 
Metab. eff. 
Metab. eff. 
Food eff. 
Dose linear. 
Analyte 
Total, 
free 
T, F 
T 
Main parameters 
AUC0-24 h, Cmax 
AUC0-72 h, Cmax 
AUC0-24 h, Cmax 
T, F 
C0, Cmax 
T, F 
Terminated before end 
Terminated before end 
Terminated before end 
T, F 
T 
AUC0-12 h, Cmax 
AUC0-inf, Cmax 
TPN = total parenteral nutrition was given concomitantly 
Conc.ster. = concomitant steroid 
DM = diabetes mellitus 
Bioanalytical methods 
In the only PK study (MS302) relevant to the product intended to be marketed (manufactured using ps 
process), total IGF-1 was measured using a competitive binding radioimmunoassay (RIA). The assay 
method  was  not  documented  to  current  bioanalytical  standards  and  validation  studies  were  not 
performed. No cross-reactivity studies (eg. to pro-insulin) are reported. 
•  Absorption  
Mecasermin is a peptide which breaks down in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract; it has to be administered 
parenterally. Since it is an injectable product, absorption from the GI tract has not been studied 
The bioavailability of mecasermin after SC administration in healthy subjects has been approximated 
to be 100%; that is, no significant metabolism of the peptide occurs at the site of injection. 
•  Distribution 
Mecasermin  is  extensively  (over  80%)  bound  to  specific  binding  proteins  in  blood,  especially  to 
IGFBP-3 and an acid-labile subunit. These binding proteins are greatly reduced in subjects with severe 
Primary IGFD, resulting in increased clearance of IGF-1 in these subjects relative to healthy subjects.  
©EMEA 2007 
 16/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since mecasermin is an endogenous peptide it is acknowledged that it may be impossible to determine 
VD exactly in healthy people. No studies with labelled IGF-1 in human have been carried out. Hence, 
the application contained a variety of estimations of distribution volumes.  
In subjects with severe Primary IGF-1 deficiency (IGFD), VD can be more reliably determined since 
the endogenous levels of IGF-1 in blood are low. The apparent volume of distribution (mean ± sd.) of 
total  IGF-1  after  SC  administration  of  mecasermin  (dose  of  0.045  mg/kg  )  manufactured  by  ps  1K 
process was estimated to be 0.26 (± 0.07) l/kg. 
•  Elimination 
Both  the  liver  and  the  kidney  have  been  shown  to metabolise  IGF-1.  The  Applicant  has not  studied 
metabolism of IGF-1 in humans. 
The average  (SD) apparent terminal elimination rate of total IGF-1 varied between 20 and 30 hours 
after  a  single  SC  dose  of  mecasermin.  Free  IGF-1  in  plasma  has  significantly  shorter  half-life 
compared to bound IGF-1. The mean T½ elim after 0.07 mg/kg IV dose was less than half an hour.  
In severe IGFD elimination rate seems to be faster. After single SC administration of 0.12 mg/kg of 
mecasermin in paediatric patients with severe IGFD, The mean terminal T½ elim was estimated to be 
5.8 hours (study MS302). 
Since  the  free  fraction  of  IGF-1  is  eliminated  much  faster  than  the  bound  fraction,  clearance  of 
mecasermin is inversely proportional to IGFBP-3 levels. Systemic clearance (CL/F) is estimated to be 
0.04 l/hr/kg at binding protein (IGFBP-3) level of 3 ug/ml. 
•  Special populations 
Pharmacokinetics  of  mecasermin  have  been  characterised  in  children  with  IGFD  and  in  diabetic 
patients.  Patients  with  IGF-deficiency  (IGFD)  had  lower  IGF-1  levels  and  seemed  to  have  faster 
elimination rate of IGF-1. However, this may be due to the confounding effect of endogenous IGF-1 
synthesis and release in healthy subjects; therefore the T½elim of IGF-1 in healthy may be estimated 
to be too long. 
Diabetics  tended  to  have  lower  IGF-1  levels  before  and  after  IV  administration  of  ds  IGF-1, 
independent of age. 
In  children  with  Primary  IGFD  and  in  healthy  adults  there  were  no  apparent  differences  between 
males and females in the pharmacokinetics of mecasermin. 
No studies have been conducted in children or adults with renal or hepatic impairment. Nor have the 
pharmacokinetics been studied in elderly subjects with age greater than 65 years. These points have 
been  reflected  in  the  SPC.  All  healthy  volunteers  in  the  PK  and  PD  studies  were  lean,  with  a  body 
mass index (BMI) < 27 kg/m2. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies have not been performed in healthy volunteers or with patients. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Classical biotransformation studies are not needed for biotechnology products (ICH S6) 
In  conclusion,  out  of  the  9  PK  studies  only  two  were  performed  with  the  product  to  be  marketed 
(manufactured  by  periplasmic  secretion  process).  Data  of  the  earlier  studies  is  considered  as 
supportive. There is a lack of PK data in the target population, and the incomplete validation of the 
laboratory methods regarding the detection of rhIGF-1 antibodies and also the free IGF-1 in the serum 
of the trial subjects puts the whole documentation related to immunological safety and PK in the target 
©EMEA 2007 
 17/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
population under question. In order to address this lack of information the Applicant has committed to 
performing  a  real  population  PK  study  in  the  target  children  population  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
IGF-1 mediates effects of growth hormone (GH). IGF-1 has two main actions: it promotes growth in 
bones,  and  has  insulin-like  action  in  many  types  of  tissues  and  cells.  The  anabolic  effects  include 
stimulation of cellular uptake of glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids which support growth of tissues. 
IGF-1 also promotes growth in bones by stimulation of chondrocytes, and has direct mitogenic activity 
in many cells. 
The  insulin-like  action  includes  suppression  hepatic  glucose  production,  stimulation  of  peripheral 
glucose uptake, and reduction of blood glucose. In addition, IGF-1 has inhibitory effects (direct and 
indirect via blood glucose level) on insulin secretion. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics: No PD studies were designed specifically to correlate growth in children 
with severe IGFD to IGF-1 concentrations after administration of mecasermin.  
Secondary  pharmacodynamics:  One  clinical  pharmacology  study  examined  the  relationship  between 
plasma  free  IGF-1  and  serum  glucose  concentrations.  The  study  was  prematurely  terminated.  In 
general, insulin levels in serum decreased following mecasermin administration. 
Effects on carbohydrate metabolism were studied in all PK studies with healthy volunteers for safety 
purposes. In some studies serum insulin levels were also determined. 
Overall,  IGF-1  systematically  decreased  blood  glucose  levels.  The  effect  was  stronger  after  IV 
administration  compared  to  SC  administration,  and  was  seen  already  after  a  bolus  IV  dose  of  0.01 
mg/kg. In healthy lean men the dose dependency to reduction of blood glucose was weakly positive.  
After a single dose administration mecasermin acutely reduced serum GH levels in IGFD patients. It 
was followed by a rise in GH, likely due to a rebound in GH secretion. In healthy adolescents / adults 
the effect of a single mecasermin dose on GH levels was minimal, and no dose-dependency could be 
seen (Study MS302). Mecasermin administration also increased serum IGFBP-3 concentrations above 
baseline levels.  
Single  doses  of  IGF-1  did  not  produce  systematic  cardiovascular  effects  in  the  PK  trials.  Single  SC 
doses of 0.1 – 0.12 mg/kg of mecasermin did not increase appetite significantly  
Pharmacodynamic  interaction  potential:  Two  phase  I  clinical  studies  studying  PD  interactions  of 
mecasermin and other medicines or substances were initiated, but all were prematurely terminated due 
to safety concerns related to mecasermin infused IV for longer periods. 
In conclusion, PD data in mecasermin's documentation come primarily from safety measures only. PD 
on carbohydrate metabolism was to be studied in healthy adults and diabetic patients in F0188g, and 
protein  metabolism  in  F0183g,  however  these  studies  were  interrupted  due  to  safety  concerns  about 
mecasermin IV infusion. No metabolic data of these studies is available.  
Clinical efficacy  
Five  studies  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  the  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  of  mecasermin  in 
children with severe primary Primary IGFD, these can be seen in the table below which also includes 
safety study MS301.   
©EMEA 2007 
 18/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four studies have been completed: one phase II (F0206s) and three phase III (F0375g, F0632g, and 
F0671g)  trials.  A  long-term,  open-label,  extension  study  (1419)  is  ongoing.  All  patients  from  the 
previous  efficacy  studies  are  included  in  this  phase  III  integrated  study,  and  all  results  from  these 
studies are integrated into 1419. 
A total of 76 subjects were enrolled in one or more of these studies and all subjects except one were 
enrolled  in  Study  1419.  67  of  the  76  subjects  were  naïve  to  rhIGF-1  treatment.  Twenty-two  of  the 
subjects enrolled in study 1419 were treated with mecasermin in one or more earlier studies.  
•  Dose response study 
F0632g: A phase III open-label, multicenter study of rhIGF-I in naïve children with short stature due 
to growth hormone insensitivity syndrome (GHIS) 
Objectives 
To determine whether replacement therapy with mecasermin, at a dose of 60 µg/kg given BID by SC 
injection  to  children  with  severe  Primary  IGFD  and  naïve  to  mecasermin,  was  safe  and  effective  in 
improving linear growth. This was performed to determine if a lower mecasermin dose than had been 
used previously could be efficacious. 
Treatments 
Subjects received open label mecasrmin at a dose of 60 µg/kg SC BID on Days 3, 4, and 5. If this dose 
was  well-tolerated,  the  subject  continued  the  dose  for  one  year.  If  the  dose  was  not  tolerated  (as 
exhibited primarily by hypoglycaemia), the subject was not eligible for participation in the study. 
In  this  study  6  naïve-to  treatment  subjects  including  1  placebo  group  subject  from  study  F0375g, 
enrolled and received mecasermin 60 µg/kg BID for one year. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy measure was linear growth rate. The secondary efficacy measure was change in 
standardised height. 
Safety was assessed by report of adverse events, physical examination, review of clinical laboratory 
evaluations including serum chemistry, haematology and urinalysis, antibodies to IGF-1, and reports 
of hypoglycaemia.  
©EMEA 2007 
 19/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
F0632 is the only dose-response study showing that a low dose of mecasermin 60 mg b.i.d. was not 
sufficient in the treatment of primary IGFD. The mean annualised growth rate of these children prior 
to study enrolment was 1.2 cm/yr (range 0.45 to 2 cm/yr). The mean height SD score at baseline was -
7.8  (range  -10.7  to  -5.8)  and  the  mean  standardised  height  -7.8  SD,  ranging  from  -10.7  to  -5.8  SD. 
Mean growth rate at 12  months was 5.4 ± 2.3 (SD) cm/yr (range 2.4 to 8.4 cm/yr) but standardised 
heights remained below normal (-7.9 ± 2.1, range –11.4 to –5.8). 
The concern on the minimal effective dose of mecasermin due to insufficient data at the moment of 
evaluation has been addressed in the SPC section 4.2 and the collection of further data to establish the 
lowest effective dose is included in the post-authorisation follow up measures. 
•  Main studies  
Study  F0375g:  A  phase  III,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled,  crossover,  multicentre 
study of rhIGF-1 in children with short stature due to growth hormone insensitivity syndrome (GHIS) 
Study F0206s: Study F0206s: Prolonged Treatment with rhIGF-1 in Children with Growth Hormone 
Insensitivity Syndrome (GHIS)  
Study F0671g: A Phase 3, Open-label, Multi-center Study of rhIGF-1 in Children with Short Stature 
due to Growth Hormone Insensitivity Syndrome (GHIS) 
Study 1419: A study of long-term recombinant human insulin-like growth factor-1 (rhIGF-1) 
treatment of children with short stature due to primary IGF-1 deficiency 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Subjects with growth failure due to severe Primary IGFD associated with either GH receptor defects 
or GH gene-deletion defects and anti GH antibodies were eligible for enrolment subjects in the US and 
in 21 other countries were enrolled. 
The main primary criteria for enrolment in these studies were a) height standard deviation score < -2; 
b)  evidence  that  the  short  stature  would  not  be  effectively  treated  by  growth  hormone  (growth 
hormone  sufficiency,  non-responsiveness  to  growth  hormone  treatment,  growth  hormone  gene 
deletion together with antibodies to growth hormone); c) pre-dose IGF-1 standard deviation score < -2 
for subjects with growth hormone sufficiency and d) growth rate of < 50th percentile for age for ≥6 
months prior to study entry. 
Studies F0375g, F0671s and F0632g requested for GHIS, gene-deletion type only, the presence of GH 
antibodies to exogenous GH with a binding capacity greater than 10 µg/ml. 
The exclusion criteria were similar for all studies: 
•  Active malignancy or any history of malignancy 
•  Growth  failure  due  to  other  reasons  such  as  disorder  of  genitourinary,  cardiopulmonary, 
gastrointestinal,  or  nervous  system;  other  endocrine  disorders,  including  diabetes  mellitus; 
nutritional/vitamin deficiencies, chondrodystrophies, or a known dysmorphic syndrome 
•  Treatment with any corticosteroids or other medications that influence growth 
•  Treatment with any other investigational drug within 30 days of this study 
• 
”Clinically  significant”*  Abnormal  electrocardiogram  (ECG)  or  a  history  of  “clinically 
significant”* cardiac arrhythmia 
* stated only in study 1419 
©EMEA 2007 
 20/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
•  F0375g  -  rhIGF-I  initiated  at  80  µg/kg  and  increased  to  120  µg/kg  if  tolerated,  given  as  SC 
injections  BID.  Injections  were  given  immediately  before  breakfast  (8  am)  and  dinner  (6  pm). 
Open-label rhIGF-I was administered at a dose of 80 µg/kg SC BID on day 3 of the baseline visit. 
If  tolerated,  rhIGF-I  120  µg/kg  SC  BID  was  given  on  days  4  and  6.  If  the  subject  experienced 
symptoms of hypoglycaemia at either of these dose levels, the dose was decreased by 20µg/kg. 
•  F0206s - Starting dose 40 µg/kg SC BID, and increased over 2 days to 120 µg/kg SC BID. The 
dose for one subject was reduced to 80 µg/kg SC BID due to hypoglycaemia.  
•  F0671g - rhIGF-I doses of 80, 100, or 120 µg/kg SC BID on days 3, 4, and 5 respectively. Once 
the appropriate dose, based on acute tolerability (i.e. hypoglycaemia) was determined, the subject 
received this dose for 2 years unless no benefit (i.e. annualized growth rate of < 2.5 cm/yr over 
baseline  based  on  measurements  at  6-month  intervals)  was  seen  or  an  adverse  event  required 
discontinuation.  If  80  µg/kg  SC  BID  was  not  well  tolerated  a  lower  dose  could  be  used  after 
discussion between the investigator and the sponsor. 
•  1419 - Starting dose between 60 and 80 µg/kg SC  BID, and if tolerated increased to 120  µg/kg 
BID.  
Duration of treatment 
•  F0375g - Subjects received placebo or rhIGF-I for 6 months and after a 3-months washout crossed 
over to the alternative treatment. Upon completion of the 15-month blinded study, subjects 
received open-label rhIGF-I for 1 additional year. 
•  F0206s - 24 months  
•  F0671g - 24 months 
•  1419 - Mean duration of treatment was 3.9 ± 3.2 years and the median 3.0 years, representing a 
total of 274 subject-years of therapy (study is ongoing). 
Objectives 
•  F0375g  -  to  determine  if  replacement  therapy  with  rhIGF-I  given  twice  daily  (BID)  by  SC 
injection to children with GHIS was safe and effective in improving linear growth  
•  F0206s - to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of rhIGF-I in children with short stature due 
to GHIS  
•  F0671g  -  to  determine  if  replacement  therapy  with  rhIGF-I  administered  twice  daily  (BID)  by 
subcutaneous (SC) injection continued to be safe and effective in improving statural growth  
•  1419 - to evaluate the efficacy and safety of long-term replacement therapy with mecasermin in 
children with primary IGF-I deficiency (IGFD)  
Outcomes/endpoints 
•  F0375g:  the  primary  efficacy  measure  was  linear  growth  rate.  The  secondary  efficacy  measure 
was the change in standardized height.  
Safety: was assessed by report of adverse events (AEs), physical examination, review of clinical 
laboratory  evaluations,  antibodies  to  IGF-I,  and  reports  of  hypoglycaemia.  Special  safety 
assessments (i.e. GFR, echocardiogram, kidney and spleen ultrasounds) were also performed 
•  F0206s: the primary efficacy outcome measure was growth rate. Changes in height SDs, weight, 
pubertal stage, bone age, and bone mineral density as measured by DEXA were also examined. 
Safety:  was  assessed  by  report  AEs,  physical  examination,  and  review  of  clinical  laboratory 
evaluations.  Additional  evaluations  included  renal  and  spleen  ultrasound,  facial  photographs, 
DEXA scan and echocardiography. 
•  F0671g: the primary measure of efficacy was annual growth rate over the first and second years of 
treatment. 
Safety:  was  assessed  by  report  of  AEs,  physical  examination,  review  of  clinical  laboratory 
evaluations, antibodies to IGF-I, and reports of hypoglycaemia. Additional evaluations included 
©EMEA 2007 
 21/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
spleen  and  renal  ultrasounds,  audiometry,  echocardiograms,  measures  of  kidney  function  and 
bone mineral density by DEXA. 
•  1419: Efficacy and efficacy-related variables include height velocity SD scores, height SD scores 
and bone ages. 
Safety: was evaluated on the basis of AEs and clinical laboratory tests, vital signs and relevant 
physical examinations. Special safety assessments (i.e. GFR, echocardiogram, kidney and spleen 
ultrasounds) were also performed in some subjects. 
Sample size 
76 subjects enrolled in one or more of these 5 studies. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation  was  only  performed  in  F0375g, however  the  randomisation  method  is  not  clear  as  it 
was not presented. 
Blinding (masking) 
Only the crossover study F0375g was placebo-controlled and blinded. Only data of 4 trial subjects 
were analyzed. 
Statistical methods 
Due to ethical concerns, there was no control group and the efficacy of mecasermin was assessed with 
respect to pre-treatment growth velocity. Data  are  expressed as the  mean ± standard deviations, and 
means are compared using paired Student’s t test, with P <0.05 considered significant. The  efficacy 
analysis  was  supplemented  by  height  velocity  SD  scores  in  order  to  also  compare  height  velocities 
with height velocities expected for age-matched children in the general population. A similar analysis 
was carried out for height SD score as a secondary endpoint. 
©EMEA 2007 
 22/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
•  F0375g.  8  subjects  were  randomized  of  which  4  completed  both  of  the  6-month  double-blind 
treatment  period  and  6  to  12  months  of  the  open-label  phase.  Three  subjects  (2  in  the  placebo 
group  and  1  in  the  mecasermin  group)  completed  only  the  first  6-month  phase.  Two  of  these 
subjects (1 placebo and 1 mecasermin treated) continued with open-label mecasermin treatment in 
the  extension  phase.  The  other  subject  (placebo  group)  transferred  to  study  F0632g  (after 
completing the 6-month placebo period).  
•  F0206s. 8 subjects were enrolled. All subjects completed the study. 
•  F0671g.  40  subjects  were  to  be  enrolled.  23  subjects  (21  from  prior  studies  and  2  naïve  to 
treatment)  were  enrolled.  The  study  was  discontinued  prematurely  due  to  the  discontinuation  of 
the  rhIGF-I  development  program  at  Genentech  Inc.  At  the  time  of  study  termination,  all  23 
subjects  had  been  enrolled  and  received  rhIGF-I.  22  subjects  had  completed  all  study-specified 
visits. 1 subject did not return for a final visit when the study was discontinued prematurely. All 
available data were retrieved and data analysis is based on data from all 23 subjects. 
©EMEA 2007 
 23/39 
 
 
 
 
•  1419. 76 subjects enrolled in one or more of these 5 studies, only one of these dropped out prior to 
the  initiation  of  1419.  Many  these  subjects  had  been  continuously  treated  with  mecasermin  for 
many  years,  and  had  transferred  form  one  protocol  to  another  when  one  protocol  ended.  In 
particular, all subjects enrolled in studies F0206s, F0375g, and F0632g were later enrolled in study 
F0671g. All subjects (except one) enrolled in F0671g, were later enrolled in study 1419.  
Conduct of the studies 
The study plans of the studies F0206s and F0375g were amended. The protocol of the latter study was 
changed  4  times  affecting  exclusion  criteria,  minimum  age  for  entry,  frequency  of  follow  up  visits, 
study extension, and decrease the daily dose. 
Baseline data 
The table below shows the Demographics and Baseline Characteristics (Numerical Variables) for 
Subjects with at least One Year of Treatment (n=62).  
Pretreatment age (Chronological, years)  
Enrollment IGF-1 (ng/mL)  
Enrollment IGF-1 SD score  
Pretreatment height (cm)  
Pretreatment height SD score  
Pretreatment height velocity (cm/yr) 
Pretreatment height velocity SD score  
Enrollment weight (kg)  
Enrollment BMI (kg/m2)  
Enrollment BMI SD score  
Pretreatment bone age (years)  
Enrollment maximum IGF-1 from IGF-1 
generation test (ng/mL) 
Enrollment maximum IGF-1 SDS from IGF-1 
generation test 
Enrollment maximum GH level: Laron-type 
phenotype subjects (ng/mL)  
  Count 
Mean 
62 
57 
57 
62 
62 
59 
59 
60 
60 
58 
50 
36 
36 
51 
6.8 
21.6 
-4.3 
85.0 
-6.7 
2.8 
-3.3 
12.6 
16.6 
-0.1 
3.9 
21.9 
-4.4 
59.0 
SD  
3.8 
20.4 
1.6 
15.3 
1.8 
1.8 
1.7 
6.0 
2.5 
1.2 
2.8 
24.8 
2.0 
45.9 
Minimum  Maximum 
1.7 
0.2 
-9.5 
61.3 
-12.1 
0.0 
-6.6 
5.8 
12.8 
-3.1 
0.1 
0.5 
-8.9 
10.0 
15.2 
82.1 
-0.7 
133.1 
-2.8 
7.7 
0.9 
35.0 
24.6 
2.2 
12.3 
115.0 
-0.5 
209.0 
Pretreatment and enrollment dates are the same except for 4 subjects randomized to first receive placebo in study F0375g. 
SD, standard deviation. 
Numbers analysed 
See Participant flow and Recruitment sections. 
Outcomes and estimation 
F0375g  was  the  only  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  and  cross-over  study,  all  other 
studies  were  single-arm  uncontrolled  studies.  The  mean  growth  rate  for  the  6  months  prior  to  study 
entry was 3.4 cm/yr (range 1.0 - 5.6 cm/yr). The mean height SD score at baseline was -6.5 (-9.6 to -
2.9). Only four out of a total of eight enrolled subjects completed this trial. One of these four subjects 
had similar growth rate both during placebo and rhIGF-1 treatment. Only results of active treatment 
period were included into the integrated study report.  
In study F0206s Baseline  height standard scores  (SDS) were –3.4 to –7.0 (mean -5.6) referring to a 
severe  growth  failure.  During  the  first  year  of  therapy,  mean  height  velocity  increased  2.4-fold  to 
9.3cm/yr  (mean  height  velocity  SD  score,  +3.8).  During  the  second  year,  mean  height  velocity 
declined  to  6.2  cm/yr  (mean  ht.  velocity  SD  score,  +0.5).  One  subject  treated  for  3  years  grew  at 
©EMEA 2007 
 24/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nearly the same rate as in the second year. The average change in height SD score after 2 (or 3) years 
of therapy was +1.2 (range, 2.1 to –0.3). Statural growth was accompanied by weight gain. The length 
of  kidney  length  increased  rapidly  during  therapy,  but  no  structural  anomalies  or  changes  in  renal 
function were observed. 
In F0671g height increased by 10.8 cm ± 2.8 during 24 months. Twenty-one of 23 subjects had been 
treated  with  rhIGF-1  for  6  months  to  several  years  prior  to  enrollment.  Growth  increments  in  this 
study were consistent with that expected in a group of subjects previously treated with rhIGF-1. 
In study 1419 the 61 primary IGFD subjects treated for at least one year had marked short stature at 
baseline, with height SD scores ranging from -12.1 to -2.8 (mean -6.7). These patients had elevated 
basal or stimulated serum GH levels associated with markedly low serum IGF-1 SD scores (mean -4.3, 
range -9.5 to -0.7), confirming their diagnoses of Primary IGFD. 
During the first year of therapy, the mean ± SD for height velocity was improved from 2.8 ± 1.8 cm/yr 
to 8.0 ± 2.2 cm/yr (p < 0.0001 by paired t-test) and the mean ± SD for height velocity SD score was 
improved  from  -3.3  ±  1.7  to  +1.9  ±  3.0  (p  <  0.0001 by  t-test).  First  year  mean  ±  SD  for  height  SD 
score improved from -6.7  ± 1.8 to -5.9  ± 1.8 (p < 0.0001). Statistically significant improvements in 
mean height velocity (p < 0.005), mean height velocity SD score (p < 0.0001), and mean cumulative 
change in height SD score (p < 0.0001) were observed for at least 6 years, and in some cases after 8 
years  of  therapy.  Final  height  appeared  to  improve  in  subjects  completing  therapy.  The  growth 
response to mecasermin was similar for all subjects regardless of the severity of their disease (height 
SD score -12 to -3) prior to treatment (Figure 1). 
Figure 1. Mean height velocity for pretreatment year and post treatment years 1 to 8 using all data for 
each year. 
Analyses of Height Velocity 
-  The mean difference in year one height velocity between males (n=38) and females (n=24( (t-
test p=0,41) 
-  Between subjects with GH gene deletion (n=7) * and subjects with Laron Syndrome 
phenotype (n  =  53) 
-  Between age and year one height velocity in treatment – naïve subjects (n=62, p= 0,54) was 
not significant. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
In the study report 1419 the results obtained from all clinical trials are reviewed and analyzed. The 
efficacy results from the pooled data can be seen in the table below: 
©EMEA 2007 
 25/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
for change 
from pre-Tx 
P-value for 
change from 
pre-Tx [1] 
N 
Mean (SD) 
Mean (SD) 
for change 
from pre-Tx 
N 
Mean (SD) 
Pre-
Tx 
58 
2,8 
(1,8) 
58 
-3,3 
(1,7) 
61 
-6,7 
(1,8) 
Annual Height Results by Number of Years Treated with INCRELEX 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Year 4 
Year 5 
Year 6 
Year 7 
Year 8 
Height Velocity (cm/yr) 
58 
8,0 (2,2) 
48 
5,8 (1,5) 
38 
5,5 (1,8) 
23 
4,7 (1,6) 
21 
4,7 (1,6) 
20 
4,8 (1,5) 
16 
4,6 (1,5) 
13 
4,3 (1,1) 
+5,2 
(2,6) 
+2,9 
(2,4) 
+2,3 
(2,4) 
+1,5 
(2,2) 
+1,5 
(1,8) 
+1,5 
(1,7) 
+1,0 
(2,1) 
+0,7 
(2,5) 
<0,0001 
<0,0001 
<0,0001 
0,0045 
0,0015 
0,0009 
0,0897 
0,3059 
58 
1,9 (3,0) 
+5,2 
(3,1) 
47 
-0,2 
(1,6) 
+3,1 
(2,3) 
Height Velocity SDS 
37 
-0,2 
(2,0) 
+2,9 
(2,3) 
22 
-0,7 
(2,1) 
+2,2 
(2,2) 
61 
-5,9 
(1,8) 
+0,8 
(0,5) 
51 
-5,6 
(1,8) 
+1,2 
(0,8) 
Height SDS 
40 
-5,4 
(1,8) 
+1,4 
(1,1) 
24 
-5,5 
(1,9) 
+1,3 
(1,2) 
Mean (SD) 
for change 
from pre-Tx 
Pre-Tx= Pre-treatment; SD= Standard Deviation; SDS = Standard Deviation Score 
[1] P-values for comparison versus pre-Tx values are computed using paired t-tests. 
19 
-0,6 
(2,1) 
+2,5 
2,2) 
21 
-5,6 
(1,8) 
+1,4 
(1,3) 
18 
-0,4 
(1,4) 
(1,7)+2,7 
20 
-5,4 
(1,8) 
+1,4 
(1,2) 
15 
-0,4 
(1,9) 
+2,5 
(2,1) 
16 
-5,2 
(2,0) 
+1,4 
(1,1) 
11 
-04 
(1,9) 
+2,7 
(2,8) 
13 
-5,2 
(2,0) 
+1,5 
(1,1) 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No  studies  have  been  conducted  in  children  with  renal  impairment,  nor  to  determine  the  effect  of 
hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of mecasermin. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The incidence and rate of inhibitor formation and its clinical significance, or more precisely, its impact 
on the efficacy of the product during long term IGF-1 treatment has not been clarified yet. The number 
of subjects available for analysis was small and the methods used for assessing anti IGF.-1 antibodies 
were  not  validated.  According  to  the  CHMP  recommendation  additional  monitoring  measures  are 
required and presented in the Risk Management by the Applicant. 
During the assessment there were concerns that the putative immunogenicity of the product was not 
sufficiently  addressed  in  the  application.  Mecasermin  antibodies  were  investigated  in  selected 
toxicology  studies  using  ELISA  methodology,  but  the  bioanalytical  methods/validation  reports  were 
not available for assessment. The test methods for detection of IGF-1 antibodies were not adequately 
described  and  validated.  The  Applicant  provided  the  data  requested  on  the  antibody  detection 
methods.  However,  it  still  remains  unclear  if  the  immunogenicity  of  the  product  proposed  to  be 
marketed is comparable to those of the materials manufactured previously. It is acknowledged that this 
issue cannot be totally solved. Therefore the immunogenicity of the product proposed to be marketed 
will be monitored. This is addressed in the Risk Management Plan. 
Concerns were raised on the efficacy and safety results in study 1419 due to varying rhIGF-1 materials 
used in the patient population and the fact that the patients were collected from several studies. A total 
of 75 patients were included in the study, 44 of which were naïve to IGF-1 treatment. They received 
rhIGF-1 material of comparable quality. The remaining patients received rhIGF-1 material, for which 
equal quality and comparability was not initially demonstrated.  
The Applicant performed some further analysis comparing the efficacy and safety results from the 44 
patients who received exclusively ps material both to the overall group and also to the remaining 23 
©EMEA 2007 
 26/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients. The assessment showed that the efficacy results for the 44-subject cohort were similar to the 
results  in  the  cohort  of  23  subjects  enrolled  prior  to  study  1419.  There  were  statistically  significant 
increases in height velocity from baseline in each of the 4 years of follow-up in each cohort. The AE 
rates  are  generally  lower  in  the  44-subject  cohort.  Therefore,  this  analysis  does  not  suggest  any 
specific safety issue with the ps (periplasmic secretion) material.  
During the procedure the Applicant submitted efficacy documentation for the indication ‘children with 
growth  hormone  (GH)  gene  deletion  who  have  developed  neutralizing  antibodies  to  GH’,  which 
initially was insufficiently described in the dossier.  
Height  velocity  information  for  years  1  to  8  was  presented  for  the  cohorts  of  severe  Primary  IGF-1 
deficiency  and  growth  hormone  gene  deletion  subjects  with  a  pre-treatment  height  velocity  and  a 
subsequent  height  velocity  was  submitted.  Changes  in  height  velocity  from  pre-treatment  were 
statistically significant in both cohorts through 6 years and had positive differences from pre-treatment 
in years 7 and 8. Height velocities in the two cohorts were similar at all times. It was considered that 
even  though  the  sample  size  was  small  the  results  did  not  show  any  discrepancy  between  the  two 
groups 
The results of the presented studies are in favour of the efficacy of the drug in the claimed indication, 
primary IGFD. However extensive discussion was needed in an effort to restrict the indication to this 
very rare and specific population. 
Five aspects of the indication wording were reviewed during the procedure:  
1. The name of the condition, i.e. growth hormone insensitivity syndrome, rather than severe primary 
IGF-1 deficiency, 
2. The requirement to document specific genetic defects by molecular techniques, 
3. The need of rhGH treatment trial prior to rhIGF-1 treatment, 
4. The requirement for elevated GH, rather than normal or elevated GH, 
5. The threshold of -3.0 for basal IGF-1 SDS. 
The name of the condition as ”Severe Primary IGFD” was considered acceptable with the condition 
that  the diagnosis of the patients is based on very strict anthropometrical and biochemical criteria. The 
proposal for height standard deviation score -< -3,0; as a “cut-off” value was considered acceptable.  
The proposed basal IGF-1 SDS -<-3,0 as the diagnostic threshold after discussions based on the great 
variability  of  the  normal  value  of  the  plasma  IGF-1  level  (age,  gender  etc.)  and  the  fact  that  to 
establish its normal range should require a large number of samples was accepted as: “below the 2,5th 
percentile for age and gender”. Further aspects such as the need for appropriate references necessary 
for  IGF-1  assay  standardisation,  and  the  recommendation  of  an  IGF-1  generation  test  to  further 
strengthen  the  diagnosis  of  IGFD  should  be  taken  into  account.  The  requirement  to  have  rhGH 
treatment prior to starting rhIGF-1 therapy was considered to be unrealistic. 
The need for documenting specific genetic defects by molecular techniques was discussed. The final 
conclusion  was  that  even  though  genetic  and  molecular  defect  testing  to  strengthen  the  diagnosis 
would be of great use, the reality at this moment in time is that in many cases it may not feasible to 
routinely identify the genetic defect(s) causing short stature and therefore to allocate therapy based on 
genetic testing. Therefore this point was taken out of the indication.  
To  further  ensure  the  correct  usage  according  to  the  indication  all  secondary  causes  of  IGF-1 
deficiency (e.g. growth hormone deficiency or other causes such as malnutrition, hypothyroidism, or 
chronic disease) must be ruled out prior to initiation of treatment.  
Comprehensive  data  on  the  efficacy  of  the  medicinal  product  is  lacking,  particularly  affecting  the 
potential  effect  of  immunogenicity  on  long-term  growth.  Due  to  the  rarity  of  the  disease  this  data 
cannot reasonably be expected to be provided. As such the product was considered by the CHMP to be 
approvable only under exceptional circumstances.  
©EMEA 2007 
 27/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
A  total  of  1,516  subjects  were  enrolled  in  sponsored  mecasermin  clinical  trials  for  indications 
including Primary IGFD, type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus, HIV cachexia, or as healthy individuals in 
pharmacokinetic studies. 
Clinical studies were also conducted by other rhIGF-1 manufacturers. These include data reported in 
the literature from rhIGF-1 treatment of approximately 57 European, Ecuadorean, and Middle Eastern 
children with severe Primary IGFD.  
The primary evaluation of mecasermin safety in subjects with severe Primary IGFD is gathered from the 
5 studies that form the integrated 1419 Study Report. Safety information derived from other studies is 
not integrated with safety information from the paediatric statural studies in severe Primary IGFD. The 
rationale for this is that the populations in these supporting studies (late adolescent, adult, and elderly 
subjects) and the route of mecasermin administration (IV) in many of the studies are not representative 
of the indication that is the focus of this application. In addition, the adverse events experienced in the 
supporting studies are substantially influenced by the coexisting morbidities of these diseases, and the 
use of numerous concomitant medications. 
Safety data from a total of 76 subjects with severe Primary IGFD, representing 321 patient-years of 
exposure to mecasermin and a mean duration of exposure of 4.4 yrs, are used to assess safety in this 
indication. The median duration of treatment is 4.0 years and the mean is 4.4 ± 3.1 years. 
•  Adverse events  
Sixty subjects (79%) reported at least  one adverse  event (AE) during treatment. In the early studies, 
follow-up visits were more frequent. As experience was gained with the safety profile of mecasermin, 
visit intervals lengthened and AE reporting, particularly in the investigator-sponsored study, became 
more focused on those particular events that had been identified  as possibly or probably associated 
with mecasermin therapy. The table below summarizes all AEs by MedDRA system organ class for 
safety  evaluable  subjects,  defined  as  all  enrolled  subjects  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of 
mecasermin.  
The  most  common  AEs  included  hypoglycaemia,  lipohypertrophy  at  injection  sites,  tonsillar 
hypertrophy, headache and transient intracranial hypertension. This AE profile is similar to that seen in 
several other rhIGF-1 treated severe Primary IGFD cohorts. 
©EMEA 2007 
 28/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Events by System Organ Class for All Subjects (n=76) 
Subjects reporting at least one adverse event 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
General disorders and administration site conditions
Infections and infestations 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Nervous system disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Investigations 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Surgical and medical procedures 
Injury, poisoning, and procedural complications
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Congenital, familial, and genetic disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders
Endocrine disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps)
Social circumstances 
Vascular disorders 
Hypoglycaemia 
Total 
Related 
51 (67%)  60 (79%)
37 (49%)  40 (53%)
28 (37%)  32 (42%)
14 (18%)  32 (42%)
23 (30%)  32 (42%)
18 (24%)  28 (37%)
8 (11%) 
25 (33%)
19 (25%)  23 (30%)
15 (20%)  23 (30%)
10 (13%)  23 (30%)
19 (25%)
3 (4%) 
16 (21%)
8 (11%) 
13 (17%)
4 (5%) 
12 (16%)
9 (12%) 
11 (14%)
0 (0%) 
10 (13%)
3 (4%) 
9 (12%) 
8 (11%) 
9 (12%) 
4 (5%) 
8 (11%) 
5 (7%) 
8 (11%) 
2 (3%) 
2 (3%) 
0 (0%) 
1 (1%) 
0 (0%) 
1 (1%) 
0 (0%) 
1 (1%) 
0 (0%) 
1 (1%) 
0 (0%) 
In  study  1419  one  or  more  episodes  of  hypoglycaemia  were  reported  in  37  subjects  (49%)  during 
treatment with mecasermin. Of these 37 subjects, 12 (32%) had a history of hypoglycaemia prior to 
treatment. Six subjects experienced severe hypoglycaemia and hypoglycaemic seizure was reported in 
3  subjects.  In  a  placebo-controlled  one-year  study  of  patients  with  severe  Primary  IGFD,  an  equal 
incidence of hypoglycaemia was seen in rhIGF-1 and placebo-treated groups. 
In mecasermin-treated subjects, hypoglycaemia occurred more commonly in younger, shorter subjects 
with  a  prior  history  of  spontaneous  hypoglycaemia.  There  was  no  difference  in  the  severity  of  the 
underlying IGF-1 deficiency when subjects experiencing hypoglycaemia were compared to those who 
did not report hypoglycaemia. This AE was  also  more common in the first  month of treatment then 
subsequently  waned  despite  treatment  continuing.  The  association  of  hypoglycaemia  in  younger 
children and those with inadequate caloric intake has been previously reported, and was usually dose 
dependent.  In  addition,  in  the  sponsored  studies  described  in  this  application,  as  well  as  studies 
reported in the literature, hypoglycaemia was avoided by ensuring the injection schedule for rhIGF-1 
coincided with meals. 
Tonsillar Hypertrophy and Associated Adverse Events 
Snoring,  generally  beginning  in  the  first  year  of  treatment,  was  reported  in  17  subjects  (22%). 
Tonsillar hypertrophy resulting in upper airway congestion was reported in 13 subjects (17%) during 
the  first  1-2  years  of  treatment  with  little  further  tonsillar  growth  in  subsequent  years. 
Tonsillectomy/adenoidectomy was performed in 8 subjects; 2 subjects had obstructive sleep apnea that 
©EMEA 2007 
 29/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
resolved after  the procedure. Tonsillar and adenoidal hypertrophy has been reported during rhIGF-1 
treatment  of  other  severe  Primary  IGFD  cohorts,  presumably  due  to  IGF-1  stimulating  the  immune 
system.  In  addition  to  the  potential  for  snoring  and upper  airway  obstruction, it  is  possible that  the 
growth of oropharyngeal lymphoidal tissue led to a compromise of eustacian tube function and hearing 
acuity.  Middle  ear  infusions  were  reported  in  10  subjects  (13%),  otitis  media  in  14  subjects  (18%); 
serous otitis media in 4 (5%) subjects, and ear infections in 4 subjects (5%).  
Lipohypertrophy 
Twenty-four  subjects  (32%)  experienced  lipohypertrophy  at  injection  sites.  This  event  was  associated 
with lack of proper rotation of injection sites and resolved when injections were properly dispersed. 
Lipohypertrophy has been reported in other rhIGF-1 treatment cohorts. 
Headache and intracranial hypertension (papilledema) 
Headache was reported by 21 subjects (28%) during treatment with mecasermin. In  a  6 month study 
of placebo vs. rhIGF-1 treatment in subjects with severe Primary IGFD, headaches were noted equally 
in  both  treatment  groups.  Headache  with  papilledema,  nausea,  and  vomiting  was  observed  in  3 
mecasermin-treated  subjects.  Two  of  these  subjects,  twin  siblings  with  GH  gene  deletion,  had 
evidence  on  MRI  of  long  standing  hydrocephalus  and  had  a  presumptive  diagnosis  of  intracranial 
hypertension.  Their  symptoms  resolved  without  interruption  of  mecasermin  treatment.  In  the  third 
subject,  symptoms  resolved  following  lumbar  puncture  to  reduce  cerebral  spinal  fluid  pressure  and 
therapy was temporarily interrupted with resumption at a lower dose without recurrence of symptoms. 
Changes in Organ Size and Function 
Because  of  the  animal  data  showing  increased  renal,  spleen  and  cardiac  size  following  mecasermin 
treatment  these  organs  were  evaluated  by  echocardiogram  or  ultrasound  in  study  1419.  Among  36 
subjects  who  had  echocardiograms,  there  were  no  consistent  findings  suggestive  of  mecasermin-
associated cardiac abnormalities and treatment was not discontinued or interrupted in any patient due 
to echocardiographic abnormalities. In all subjects, renal lengths increased substantially as the subjects 
grew and aged. When compared to normative data, the last available renal length SD scores exceeded 
the upper limit of normal (ie, were > 2) in only 2 subjects, 1 of whom one had a last renal size SD 
score for age of +2.6, and the other of whom had a last renal size SD score for age of +2.5. Overall, 
the  mean  renal  size  SD  score  for  age  at  last  evaluation  was  -1.8  ±  2.4.  No  structural  abnormalities 
were observed on ultrasound and there was no evidence of renal dysfunction in any subject while on the 
study  drug.  Over  a  mean  ±  SD  period  of  4.3  ±  1.5  years  between  first  and  last  renal  ultrasound 
examinations,  the  mean  ±  SD  for  serum  creatinine  increased  from  0.53  ±  0.1  mg/dL  to  0.60  ±  0.14 
mg/dL. 
Spleen size was also evaluated and compared to the normal mean. Baseline splenic length was below 
the 10th percentile for age in 20 of 23 subjects. Over 2 to 7 years of serial monitoring, spleen length did 
not  appear  to  change  notably  from  baseline  to  last  visit  in  8  subjects.  Splenic  length  remained  (or 
became)  below  the  10th  percentile  in  16  subjects,  became  (or  remained)  normal  in  5  subjects,  and 
exceeded the 90th percentile (by less than 1 cm) in 2 subjects. 
Changes in Facial Appearance 
Soft  tissue  swelling  mimicking  acromegaloid  changes  in  facial  appearance  has  been  reported  to  be 
associated with mecasermin treatment of children with severe Primary IGFD. However, in 8 children 
followed by cephalometric measurements, mecasermin treatment for up to 6 years resulted in catch-up 
growth  of  facial  bones,  with  no  evidence  of  acromegaloid  bony  changes.  In  study  1419  analysis  of 
mandibular  cephalometric  x-rays  performed  in  a  subset  of  subjects  showed  no  evidence  of 
acromegaloid growth of facial bones.  
Neoplasia 
©EMEA 2007 
 30/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no reports of neoplasia among patients treated with mecasermin in severe Primary IGFD 
studies.  The  single  adverse  event  report  coded  to  “neoplasia”  in  the  MedDRA  system  represented  a 
new wart.  
Immunogenicity  
Anti-IGF-1 antibodies were observed in 11 of 23 children with severe Primary IGFD tested during the 
first  year  of  therapy.  However,  no  clinical  consequences  of  these  antibodies  were  observed  (e.g., 
allergic reactions or attenuation of growth). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Nine  serious  adverse  events  (SAE)  were  reported  for  6  subjects  in  study  1419.  Details  are  provided 
below. 
Tonsillar hypertrophy: Patient was hospitalized for an adenotonsillectomy. The event was considered 
to be related to study drug by the investigator.  
Severe pneumonia with empyema: Patient was hospitalized, treatment included oxygen and evacuation 
of  the  infection.  Antibiotics  were  administered  for  30  days  with  resolution  of  the  infection.  The 
pneumonia was considered unrelated to study drug by the investigator.  
Tricuspid insufficiency: based on results of an echocardiogram. The investigator considered the event 
to be possibly related to study drug. This subject also had a generalized seizure reported as an adverse 
event. The seizure was reported to be unrelated to study drug by the investigator.  
Febrile  seizures  associated  with  a  tooth  abscess;  patient  was  hospitalized.  This  subject  was  also 
hospitalized for a skull fracture related to trauma. Both adverse events were reported as unrelated to 
study drug by the investigators. 
Seizure-like  activity  accompanied  by  loss  of  consciousness,  successfully  treated  with  glucagon  with 
no  change  in  study  drug  administration.  This  subject  had  3  additional  episodes  of  hypoglycaemic 
seizures considered related to study drug. This patient had a history of hypoglycaemic seizures prior to 
mecasermin  treatment  and,  on  therapy,  had  seizures  which  were  associated  with  inadequate  food 
intake; these were not categorized as severe adverse events and were reported as unlikely to be related 
to  study  drug.  This  subject  was  also  hospitalized  for  flank  pain  on  another  occasion  where  he  was 
diagnosed with renal calculi and treated with herbal tea. The event was reported to be possibly related 
to study drug, which continued uninterrupted. 
Appendicitis with appendectomy. The event was considered not related to study drug. Treatment with 
mecasermin was not interrupted. 
There were no deaths reported in study 1419.  
Three  deaths  (one  subject  with  type  1  diabetes  and  2  with  type  2  diabetes)  were  reported  in  other 
studies or the immediate post-treatment follow-up. Details are provided below. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
In study F0695g a 35-year old female with a 27-year history of type 1 DM and who was in the placebo 
group,  died  on  Day  86.  The  cause  of  death  was  cardiopulmonary  arrest  secondary  to  advanced 
artherosclerotic  heart  disease.  The  death  was  considered  related  to  diabetes  and  unrelated  to  study 
drug. 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
There was one death during the follow-up period of study F0625g. A 47 year old male suffered severe 
head injuries including a subdural haematoma and died in the hospital where he had been placed in a 
©EMEA 2007 
 31/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
drug-induced coma for neurological stabilization. The death was considered by the investigator to be 
unrelated mecasermin treatment.  
A 67 year old female previously enrolled in study F0685g died 6 weeks after  cessation of the study 
due to a myocardial infarction. The event was considered unrelated to prior mecasermin treatment. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Routine serial laboratory evaluations were available  for 23 subjects. Sporadic laboratory evaluations 
are  available  for  an  additional  16  subjects.  At  baseline,  approximately  33%  of  subjects  had  low 
haematocrit and 36% had a low haemoglobin value. In most of the subjects, anaemia resolved during 
the course of treatment. 
Serial total cholesterol and triglyceride levels were followed in 37 subjects. In general, levels of both 
analytes rose with age, although there was considerable fluctuation between the first and last values. 
Elevated  serum  cholesterol  was  the  more  frequent  abnormality;  the  mean  ±  SD  for  first  serum 
cholesterol level was 170.0 ± 36.5 mg/dL, and the last was 191.0 ± 30.5 mg/dL.  
There  were  no  consistent  increases  in  liver  function  tests  associated  with  mecasermin  treatment 
although two subjects had abnormal AST prior to treatment and had increases in both ALT and AST 
to 3-5 times normal for age and sex on two consecutive visits. These values subsequently returned to 
near baseline without interruption of treatment.  
•  Safety in special populations 
No gender specific AEs were found. 
No formal analyses of the effect of ethnicity on IGF-1 safety were conducted. There were no obvious 
differences in safety related to dosing of mecasermin in ethnic groups.  
In addition to the experience with mecasermin in severe Primary IGFD, more than 1500 subjects have 
been  enrolled  in  studies  of  Genentech-manufactured  mecasermin  in  a  number  of  clinical  indications 
such as type 1 and type 2 DM and HIV cachexia, or as healthy volunteers in PK studies. The largest 
groups of subjects were those paediatric and adult subjects with type 1 or type 2 DM. Some types of 
AEs  such  as  peripheral  oedema,  jaw  pain,  back  pain,  arthralgia,  nausea  and  dizziness  were  reported 
more frequently in the overall type 1 and type 2 DM cohorts treated with mecasermin (age up to 73 
years) than in the subset of paediatric subjects (≤18 years of age). There was also a dose-dependent 
increase in the incidence of some of these events that occurred more frequently in subjects randomised 
to the highest doses. There were no deaths in any of the studies that were considered to be related to 
mecasermin treatment. 
No studies have been conducted to determine the effects of mecasermin on an unborn child. Therefore, 
there is insufficient medical information to determine whether there are significant risks to a foetus. A 
negative pregnancy test and education about adequate contraception are recommended for all women 
of childbearing potential prior to treatment with mecasermin. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No in vitro or in vivo drug interaction studies were conducted for mecasermin. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
No discontinuations due to adverse events were reported. 
•  Post marketing experience 
No postmarketing data are available. 
©EMEA 2007 
 32/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other rhIGF-1 preparations have been registered and used in paediatric patients with growth hormone 
insensitivity. According to the Applicant, no unexpected safety issues have arisen in over 10 years of 
use. 
In  1994,  mecasermin  (Pharmacia,  now  Pfizer)  was  approved  for  the  treatment  of  growth  hormone 
insensitivity  in  paediatric  patients  in  Europe.  In  1995,  mecasermin  (Somazon)  received  regulatory 
approval and was marketed by Fujisawa in Japan. Somazon was approved by regulatory authorities for 
the treatment of dwarfism in paediatric patients. The product is still marketed in Japan. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The most common adverse events included hypoglycaemia, lipohypertrophy at injection sites, tonsillar 
hypertrophy, headache and transient intracranial hypertension. This adverse event profile is similar to 
that seen in several other rhIGF-1 treated severe Primary IGFD cohorts. 
The  most  important  potentially  limiting  adverse  event  is  hypoglycaemia.  To  address  this  safety 
concern it is recommended that children with severe Primary IGFD should receive a meal or a snack at 
the time of a mecasermin injection. In addition the patients and their care givers will be instructed how 
to treat hypoglycaemia. The SPC includes information about injection of glucagon as a treatment for 
hypoglycaemia.  The  RMP  includes  specific  risk  minimisation  to  this  respect,  including  the 
development of educational material. 
Children  with  severe  forms  of  severe  Primary  IGFD  frequently  have  mid-facial  hypoplasia,  with 
correspondingly small airways. Tonsillar hypertrophy was observed, presumably as a consequence of 
IGF-1  stimulation  of  the  immune  system.  In  addition,  the  growth  of  facial  and  oropharyngeal 
structures  may  not  advance  as  rapidly  as  lymphoid  tissue  growth,  leading  to  snoring  and,  in  rare 
circumstances,  sleep  apnea.  On  the  basis  of  these  findings,  monitoring  of  severe  Primary  IGFD 
patients for development of obstructive upper airways disease, including sleep apnea, is needed. 
Mecasermin  may  also  affect  the  growth  of  oropharyngeal  lymphoidal  tissue  which  leads  to  a 
compromise of eustacian tube function and hearing acuity.  
Transient intracranial hypertension has been reported during treatment of severe Primary IGFD with  
rhIGF-1,  and  has  resolved  with  either  no  change  or  a  lowering  of  the  rhIGF-1  dose.  In  study  1419, 
intracranial hypertension was reported. Pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation activities will be put 
in place to gain further information on this safety concern once the product is marketed.  
Changes  in  organ  size  and  function  were  observed  during  the  clinical  development.  In  F0206s  the 
length  of  kidney  increased  rapidly  during  therapy.  Less  pronounced  effects  were  seen  when  renal 
length  is  plotted  against  age-related  standards.  Ultrasound  examination  revealed  no  structural 
anomalies  in  kidneys.  All  patients  experienced  rapid  growth  of  the  spleen  early  in  therapy,  which 
decreased during the 2nd and 3rd year to a normal rate in six patients. In two patients, spleen growth 
reached the 90th percentile for age. Safety data from 1419 revealed cases of cardiac hypertrophy which 
were not clearly associated with the dose of mecasermin or with the age of the patient and were not 
easily predicted. 
This data, though not supporting a disproportionate growth in organ size or the need to conduct long 
term  structure  function  studies  produced  certain  concern.  It  is  agreed  that  regarding  the  renal  and 
spleen growth the normal careful follow-up of these patients is sufficient. However follow-up of the 
cardiac growth by means  of an echocardiogram in these patients has been  included both in the SPC 
and the RMP.  
The reported increased risk of cancer associated with blood levels of endogenous IGF-1 in the upper 
quartile of the normal range is less than 2- fold as shown by a recent meta-analysis. It is assumed that 
this  increased  risk  is  due  to  life  long  high  blood  IGF-1  levels.  However,  in  the  intended  indication, 
blood  IGF-1  levels  are  very  low  and  it  is  the  intent  to  bring  these  levels  into  the  normal  range  and 
therefore  to  normalize  blood  IGF-1  levels.  In  addition,  the  length  of  treatment  in  the  Tercica  short 
stature study was for 4 years. Even if treatment were for 7 years, this may only represent 10% of the 
©EMEA 2007 
 33/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lifespan.  It  can  be  assumed  that  for  the  other  90%  of  the  lifespan  IGF-1  blood  levels  would  be 
subnormal. It is may therefore be assumed that the above risk will likely be less than in the general 
population, since exposure will not be life long, but only during childhood. In IGF-1 deficient patients, 
however, the object of replacement therapy with rhIGF-1 is to achieve normal blood IGF-1 levels, so 
one might predict that rhIGF-1 therapy should not increase their cancer risk above that of the normal 
population.  
In 2002, data published from the two largest international surveillance databases of rhGH treatment, 
with  a  total  of  some  86,000  patients  on  rhGH,  representing  almost  250,000  treatment  years, 
demonstrated  the  safety  of  rhGH  treatment,  even  with  long-term  use,  rhGH  treatment  has  not  been 
associated with an increased risk of cancer.  
As  a  replacement  growth  factor  though,  INCRELEX  is  contraindicated  in  the  presence  of  active  or 
suspected  neoplasia,  and  therapy  should  be  discontinued  if  evidence  of  neoplasia  develops; 
additionally the follow up any neoplasia is considered in the risk management plan. 
Comprehensive data on the safety of the medicinal product is lacking, particularly affecting the long 
term toxicity and possible occurrence of malignancies. Due to the rarity of the disease this data cannot 
reasonably  be  expected  to  be  provided.  As  such  the  product  was  considered  by  the  CHMP  to  be 
approvable only under exceptional circumstances.  
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the Applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Hypoglycaemia 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
SPC Section 4.4 Warning 
INCRELEX should be administered before or 
after a meal. Pay special attention to young 
children, children with history of 
hypoglycaemia, and children with inconsistent 
food intake. Patients should avoid high risk 
activities within 2-3 hours after dosing 
particularly after initiation of treatment.  At 
treatment initiation, the physician should 
educate the patient on the signs, symptoms, 
and treatment of hypoglycaemia including 
injection of glucagon. 
If a person with severe hypoglycaemia is 
unconscious or otherwise unable to ingest 
food normally, an injection of glucagon may 
be required. Medical attention should be 
sought for such episodes. Persons with a 
history of severe hypoglycaemia should have 
glucagon available. 
SPC Section Undesirable effects 
Hypoglycaemia is the most frequently 
©EMEA 2007 
 34/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lipohypertrophy at 
Injection Sites 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months 
Tonsillar hypertrophy 
and Associated 
Adverse Events 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months 
Headache and 
Intracranial 
Hypertension 
(Papilloedema) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months 
reported adverse drug reaction.  The thirty-six 
subjects (47%) who had one or more episodes 
of hypoglycaemia included 4 subjects who 
had hypoglycaemic seizure on one or more 
occasion.  Of the 36 subjects, 12 (23%) had a 
history of hypoglycaemia prior to beginning 
treatment.  The frequency of hypoglycaemia 
was highest in the first month of treatment, 
and episodes were more frequent in younger 
children.  Symptomatic hypoglycaemia was 
generally avoided when a meal or snack was 
consumed either shortly before or after the 
administration of INCRELEX. 
Education material: 
Patient card for weight and dose. 
Dose calculator 
SPC Section Undesirable effects 
Injection site hypertrophy occurred in 24 
subjects (32%).  This reaction was generally 
associated with lack of proper rotation of 
injections.  When injections were properly 
dispersed, the conditions resolved. 
Education material: 
Patient card for Lipohypertrophy 
SPC Section 4.4 Warning 
Lymphoid tissue (e.g., tonsillar) hypertrophy 
associated with complications, such as 
snoring, sleep apnea, and chronic middle-ear 
effusions have been reported with the use of 
INCRELEX.  Patients should have 
examinations periodically and at the 
occurrence of clinical symptoms to rule out 
such potential complications or to initiate 
appropriate treatment. 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Tonsillar hypertrophy was noted in 12 (16%) 
subjects, particularly in the first 1 to 2 years of 
therapy with lesser tonsillar growth in 
subsequent years. 
Educational material: 
Patient card for Tonsillar hypertrophy and 
Associated Adverse Events 
SPC Section 4.4 Warning 
Intracranial hypertension (IH) with 
papilloedema, visual changes, headache, 
nausea and/or vomiting has been reported in 
patients treated with INCRELEX, as has been 
reported with therapeutic GH administration.  
IH-associated signs and symptoms resolved 
after interruption of dosing.  Funduscopic 
examination is recommended at the initiation, 
periodically during the course of INCRELEX 
therapy and at the occurrence of clinical 
symptoms. 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
Intracranial hypertension occurred in three 
subjects (4%).  In two subjects the events 
resolved without interruption of INCRELEX 
©EMEA 2007 
 35/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in Organ Size 
and Function 
(including 
cardiomegaly) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months 
Immunogenicity 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
On suspicion of immunogenicity, 
patient samples sent to Tercica for 
anti-IGF-1 antibody analysis; 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months;  
Allergic Reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months 
Scoliosis and Slipped 
Capital Femoral 
Epiphysis 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
treatment.  INCRELEX treatment was 
discontinued in the third subject and resumed 
later at a lower dose without recurrence. 
Educational material: 
Patient card for Headache and Intracranial 
Hypertension (Papilloedema) 
SPC Section 4.4 
Echocardiogram is recommended before 
initiation of Increlex treatment in all patients.  
Patients who terminate treatment because of 
epiphyseal closure should also have an 
echocardiogram.  Patients with abnormal 
echocardiogram findings or cardiovascular 
symptoms should be followed regularly with 
echocardiogram procedures. 
SPC Section 4.8, Undesirable effects,  
Table 1 
SPC Section 4.4 Warning 
Persons who have allergic reactions to injected 
IGF-1, who have unexpectedly high blood 
values of IGF-1 after injection, or who fail to 
show a growth response may be having an 
antibody response to injected IGF-1. In such 
instances, follow the instructions for antibody 
testing. 
SPC Section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
As with all protein pharmaceuticals, some 
patients may develop antibodies to 
INCRELEX.  Anti-IGF-1 antibodies were 
observed in 11 of 23 children with severe 
Primary IGFD tested during the first year of 
therapy.  However, no clinical consequences 
of these antibodies were observed (e.g., 
allergic reactions or attenuation of growth). 
Educational material: 
Immunogenicity sampling information will be 
provided to physicians 
SPC Section 4.4 Warning 
As with any exogenous protein administration, 
local or systemic allergic reactions may occur.  
Parents and patients should be informed that 
such reactions are possible and that if an 
allergic reaction occurs, treatment should be 
interrupted and prompt medical attention 
should be sought. 
Educational material: 
Patient card for Allergic reactions 
SPC Section 4.4 Warning 
Slipped capital femoral epiphysis and 
progression of scoliosis can occur in patients 
who experience rapid growth.  These 
conditions and other symptoms and signs 
known to be associated with GH treatment in 
general should be monitored during 
INCRELEX treatment.  Any patient with the 
onset of a limp or complaint of hip or knee 
pain should be evaluated. 
©EMEA 2007 
 36/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neoplasia 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Surveillance study 
Review of incidence, severity and 
duration every 6 months; 
Surveillance sub-study for long-term 
safety; neoplasia follow-up, biennial 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Medication Error 
Educational material: 
Patient card for Scoliosis 
SPC Section 5.3 Preclinical safety data, 
Carcinogenesis 
Education material: 
Patient card for neoplasia 
Education material: 
Patient card for weight and dose. 
Dose calculator 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: See as detailed in section 2.3  
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
During the evaluation of INCRELEX, major objections were identified. These concerned: 
-The  putative  immunogenic  potential  of  mecasermin  based  on  insufficient  structural  characterisation 
of the protein and due to lacking information concerning impurity levels of commercial and clinical 
lots. 
-The comparability between the commercial rhIGHF-1 batches and the early developmental batches. 
-The stability of the drug substance and the drug product. 
Satisfactory  justification  has  been  provided  to  resolve  these  objections.  Other  minor  concerns  have 
been  adequately  addressed,  however  several  commitments  are  made  by  the  Applicant,  and  several 
follow up measures are defined to provide further information post approval. In conclusion, all quality 
issues are resolved.  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  principal  findings  following  the  SC  administration  of  mecasermin  in  the  nonclinical 
pharmacodynamic studies were increases in bone growth in GH and IGF-1 deficient animal models, 
acute  decreases  in  blood  glucose,  increases  in  body  weight,  and  enhancement  of  immune  function. 
These finding are considered relevant to human therapeutic use. 
Mecasermin  antibodies  were  investigated  in  selected  toxicology  studies  using  ELISA  methodology, 
but  the  bioanalytical  methods/validation  reports  were  not  available  for  evaluation.  Due  to  this 
omission,  the  capability  of  the  antibody  assay  method  to  detect  anti-IGF-1  antibodies  could  not  be 
fully assessed.  
The applicant has adequately investigated toxicity of mecasermin, showing that in general, the safety 
margin in clinical situations is not high. The major observations in toxicological studies were increases 
in body weight and organ weights and hypoglycaemia. Mecasermin was not found be genotoxic. The 
mecasermin  carcinogenicity  study  demonstrated  that  lifetime  administration  of  mecasermin  was 
associated  with  an  increased  incidence  of  benign  neoplasms  of  the  skin  and  adrenal  gland 
(pheochromocytomas) and mammary fibroadenomas and carcinomas. The extrapolation of the results 
from this study to humans is uncertain.  
©EMEA 2007 
 37/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
The  minimal  effective  dose  of  mecasermin  has  not  been  sufficiently  established  due  to  insufficient 
data  at  the  moment  of  evaluation.  Collection  of  further  data  to  establish  this  dose  is  included  in  the 
post-authorisation follow up measures. 
The  results  of  the  main  pivotal  studies  are  in  favour  of  the  efficacy  of  the  drug  in  the  claimed 
indication, primary IGFD. The incidence and rate of inhibitor formation and its clinical significance, 
or more precisely, its impact on the efficacy of the product during long term IGF-1 treatment has not 
been clarified yet. The number of subjects available for analysis was small and the methods used for 
assessing  anti  IGF.-1  antibodies  were  not  validated.  According  to  the  CHMP  recommendation 
additional monitoring measures are required and presented in the Risk Management by the Applicant. 
Potential immunogenicity will be further investigated in the post-authorisation phase. 
Height  velocities  between  severe  Primary  IGF-1  deficiency  subjects  and  growth  hormone  gene 
deletion subjects were compared and seen to be similar at all times. This showed that even though the 
numbers were small, efficacy in the indication ‘children with growth hormone (GH) gene deletion who 
have developed neutralizing antibodies to GH’ was sufficiently demonstrated. 
Safety 
The most common adverse events in the clinical studies have been hypoglycaemia, lipohypertrophy at 
injection  sites,  tonsillar  hypertrophy,  headache  and  transient  intracranial  hypertension.  Additionally, 
concern was raised on the kidney, spleen and cardiac growth. These adverse events will continue to be 
monitored in the post-authorisation phase. 
The  issue  of  the  putative  immunogenicity  of  the  product  proposed  to  be  marketed  cannot  be 
completely addressed at this stage. The long-term safety has to be confirmed in the post-authorisation 
setting. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
User  consultation  was  not  performed.  It  has  been  included  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be 
conducted by the Applicant. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
In conclusion, the risk-benefit assessment seems to be favourable based on the current knowledge, but 
it needs to be reassessed yearly as more data will be gathered. The CHMP considers that a marketing 
authorisation  only  under  exceptional  circumstances  should  be  recommended  since  the  indication  for 
which the medicinal product in question is intended is encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot 
reasonably  be  expected  to  provide  comprehensive  evidence/data  on  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the 
medicinal product at this stage.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed  to  investigate  further  some  of  the  safety  concerns  and  that  additional  risk  minimisation 
activities were required: see as detailed in section 2.3 
©EMEA 2007 
 38/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
During  the  post-opinion  phase  the  Applicant  notified  the  withdrawal  of  the  indication  referring  to 
patients  with  “growth  hormone  (GH)  gene  deletion  that  have  developed  neutralizing  antibodies  to 
GH” as it did not fall within the scope of the orphan indication.  
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  and  the  above  mentioned 
withdrawal,  the  CHMP  considered  by  consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  INCRELEX  in  the 
long-term  treatment  of  growth  failure  in  children  and  adolescents  with  severe  primary  insulin-like 
growth factor-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD); severe Primary IGFD being defined by: 
•  height standard deviation score ≤ –3.0 and 
•  basal IGF-1 levels below the 2.5th percentile for age and gender and 
•  GH sufficiency 
•  Exclusion of secondary forms of IGF-1 deficiency, such as malnutrition, hypothyroidism, or 
chronic treatment with pharmacologic doses of anti-inflammatory steroids 
was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  under 
exceptional circumstances. 
©EMEA 2007 
 39/39 
 
 
 
 
 
