EMA/82654/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000408 
EPAR summary for the public 
Inductos 
dibotermin alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Inductos. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Inductos. 
What is Inductos? 
Inductos is a kit for implant. The kit consists of a powder containing the active substance, 
dibotermin alfa, a solvent and a matrix (collagen sponge). 
What is Inductos used for? 
Inductos is used to help new bone develop. It can be used in the following situations: 
 
lower back spine fusion surgery. This is a type of surgery used to relieve back pain due to a 
damaged disc where the disc between two vertebrae (the bones in the spine) is removed and the 
vertebrae are fused (joined) together. Inductos is used together with approved medical devices 
that correct the position of the spine. In this type of surgery, Inductos can be used instead of an 
autogenous bone graft (bone taken from one part of a person’s body and placed in another part of 
the body). Inductos is used in adults who have been treated for at least six months for back pain 
due to a damaged disc but have not had an operation. 
 
surgery to heal fractures (breaks) of the tibia (shin bone). Inductos is used in addition to standard 
treatment and care. It is only used when the nail to fix the bone does not need ‘reaming’ (drilling 
to make room for nail placement). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Inductos used? 
Inductos should be used by a qualified surgeon. Inductos is made up into a solution before use, applied 
to the matrix and left for at least 15 minutes (but no more than two hours). The matrix is then cut, if 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
needed, to the correct size before use. Generally one kit is sufficient. For lower back spine fusion, the 
damaged disc between the vertebrae is removed and replaced with one or more medical devices and 
Inductos. The medical devices fix the position of the vertebrae, and Inductos encourages bone to grow 
between the two vertebrae to join them permanently in the correct position. For a fractured tibia, 
Inductos is placed around the broken bone to aid healing. 
How does Inductos work? 
The active substance in Inductos, dibotermin alfa, acts on the bone structure. It is a copy of a protein 
called bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP-2), which is produced naturally by the body and helps with 
the formation of new bone tissue. When implanted, dibotermin alfa stimulates the bone tissue around 
the matrix to make new bone. The newly formed bone grows into the matrix, which then degrades. 
Dibotermin alfa is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by cells 
that have received a gene (DNA) which makes them able to produce dibotermin alfa. The replacement 
dibotermin alfa acts in same way as BMP-2 produced naturally by the body. 
How has Inductos been studied? 
Inductos has been studied in 279 patients having lower back spine fusion. Spinal fusion using Inductos 
was compared with fusion using a bone graft removed from the hip during surgery. The main measure 
of effectiveness was fusion of the vertebrae confirmed by X-ray, and improvement in the pain and 
disability reported by the patient, measured two years after surgery. 
Inductos has been studied in 450 patients with a fractured tibia. Inductos was compared with standard 
care. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who did not need further 
treatment for their fractured tibia (such as a bone graft or changes to the nail used to fix the bones 
together) in the year following surgery. 
What benefit has Inductos shown during the studies? 
In spinal fusion, Inductos was as effective as bone grafts. After two years, 57% of the patients treated 
with Inductos (69 out of 122) had responded to treatment, compared with 59% of the patients treated 
with a bone graft (78 out of 133). 
Additional studies and analysis of data from the published literature showed that Inductos was more 
effective than bone graft at inducing fusion of the lower back vertebrae, irrespective of the surgical 
technique or the type of approved medical device used to hold the bone in position. 
In patients with a fractured tibia, using Inductos in addition to standard care was more effective than 
standard care alone in reducing the risk of treatment failure. Of the patients in the standard care 
group, 46% needed a further intervention within a year to repair their fracture, while the proportion 
was 26% for those also receiving Inductos. 
What is the risk associated with Inductos? 
The most common side effects with Inductos (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are radiculopathic 
events (problems occurring at or near the root of the nerve, along the spine, resulting in pain, 
weakness, numbness, or difficulty controlling specific muscles) when used in spine surgery, and 
localised infection when used in tibia fracture surgery. The most severe side effect is localised oedema 
(swelling at the surgery site) when used in upper spine (neck) surgery. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Inductos, see the package leaflet. 
Inductos  
EMA/82654/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inductos must not be used in the following situations: 
 
 
 
 
 
patients who are still growing; 
patients diagnosed with or being treated for cancer; 
patients with an active infection at the surgery site; 
patients with an inadequate blood supply at the fracture site; 
treating a fracture that is related to a disease such as Paget’s disease or cancer. 
For the full list of restrictions with Inductos, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Inductos been approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that the benefits of 
Inductos are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
considered that Inductos is effective in single-level lumbar spine fusion as a substitute for autogenous 
bone graft and for the treatment of acute tibia fractures in adults, as an adjunct to standard care. 
Patients undergoing treatment with Inductos may be at risk of heterotopic ossification (the growth of 
bone in abnormal places like soft tissue); this risk is considered to be manageable with the proposed 
risk minimisation measures.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Inductos? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Inductos is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Inductos, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients.  
In addition, the company that markets Inductos will make sure that educational material is available in 
all Member States for all healthcare professionals expected to use the medicine. This material will 
include information on the risk of heterotopic ossification and the potential risk of medication errors 
and incorrect use of Inductos. 
Other information about Inductos 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Inductos on 9 September 2002.  
The full EPAR for Inductos can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Inductos, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2015. 
Inductos  
EMA/82654/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
