London, 17 February 2005 
Product name: INDUCTOS 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/408/II/07 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. INTRODUCTION ..................................................................................................................... 3 
2. QUALITY REGARDING THE MEDICAL DEVICE........................................................... 3 
3. NON-CLINICAL ASPECTS .................................................................................................... 4 
3.1 Discussion on non-clinical aspects .................................................................................... 8 
4. CLINICAL ASPECTS .............................................................................................................. 9 
4.1 Clinical Pharmacology....................................................................................................... 10 
4.2 Clinical Efficacy ................................................................................................................ 11 
4.3 Clinical Safety.................................................................................................................... 20 
5. OVERALL DISCUSSION AND BENEFIT/ RISK ASSESSMENT..................................... 29 
5.1 Non-clinical data ................................................................................................................ 29 
5.2 Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................................. 29 
5.3 Clinical safety .................................................................................................................... 31 
5.4 Benefit/Risk assessment..................................................................................................... 34 
6. CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION .............................................................. 35 
7. CONCLUSION .......................................................................................................................... 37 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
This type II variation application aims to extend the therapeutic indications for InductOs (dibotermin 
alfa). The proposed additional new indication is: 
“InductOs  is  indicated  for  single-level  (L4  -  S1)  anterior  lumbar  spine  fusion  as  a  substitute  for 
autogenous bone graft in adults with degenerative disc disease who have had at least 6 months of non-
operative treatment for this condition.”  
For this indication, InductOs must be used with the LT-CAGE® Lumbar Tapered Fusion Device. 
The currently approved therapeutic indication reads as follows: 
“InductOs is indicated for the treatment of acute tibia fractures in adults, as an adjunct to standard care 
using open fracture reduction and intramedullary nail fixation.” 
The  MAH  claims  significant  medical  benefits  of  InductOs  in  spine  fusion  surgery  as  a  direct 
replacement for autogenous bone graft. These include relief from the symptoms of degenerative disc 
disease,  achieved  without  the  pain  and  morbidity  associated  with  a  second  surgical  site  to  harvest 
autogenous bone graft, less blood loss during surgery and shorter operative times. 
Outside  of  the  EU,  dibotermin  alfa/ACS  (Absorbable  Collagen  Sponge)  is  currently  approved  for 
marketing, under the name ‘INFUSE Bone Graft’ in the USA, Canada and Mexico. In the USA, it is 
approved  as  a  medical  device  for  both  anterior  lumbar  spine  fusion  procedures  and  acute  tibia 
fractures, whereas in Canada and Mexico, it is approved for anterior lumbar spine fusion procedures 
only.  
2.  QUALITY REGARDING THE MEDICAL DEVICE 
Following validation of the application, the MAH has provided information regarding the LT-CAGE. 
The proprietor is Medtronic Sofamor Danek. 
The  LT-CAGE  Lumbar  Tapered  Fusion  Device  consists  of  a  hollow,  perforated,  machined  cylinder 
with opposite flats. The cage has a tapered design with an angle of 8.8o and is available in diameters 
ranging from 14 mm to 18 mm end of taper, 17 to 22 mm at the wide end of the taper, and in lengths 
ranging from 20 mm to 26 mm. There are two holes on each of the two flat sides. On each of the two 
rounded aspects, there is a single rounded slot. The implants have a helical screw thread on the outer 
surface. One end of the device is closed and is used to engage the drive instrument for insertion of the 
device. 
The  LT-CAGE  Device  is  made  from  implant  grade  titanium  alloy  (Ti-6A1-4V)  described  by  such 
standards as ASTM F136 or its ISO equivalent. 
Technical drawings of the device and the Package Insert have been provided. The Package Insert is in 
compliance with the EU Medical Devices Directive (93/42/EEC), and is subject to an annual review 
by the designated EU Notified Body. 
The CHMP noted that the indications for use of the LT-CAGE Lumbar Tapered Fusion Device are in 
line with the proposed therapeutic use of this device with InductOs i.e. for spinal fusion procedures in 
skeletally  mature  patients  with  degenerative  disk  disease  (DDD)  at  one  level  from  L2-S1.  Patients 
should  have  had  at  least  six  months  of  nonoperative  treatment  prior  to  treatment  with  LT-CAGE. 
According to the Package Insert, the device is indicated for use with autogenous bone graft. 
Therefore, the CHMP concluded that the therapeutic indication for InductOs should also specify that 
patients should have a history of at least six months of nonoperative treatment. The MAH agreed with 
the CHMP’s proposal and amended the initial proposed indication to insert that patients should have a 
history of at least six months of nonoperative treatment. 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, the CHMP proposed to delete the sentence “that InductOs must be used with the specific 
LT-CAGE Lumbar Tapered Fusion Device” from the initially proposed indication since it blocks the 
use of other devices. Since so far experience is limited to the LT-CAGE, this  must be mentioned in 
section  4.2 “Posology and method of administration” in the SPC. The MAH agreed on the CHMP’s 
proposal. 
3.  NON-CLINICAL ASPECTS 
InductOs is a bone inductive agent consisting of recombinant human Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2 
(rhBMP-2)  and  Absorbable  Collagen  Sponge  (ACS).  rhBMP-2  is  a  glycosylated,  disulfide-bonded, 
dimeric  protein  produced  by  mammalian  cell  culture  methods.  Local  administration  of  rhBMP-2 
results in the induction of new bone tissue at the site of implantation. To facilitate surgical application, 
rhBMP-2 is combined with a matrix, the ACS, resulting in a moldable cohesive implant. As bone is 
formed, the matrix is degraded as is the rhBMP-2 component. 
The  ACS  matrix  is  the  Helistat Absorbable  Collagen  Hemostatic  Sponge  manufactured  from  bovine 
type  I collagen derived  from  tendons. It is CE-marked in Europe, and sold commercially in  the  US, 
Europe, Japan, and Canada as an intra-operative hemostatic agent which can be left in the surgical site. 
Helistat has a long (>20 years) commercial history of safe use in medical applications. 
At  the  time  of  surgical  implantation,  the  ACS  is  wetted  with  a  solution  of  rhBMP-2  to  form  the 
product (rhBMP-2/ACS). While application of rhBMP-2 alone is sufficient for osteoinduction, ACS as 
a carrier for rhBMP-2 provides a couple of functions. ACS localizes rhBMP-2 to the surgical site, and 
increases the retention of rhBMP-2 at the desired site compared to rhBMP-2 in buffer alone. This is 
important for optimal and localised bone formation. The pharmacological studies previously submitted 
have  demonstrated  that  rhBMP-2/ACS  induces  bone  formation,  heals  bony  defects,  and  augments 
fracture  repair.  These  studies  suggested  that  bone  formation  initiated  by  rhBMP-2/ACS  is  a  self-
limiting process, ie, only a defined volume of bone is created. This self-limitation is due to eventual 
loss of rhBMP-2 from the implant site, as well as the presence of BMP inhibitors in the surrounding 
tissues.  In  addition,  several  studies  indicate  that  there  is  a  negative  feedback  mechanism  at  the 
molecular biology level that limits bone induction by BMPs. 
The  product  used  in  the  interbody  spine  fusion  application  with  the  LT-Cage  is  identical  to  that 
described  in  the  InductOs  MAA  in  terms  of  protein  formulation,  carrier  matrix  and  concentration. 
Therefore,  previously  reported  toxicology  and  pharmacokinetic  data  are  applicable  to  the  indication 
described  in  this  submission.  With  general  safety  of  rhBMP-2  and  rhBMP-2/ACS  established,  the 
focus of the nonclinical studies is on spinal fusion efficacy and safety. This submission contains the 
nonclinical information to demonstrate that rhBMP-2/ACS is effective for use in an interbody spinal 
fusion application and safe for use in a spinal application in proximity to the spinal canal and nerve 
roots.  
The  pharmacology  studies,  with  the  exception  of  the  1  spinal  safety  study,  were  not  performed  in 
accordance with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations. 
The  six  non-clinical  studies  include  lumbar  fusion  studies  in  nonhuman  primates  and  sheep  and  a 
cervical  fusion  study  in  goats.  Two  of  the  studies  most  relevant  to  the  proposed  indication  had 
treatment  groups  that  allowed  for  direct  comparison  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  to  autograft  for  promoting 
spinal fusion in titanium interbody cages. 
Study  report  RPT-52965:  Graft  Materials  for  a  Titanium  Threaded  Interbody  Fusion  Device  for 
Anterior Interbody Fusion in a Sheep Lumbar Spine Model  
The primary purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of rhBMP-2/ACS to that of 
autograft in promoting interbody spinal fusions using a titanium fusion cage. Twelve skeletally mature 
sheep  underwent  L4-L5  interbody  spinal  fusion  using  the  titanium  cages.  Animals  were  randomised 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
into one of two treatment groups specifying the material to be used inside the fusion cage (autogenous 
iliac  crest  bone  or  0.43  mg/mL  rhBMP-2/ACS).  Animals  were  sacrificed  at  24  weeks.  Both  study 
groups resulted in 100% fusion rates as assessed via manual palpation. Biomechanical stiffness results 
were  reported  in  all  autograft  and  five  of  six  rhBMP-2/ACS  treated  animals  and  there  was  no 
statistically significant difference between the two groups. A trend toward greater stiffness to flexion 
with  rhBMP-2/ACS  was  demonstrated.  However,  both  the  rhBMP-2/ACS  and  autograft  treatment 
groups  were  found  to  be  statistically  significantly  stiffer  than  untreated  normal  disc  spaces  from 
unoperated spinal segments. Changes in interbody height were also analysed and no differences were 
found  between  rhBMP-2/ACS  treated  animals  and  autograft  controls.  Histologic  analyses  showed  a 
37% fusion rate with autograft filled cages, as opposed to 100% fusion for the rhBMP-2/ACS group. 
The rhBMP-2/ACS treated animals had dense remodeled bone growing through the holes in the cage 
walls and trabeculae bridging adjacent vertebral bodies. 
Study  Report  RPT-52963:  Cervical  Interbody  Fusion  Cages:  An  Animal  Model  With  and  Without 
BMP 
Although  this  nonclinical  study  was  performed  in  a  cervical  model  as  opposed  to  a  lumbar  spine 
model, it is considered relevant to the proposed application of InductOs because it compares rhBMP-
2/ACS to iliac crest autograft inside a titanium fusion cage in an interbody fusion model. 
The  primary  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  compare  the  effectiveness  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  to  that  of 
autograft  in  promoting  interbody  spinal  fusions  using  a  titanium  fusion  cage.  Fourteen  skeletally 
mature goats underwent 3 contiguous cervical interbody spinal fusions using threaded interbody fusion 
cages. Animals were randomised into one of 2 treatment groups specifying the bone graft material to 
be  used  inside  the  fusion  cage  (iliac  crest  autograft  or  0.40  mg/mL  rhBMP-2/ACS).  The  same  bone 
graft material was used in all 3 cages within each animal. 
Animals  were  sacrificed  at  12  weeks.  Levels  were  graded  as  having  a  successful  fusion,  a  failed 
fusion,  or  an  intermediate  result  based  on  analysis  of  microradiographs  and  histologic  sections. 
Ninety-five percent (95%) of the rhBMP-2/ACS-treated levels had a successful fusion as opposed to 
only 48% for the autograft treated levels. The remaining 5% of the rhBMP-2/ACS filled cages had an 
“intermediate”  result  (presence  of  some  fibrous  tissue)  in  comparison  to  38%  of  the  autograft  filled 
cage  group.  The  failed  fusion  rate  was  14%  for  the  autograft  versus  0%  for  rhBMP-2/ACS. 
Biomechanical stiffness results did not reveal any statistical differences in the 2 treatment groups. In 
addition,  there  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  stiffness  in  any  loading  mode  by  fusion 
result. The lack of statistically significant differences may have been due to the stability provided by 
the cage itself. Histologic analysis revealed that the use of rhBMP-2/ACS increased the rate of bone 
formation within and around the cage and accelerated the time to bone revascularization compared to 
autograft. 
Study  Report  RPT-52962:  Laproscopic  Anterior  Spinal  Arthrodesis  with  rhBMP-2/Helistat®  in  a 
Titanium Interbody Threaded Fusion Cage in the Non-Human Primate 
The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  compare  the  effectiveness  of  various  doses  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  in 
promoting interbody spinal fusion using titanium interbody cages. Eight adult Macaca mulatta (rhesus) 
monkeys underwent L7-S1 interbody spinal fusion using a titanium cage. Animals were randomised 
into 1 of 3 treatment groups according to the concentration of rhBMP-2 to be used inside the fusion 
cage (0.0, 0.75, or 1.50 mg/mL rhBMP-2/ACS). One animal at 0.75 mg/mL died on postoperative day 
3 due to a complication of the surgical procedure which was unrelated to rhBMP-2. The remaining 7 
animals were sacrificed at 4 weeks.  
All  animals  treated  with  rhBMP-2/ACS  had  solid  fusions  at  24  weeks  as  assessed  by  palpation,  CT 
analysis,  and  histologic  analysis.  Animals  in  the  0.0  mg/mL  rBMP  2/ACS  group  did  not  have  solid 
fusions  as  assessed  by  the  same  3  methods.  CT  scans  of  the  0.75  and  1.50  mg/mL  rhBMP-2/ACS-
treated animals showed continuous bone through the cage in all animals, while the CT scans of the 0.0 
mg/mL  rhBMP-2/ACS  animals  showed  some  bone  growth  at  the  vertebral  bodies  that  was  not 
continuous across the disc space. The bone formed using the higher dose (1.50 mg/mL) of rhBMP-2 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
appeared  to  be  denser  than  that  formed  using  the  lower  dose  (0.75  mg/mL)  of  rhBMP-2.  Histologic 
analysis confirmed the results of the 
CT analysis. The cages filled with 0.0 mg/mL rhBMP-2/ACS were filled primarily with fibrous tissue 
while  the  cages  filled  with  0.75  and  1.50  mg/mL  rhBMP-2/ACS  had  normal  trabecular  bone 
throughout. No animal had neurologic compression inside the spinal canal from newly forming bone 
or extension of bone formation to an unintended area. 
Study Report RPT-52966: Evaluation of rhBMP-2/ACS in a Non-Human Primate Anterior Interbody 
Fusion Model Utilizing a Freeze-Dried Allograft Cylinder 
The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and effectiveness of rhBMP-2/ACS in an allograft 
bone dowel in promoting an interbody spinal fusion in a non-human primate. This study is considered 
to  be  relevant  to  the  proposed  application  of  InductOs  since  in  compares  iliac  crest  autograft  to 
rhBMP-2/ACS in a higher order animal interbody fusion model. Six skeletally mature rhesus monkeys 
underwent  an  anterior  L7-S1  interbody  lumbar  fusion.  The  animals  were  randomised  into  1  of  2 
treatment groups according to the concentration of rhBMP-2 to be used inside the allograft bone dowel 
(iliac crest autograft or 1.5 mg/mL rhBMP-2/ACS). One animal from each group was sacrificed at 3 
months and the remaining 4 at 6 months.  
At  3  months,  the  rhBMP-2/ACS  treated  animal  was  manually,  radiographically,  and  histologically 
fused while the autograft control was not fused. The use of rhBMP-2/ACS also significantly increased 
the rate of incorporation of the allograft bone dowel. The dense cortical bone dowel which was visible 
radiographically  immediately  postoperative  could  not  be  detected  in  any  of  the  three  rhBMP-2/ACS 
animals  at  3  months.  This  observation  was  confirmed  histologically.  The  allograft  had  undergone 
almost  complete  incorporation.  Evidence  of  creeping  substitution  was  observed  on  a  small  piece  of 
allograft remaining at 3 months. No inflammatory or immune response was observed. In addition, no 
ectopic  or  overgrowth  of  bone  was  observed  around  critical  neural  structures.  In  contrast,  the 
appearance  of  the  allograft  dowels  filled  with  autograft  on  the  3  month  CTs  was  the  same  as  the 
appearance  immediately  postoperative.  The  autograft  controls  had  some  osteoclastic  resorption 
occurring and new  bone  deposited on  the allograft surfaces, but  not to the extent  seen  with rhBMP-
2/ACS. 
At 6 months, both of the remaining 2 animals treated with rhBMP-2/ACS were fused along with one 
of the 2 autograft controls. The authors concluded that this study demonstrated the efficacy of rhBMP-
2/ACS  and  a  cortical allograft  dowel  in  promoting  anterior interbody fusion  in a  nonhuman  primate 
model.  The  rate  of  new  bone  formation  and  fusion  with  the  use  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  and  the  cortical 
allograft dowel was superior to that of autogenous cancellous iliac crest graft with the cortical allograft 
dowel. 
Study Report RPT-52964: Safety of Recombinant Human Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2 After Spinal 
Laminectomy in the Dog 
The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of rhBMP-2/ACS on exposed dura and neural tissue 
after standard decompressive lumbar laminectomy using a canine model. This study was conducted in 
compliance with GLP regulations. Twenty skeletally mature beagles underwent a spinal laminectomy 
at  the  L5  spinal  level.  One-half  of  the  animals  also  received  a  “dural  nick”  made  with  a  22  gauge 
needle in the posterior midline of the spinal cord until cerebro-spinal fluid was noted to egress from 
the nick. Then, either autogenous bone graft or rhBMP-2/ACS was implanted directly on the exposed 
spinal  cord  in  the  laminectomy  defect.  Animals  were  randomised  into  one  of  four  treatment  groups 
(Rib autograft with or without dural nick (N=5), rhBMP-2/ACS (0.10 mg/mL) with or without dural 
nick (N=5). This concentration of rhBMP-2 was previously shown to be effective in promoting spinal 
fusion  in  a  canine  model.  Animals  were  sacrificed  at  12  weeks.  Evaluation  consisted  of  clinical, 
neurological  and  radiographic  examination  and  histological  analysis.  The  clinical  exam  involved 
weekly  body  weights,  monthly  blood  tests  and  cerebrospinal  fluid  analysis  at  necropsy.  Neurology 
consisted  of  weekly  gait  observations  and  placing  reflex,  patellar  reflex  and  the  pain  withdrawal  of 
both hind limbs. Radiographic analyses were done on a monthly basis assessing changes in the spinal 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cord,  surrounding  spinal  canal  and  graft  material  using  pre-established  measurement  parameters. 
Histology was used to study the effect of rhBMP-2/ACS in direct contact with neurological tissue. 
Neither  rhBMP-2/ACS  nor  the  dural  nick  presented  deleterious  consequences  to  the  animals.  The 
implants  resulted  in  a  physical  depression  of  the  dural  membrane  which  was  radiographically 
apparent,  suggesting  that  the  implant  came  to  rest  adjacent  to  the  thecal  sac.  The  rhBMP-2/ACS 
stimulated transient bone growth around the margin of the spinal canal. This suggests that the rhBMP-
2/ACS  came  in  direct  contact  with  the  dural  membrane.  It  may  even  have  leaked  into  the 
neuroforamina  since  there  was  a  bony  reaction  there.  There  was  no  radiographic  evidence  of 
mineralization  within  the  thecal  sac.  There  was  no  evidence  clinically  of  any  neurological 
abnormalities in these animals. There was no evidence of any clinical abnormalities in these animals 
based on blood and cerebrospinal fluid analyses. 
Study  Report  RPT-52961:  Binding  Properties  of  rhBMP-2  to  Absorbable  Collagen  Sponge  After 
Various Fluid Expression Amounts  
Since ACS is compressible,  it is possible that during intraoperative handling  fluid will  be expressed 
from the rhBMP-2/ACS. This fluid may contain rhBMP-2. The purpose of this study was to determine 
the  amount  of rhBMP-2 in fluid  expressed from  rhBMP-2/ACS  under different  handling conditions. 
For this study, 2.5  x 5 cm rhBMP-2/ACS strips were prepared  by evenly distributing  1.4  mL  of  1.5 
mg/mL rhBMP-2 solution onto each of 30 ACS strips. The rhBMP-2/ACS were allowed to soak for 15 
or  120  minutes  and  then  rolled  and  compressed  using  forceps  to  intentionally  express  fluid.  Strips 
were subjected to 1 of 3 handling conditions based on the volume of expressed fluid (X): Group 1: 100 
µl < X < 250 µl, Group 2: 300 µl <X <650 µl, Group 3: 750 µl < X. The amount of rhBMP-2 in the 
expressed fluid from each group (n=5) was determined by RP-HPLC. 
It  was  determined  that  fluid  expressed  from  rhBMP-2/ACS  did  contain  rhBMP-2;  however,  only  a 
small amount of rhBMP-2 was released from ACS with compression, and this decreased with soaking 
time. The rhBMP-2 concentration of the fluid expressed from ACS under different handling conditions 
was  consistent when compared  at  specific soak time. The  mean  concentration in the  expressed fluid 
was  35%  of  the  applied  concentration  for  the  15  minute  soak  time  and  20%  of  the  applied 
concentration for the 120 minute soak time. Since the concentration of the expressate was consistent 
the  amount  of  rhBMP-2  lost  from  the  ACS  increased  with  increased  fluid  expression  in  a  linear 
fashion.  With  the  most  mild  compression  tested  in  this  study  (Group  1),  the  amount  of  rhBMP-2 
retained was 95% for the 15 minute soak time and 97% for the 120 minute soak time.  
In an attempt to gain clinical perspective on these study results, the amount of fluid loss was recorded 
during rolling and placement of hydrated ACS into an LT-cage. For this part of the experiment, a 2.5 
cm x 5 cm ACS was placed into a 14x20 LT-cage. The fluid volume lost ranged from 13 to 27 µL. 
This  study  verifies  the  effectiveness  of  ACS  in  incorporating  and  retaining  rhBMP-2  for  surgical 
implantation.  Using  compression  and  handling  conditions  that  seem  to  be  extreme  relative  to  what 
would occur in normal intraoperative handling and placement in the LT-cage, the ACS still retained at 
least 95% of the applied rhBMP-2 dose. 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 
Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical safety of rhBMP-2/ACS has been established based on information submitted in the 
original  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  previously.  The  MAH  has  submitted  additional  non-
clinical data to support the use of rhBMP-2/ACS in the proposed new therapeutic indication. The use 
of InductOs for spinal fusion naturally entails new risks, especially the risk of rhBMP-2 leakage from 
the implant and LT-cage and potential excessive bone formation or bone formation close to sensitive 
neural structures. Furthermore, there is a risk of local inflammation and oedema potentially leading to 
neural and/or vascular complications. 
The  pharmacology studies, with the exception of the spinal  safety study in  dogs (RPT-52964), were 
not  performed  in  accordance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practice  (GLP)  regulations.  This  is  a  clear 
drawback and reflects the device-oriented development of the product. However, since the studies are 
adequately reported, the CHMP concluded that this does not preclude approval of the variation. 
The  six  non-clinical  studies  include  lumbar  fusion  studies  in  nonhuman  primates  and  sheep  and  a 
cervical  fusion  study  in  goats.  Two  of  the  studies  most  relevant  to  the  proposed  indication  had 
treatment  groups  that  allowed  for  direct  comparison  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  to  autograft  for  promoting 
spinal fusion in titanium interbody cages. 
Except for RPT-52962 and RPT-52966, the preclinical pharmacodynamic/safety studies used a lower 
concentration of dibotermin than that proposed for clinical use (1.5 mg/ml). Although the studies are 
relevant in terms of showing the primary pharmacological action (bone formation and spinal fusion), 
their relevance for safety assessment is less obvious. Furthermore, in study RPT-52966, InductOs was 
used together with cortical allograft. 
Non-clinical  data  underline  the  importance  of  following  the  instructions  given  in  the  SPC  on  the 
appropriate  preparation  and  handling  of  the  implant  to  avoid  leakage  of  rhBMP-2.  The  company 
should commit to produce suitable educational material for surgeons and other medical staff. 
Since the non-clinical data relevant for the proposed indication do not provide a strong justification to 
use  the  1.5  mg/ml  concentration  of  dibotermin  alfa,  the  CHMP  during  its  September  2004  plenary 
meeting  requested  the  MAH  to  discuss  the  possibility  that  a  lower  concentration  could  have  a  more 
favourable benefit/risk profile.  
Following  the  provision  of  supplementary  information  from  the  MAH,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the 
company argued that the results of the nonhuman primate interbody fusion study support the choice of 
the  higher  1.50  mg/ml  concentration  for  clinical  use.  It  is  correct  that  while  the  nonhuman  primate 
interbody fusion study (RPT-52962) showed that both 0.75 and 1.50 mg/mL concentrations resulted in 
100%  fusion  rates,  increased  bone  density  was  observed  by  the  investigators  with  the  higher 
concentration and the rate of bone formation appeared to be slower with the 0.75 mg/ml concentration. 
It is agreed that more important information for the choice of the dose come from other approved and 
experimental clinical applications of Inductos, suggesting increased rate of healing with the 1.5 mg/ml 
compared to lower concentrations. However, the MAH’s conclusion that there are no safety concerns 
with Inductos in the applied indication is not correct. It is not known if the 1.5 mg/ml concentration is 
optimal  in  terms  of  safety  in  this  clinical  application  as  it  is  possible  that  complications,  e.g. 
inflammation and excessive bone formation are concentration-related. Nevertheless, from the efficacy 
perspective the CHMP agreed that the issue is resolved and the safety  concern  can be dealt with by 
giving appropriate information in the SPC and educational material. 
During its plenary meeting in September 2004 the CHMP commented that although the spinal safety 
study  had  a  relevant  design  to  examine  the  potential  undesirable  effects  of  application  of  InductOs 
near dural membrane, it is was unfortunate that the concentration of rhBMP-2/ACS used was very low 
(7%  of  the  concentration  intended  for  clinical  use)  limiting  the  relevance  of  the  study  significantly.  
The CHMP requested the MAH to comment on a major drawback that was the lack of evaluation of 
direct neurotoxicity or rhBMP-2/ACS. 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  the  provision  of  supplementary  information  by  the  MAH,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the 
company argued that use of low rhBMP-2 concentration in the canine laminectomy safety study was 
justified  in  view  of  the  higher  sensitivity  of  the  species  to  the  pharmacological  effects  of  rhBMP-2 
compared to man. This is accurate in view of the previously submitted non-clinical studies in rodents, 
dogs and non-human primates. The MAH believes that use of a higher concentration would have led 
to excessive bone formation in dogs and would not have been relevant for safety assessment. This may 
well  be  the  case.  The  canine  laminectomy  study  was  designed  to  model  a  “worst  case”  scenario  in 
which  rhBMP-2/ACS  is  implanted  inside  the  spinal  canal  in  direct  contact  with  exposed  dura.  The 
actual implantation of rhBMP-2/ACS in this location would not be anticipated under any conditions in 
a clinical setting.  
With  these  considerations,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the  MAH’s  approach  is  reasonable  and  concluded 
that the issue was resolved. 
4.  CLINICAL ASPECTS 
Degenerative disc disease (DDD) is a leading cause of low back pain and one of the most prevalent 
health problems in the world. Non-operative treatments for DDD, including medication, exercise, and 
manipulation, are the first-course standard of care.  Many patients respond to non-operative treatment. 
However,  others  continue  to  experience  chronic  back  pain  that  can  be  debilitating.  When  non-
operative forms of treatment have failed to provide sufficient relief from pain and disability for these 
patients, lumbar spine fusion is considered a viable operative treatment option. 
A standard care in Europe for  surgical treatment  of  DDD is fusion  of  the  involved  spinal  segments, 
and  anterior  lumbar  interbody  spine  fusion  (ALIF),  using  autogenous  bone  with  interbody  fusion 
cages,  represents  about  20-25%  of  these  cases.  One  such  interbody  fusion  cage  is  the  LT-CAGE 
Lumbar Tapered Fusion Device, which is CE-marked and has been commercially available in Europe 
since 1997. The cage may be inserted using either an open or a laparoscopic surgical approach after 
the removal of the painful, degenerated disc (Figure 1). The function of the cage is to re-establish the 
proper spinal curvature, realign and decompress the facet joints, relieve stress on the musculature, re-
tension the disc annulus, enlarge the foraminal space (thus relieving nerve root pressure), and provide 
stability  to  the  spinal  segment  –  all  with  the  aim  to  provide  relief  of  the  symptoms  of  DDD.  The 
autogenous  bone  graft  then  facilitates  the  fusion  process  in  the  stable  environment  provided  by  the 
cage, and the fusion makes the treatment permanent. Due to the volume of autogenous bone required 
by  the  procedure,  the  standard  practice  is  to  harvest  the  autogenous  bone  graft  from  the  iliac  crest. 
This  harvest  is  not  infrequently  associated  with  significant  morbidity,  including  complications  and 
pain that may last for several weeks, months, or even years at the harvest site.  
Figure 1. LT-CAGE with InductOs. 
Because  of  rhBMP-2’s  osteoinductive  properties,  it  was  believed  that  rhBMP-2  had  the  potential  to 
provide significant medical benefit in spine fusion surgery as a direct replacement for autogenous bone 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
graft harvested from the iliac crest. The potential benefit for the patient is relief from the symptoms of 
DDD, achieved without the additional pain and morbidity associated with autograft harvesting. 
Since  rhBMP-2/ACS  had  not  been  used  in  a  human  spine  fusion  application  previously,  the  initial 
human exposure was planned for a small-scale pilot clinical study. It was anticipated that the results of 
this  study  would  help  confirm  the  appropriateness  of  the  dosage  in  producing  fusion  and  expose 
possible safety issues that needed to be addressed in larger clinical studies. In the pilot study, patients 
received a single-level anterior lumbar interbody fusion procedure using either 1.50 mg/mL rhBMP-
2/ACS or autogenous bone harvested  from the iliac crest delivered in 2  LT-CAGE  Lumbar Tapered 
Fusion  Devices.    Two  large-scale,  prospective  clinical  studies  were  planned.  Together,  these  studies 
focused on determining the effectiveness of the product to fuse the treated spinal level and to relieve 
pain and on assessing the product’s safety. In order to reflect a clinical benefit, a primary endpoint was 
developed  that  incorporated  both  efficacy  and  safety  features  into  a  single  variable  termed  “overall 
success.”  Safety  and  efficacy  of  the  investigational  treatment  would  be  proclaimed  if  the  overall 
success  rate  for  the  investigational  treatment  patients  was  statistically  non-inferior  to  that  for  a 
standard of care control group. In the pivotal Phase III study, rhBMP-2/ACS was implanted with the 
LT-CAGE  Device  using  an  open  surgical  approach.  This  study  had  a  prospective,  randomized, 
controlled  design.  An  open  surgical  approach  was  chosen  due  to  its  popularity  among  surgeons.  A 
second large-scale study was planned to support the safe use of the same product using a laparoscopic 
surgical approach, a method that is also popular among surgeons but is used to a much lesser degree. 
The second study had the same design except that it did not have a randomized control group. It was 
thought that the results from this laparoscopic surgical approach study would be complementary to the 
open surgical approach data and that the data would support a label claim for single-level (L 4 -S 1) 
anterior lumbar spine fusion in adults with degenerative disc disease, irrespective of surgical approach. 
The clinical studies that are the basis for this application were performed in the United States and were 
conducted in accordance with applicable US FDA regulations for devices. The FDA regulations were 
written in the spirit of the Declaration of Helsinki and good clinical practice. 
4.1  
Clinical Pharmacology  
No  new  clinical  pharmacology  data  have  been  provided.  The  clinical  pharmacology  comments 
provided in the Clinical Overview at the time of the first submission for the Marketing Authorisation 
in  Europe  are  applicable  to  this  application  since  this  variation  covers  the  same  formulation  for 
InductOs. However, the pilot study evaluating the feasibility of InductOs when used together with the 
LT-Cage device has been reviewed. 
CSR-52093  (Study  3100N3-117-US):  A  Prospective,  Randomised  Feasibility  Investigation  of 
Recombinant  Human  Bone  Morphogenetic  Protein-2  (rhBMP-2)  and  Absorbable  Collagen  Sponge 
with the Tapered Interbody Fusion Device for Anterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion in Patients 
with Degenerative Disc Disease 
Efficacy Results 
Based  on  either  CT  or  x-ray  assessments,  the  fusion  success  rate  at  12  and  24  months  for  the 
investigational treatment group was 100.0% (7/7 subjects treated by open surgical technique and 4/4 
subjects  treated  by  laparoscopic  approach).  All  three  control  subjects  were  treated  using  an  open 
approach  and  were  evaluated  as  fused  after  12  months,  but  one  subject  had  an  additional  surgical 
procedure at 18 months postoperative, which caused the subject to be considered a treatment failure at 
24 months postoperative. 
Safety Results 
The study determined that there were no safety issues to hinder implantation of the rhBMP- 2/ACS in 
larger  pivotal  clinical  trials.  There  were  no  additional  surgical  procedures  required  in  the 
investigational  treatment  group.  No  investigational  subject  had  an  antibody  response  to  rhBMP-2. 
Three of the 11 investigational subjects had antibody responses to bovine collagen. Subjects who had 
antibody responses to bovine collagen were not found to have positive antibody responses to human 
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type  I  collagen.  In  addition,  there  were  no  medically  important  differences  in  the  complete  blood 
count or serum chemistry screening results between the investigational and control groups. 
Two subjects (18.2%) in the investigational group and one subject (33.3%) in the control group had 
surgical  procedure  changes  (endcaps  not  used  due  to  difficulties).  One  subject  (9.1%)  in  the 
investigational group and  one  subject (33.3%) in the  control group  had  hardware  failures relating to 
the endcaps to the LT-CAGE Device (ie, would not engage properly or dislodged after surgery). No 
complications were noted from these events. The snap-on endcaps, which had been used for this pilot 
study, were not used in any other rhBMP-2/ACS studies. 
4.2 
Clinical Efficacy 
To support the proposed indication the MAH submitted 3 clinical studies: 
- 
- 
- 
A pilot study (3100N3-117) was performed to assess the feasibility of executing larger clinical 
trials with rhBMP- 2/ACS as a replacement for autogenous bone harvested from the iliac  
crest, when used with the LT- CAGE Device; 
An open surgical approach study (3100N3-303) which was considered as the pivotal trial; 
A laparoscopic study (3100N3-304), which  was considered as supportive to the pivotal trial. 
Study 3100N3-117 (Pilot study): 
This was a prospective, multicentre, randomised (3:1) clinical study in 14 patients receiving either two 
rhBMP-2/ACS-filled  LT-CAGE  Devices  in  an  anterior  (7  subjects)  or  laparoscopic  (4  subjects) 
surgical  approach  or  two  autogenous  bone  filled  (control)  LT-CAGE  Devices  in  an  open  anterior 
surgical approach (3 subjects). The devices were implanted at 1 level from L2-S1. 
Successful  fusions  occurred  in  all  14  (100%)  subjects  receiving  the  investigational  treatment  at  24 
months postoperative, compared with 2 (66.7%) of the 3 of subjects who received the standard of care 
control treatment. No significant safety issues were noted during the study. One-year follow-up data 
from the pilot study were deemed necessary to characterize the outcomes before larger pivotal studies 
could commence. Based on these data the open surgical approach study and the laparoscopic approach 
study were designed. 
Study 3100N3-303 (open surgical approach study, pivotal trial) 
Study Design: 
In this study, the patients had at least 6 months of nonoperative treatment for the pain associated with 
DDD,  still  had  documented  pain  from  the  condition,  were  seeking  additional  treatment,  and  were 
recommended for spine fusion by their physician. A nonsurgical treatment option was not practical or 
ethical for this subject population because nonsurgical treatments had already failed to provide needed 
relief;  instead,  fusion  was  recommended  to  alleviate  the  pain.  Thus,  the  subject  population  for  this 
open surgical approach study was a subset of subjects with DDD—those subjects with back pain who 
had  not  responded  to  6  months  of  nonoperative  treatment  and  for  whom  spine  fusion  had  been 
recommended. 
The open surgical approach study was open-label with respect to subjects and surgeons. 
Subjects were randomised (1:1) either to the investigational treatment group (rhBMP-2/ACS) or to the 
control group (autogenous bone harvested from the iliac crest). Subject and surgeon blinding was not 
possible after treatment group assignment because it is necessary for the surgeon to obtain autogenous 
bone  from  the  iliac  crest  as  part  of  the  control  treatment.  However,  the  independent  radiographic 
reviewers  who  evaluated  the  radiographs  and  CT  scans  were  blinded  to  treatment  group.  This  was 
included  in  the  study  design  to  eliminate  bias  in  determining  radiographic  outcomes  between  the  2 
treatment groups. Subjects had only 1 investigational surgery in the study and received rhBMP-2 at a 
concentration of 1.50 mg/mL during the surgery. 
11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  length  of  subject  follow-up  (24  months)  was  sufficient  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
rhBMP-2/ACS, including the osteoinductive properties and beneficial effects of using rhBMP-2/ACS 
instead of harvesting autogenous bone. The 24-month follow-up time also allowed sufficient time to 
observe  fusion  induced  by  rhBMP-2/ACS,  which  was  expected  to  occur  by  12  months  following 
surgery. 
A non-inferiority trial design was used on the premise that the control treatment was recognized as a 
very effective treatment from earlier clinical studies with fusion rates of at least 89.4% at 24 months. 
Non-inferiority was considered to be reasonable based on the standard that the control had established 
and on the fact that the investigational treatment would offer the additional benefit of eliminating the 
second surgery to harvest bone. 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria: 
Male and female subjects, age ≥18 years, with DDD as noted by back pain of discogenic origin, with 
or  without  leg  pain,  with  degeneration  of  the  disc  confirmed  by  subject  history  and  radiographic 
studies  with  one  or  more  of  the  following:  a)  instability,  b)  osteophyte  formation,  c)  decreased  disc 
height,  d)  thickening  of  ligamentous  tissue,  e)  disc  degeneration  or  herniation,  and/or  f)  facet  joint 
degeneration.  Subjects  were  required  to  have  a  preoperative  Oswestry  score  ≥35,  no  greater  than 
Grade  1  spondylolisthesis  (utilizing  Meyerding’s  Classification),  and  single-level  symptomatic 
degenerative  involvement  from  L4  to  S1.  Subjects  should  not  have  responded  to  6  months  of  non-
operative treatment (eg, bed rest, physical therapy, medications, spinal injections, manipulation, and/or 
transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)). 
Main exclusion criteria: 
A subject meeting any of the following criteria was excluded from the study:  
•  Previous anterior spine fusion surgical procedure at the involved level. 
•  Posterior  spinal  instrumentation  (which  will  not  be  removed)  stabilising  the  involved  level  or  a 
previous posterior lumbar interbody fusion procedure at the involved level. 
•  Presence of active malignancy. 
•  History of autoimmune disease. 
•  History of exposure to injectable collagen implants. 
•  History  of  hypersensitivity  to  protein  pharmaceuticals  (monoclonal  antibodies  or  gamma 
globulins) or collagen. 
•  Any previous exposure to any/all BMPs of either human or animal extraction. 
•  History of allergy to bovine products or a history of anaphylaxis. 
•  Osteopenia,  osteoporosis,  or  osteomalacia  to  a  degree  that  spinal  instrumentation  would  be 
contraindicated; history of endocrine or metabolic disorder known to affect osteogenesis 
(eg, Paget’s disease, renal osteodystrophy, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, or osteogenesis imperfecta) 
•  Presence of active malignancy or infection (local or systemic) 
•  Obesity (ie, weight >40% over ideal for their age and height) 
•  Medications that could affect fusion (e.g. corticosteroids) 
Efficacy variables: 
The primary efficacy variables for Studies 3100N3-303 and 3100N3-304 were:  
1)  fusion—measured  by  independent  radiographic  reviewers  using  methods  recommended  by 
FDA; 
2)  pain/disability  status—measured  by  the  subject  in  response  to  the  Oswestry  Low  Back  Pain 
Disability Questionnaire.  
The  Oswestry  questionnaire  records  a  subject’s  response  to  10  questions,  which  focus  on  pain, 
personal  care,  lifting,  walking,  sitting,  standing,  sleeping,  sex  life,  social  life,  and  ability  to  travel. 
Oswestry  scores  can  range  from  0%  to  100%,  with  a  lower  percentage  indicating  less  pain  and 
disability.  The  Oswestry  Questionnaire  was  administered  preoperatively  as  well  as  at  each 
postoperative visit. 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary efficacy endpoints: 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoints  were  the  fusion  success  status  at  24  months  and  the  Oswestry 
(pain/disability) success status at 24 months. 
Overall success was the  primary  endpoint of the study  comprising the following safety and  efficacy 
variables: 
1) radiographically demonstrated fusion, 
2) Oswestry pain/disability improvement,  
3) maintenance or improvement in neurological status, 
4) no Grade 3 or 4 adverse event classified as implant-associated or implant-/surgical procedure-  
    associated, and 
5) no additional surgical procedure performed that was classified as a “failure.” 
Fusion success was defined as: 
•  Evidence of bridging trabeculae, based on the presence of a continuous bony connection from the 
superior  vertebral  body  to  the  inferior  vertebral  body  in  at  least  1  of  the  following  areas:  lateral, 
medial, anterior, posterior, and/or through either one or both of the implants. The primary method 
of  assessment  was  radiographs.  If  evidence  of  bridging  trabeculae  could  not  be  observed  with 
radiographs,  CT  scans  were  permitted  as  a  secondary  method  only.  The  study  design  included 
scheduled radiographs and CT scans for all subjects. 
•  No evidence of motion, as defined by: 
o
o
No  more  than  3  mm  difference  in  translation  on  the  lateral  flexion/extension 
radiographs, as determined by superimposing the 2 views one upon the other, and  
Less than 5° difference in angular motion between flexion and extension, as seen on 
lateral flexion/extension radiographs. 
•  No  evidence  of  radiolucency  surrounding  greater  than  50%  of  either  LT-CAGE  Device.  This 
determination was made with radiographs. 
Statistical methods:  
The study was designed as a non-inferiority trial. A frequentist method was utilised to assess the study 
hypotheses.  
The study hypotheses defined in the statistical plan were one-sided equivalence (non-inferiority) 
hypotheses.  A  non-inferiority  margin  (d)  of  0.10  was  defined  for  all  of  the  variables  except  for 
Oswestry success, where a margin of 0.15 was specified. Justification of the delta choices was based 
on an FDA point-to-consider document. 
The primary outcome variables were analysed using Blackwelder’s one-sided equivalence procedure. 
Pooling data from all the study sites was planned for final statistical analyses for assessing the study 
hypotheses.  The  Breslow-Day  test  procedure  would  be  used  for  assessing  homogeneity  of  treatment 
outcomes across study sites (i.e. interaction between study site and treatment) to justify the pooling. 
Two (2) interim analyses and one final analysis were defined in the statistical plan using the Fleming, 
Harrington, and O’Brien procedure. 
A non-inferiority trial design was used on the premise that the control treatment was recognised as a 
very effective treatment from earlier clinical studies with fusion rates of at least 90%. Non- inferiority 
was considered to be reasonable based on the standard that the control had established efficacy and on 
the fact that the investigational treatment would offer the additional benefit of no second surgical site 
to harvest bone. 
Three  (3)  primary  efficacy  variables  and  3  primary  safety  variables  were  considered  in  the 
determination  of  sample  size  in  the  original  statistical  considerations  for  the  study.  The  resulting 
sample  size  hinged  on  the  variable  “Oswestry  pain/disability  success,”  which  required  the  largest 
sample  size  of  all  of  the  variables.  The  basic  assumptions  were  as  follows:  significance  (one-sided 
alpha) level of 0.05, power of 0.80, non-inferiority margin of 0.15, and success rate of 68.5% in both 
the investigational and control treatment groups. The final sample size was estimated to be a total of 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
270  subjects,  with  135  in  each  treatment  group,  after  adjusting  for  approximately  10-15%  lost-to-
follow-ups. 
During  the  conduct  of  the  study,  the  statistical  plan  and  protocol  were  amended  to  allow  Bayesian 
analyses  in  order  to  assess  results  prior  to  completion  of  the  24-month  follow-up  and  to  define  the 
composite  variable  overall  success  as  the  sole  primary  endpoint  of  the  study.  In  preliminary 
consultations with Regulatory Authorities, frequentist statistics were requested as the primary analysis.  
No interim analyses using frequentist statistical methods, as defined in the original protocol, were ever 
performed because of subsequent protocol changes. Therefore, there is no need for alpha adjustments. 
The  original  protocol  defined  3  primary  efficacy  variables  (fusion  success,  Oswestry  success,  and 
neurological success) and 3 primary safety variables (Grade 3 or 4, product-associated, adverse events; 
additional surgical procedures classified as failures; and Grade 3 or 4, permanent adverse events). The 
variable overall success was defined but not indicated as either a primary or a secondary endpoint in 
the original protocol and statistical plan. In the amendments to these documents, overall success was 
defined as the sole primary endpoint to measure efficacy and safety of the investigational product. The 
main reason for the change was to avoid the statistical multiplicity issues. 
Finally, for the study report, a “per protocol” analysis dataset, which was the primary analysis dataset 
minus  the  9  subjects  with  protocol  deviations,  was  defined  and  also  analyzed  for  the  primary  study 
endpoint overall success. 
•  Clinical results: 
In total, 143 subjects completed the investigational treatment, and 136 subjects completed the control 
treatment  in  the  clinical  study.  Subject  disposition  for  the  clinical  study  through  24  months 
postoperative is presented in the table below: 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results on the fusion success rates for the investigational and control treatment groups at 12 and 24 
months after surgery for the primary analysis dataset are shown in the table below: 
Fusion success rates at 12 and 24 months – primary analysis dataset: 
A “missing-equals-failure” analysis dataset was constructed for analysis of the primary study endpoint 
overall  success.  In  this  dataset,  all  missing  observations  from  all  the  study  subjects  (143 
investigational  and  136  control  subjects),  including  subjects  missing  observations,  deaths,  and 
additional surgery “failures,” were included in the denominators of the calculated rates (ie, assumed as 
“failures”). A missing-equals-failure  analysis is also presented for both primary efficacy parameters, 
fusion and pain/disability, and for the safety parameter, neurological success. 
The “per-protocol”  dataset was constructed in the exactly same way as the primary analysis dataset, 
except  that  9  subjects  with  the  protocol  deviations  were  excluded.  This  was  a  simple  subset  of  the 
primary analysis dataset, also just for analysis of the primary study endpoint overall success. 
Fusion success rates at 12 and 24 months – ”missing equals failure” dataset: 
By  considering  missing  data  as  treatment  failures,  the  outcome  rates  in  the  “missing-equals-failure” 
analysis  were  lowered  in  both  groups  at  24  months  postoperative.  The  fusion  success  rate  was 
numerically higher in the investigational treatment group than that in the control group at 24 months. 
The  non-inferiority  of  the  investigational  treatment  to  the  control  treatment  is  clearly  established  in 
fusion success at 24 months, with a non-inferiority margin of 0.10. 
For both treatment groups at all postoperative time periods, mean overall Oswestry scores significantly 
improved  (p<0.001),  as  compared  to  the  preoperative  scores.  The  mean  improvement  in  Oswestry 
scores was also similar for both treatment groups at the various clinical time periods. Oswestry scores 
for  the  investigational  treatment  group  improved  by  an  average  of  29.2  points  from  surgery  to  24 
months, as compared to an average of 29.9 for the control group. 
The  primary endpoint  of  the  study  was  overall  success  at  24  months,  consisting  of  2  efficacy  and  3 
safety components. The overall success rate at 24 months for the investigational treatment group was 
found  to  be  statistically  non-inferior  (p=0.0029)  to  the  control  group  rate,  with  the  predefined  non-
inferiority margin of 0.15 (Table below). 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Success Rates at 12 and 24 Months – Primary Analysis Dataset 
The overall success rates for “missing-equals-failure” subjects at 12 and 24 months postoperative are 
shown below. 
Overall Success Rates at 12 and 24 Months – ”Missing-Equals-Failure” Dataset 
By  considering  missing  data  as  treatment  failures,  the  outcome  rates  in  the  “missing-equals-failure” 
analysis were lowered in both groups at 24 months postoperative. The overall success rate was higher 
for “missing-equals-failure” subjects in the investigational treatment group than for “missing-equals-
failure” subjects in the control group at 24 months. The non-inferiority of the investigational treatment 
to the control treatment is shown. 
The  overall  success rates for  “per protocol”  subjects, or subjects  who did  not  have a  major protocol 
deviation are shown in the following table: 
At  24  months  postoperative,  the  overall  success  rate  for  the  “per  protocol”  subjects  was  similar 
between  the  groups,  and  the  criterion  for  declaring  non-inferiority  was  met,  not  only  with  a  non-
inferiority margin of 0.15 but also with a margin of 0.10. 
The secondary efficacy variable (graft site pain status, disc height measurement, general health status 
and pain status) results support the primary efficacy and combined overall treatment success endpoint 
results and suggest similar efficacy in terms of Quality of Life, global perceived effect by patient and 
physician,  back  and  leg  pain.  The  absence  of  pain  related  to  bone  graft  harvesting  is  naturally  a 
substantial benefit of rhBMP-2/ACS LT-CAGE treatment 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 3100N3-304 (laparoscopic surgical approach study, supportive trial) 
This  Study  used  a  laparoscopic  surgical  approach  instead  of  an  open  surgical  approach  for  the 
implantation  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  ALIF  procedures.  Except  for  the  change  in  the  surgical  approach, 
the purpose, primary objectives, and procedures of the laparoscopic surgical approach study were the 
same as those for the open surgical approach study.  
The secondary efficacy variables for this study were 
•  Disc Height Measurement 
•  General Health Status 
•  Pain Status (back pain, leg pain) 
Neurological status was assessed preoperatively and postoperatively by the investigational team using 
a  comprehensive  neurological  status  scale.  Neurological  status  is  based  on  4  types  of  measurements 
(sections): motor, sensory, reflexes, and straight leg raise. The motor and sensory sections of the scale 
were developed and validated by the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA), Chicago, Illinois. 
Serum samples were taken from each subject preoperatively, to establish their baseline condition, and 
at  3  months  following  surgery.  The  samples  were  analyzed  by  enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay 
(ELISA) for the presence of  antibodies specific  for BMP-2  and bovine Type I collagen. If a  subject 
had a positive response to bovine Type I collagen, the serum was also tested for antibodies to human 
Type I collagen. 
The design for the laparoscopic approach study included using a concurrent, non-randomised control. 
Because using the control group from the open surgical approach study would not address all potential 
biases,  only  nonstatistical  comparisons  were  planned  and  conducted  between  the  investigational 
treatment group of study 3100N3-304 and the control group of study 3100N3-303. The intention was 
to nonstatistically compare results from  study 3100N3-304 with those from the  control  group  of the 
open  surgical  approach  study,  because  all  other  methods  and  endpoints  of  the  2  studies  were 
essentially identical and both studies investigated the safety and efficacy of rhBMP-2/ACS. 
Study Design: 
As  described  above,  the  Study  Design  was  similar  to  Study  3100N3-303  with  the  above-mentioned 
exceptions.  The  original  statistical  plan  for  the  laparoscopic  approach  study  used  the  control  group 
from  study  3100N3-303  (in  which  subjects  were  implanted  with  a  combination  of  autogenous  bone 
graft and the LT-CAGE Device via an open surgical procedure, which is considered to be the standard 
of  care)  as  the  control  group  for  study  3100N3-304.  However,  as  statistical  differences  were  noted 
between  subjects  of  both  studies  for  some  important  demographic  characteristics,  the  MAH  decided 
that it was not appropriate to statistically compare the two groups from these studies. 
The  concentration  of  reconstituted  rhBMP-2  administered  to  subjects  was  constant  at  1.50  mg/mL, 
with  the  total  dose  of  rhBMP-2  varying  according  to  the  quantity  of  rhBMP-  2/ACS  required.  The 
quantity of rhBMP-2/ACS required was determined by the size of cage used. Based on the cages in the 
clinical study, the quantity of rhBMP-2/ACS that was placed into the cages was either 2.8 or 5.6 mL 
(for 2 cages). This equated to a total dose of 4.2 or 8.4 mg rhBMP-2. 
17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical results: 
In total, 134 subjects completed this study (see table below). 
Of the rhBMP-2/ACS treated subjects, 57.5% were female, their mean age was 42 years and 24.6% 
had had previous back surgery. Preoperatively, instability was present in 8.2%, osteophytes in 26.9%, 
decreased disk height in 88.8%, thickened ligaments in 20.1%, disk herniation in 34.3% and facet joint 
degeneration in 40.3% of subjects. 
The majority of patients received treatment for L5-S1 DDD (84.3%). 
Efficacy: 
The primary analysis dataset included all 134 subjects in this study who received study implants and 
completed  surgical  procedures.  Primary  statistical  analyses  were  based  on  the  observed  data,  and 
missing  data  due  to  lost-to-follow-up  or  invalid  radiographic  assessments  were  not  imputed. 
According to the protocol, subjects who had additional surgical interventions were deemed as failures 
for  overall  success,  if  the  additional  surgical  procedures  were  classified  as  failures  according  to  the 
protocol  definition.  In  addition,  fusion  status  was  also  considered  as  a  failure  if  these  additional 
surgical procedures were due to purported failed fusion as reported by the investigator, regardless of 
what radiographic evidence showed. 
A ”missing-equals-failure” analysis dataset was constructed for analysis of the primary study endpoint 
overall success. In this dataset, all missing observations from all 134 subjects in this study, including 
subjects  missing  observations,  deaths,  and  additional  surgery  failures,  were  included  in  the 
denominators of the calculated rates. 
The  fusion  success  rates  for  this  study  were  over  90%  at  both  the  12-  and  24-month  time  points 
(94.1%  and  92.9%,  respectively).  In  the  ”missing  equals  failure”  dataset,  the  corresponding  figures 
were 70.9% and 68.7%. 
The  Oswestry  success  rates  for  this  study  were  79.8%  and  85.6%  at  12  months  and  24  months, 
respectively.  The  corresponding  figures  in  the  ”missing  equals  failure”  analysis  were  67.9%  and 
66.4%. 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary efficacy variable success rates are shown in the table below: 
Secondary efficacy variable success rates (primary analysis dataset) 
Throughout this study, subjects were asked about their overall satisfaction with the study treatment. At 
24 months postoperative, 81.7% (85/104) of the subject group responded that it was ”definitely true” 
or  ”mostly  true”  that  they  were  satisfied  with  the  results  of  the  surgery.  Over  seventy-five  percent 
(75.7%, 78/103) of the subjects at 24 months postoperative responded that it was ”definitely true” or 
”mostly  true”  that  they  were  helped  as  much  as  they  thought  they  would  be  by  the  surgery.  At  24 
months postoperative, 83.5% (86/103) of the subject group responded that it was ”definitely true” or 
”mostly true” that, all things considered, they would have the surgery again for the same condition. 
At 12 and 24 months following surgery, 72.8% (83/114) and 77.9% (81/104), respectively, of subjects 
in this study indicated that they had either ”completely recovered” or were ”much improved”. 
At 12 months following surgery, the investigators´ global evaluation was that 84.8% (95/112) of the 
subjects from this study were in excellent or good condition. At 24 months, the corresponding figure 
was 86.4%. 
The primary endpoint of this study was overall success at 24 months, consisting of 2 efficacy and 3 
safety components. According to the primary analysis dataset, overall success was reported in 69.2% 
of  patients  at  12  monts  and  in  68.3%  of  patients  at  24  months.  The  corresponding  figures  in  the 
”missing-equals-failure” analysis were 55.2% and 53.0%. In the primary analysis dataset, neurological 
success rates at 12 months and 24 months were 93.8% and 90.3%, respectively. 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3 
Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure: 
A total of 455 subjects were enrolled in the 3 studies, and 427 were treated and provided safety data. A 
total of 288 subjects received a single implantation of rhBMP-2 at a concentration of 1.50 mg/mL on 
an ACS. 
Synopses of additional 11 studies are provided in the dossier. These additional studies supplement the 
safety  from  the  3  main  studies  to  support  the  use  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  anterior  lumbar  spine  fusion, 
when  used  in  combination  with  the  LT-CAGE  device.  some  of  these  studies  use  a  concentration  or 
quantity of rhBMP-2/ACS or a matrix that differs from that which is the subject of this variation (i.e.a 
concentration  of  1.5  mg/mL,  a  total  dose  of  up  to  12  mg,  and  absorbable  collagen  sponge/ACS 
matrix). In each case, dibotermin alfa is used in combination with a medical device other than the LT-
CAGE device. 
Altogether 612 patients have received rhBMP-2/ACS in these additional 11 clinical trials, several of 
which are ongoing.  
Safety information in support of the use of rhBMP-2/ACS in combination with the LT-CAGE Device 
in  ALIF  procedures  comes  mainly  from  the  same  3  studies  that  support  efficacy.  In  these  studies  a 
total  of  455  subjects  were  enrolled,  and  427  were  treated  and  provided  safety  data.  A  total  of  288 
subjects received a single implantation of rhBMP-2 at a concentration of 1.50 mg/mL on an ACS.  
Although not directly relevant to the use of rhBMP-2/ACS in combination with the LT-CAGE Device 
in anterior lumbar spine fusion procedures, supporting safety information also comes from additional 
safety information collected in 13 other clinical studies, 6 of which are ongoing. Six hundred and four 
(604) subjects have received treatment with rhBMP-2 in these additional studies, compared with 716 
subjects  who  were  treated  with  another  device  for  comparison.  These  figures  are  based  on  the  final 
report or last annual report for the various studies. Some of these trials use a different concentration or 
quantity  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  or  a  matrix  that  differs  from  the  one  proposed  in  this  variation  (ie,  a 
concentration of 1.50 mg/mL, a total dose of up to 12 mg, and absorbable collagen sponge matrix). In 
addition,  in  each  case,  rhBMP-2  is  used  in  combination  with  a  device  other  than  the  LT-CAGE 
Device.  The  safety  information  from  these  studies  has  been  reviewed  and  is  considered  not  to 
influence the safety profile observed in the 3 main studies. 
Adverse events 
The table below summarises the number of subjects of the three submitted studies who have adverse 
events by organ system according to COSTART code, through the 24-month evaluations: 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This review does not suggest that subjects reporting adverse events for any of these body systems were 
in  larger  proportions  after  rhBMP-2/ACS  exposure.  More  patients  in  the  active  treated  group  had 
adverse events in the nervous system (32.9%) versus 25.0% in the control group. This was mainly due 
to  neuropathy  and  urinary  retention.  One  report  of  neuralgia  in  the  investigational  group  was 
considered to be possibly related to the implant. 
Four types of adverse events were observed in ≥10% of all subjects: “Accidental Injury,” “Back Pain,” 
“Bone Disorder,” and “Neuralgia.” These events were equally observed in investigational and control 
subjects, suggesting that they were related to subjects’ condition rather than to rhBMP-2/ACS. 
Study 3100N3-303 (open surgical approach study, pivotal trial) 
Safety 
Safety criteria were analyses of adverse events, additional surgical procedures, neurological 
status, laboratory analyses of antibodies to rhBMP-2 and bovine collagen, and histological analysis of 
any explanted/removed implants. 
Neurological status was assessed preoperatively and postoperatively by the investigational team using 
a  comprehensive  neurological  status  scale.  Neurological  status  is  based  on  4  types  of  measurements 
(sections): motor, sensory, reflexes, and straight leg raise. The motor and sensory sections of the scale 
were developed and validated by the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA), Chicago, Illinois. 
Due  to  the  proteinaceous  nature  of  both  rhBMP-2  and  ACS,  the  development  of  antibodies  was 
assessed  as  part  of  the  study  protocol.  Subjects  were  considered  to  have  an  authentic  antibody 
response  if  their  preoperative  sample  was  negative  (titer  <50)  and  the  postoperative  sample  was 
positive (titer ≥50) or if the preoperative sample was positive and the postoperative sample titer was 3-
fold higher than the preoperative titer. Serum samples were taken from each subject preoperatively, to 
establish their baseline condition, and at 3 months following surgery. The samples were analysed by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the presence of antibodies specific for rhBMP-2 and 
bovine Type I collagen. If a subject had a positive response to bovine Type I collagen, the serum was 
also tested for antibodies to human Type I collagen. 
Overall: The primary endpoint for the study was “overall success.” This variable was comprised of the 
following efficacy and safety criteria: 
1. Radiographically demonstrated fusion 
2. Oswestry pain/disability improvement 
3. Maintenance or improvement in neurological status 
4.  No  Grade  3  or  4  adverse  event  classified  as  implant-associated  or  implant-/surgical  procedure-
associated 
5. No additional surgical procedure classified as a “failure” 
Each  subject  was  followed  for  24  months  after  surgical  treatment,  with  study  evaluations  occurring 
preoperatively and at 6 postoperative time points (surgery/discharge, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 12 
months, and 24 months). Evaluations included the following: 
•  Radiographic  assessment  by  independent  radiographic  reviewers  of  the  spinal  level  that  was 
treated surgically 
•  Neurological assessment by the investigational staff 
•  Treatment outcomes as perceived by the subject and the investigator 
•  Documentation of adverse events (AEs) 
•  Documentation of subsequent treatments classified as additional surgical procedures 
•  Documentation of classes of concomitant medications 
•  Collection of serum samples to measure antibody formation to rhBMP-2, bovine Type I collagen 
(from which the ACS is made), and human Type I collagen 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Safety results: 
Because this study was designed and performed as a device study, clinical laboratory analyses, vital 
signs and other physical findings were not recorded. 
The  total  number  of  subjects  who  received  rhBMP-2/ACS  during  surgery  was  143  (78  male  and  65 
female patients). There were no large differences between treatment groups in type of adverse events. 
Patients  in  the  investigational  group  experienced  more  ileus  (7.0%),  arthralgia  (8.4%),  neuropathy 
(7.7%), urinary retention (7.7%) and abnormal ejaculation (3.5%) compared to control patients (4.4%, 
5.1%,  4.4%,  1.5%,  0.7%  respectively).  Patients  in  the  control  group  had  more  abdominal  pain  than 
patients from the investigational group (3.7% versus 0.0% respectively).  
A  total  of  11  subjects  had  adverse  events  related  to  oedema.  Six  (6)  of  these  events  involved 
investigational  subjects.  Five  subjects  experienced  lower  extremity  swelling,  and  1  subject 
experienced laryngeal oedema shortly after surgery. The latter subject tested negative postoperatively 
for  both  rhBMP-2  and  bovine  Type  I  collagen  antibodies.  The  oedema  events  occurring  in  the  5 
control  subjects  were  due  to  lower  extremity  swelling  (4  subjects)  and  scrotal  swelling  (1  subject). 
None of these events were believed to be implant-related. 
An overview of the commonly reported adverse events in study 3100N3-303 is shown in the table 
below: 
Body System 
Adverse Event 
Body as a Whole 
Abdominal Pain 
Allergic Reaction 
Cyst 
Chest Pain 
Edema 
Granuloma 
Headache 
Hernia 
Infection 
Neck Pain 
Pain 
Surgical Procedure Changea 
Cardiovascular System 
Syncope 
Thrombosis 
Digestive System 
Cholelithiasis 
Constipation 
Diarrhea 
Fecal Incontinence 
Ileus 
Intestinal Obstruction 
Nausea 
Nausea and Vomiting 
Musculo-Skeletal System 
Arthralgia 
Arthritis 
Bone Fracture Spontaneous 
Tenosynovitis 
Nervous System 
Depression 
Hypesthesia 
Neuropathy 
Paresthesia 
Urinary Retention 
Respiratory System 
Dyspnea 
Pneumonia 
Skin and Appendages 
Rash 
Urogenital System 
Investigational 
Control 
Total 
0.0% (0/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
0.7% (1/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
3.5% (5/143) 
0.0% (0/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
4.9% (7/143) 
7.7% (11/143) 
3.5% (5/143) 
7.0% (10/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
0.7% (1/143) 
0.7% (1/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
0.0% (0/143) 
7.0% (10/143) 
0.7% (1/143) 
4.9% (7/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
8.4% (12/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
7.7% (11/143) 
3.5% (5/143) 
7.7% (11/143) 
0.0% (0/143) 
0.0% (0/143) 
3.7% (5/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
2.2% (3/143) 
0.0% (0/136) 
2.9% (4/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
0.0% (0/136) 
9.6% (13/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
5.9% (8/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
0.0% (0/136) 
3.7% (5/136) 
0.7% (1/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
4.4% (6/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
4.4% (6/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
5.1% (7/136) 
0.0% (0/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
2.9% (4/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
0.7% (1/136) 
4.4%( 6/136) 
5.1% (7/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
2.9% (4/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
1.8% (5/279) 
2.2% (6/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
0.7% (2/279) 
3.2% (9/279) 
0.7% (2/279) 
1.8% (5/279) 
2.5% (7/279) 
8.6% (24/279) 
2.9% (8/279) 
6.5% (18/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
1.1% (3/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
0.7% (2/279) 
2.5% (7/279) 
1.1% (3/279) 
0.7% (2/279) 
5.7% (16/279) 
1.1% (3/279) 
4.7% (13/279) 
2.2% (6/279) 
6.8% (19/279) 
1.1% (3/279) 
1.8% (5/279) 
2.5% (7/279) 
1.8% (5/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
6.1% (17/279) 
4.3% (12/279) 
4.7% (13/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
0.7% (2/279) 
1.4% (2/143) 
0.7% (1/136) 
1.1% (3/279) 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Body System 
Adverse Event 
Abnormal Ejaculation 
Cystitis 
Hematuria 
Impotence 
Kidney Calculus 
Urinary Tract Infection 
Investigational 
3.5% (5/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
1.4% (2/143) 
2.1% (3/143) 
3.5% (5/143) 
Control 
0.7% (1/136) 
1.5% (2/136) 
0.0% (0/136) 
0.7% (1/136) 
0.7% (1/136) 
2.2% (3/136) 
Total 
2.2% (6/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
0.7% (2/279) 
1.1% (3/279) 
1.4% (4/279) 
2.9% (8/279) 
a: Category does not belong to the COSTART dictionary of terms. The category was generated to account for adverse events 
that occurred when changes were made during the surgical procedure (ie, due to abnormal subject anatomy). 
A total of 53 subjects in the investigational group (37.1%) had at least one Grade 3 or 4 adverse event. 
However,  only  11 of those  subjects (7.7%) were reported  to have had  a  Grade  3  or  4 adverse event 
classified as possibly related to the implant by the MSD clinical staff. It is important to stress that, for 
complications  classified  as  possibly  related  to  the  implant,  causality  assessments  did  not  separate 
whether the complications were caused by the cage or by rhBMP-2/ACS. Hence, related events were 
reported in both treatment groups. For the control group, of 41.9% subjects with Grade 3 or 4 adverse 
events, 8.8% were deemed related. 
Serious adverse events and deaths: 
One subject who received rhBMP-2/ACS and two subjects who received autogenous bone graft died 
within 48 months of receiving treatment. In the opinions of the study investigators, none of the deaths 
were related to the investigational treatment. 
Antibody development: 
The  presented  data  on  antibodies  do  not  indicate  difficulties  in  that  area.  However,  as  a  result  of 
follow-up measures 025 and 026 the applicant has developed and validated a new antibody ELISA for 
antibodies to rhBMP-2 that has the potential to detect all antibody isotypes. In addition a neutralisation 
assay for antibodies to rhBMP-2 has been developed and validated. Since it is assumed that the data 
presented have been collected using the old method, the applicant is requested to submit data collected 
with the new assays from retrospective or prospective studies. 
Study 3100N3-304 (laparoscopic surgical approach study, supportive trial) 
Safety results: 
Through the 24-month postoperative evaluations, 1 or more adverse events were reported by 98/134 
(73.1%) subjects who received the rhBMP-2/ACS treatment. 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  event  was  accidental  injury  (20.9%  of  subjects).  The  other 
common (1-10%) adverse events are listed in the table below:   
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No subjects died within 24 months of receiving this study treatment. 
One or more Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were reported by 48 subjects (35.8%) through the 24-month 
postoperative time period. Adverse events of severity Grade 3 or 4 considered to be at least possibly 
related  to  the  implant  are  summarised  in  the  table  below,  grouped  according  to  specific  categories 
according to COSTART codes: 
24
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two implant removal procedures occurred in this study. Both of these removals occurred early in the 
postoperative phase of this study and are described below. 
•  Subject  #  31:  This  removal  occurred  as  a  result  of  issues  associated  with  cage  placement  and 
migration.  At  8  weeks  postoperative,  this  subject  underwent  a  secondary  surgery  including 
laparoscopic lysis of adhesions, exploration of the L5- S1 fusion site, removal of a displaced right 
cage,  and  the  placement  of  posterior  instrumentation  at  the  L5-S1  level.  The  retrieved 
investigational cage underwent histological and metallurgical analyses. In these analyses, vigorous 
osteogenesis by the intramembranous pathway was observed, and the site of the cage appeared to 
be healing  well. There  were  no  cytological findings  to  suggest any inflammatory response other 
than that seen with normal wound healing. 
•  Subject # 426: This removal occurred at 1 day postoperative as the result of a malpositioned cage. 
Due to the close proximity in time to surgery, a histological analysis was not performed. 
Supplemental fixations occurred at a rate of 5.2% in this study (7/134 subjects). Three supplemental 
fixations were due to an investigator diagnosis of a possible pseudarthrosis. Two other subjects had 
supplemental  fixations  due  to  cage  removals.  Another  subject  had  a  supplemental  fixation  due  to 
adjacent disc degeneration at the level above the initial surgery. One subject underwent a laminectomy 
and supplemental fixation at 7 months postoperative due to spinal stenosis. 
One  patient  had  a  postoperative  sample  that  was  positive  for  antibodies  to  rhBMP-2  three  months 
following surgery. The preoperative sample was not available. The determination was conservatively 
designated  as  an  authentic  response.  To  determine  if  the  antibody  response  to  rhBMP-2  persisted,  a 
serum  sample  was  collected  from  the  subject  12  months  after  surgery  and  tested  for  antibodies  to 
rhBMP-2. This follow-up sample was negative, and the subject was conservatively considered to have 
had  a  transient  antibody  response  to  rhBMP-2.  The  subject  had  2  AEs.  There  was  no  evidence  that 
these adverse events were related to the implant. The incident was used to calculate the anti-rhBMP-2 
antibody formation rate for this study, which was 0.8% (1/129). 
Antibodies to bovine Type I collagen were detected in the postoperative serum samples of 56 subjects 
in  this  study.  Of  these  56  subjects,  32  subjects  were  considered  to  have  an  authentic  antibody 
response. The remaining 24 subjects had a positive preoperative result without a substantial increase in 
postoperative titer and thus did not qualify as authentic antibody responses. Three subjects from this 
study with positive preoperative samples had no postoperative samples for testing. 
Sixteen  of  the  32  subjects  in  this  study  who  had  an  authentic  positive  antibody  response  to  bovine 
Type  I  collagen  were  classified  as  an  overall  success  at  24  months.  Two  additional  subjects  were 
classified as an overall success at 12 months (ie, 24-month data for overall success determination was 
incomplete). One subject was a failure in the pain component of overall success at 12 months (ie, 24 
month data were not available for this subject). Nine subjects were failures in other areas at 24 months 
in  pain  status,  4  in    neurological  status,  and  2  in  pain  and  neurological  status.  Two  subjects  were 
overall success failures due to an additional surgical procedure that was classified as a failure in the 
protocol. The final 2 subjects who had authentic positive antibody responses did not return for 12- and 
24-month evaluations, so no overall success information was available. 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  were  27  subjects  in  this  study  with  evaluable  data  who  had  positive  baseline  titers  of  bovine 
Type  I  collagen  antibodies.  Only  3  (11.1%)  of  these  subjects  developed  an  authentic  response 
following  their  surgeries.  This  finding  also  indicates  that  a  pre-existing  antibody  response  to  bovine 
collagen is not stimulated by surgery or treatment with rhBMP-2/ACS. 
None of these subjects had a positive response to human Type I collagen. 
Routine clinical chemistry, haematology and vital sign listings and analysis is not included in the study 
report. These data were not collected. 
One patient (0.8%) had a transient antibody response to rhBMP-2 administration. The adverse events 
reported by this patient are not considered to be associated with the antibody response and the patient 
achieved overall treatment response at 24 months. 
Antibody  response  to  bovine  type  I  collagen  was  very  commonly  reported  in  this  study  (authentic 
antibody  response  in  32  patients,  i.e.  in  patients  who  were  not  antibody  positive  at  baseline).  The 
possibility that these antibody responses could adversely impact treatment outcome (efficacy) cannot 
be excluded, since overall response was reported in only 50% of these patients. However, there is no 
clear evidence of stimulation of immune reaction in the majority of patients with existing bovine type I 
collagen antibodies. 
Other  clinical  studies  supporting  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  in  the  proposed  therapeutic 
indication 
Synopses of additional 11 studies are provided in the dossier. These additional studies supplement the 
safety  from  the  3  main  studies  to  support  the  use  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  anterior  lumbar  spine  fusion, 
when  used  in  combination  with  the  LT-CAGE  device.  Some  of  these  studies  use  a  concentration  or 
quantity of rhBMP-2/ACS or a matrix that differs from that which is the subject of this variation (i.e.a 
concentration  of  1.5  mg/mL,  a  total  dose  of  up  to  12  mg,  and  absorbable  collagen  sponge/ACS 
matrix). In each case, dibotermin alfa is used in combination with a medical device other than the LT-
CAGE device. 
Further  details  are  given  here  of  Study  Number  C9806:  A  Prospective,  Randomized,  Clinical 
Investigation  of  Recombinant  Human  Bone  Morphogenetic  Protein-2  and  Absorbable  Collagen 
Sponge  with  the  INTER  FIX  ™  Device  for  Posterior  Lumbar  Interbody  Fusion  in  Patients  with 
Degenerative Disc Disease. One issue of note in this clinical study was the appearance of new bone 
formation posterior to the placement of interbody fusion cages implanted from the posterior surgical 
approach. The posterior bone formation was not observed in all patients, but was present in both the 
investigational  and  control  groups,  although  more  so  in  the  investigational  group.  This  finding  is 
believed  to  be  related  to  the  posterior  surgical  technique  and  did  not  appear  to  be  correlated  with 
clinical outcome. The patients receiving rhBMP-2/ACS in this study had similar, or better, outcomes 
than the patients receiving autograft bone. 
Based on the safety assessments, the MAH considers rhBMP-2/ACS at 1.50mg/mL a safe alternative 
for autogenous bone graft, but the particular methods for implanting the INTER FIX™ Device, which 
contains  the  rhBMP-2/ACS,  should  be  carefully  considered  and  further  investigated  when  using  a 
posterior surgical approach. Heterotopic ossification (includes abnormal or excessive bone formation) 
was reported in two patients in the rhBMP-2/ACS group. 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postmarketing information 
In the PSUR covering the period 09 September 2003 to 08 March 2004, two topics are discussed in 
detail  with  cumulative  summaries  of  the  available  data.  Seven  reports  (covering  16  patients)  of 
localised  edema  wherein  dibotermin  alfa/ACS  was  used  off  label  in  the  cervical  spine  have  been 
reviewed. Though causality has not been established, an association between dibotermin alfa/ACS and 
localized edema is possible and Wyeth is amending the reference safety information (RSI) to reflect 
this  information.  An  all  time  review  of  the  cases  of  exuberant  bone  growth  did  not  identify  a  new 
safety signal. 
During  this  reporting  period,  the  MAH  received  nine  spontaneous  reports  involving  12  different 
suspected serious and unlisted ADRs; all were from the US in the setting of spine surgery. There were 
no  reports  of  death,  lack  of  efficacy,  drug  interactions,  drug  abuse/misuse,  pregnancy  exposure, 
malignancy, bone necrosis, or intestinal obstruction. 
Fourteen  clinical  trials,  performed  in  North  America  under  device  regulations  by  Wyeth’s  business 
partner,  MSD,  have  been  identified  for  inclusion  in  the  variation  application.  Wyeth  reviewed  the 
information  from  these  14  MSD  clinical  trials  and  identified  several  possible  suspected  serious 
adverse drug reactions that meet the criteria for expedited reporting for medicinal products. 
In the previous PSUR, four reports of localized edema coincident with the use of rhBMP-2/ACS in the 
cervical spine were discussed. During the current reporting period, the MAH received follow-up 
information on three of the reports, one of which noted that this AE occurred in 10 patients at the 
site. In addition, three new reports have been received. Consequently, a full review of this topic 
is included in the PSUR. 
In  general,  post-operative  soft  tissue  complications  following  anterior  cervical  discectomy  (ACD) 
include airway complications, dysphagia, and hoarseness. Airway compromise can occur secondary to 
hematoma, allergic reactions, and pharyngeal edema and most reviews that discuss localised edema in 
the setting of cervical spine surgery describe it in the context of airway complications. 
The  MAH  database  was  searched  all-time  through  08  March  2004  for  reports  of  swelling, 
inflammation,  and  edema  in  patients  treated  with  rhBMP-2.  A  total  of  nine  reports  were  identified. 
The  reports  contained  the  preferred  terms  Swelling  (n=7),  Inflammation  (n=2),  Oedema  (n=1),  and 
Inflammation localised (n=1). The number of events exceeds the number of reports since two reports 
contained  two  of  these  terms.  One  report  described  a  patient  who  received  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  the 
lumbar spine and experienced localised inflammation associated with a large hematoma.  
One  report  described  several  patients  who  experienced  swelling  in  the  setting  of  an  “immune-like” 
response to rhBMP-2/ ACS. The remaining seven reports describe localised cervical edema following 
rhBMP-2/ACS implantation.  
In all of the cases the product was used off-label in the cervical spine. In general, the patients had an 
uneventful post-operative course and presented 1.5-7 days after surgery with neck swelling. Six of the 
patients  recovered,  with  many  receiving  corticosteroids.  In  one  report,  the  outcome  is  unknown.  At 
least two of the patients had evidence of airway compromise; both had complicated spine surgery. One 
of these patients required an emergent cricothyrotomy for airway protection and eventually recovered 
with  some  residual  swallowing  problems.  The  other  patient  recovered  with  conservative  measures 
including  steroids.  Another  patient  required  surgical  decompression  three  days  after  surgery;  the 
surgeon noted that the rhBMP-2 had been hyperconcentrated on the sponge. 
Localised  edema  has  been  noted  in  nonclinical  and  some  clinical  studies  evaluating  rhBMP-2/ACS, 
though  a  clear  causal  association  has  not  been  established.  Similarly  localized  edema  has  been 
reported after routine ACD, though the actual incidence is difficult to ascertain. Pharyngeal edema is 
typically  discussed  in  the  context  of  airway  complications,  which  have  been  noted  in  up  to  6%  of 
patients undergoing ACD, generally in the early post-operative period.  
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Though causality has not been established, overall the data suggests that rhBMP-2/ACS may be 
associated with, or contribute to, the development of localised edema. Such edema is more likely 
to be symptomatic and visually discernable in the neck area. Given the potential clinical importance of 
the observed events  Wyeth is planning to add wording to the SmPC to caution  physicians about the 
potential of localised edema coincident with the use of rhBMP-2/ACS, and to warn against use in the 
cervical spine. 
Four  spontaneous  reports  of  ectopic,  heterotopic,  or  exuberant  bone  growth  were  reviewed  in  the 
PSUR. In three of the cases a posterior surgical approach was employed; the surgical technique was 
not specified in the fourth case. In addition, three of the patients had symptoms including sciatica, leg 
weakness with back pain  and foot drop, though it is not clear if the symptoms were related to the bone 
growth.  The  RSI  describes  the  potential  of  these  AEs  as  follows:  “Use  of  InductOs  may  cause 
heterotopic ossification in the surrounding tissues, which can result in complications.” Hence, based 
on this review, no new safety signals for rhBMP-2 are identified. 
28
 
 
 
 
5.  OVERALL DISCUSSION AND BENEFIT/ RISK ASSESSMENT 
5.1  Non-clinical data 
Non-clinical data were submitted previously by the MAH in the context of FUM 024 and assessed at 
that time (Final AR dated 19-05-2004). No new non-clinical data were submitted.  
According to the MAH both in vitro and in vivo studies performed by the MAH as part of a FUM did 
not demonstrate a tumour growth promoting effect. Published studies gave conflicting results and were 
not  reproduced.  The  MAH  concluded  that  the  non-clinical  data  showed  no  evidence  for  tumour 
induction and the potential for tumour growth promotion is low. 
Although the CHMP initially agreed with the conclusions of the MAH, in view of the clinical findings 
of malignancies, the CHMP endorsed some additional comments: 
−  The MAH studied a range of tumour cell lines amongst which 3 pancreas tumour cell lines for the 
presence of BPM-2 receptor mRNA. The MAH concluded that 10 tumour cell lines were positive, 
but none of the pancreas cell lines. However the CHMP commented that the limits were set 
arbitrarily and that in fact all, but two (amongst which one pancreas tumour cell line) were in fact 
positive (i.e. had higher levels of BMP-2 mRNA than the negative control). 
−  The MAH tested only those cell lines in an in vitro system that were judged positive for BMP-2. 
Consequently no pancreas tumour cell lines were investigated any further. 
− 
In an in vivo model, using xenografts in nude mice, 6 cell types were tested. None of these tumour 
types showed enhanced growth following rhBMP-2 treatment. But again although the choice of 
the cell types was logical, the study did not investigate pancreas tumour cell types. 
In  view  of  the  malignancies  seen in the clinical studies, the  CHMP suggested  that  the  MAH further 
investigates  the  growth-promoting  properties  of  other  tumour  cell  types  that  have  not  been 
investigated  so  far.  For  instance  a  study  with  pancreas  tumor  xenografts  (e.g  BXPC3  or  Capan2)  in 
nude mice. 
5.2  Clinical efficacy 
The CHMP had raised concerns that non-inferiority with respect to standard therapy has not been 
demonstrated.  
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  statistical  method  used  to  evaluate  non-inferiority  of  the  investigational 
treatment  in  the  main  clinical  study  is  not  in  compliance  with  CPMP/ICH  guidance.  The 
recommended method to show non-inferiority is to use two-sided 95% CI for the difference between 
treatment arms and to compare this with the predefined non-inferiority delta.  
Therefore, the CHMP requested the MAH to discuss on this issue. 
Further  to  the  discussion  by  the  MAH,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the  predefined  margins  were  15%  for 
overall success and Oswestry, and 10% for fusion and neurological success. 
It is agreed that in all of the datasets (per protocol, primary dataset and missing-equals-failure), non-
inferiority  of  Inductos+LT-CAGE  treatment  to  autograft+LT-CAGE  was  shown  with  regards  to  the 
primary  efficacy  variable  “Overall  success”  by  comparing  the  lower  bound  of  two-sided  95% 
Confidence Interval to the chosen 15% non-inferiority margin both at 12 and at 24 months. The results 
are  hence  robust  and  consistent.  With  regards  to  the  fusion  success  rates,  non-inferiority  was  also 
consistently  shown  in  all  datasets.  The  Oswestry  Pain  score  success  and  neurological  success  rates 
were similar in the treatment  groups,  but formal non-inferiority was consistently shown  only for the 
Oswestry scores. 
Since the definition of fusion criteria of the FDA was used, the CHMP requested the MAH to indicate 
what the sensitivity/accuracy of this assay was. Additionally, the MAH should justify the choice of the 
non-inferiority margins. 
For  studies  3100N3-303  and  -304  fusion  was  determined  from  radiographic  evidence  of  bridging 
trabeculae. If such evidence could not be seen in radiographs, CT scans could then be used. CT scans 
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have  increased  ability  for  detecting  bridging  bone.  According  to  the  company’s  response,  both 
radiographs  and  CT  scans  were  reviewed  to  determine  fusion.  Additional  criteria  had  to  be  fulfilled 
before fusion could be declared: no radiographic evidence of motion (using accepted criteria to assess 
motion, taking into consideration the inherent  measurement  errors) and  no  evidence  of radiolucency 
surrounding greater than 50% of either of the implanted LT-CAGE devices. The fact that both plain 
radiographs and CT scans were used for detecting fusion makes the results more solid. The methods 
used  in  the  clinical  trials,  albeit  representing  surrogate  evidence  of  fusion,  have  been  used  in  other 
published  clinical  trials  and  can  be  considered  reliable,  sensitive  and  accurate.  Use  of  invasive 
methods would not have been possible. It is unlikely that use of these methods has introduced any bias 
in favour of Inductos+LT-CAGE treatment arm. On the contrary, the non-inferiority analysis is likely 
to  be  conservative  due  to  the  presence  of  mineralised  bone  inside  the  LT-CAGE  in  the  bone 
autograft+LT-CAGE treatment arm. 
The  company has reviewed available published  data on efficacy of anterior lumbar interbody fusion 
procedures. The CHMP agreed that the results of the clinical trials with LT-CAGE with autograft or 
Inductos are in line with published data from other studies, showing generally fusion rates of 90% or 
higher.  Fusion  rate  is  expected  to  be  negligible  without  surgical  intervention  and,  therefore,  the 
company has a strong argument in favour of using the 10% non-inferiority margin for fusion success. 
The 15% non-inferiority margin used for Oswestry Pain score and overall success is more difficult to 
justify. However, based on review of published literature on clinical trials that have used other surgical 
methods  and  have  included  Oswestry  scores  among  their  endpoints  the  choice  of  “delta”  can  be 
defended. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  high  response  rates  have  been  reported  for  autograft-induced  spinal  fusion. 
However,  the  MAH  was  requested  to  specifically  review  the  results  of  autograft  treatment 
(radiological and functional endpoints, i.e., all components of the primary endpoint) in published trials 
using the same device and surgical approach relevant to the current application to further justify the 
chosen noninferiority margin. 
The  MAH  noted  that  there  are  no  published  studies  directly  comparing  the  efficacy  of  fusion 
procedures with fusion cages with non-surgical treatment. However, the study by Fritzell et al. (Spine 
2001; 26(23):2521-2534) is helpful in establishing that patients with severe chronic low back pain and 
lumbar  spine  disc  degeneration  are  unlikely  to  experience  any  significant  relief  of  pain  without 
surgical  intervention  as  judged  by  changes  in  Oswestry  score  over  2  years  vs.  posterolateral  fusion 
procures. As  concluded in the review of MAH’s response, the  CHMP considered that the 15% non-
inferiority  margin  for  Oswestry  Pain  score  success  is  reasonable.  A  remarkable  improvement  in 
Oswestry  score  was  observed  in  both  treatment  groups  in  the  main  study  -303.  Taking  into 
consideration  the  reported  minimal  or  no  improvement  in  patients  treated  conservatively,  the  non-
inferiority  delta  of  15%  can  be  considered  justifiable  and  conservative  for  Oswestry  success  and 
overall success (Oswestry was part of overall success evaluation).  
It  was  noted  that  in  a  non-inferiority  trial,  the  main  focus  is  on  the  per  protocol  analysis.  Only  the 
results  of  per  protocol  dataset  analysis  of  the  primary  combined  efficacy/safety  endpoint  have  been 
provided.  To  be  able  to  further  assess  the  validity  of  noninferiority  conclusion,  the  MAH  should 
provide  the  per  protocol  dataset  analysis  results  for  the  two  primary  efficacy  endpoints  in  the  main 
clinical  study,  and  a  new  non-inferiority  analysis  for  the  combined  endpoint  and  efficacy  endpoints 
using the recommended method and all protocol defined datasets. 
The results of the per protocol dataset analysis for the two primary efficacy endpoints (Oswestry and 
fusion)  and  for  the  combined  endpoint  of  overall  success  have  been  provided.  This  analysis  utilizes 
two sided 95% confidence intervals for the difference between treatment arms. 
For  the  per  protocol  dataset  analysis,  the  absolute  value  of  the  lower  limits  of  the  95%  two-sided 
confidence  intervals  are  all  smaller  than  the  non-inferiority  margins  that  were  pre-defined  in  the 
protocol  at  both  12  and  24  months.  The  predefined  margins  were  15%  for  overall  success  and 
Oswestry, and 10% for fusion. For the per protocol analyses at 24 months, the absolute value of the 
lower limit of the two-sided 95% confidence interval was 11.20% for Oswestry, 1.53% for fusion, and 
10.72% for overall success. 
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus, non-inferiority with respect to the standard therapy has been demonstrated with the per protocol 
analysis, as well as with the primary data set and missing-equals-failure dataset. This issue have been 
considered resolved. 
The CHMP noted that non-clinical and clinical data underline the importance of following instructions 
given  in  the  SPC  on  the  appropriate  preparation  and  handling  of  the  implant  to  avoid  leakage  of 
dibotermin  alfa.  Therefore  the  CHMP  concluded  that  MAH  should  commit  to  produce  suitable 
educational  material  for  surgeons  and  other  medical  staff.  This  material  should  be  submitted  to  the 
CHMP for review.  
The  draft  brochure  is  considered  a  helpful  start.  However,  the  MAH  should  consider  producing  a 
video outlining the correct preparation of IndusctOs for use in spine infusion procedure, handling and 
use of Inductos with LT-CAGE device. This educational material should be available in a reasonable 
deadline for its submission for review. 
The CHMP raised a concern since the MAH states that it is a minor omission that no donor-site pain 
data have been collected for the investigational subjects. Donor-site pain is the reason why rhBMP-2 is 
used instead of autogenous bone graft. The CHMP concluded that if donor-site pain is included in the 
total pain score the MAH should have conducted a superiority trial and not a non-inferiority trial for 
the endpoint pain. 
Pain from donor site played a role in the first 6 weeks to 3 months after surgery, but was minimal at 12 
and  24  months.  With  adjustment  of  the  Oswestry  score  by  donor-site  pain,  the  lower  limit  of  the 
confidence  interval  for  Oswestry  pain  and  Overall  success  at  24  months  shifted  slightly  to  more 
negative values, but was still within the predefined limit of -15%. The CHMP concluded that this issue 
is resolved. 
The CHMP noted that in the LT-CAGE study lower success percentages were reached with the LT-
CAGE filled with autologous bone as in study 3100N3-303. The CHMP requested the MAH to give 
an explanation for this. 
The additional data provided by the MAH show that fusion rates are similar in both studies (data are 
from  the  primary  analysis  set),  but  Oswestry  Pain/Disability  Improvement  and  therefore  Overall 
Success are still lower in the IDE G9 50165 study. The MAH argued that surgeons have become more 
familiar  with  the  fusion  technology  with  the  LT-CAGE  Device  at  the  time  of  the  main  study.  This 
should be kept in mind when comparing the results of both studies.  
Although there is no proof, the CHMP considered this issue to be answered sufficiently and therefore 
resolved. 
The CHMP raised a concern on the maximal total dose used in the clinical study 3100N3-303-US). In 
this study maximal total dose was 8.4 mg of rhBMP-2 for the 2 cages (size 18 mm x 26 mm) which is 
different from the dose as applied for given in the table of the SPC sect. 4.2 which amounts to 6 mg 
per cage (size 18 mm x 26 mm) resp. 12 mg of rhBMP-2. This dose has not been tested. The MAH is 
asked to explain this discrepancy with respect to any dose effects. 
The MAH has proposed to resolve the issue by changing the number of large LT-CAGE in section 4.2 
in the SPC from 3 to 2 to reflect the number of pieces of InductOs used in the clinical studies. 
5.3  Clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  when  used  with  the  LT-CAGE  for  anterior  single-level  lumbar 
spine  fusion  appears  acceptable  and  favourable  compared  to  LT-CAGE  +  bone  autograft.  This 
conclusion is based on the pivotal clinical trial where an open surgical approach was used. In general, 
the profile of adverse events was expected in the clinical context. However, certain adverse events that 
are  not  uncommon  after  spinal  fusion  procedures  (joint  disorder,  neuralgia,  neuropathy,  urinary 
retention  and  abnormal  ejaluation)  were  more  frequently  reported  in  the  rhBMP-2/ACS  group 
31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared  to  autograft  group.  Therefore  the  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  discuss  on  these  adverse 
events. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  all  of  the  adverse  events  reviewed  (“joint  disorder”,  “neuralgia”, 
“neuropathy”,  “urinary  retention”  and  “abnormal  ejaculation”)  may  well  be  related  to  the  surgical 
procedure as such or to the progression of degenerative disc disorder at other levels of the spine. The 
concern was related to the fact that the individual adverse events appear to be more frequently reported 
in the Inductos+LT-CAGE group than in the control group. When the neurological success and overall 
success  rates  are  compared,  there  is  no  sign  that  the  higher  frequency  of  adverse  events  might  be 
related to inferior efficacy of the investigational treatment. Neurological success rates were similar in 
both  treatment  arms.  Urinary  retention  and  abnormal  ejaculation  are  not  infrequent  adverse  events 
following spinal fusion procedures. Furthermore, none of the differences between the treatment arms 
were  statistically  significant.  Finally,  the  aggregate  analysis  of  neurological  adverse  events  does  not 
suggest a clear difference between the treatment arms. 
The CHMP concluded that the MAH should closely monitor neurological events in clinical use. 
The  CHMP  raised  a  concern  on  a  case  of  spinal  stenosis  reported  in  the  laparoscopic  study  and 
requested the MAH to discuss in more detail.  
Further  to  the  discussion  by  the  MAH,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  review  of  the  detailed 
information  provided  on  the  reported  case  of  spinal  stenosis  does  not  allow  drawing  any  firm 
conclusion as to the role of Inductos+LT-CAGE treatment. However, the patient’s history and clinical 
findings  suggest  that  the  condition  may  be  secondary to  degenerative  disc  disease  rather  than  to  the 
investigational treatment. This issue was considered resolved. 
The  presented  data  on  antibodies  do  not  indicate  difficulties  in  that  area.  However,  as  a  result  of 
follow-up  measures  025  and  026  the  MAH  has  developed  and  validated  a  new  antibody  ELISA  for 
antibodies to rhBMP-2 that has the potential to detect all antibody isotypes. In addition a neutralization 
assay for antibodies to rhBMP-2 has been developed and validated. Since it is assumed that the data 
presented have been collected using the old method, the CHMP requested the to submit data collected 
with the new assays from retrospective or prospective studies. 
The preliminary analysis of samples from clinical trials using the “old” and newly developed ELISA 
assays  suggests  that  a  higher  frequency  of  rhBMP-2  antibodies  is  detected  with  the  new  assay.  The 
new data should be included in the SPC after the MAH has submitted the data and assay details for 
review by the CHMP. It is unfortunate that the samples have not yet been tested in the neutralisation 
assay.  The  company  should  keep  the  CHMP  up  to  date  with  regards  to  the  evaluation  of  the  assay 
details by the FDA.  
If  neutralising  antibodies  are  detected,  the  MAH  should  also  consider  and  examine  potential  cross-
reactivity of neutralising antibodies with other members of the TGF-ß family, and to provide a detailed 
discussion on clinical relevance. The possibility of developing neutralising antibodies is also important 
to consider in the context of safety in pregnancy. 
The CHMP agreed with the MAH’s view to maintain the contraindication for pregnancy. Although the 
CHMP  does  not  believe  that  the  non-clinical  data  indicate  serious  risks  for  pregnancy,  the  CHMP 
agreed that the lack of information on the potential effects of antidibotermin neutralising antibodies on 
pregnancy is an important reason to maintain pregnancy as contraindication. Indeed, The CHMP does 
not  know  whether  neutralising  antibodies  are  formed.  Also  the  effects  of  such  antibodies  have  not 
been studied. Therefore the answer cannot be given at this time. If neutralising antibodies are formed it 
is conceivable that such antibodies have an effect on foetal development. Yet if neutralising antibodies 
are formed and they would adversely affect foetal development, a contraindication alone might not be 
enough.  In fact in  that  case pregnancy ought  to be prevented  as long  as immunological  memory  for 
dibotermin  is  present.  This  should  be  further  discussed  when  data  on  neutralising  properties  of 
antibodies found in clinical studies have been made available. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  this  issue  is  unresolved  and  therefore  the  MAH  should  commit  on  the 
provision of these data. 
The  CHMP  raised  concern  on  malignancy  and  during  its  plenary  meeting  in  December  2004  the 
CHMP adopted a follow-on request of supplementary information to be addressed by the MAH. With 
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
reference to the summarisation on malignancy cases reported in the clinical trials sponsored by Medtronic 
Sofamor  Danek  (MSD)  the  MAH  was  requested  to  submit  more  detailed  information  on  the  cases  of 
malignancy. 
The CHMP concluded that the MAH has presented detailed information on the cases of malignancy. With 
respect to the cases of pancreatic cancer Wyeth and MSD conducted site visits and detailed trip reports 
were provided. The MAH has made efforts to retrieve all relevant information. Though one cannot say for 
certain, it appears unlikely that if rhBMP-2 induced malignant transformation of cells, the patients would 
present within a year with symptomatic/metastatic disease. The available information does not allow to 
comment  on  what  role  rhBMP-2  might  play  in  stimulating  pre-existing  neoplasms.  This  may  be 
particularly relevant for those cancers (e.g. pancreatic and liver cancer) found in the proximity to the site 
of implantation, as the overall systemic exposure to rhBMP-2 is brief. 
The CHMP noted that the data from MSD shows an imbalance in the proportion of patients with reports 
of SEER (Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Result) malignancies in the active and in the control arms. 
Therefore the MAH was requested to discuss on the difference of the malignancy cases between the active 
group and the control group. Further to the provision of responses to this issue, the CHMP concluded that 
it  could  be  doubted  that  one-year  difference  in  mean  age  will  have  contributed  significantly  to  the 
observed  imbalance  in  malignancies.  Post  study  surveillance  in  a  single  arm  indeed  may  introduce  a 
reporting bias. However, incidence rates were determined according to protocol-mandated follow-up time.  
Therefore, the CHMP concluded that it is unlikely that these factors may confound the interpretation of 
the data. 
The CHMP noted that the data from MSD shows an imbalance in the proportion of patients with reports 
of SEER (Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Result) malignancies in the active and in the control arms. 
Therefore the MAH was requested to compare the observed rates of these malignancies to those expected 
for age and gender matched controls. 
The CHMP noted that observed rates of malignancies were compared to the frequency of cancer in the 
general US population. It should be  remarked that  not all studies  were conducted in the US. The tibia-
fracture  study  (450  patients),  for  instance,  was  conducted  in  South  Africa,  Australia  and  Europe. 
However, the approach can be accepted. 
The  overall  frequency  of  malignancies  was  comparable  to  the  expected  rate,  but  there  were  more 
pancreatic cancers. The MAH may be right that one cannot conclude that rhBMP-2 increases the risk of 
pancreatic  cancer  based  on  this  evaluation,  but  it  cannot  be  refuted  either.  The  MAH  has  submitted  a 
detailed description of the three patients. One cannot conclude with certainty that there is no relationship. 
It is appreciated that the MAH plans to obtain expert review of the data and pursue the  feasibility of a 
formal epidemiological study to evaluate any association between rhBMP-2 and pancreatic cancer. 
The CHMP requested the MAH to compare the data from Wyeth studies and MSD studies and discuss the 
differences. 
In its responses, the MAH mentioned a number of factors that can contribute to the  differences in data 
between Wyeth and MSD studies. The CHMP noted that treatment indication, comorbidity, pre-existing 
risk factors and age are factors that might explain the difference. The CHMP concluded that a concern is 
the  fact  that  this  higher  ”background  incidence”  of  malignancies  could  be  the  target  for  an  effect  of 
dibotermin alfa. 
There is an imbalance in the total (or total SEER) number of malignancies in rhBMP-2 treated patients 
compared  to  control  patients.  However,  when  the  rates  are  adjusted  for  the  differences  in  duration  of 
follow-up time between the two groups, they are not statistically significant. Also, when compared to the 
frequency of cancer in the general US population, the overall frequency of malignancy was comparable to 
that expected, but there were more pancreatic cancers. 
In  the  light  of  three  reports  of  pancreatic  cancer  in  the  rhBMP-2  treated  patients,  further  causality 
evaluations were performed. For the time being, causal relationship with the observed cases of malignant 
tumours in patients who have received InductOs cannot be concluded. Therefore the MAH should submit 
a proposal for pro-active monitoring of malignancies. 
33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although it appears unlikely that locally administered dibotermin alfa could affect tumour cells at distant 
sites,  due  to  its  low  systemic  availability  and  short  duration  of  action,  the  occurrence  of  a  higher  than 
expected number of pancreatic cancers does raise some concern, as this site is relatively close to the site of 
implantation in lumbar spine fusion. Another cause of concern is the fact that the target population for the 
proposed  indication  is  generally  older  than  tibia  fracture  patients,  resulting  in  a  higher  “background 
incidence” of malignancies that could be the target for an effect of dibotermin alfa.  
The CHMP endorsed the MAH’s plan to obtain expert review of the data and pursue the feasibility of a 
formal epidemiological study to evaluate any association between rhBMP-2 and pancreatic cancer. The 
MAH  has  provided  a  summary  of  the  expert  panel  meeting,  which  was  held  on  31  January  2005.  The 
conclusions of this meeting give no cause for further comments. 
The PSUR cycle should be kept at one year for the moment. 
5.4 
Benefit/Risk assessment 
Based  on  the  review  of  the  data  provided,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  variation  application  for 
InductOs,  for  the  proposed  new  indication  of  spine  fusion  is  approvable,  provided  that  the  MAH 
commits to further investigate the growth-promoting properties of other tumour cell types that have not 
been investigated so far, to submit a proposal for pro-active monitoring of malignancies and to explore 
further the possibility of a formal epidemiological study. 
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION  
Further to the assessment of the different proposals of the Marketing Authorisation Holder to amend 
the Product Information and in the light of the assessment of the submitted data, the CHMP requested 
the following additional amendments of the SPC: 
Section 4.1 
 “Therapeutic indication” 
The therapeutic indication has to be in line with that of the LT-CAGE device and clinical trial study 
population:  therefore  it  was  added  that  patients  should  have  at  least  six  months  of  nonsurgical 
treatment.  The  sentence  “For  this  indication,  InductOs  must  be  used  with  the  LT-CAGE®  Lumbar 
Tapered Fusion Device” has been deleted and it has been moved to section 4.2. 
Section 4.2 
 “Posology and method of administration” 
The  following  sentence  has  been  inserted  immediately  below  the  heading  “Instructions  for  use  in 
anterior lumbar spine fusion surgery”: InductOs should not be used alone for this indication, but must 
be used with the LT-CAGE Lumbar Tapered Fusion Device. 
Following the CHMP’s concern on the  maximal total dose used in the clinical study, the number of 
large LT-CAGE has been changed from 3 to 2 to reflect the number of pieces of InductOs used in the 
clinical studies. 
4.3   Contraindications 
“Pregnancy” is maintained as contraindication. 
4.4   Special warnings and special precautions for use 
The MAH has committed to update this section after the submission of data from the newly developed 
ELISA assays. 
4.6   Pregnancy and lactation 
The  following  sentence  has  been  inserted:  “Animal  studies  have  shown  reproductive  toxicity  (see 
section  5.3).  The  potential  risk  for  humans  is  unknown.  Due  to  the  unknown  risks  to  the  fetus 
associated  with  the  potential  development  of  neutralising  antibodies  to  dibotermin  alfa,  InductOs  is 
contraindicated in pregnancy (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).” 
When  new  data  on  neutralising  antibodies  become  available,  the  wording  in  this  section  has  to  be 
reconsidered. 
4.8   Undesirable effects  
Further  to  the  provision  of  supplementary  information  by  the  MAH  on  some  adverse  events  (“joint 
disorder”,  “neuralgia”,  “neuropathy”,  “urinary  retention”  and  “abnormal  ejaculation”)  the  CHMP 
concluded  that  none  of  the  differences  between  the  treatment  arms  were  statistically  significant  and 
that the aggregate analysis of neurological adverse events did not suggest a clear difference between 
the treatment arms. Therefore the proposed text from the MAH does not need any further revision. 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
The  sentence  on  donor-site  pain  has  been  deleted  (“As  expected,  patients  who  received  autogenous 
bone graft reported pain at the site of graft harvest, with 31% of them still experiencing some graft-site 
pain at 24 months”) and the overall success rates have been included. 
35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3   Preclinical safety data 
This  paragraph  has  been  updated  in  line  with  the  revision  proposed  by  the  CHMP  (i.e.  “Preclinical 
data reveal no special hazard for humans on conventional studies of pharmacology, acute and repeat 
exposure  toxicity.  Animal  studies  do  not  indicate  direct  or  indirect  harmful  effects  with  respect  to 
pregnancy,  maternal  toxicity,  embryolethality,  or  fetotoxicity.  However,  in  reproductive  toxicity 
studies in rats, where dibotermin alfa was administered intravenously to maximize systemic exposure, 
increased  fetal  weight  and  increased  fetal  ossification  was  observed  and  a  treatment  related  effect 
could not be ruled out. The potential effects of anti-dibotermin antibodies have not been investigated. 
InductOs has not been tested for in vivo carcinogenicity. Dibotermin alfa has demonstrated variable 
effects on human tumour cell lines in vitro. Although the available in vitro data suggest a low potential 
for  promotion  of  tumour  growth,  the  use  of  InductOs  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  an  active 
malignancy  or 
treatment  for  a  malignancy  (see  also  section  4.3 
Contraindications). InductOs has been  studied in a canine spinal implantation model. InductOs was 
implanted  directly  onto  the  exposed  dura  following  a  laminectomy.  Although  narrowing  of  the 
neuroforamen and stenosis was observed, no mineralization of the dura, no spinal cord stenosis, and 
no neurological deficits subsequent to the application of InductOs were observed. The significance of 
these data for humans is not known.”). 
in  patients  undergoing 
Where relevant changes are also reflected in the Package Leaflet. 
Additionally, the CHMP requested the following additional amendments in the Package Leaflet. 
2. 
BEFORE YOU RECEIVE InductOs 
In the  paragraph “The following are precautions for use of InductOs to be discussed with your doctor” 
the  following  sentence  has  been  inserted  “You  should  inform  your  doctor  if  you  have  any  bone 
disease”. 
36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
 CONCLUSION 
The CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the proposed wording to 
be  introduced  into  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  Package  Leaflet  based  on  the 
observations and the appropriate conclusions, subject to the additional follow-up measures undertaken 
by the Marketing Authorisation Holder (see Annex 9 of this Assessment report). 
The CHMP adopted on 17 February 2005 an Opinion on a Type II variation to be made to the terms of 
the Community Marketing Authorisation, as amended. 
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
