SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Inductos.  This  scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  January  2004.  For 
information  on  changes  after  
1 January 2004 please refer to module 8B. 
Introduction 
InductOs (dibotermin alfa/ACS) is a surgically implantable medicinal product, consisting of a solution 
of  recombinant  human  Bone  Morphogenetic  Protein-2  (rhBMP-2  or  dibotermin  alfa)  applied  to  a 
matrix,  an  Absorbable  Collagen  Sponge  (ACS).  When  administered  locally,  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS 
results in the induction of new bone at the site of implantation. 
Human BMP-2 is a member of the TGF-beta superfamily of growth and differentiation factors and is a 
glycosylated, disulfide-bonded, dimeric protein with two major subunit species of 114 and 131 amino 
acids.  dibotermin  alfa  is  expressed  and  secreted  in  a  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO)  cell  culture 
process. 
Recombinant  hBMP-2  binds  to  receptors  on  the  surface  of  mesenchymal  cells  and  causes  cells  to 
differentiate  into  cartilage-  and  bone-forming  cells.  dibotermin  alfa    is  combined  with  a  matrix  to 
facilitate surgical implantation and  dibotermin alfa retention at the treatment site. 
The indication sought for InductOs is the treatment of acute tibia fractures in adults, as an adjunct to 
standard care using open fracture reduction and intramedullary nail fixation. 
1. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
InductOs 12 mg kit for implant comprises a 20 ml vial containing 12 mg of dibotermin alfa (rhBMP-
2),  a  10  ml  vial  with  solvent  (water  for  injection),  a  7.5  x  10  cm  matrix  (Absorbable  Collagen 
Sponge), two 10 ml syringes, and two 20G needles. After reconstitution the solution is applied to the 
matrix.  
Active substance 
The active substance, dibotermin alfa, is recombinant human Bone Morphogenetic Protein-2 (rhBMP-
2)  produced  in  a  CHO  cell  culture.  It  is  a  dimeric  glycosylated  protein  with  an  apparent  molecular 
weight of approx. 30 kDA. 
Development genetics and cell banks 
The  cDNA  for  dibotermin  alfa  was  cloned  from  a  human  osteosarcoma  cell  line  using  as  a  probe  a 
bovine genomic BMP-2 fragment. Through multiple subcloning procedures, the human BMP-2 cDNA 
was  ligated  into  a  mammalian  expression  vector.  The  resulting  expression  construct  was  used  to 
transfect the CHO cells. The strain was adapted  for growth in  serum-free, antibiotic free suspension 
culture to prepare the MCB and WCB. 
The  stability  of  the  expression  system  during  inoculum  preparation  and  full  scale  fermentation  has 
been extensively verified. The preparation of the MCB and WCB is well described. MCB, WCB and 
End of production cells underwent extensive microbial/viral testing.  
Fermentation 
The cell culture process is a suspension culture in which cells replicate constantly and constitutively 
secrete dibotermin alfa. Appropriate in-process controls have been implemented.  Mycoplasma and in 
vitro adventitious virus testing is performed.  
Purification 
The  purification  process  consists  of  validated  chromatographic  and  ultrafiltration  steps  and  viral 
filtration.  Appropriate in-process controls have been implemented.  
1/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Column  resin  cleaning  and  regeneration  procedures  and  storage  conditions  of  the  columns  are  well 
described. Maximum lifetimes for the columns have been set. The storage time and temperature of the 
different  intermediate  products  have  been  extensively  validated.  Viral  validation  studies  of  the 
purification  process  demonstrated  that  the  process  effectively  removes  enveloped  and  some  non-
enveloped  viruses.  The  purification  process,  together  with  the  viral  testing  after  fermentation  assure 
the viral safety of the product. 
Characterisation of dibotermin alfa  
The  active  substance  has  been  characterized  using  a  combination  of  traditional  and  state-of-the-art 
techniques. dibotermin alfa  has also been characterized in combination with the matrix (ACS). 
Analytical methods used during dibotermin alfa  development and current test methods for release of 
active  substance  and  the  dibotermin  alfa    vialed  protein  have  been  qualified  or  validated  in 
concordance with guidelines in force.  
Specifications and routine tests 
The  active  substance  is  adequately  controlled  by  a  combination  of  physico-chemical,  biological  and 
immunological  methods.    All  analytical  methods  have  been  appropriately  validated.  Batch  analysis 
demonstrates consistent manufacture of active substance. All tests for release of the active substance 
and the dibotermin alfa  vialed protein have been extensively described and thoroughly validated. 
Other ingredients 
Excipients 
All  excipients  (sucrose,  glycine,  polysorbate  80,  sodium  chloride,  L-glutamic  acid,  water  for 
injections) comply with the European Pharmacopoeia.  
Matrix: Absorbable collagen sponge (ACS). 
Genetics  Institute  uses  an  Absorbable  Collagen  Sponge,  manufactured  by  Integra  LifeSciences 
Corporation, as a matrix for dibotermin alfa . ACS consists of purified bovine type I collagen cross-
linked and sterilised by chemical means.  
The specifications of the ACS have been statistically justified. The preparation of the type I collagen 
for  ACS  involves  an  alkaline  treatment  step.  A  virus  validation  study  was  performed  to  assess  the 
ability of this step to inactivate relevant and model viruses. It can be concluded that this alkaline step 
has a sufficient capacity to inactive a broad range of viruses.  
A TSE Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia for the ACS has been granted by the 
EDQM. The ACS matrix showed stability for 36 months at room temperature.  
Packaging material 
The protein vial and the solvent vial are made of type I glass, closed by bromobutyl stoppers and flip-
off plastic caps. The ACS sponge is packaged in 20 ml trays formed from polyvinyl chloride (PVC) 
and sealed with Tyvek lids. The packages are double blisters.  
Product development and finished product 
The manufacturing of the vialed protein takes place at Abbott Laboratories, Kansas, USA. Labelling 
and packaging of dibotermin alfa /ACS is performed at Wyeth Laboratories, New Lane, Havant, UK.  
This site is also responsible for EU batch release. 
The  specifications  and  test  methods  for  the  vialed  protein  were  selected  to  ensure  identity,  purity, 
potency, quality and safety. Specifications and release criteria have also been set for dibotermin alfa  
in combination with the ACS matrix. 
Stability of the Product 
The vialed protein is stable for 24 months at 2-30°C. The reconstituted protein is stable for 3 hours at 
room temperature.  
Based on the stability data provided for storage of the kit (vialed protein, solvent and matrix) at room 
temperature, a shelf life as indicated in the SPC is acceptable. 
2/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
2. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Considering  the  nature  (biotechnology  product)  and  intended  use  of  the  product,  the  applicant  has 
carried  out  a  fairly  extensive  preclinical  pharmacology  and  safety  study  programme.    Appropriate 
statements regarding GLP compliance have been attached to the study reports.  
Pharmacodynamics 
The proposed concentration of dibotermin alfa /ACS to be used in clinical practice is 1.5 mg/ml.  
In vitro studies  
• 
The  submitted  in  vitro  data  describe  several  bone  forming  related  effects  of  dibotermin  alfa.  
It has been demonstrated that the effect of dibotermin alfa  is local and that no systemic effects have 
been found. The local effect of dibotermin alfa  is likely to be due to a combination of its specificity 
and its rapid systemic clearance. A comparison of the affinity of dibotermin alfa  and natural BMP-2 
for the receptor(s) was not feasible due to the difficulty in obtaining individual purified BMP proteins. 
The  signal  transduction  role  of  the  type  I  and  type  II  serine/threonine  kinase  receptor  subunits  of 
dibotermin alfa  receptors has been closely examined and a comparison of iodinated dibotermin alfa  
with  “native”  dibotermin  alfa    showed  no  differences.  It  has  also  been  shown  that  dibotermin  alfa  
does not bind to any other receptor component of the TGF-β superfamily.  
In vivo studies  
• 
A number of preclinical studies support the ability of dibotermin alfa /ACS to induce the formation of 
new  bone  at  the  site  of  implantation  in  diaphyseal  defect  models  (critical  size  bone  defects), 
metaphyseal defects, augmentation of fracture repair, and extraosseous sites. Altogether, these studies 
suggest  that  the  relationship  between  dose  and  osteogenic  response  is  complex  and  remarkably 
different depending on the animal model and species. 
Numerous  pharmacodynamic  studies  in  several  models  in  rats,  dogs,  rabbits,  sheeps,  goats  and 
nonhuman primates were conducted to show the safe and efficacious use of dibotermin alfa /ACS.  
Healing  of  critical  size  diaphyseal  defects  was  demonstrated  with  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  in  the  rat 
femoral  defect  model,  canine  radial  defect  model  and  nonhuman  primate  radial  and  ulnar  defect 
models.  
The best results in the canine radius defect model were obtained at a very low concentration compared 
to that proposed for clinical use (0.05 vs. 1.5 mg/ml). At concentrations clearly below those intended 
for  clinical  use,  formation  of  voids  in  the  bone,  heterotopic  bone  formation  and  potentially  inferior 
biomechanical  strength  and  radiographic  density  of  the  defect  area  were  observed  compared  to 
autologous bone graft. It has been observed in each of the studied species, that the bone formation in 
response to dibotermin alfa , both in quantitative and qualitative terms, depends on the concentration 
of dibotermin alfa . At the low end of the concentration range, inadequate bone formation is observed. 
At the high end, excessive bone formation and/or generation of fluid-filled voids within the induced 
bone are observed. The applicant claims that fluid-filled voids in the newly formed bone seen in this 
animal model have not been observed in man. Nevertheless it is reassuring that the newly formed bone 
with voids was not biomechanically inferior to bone autograft group.  
However, it must be noted that in the set of similar experiments using the canine radial defect model, 
results  were  not  quite  uniform  from  one  experiment  to  another.  Equal  or  event  trendwise  superior 
biomechanical strength compared to autograft were observed in some experiments.  
The nonhuman primate critical size radial defect model has a lower sensitivity compared to the canine 
radial defect model. In the monkey, concentrations of dibotermin alfa /ACS approximately equal to, or 
even  double  those  intended  for  clinical  use  did  not  lead  to  significant  bone  formation.  The  lack  of 
consistent efficacy to bridge critical-sized defects in primates does not appear to be related to impaired 
bone  formation  at  increasing  concentrations  of  dibotermin  alfa    or  changes  in  the  dibotermin  alfa  
manufacturing process. Rather, it is more likely that the dibotermin alfa /ACS implant was unable to 
resist soft tissue compression during bone induction, resulting in insufficient bone to repair the defect. 
3/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Soft tissue compression has a more pronounced effect in nonhuman primate models than in models of 
lower animal species due to a slower rate of dibotermin alfa -induced bone formation. This conclusion 
is  supported  by  the  random  distribution  of  successful  bridging  in  individual  animals  in  the  radius 
defect studies, and the histologic observation of soft tissue compression into the defect observed in the 
accompanying time series studies. Additionally, successful bridging was demonstrated in the positive 
control animals implanted with dibotermin alfa  added to autogenous bone graft; a material much more 
resistant to soft tissue compression than ACS. 
Two  studies  in  sheep  evaluated  the  ability  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  to  induce  bone  formation  when 
implants  were  placed  into  trabecular  bone  in  the  metaphyseal  region  (femoral  head  core  defect).  
These two studies reveal an important property of dibotermin alfa /ACS: when used to fill trabecular 
bone  defects,  resorption  of  surrounding  trabecular  bone  is  observed  in  the  initial  phase  of  healing.  
This appears to have taken place mostly during the first two weeks. Histology revealed the presence of 
multinucleated giant cells degrading the peripheral region of the implant. This phenomenon has been 
described  in  the  the  SPC  and  for  the  time  being  use  in  metaphyseal  fractures  and  endoprosthetic 
applications are discouraged. 
Several  studies  have  evaluated  the  ability  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  to  facilitate  fracture  repair 
(acceleration  of  repair  and/or  assurance  of  healing)  in  rabbits  and  goats  when  used  as  an  onlay.  
These models are relevant in view of the proposed therapeutic indication. However, this effect has not 
been investigated in monkeys, where the osteoinductive capacity was shown to be relatively poor. 
The  rabbit  ulnar  diaphysis  fracture  onlay  model  provides  evidence  of  a  significant  acceleration  of 
healing  in  response  to  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS.  The  variable  and  modest  effect  of  ACS  alone  
(with  buffer)  in  this  model  suggests  that  dibotermin  alfa    has  more  than  an  ancillary  role  in  the 
efficacy  of  the  product  that  resembles  the  intended  clinical  use.  However,  no  dose  response 
relationship could be observed with regard to concentration of dibotermin alfa . 
As regards the goat tibial fracture model, a decreased consolidation and internal callus in dibotermin 
alfa  /ACS  treated  fractures  compared  to  untreated  controls  has  been  observed.  The  rapid  rate  of 
healing with extensive periosteal new bone formation highlights one of the major weaknesses of using 
closed  tibia  fracture  in  goats  as  a  model  for  closed  fractures  in  human.  Periosteal  stripping  was  not 
found  to  be  effective  in  slowing  down  the  healing  response  of  closed  fractures  in  this  model.  
Due to these limitations, the goat model was not studied further. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
• 
No traditional in vitro product interaction studies have been conducted which is considered acceptable 
for biopharmaceutical agents. In in vivo studies glucocorticoids reduced dibotermin alfa /ACS-induced 
bone formation in rats and rabbits.  
General and safety pharmacology programme  
• 
In  rabbits,  healing  of  osteotomies  in  bone  previously  induced  by  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  was 
comparable in nature and kinetics to that of native bone.  
Repair of rabbit distal radial defects by dibotermin alfa /ACS and evaluation of the potential effects on 
the  radiocarpal  joint  has  been  studied.  When  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  was  placed  in  a  bone  defect 
communicating  with  a  joint,  no  pathological  changes  in  the  joints  or  its  capsules  were  observed. 
However  trabecular  bone  resorption,  periarticular  bone formation and joint  damage remain potential 
risks  despite  the  results  of  this  study.  For  the  time  being,  the  product  should  not  be  used  in  the 
treatment of fractures that involve joint space. 
Treatment  of  ulnar  osteotomies  with  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  was  studied  in  juvenile  rabbits.  
The  purpose  of  this  study  was  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  treating  unilateral  mid-diaphyseal  ulna 
osteotomies with the product in growing juvenile rabbits with open growth plates. In growing juvenile 
dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  accelerated  osteotomy  bridging  and  healing  were  observed  without  clinically 
relevant  effects  (<  1.5  %)  on  total  limb  length.  Although  the  difference  in  total  length  between 
dibotermin alfa /ACS treated and control limbs was small and the effect of treatment of growth plate 
4/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thickness was not statistically significant, the differences were of such magnitude that a true effect is 
likely and biologically plausible. The product must not be used in skeletally immature patients. 
A  series  of  conventional  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  GLP 
regulations  to  examine  the  potential  extraneous  pharmacological  effects  of  dibotermin  alfa  .  
These  experiments  showed  that  dibotermin  alfa    had  no  effects  on  locomotion,  the  central  nervous 
system,  locomotor  activity,  respiration  and  cardiovascular  systems,  gastrointestinal  systems,  urinary 
system  and  blood  coagulation  at  the  doses  tested.  Therefore,  it  is  concluded  that  the  potential  of 
dibotermin alfa  exerting extraneous pharmacological effects - if there were to be inadvertent systemic 
exposure, is minimal. 
Pharmacokinetics 
-  Pharmacokinetics after a single dose/repeated administration  
The pharmacokinetic data are limited. Pharmacokinetic single dose IV studies were perfomed in rats 
and  monkeys  and  showed  minimal  systemic  exposure  of  dibotermin  alfa  .  However,  only  plasma 
levels (CMax) are available of these studies. AUC data were not present in the dossier. A single dose IV 
injection in rats (juvenile) of 3mg/kg resulted in a CMax of 21 µg/ml, 5.3 mg/kg in a CMax of 30µg/ml 
and a dose of 0.86 mg/kg in a CMax of 18µg/ml. 
The  PK  of  dibotermin  alfa    following  bolus  IV  administration  was  examined  also  in  the  rat  and  in 
cynomolgus  monkeys.  The  clearance  of  dibotermin  alfa    from  the  circulation  is  high.  Although  the 
uptake of dibotermin alfa  by highly perfused tissues and organs is rapid, residence of the protein in 
these  tissues  is  short.  As  a  result  of  these  pharmacokinetic  characteristics,  systemic  presence  of 
dibotermin alfa   in the  circulation is  minimal after IV  dosing. The CMax and AUC values  are  shown 
below in the table.  
Table 
Blood Cmax and AUC of dibotermin alfa  After Intravenous Administration in 
Rats and Monkeys (Mean±SD) 
Species 
Rat 
Report No. 
PB-034-91 
PS-010-94 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
0.00043 
0.0043 
0.043 
0.86 
5.3 
PB-024-92 
Monkey 
a:  Determined at the first sampling time (0.5 min post doing). 
b:  n=2 
0.0049 
a 
Cmax
(ng/ml) 
4.0b 
122±16 
892±110 
7811±492 
28,662±2916 
AUC 
(ng•min/ml) 
4.0 
66.2±21.4 
955.6±424.7 
39,091±5331 
172,391±43,339 
161.09±74.51 
136.1±71.8 
The  pharmacokinetic studies  in rats  show that the clearance of  125I  dibotermin  alfa  from  blood was 
biexponential with mean half-lives of 0.8 and 15.3 minutes (increase with dose). Rapid metabolism of 
125I dibotermin alfa  was suggested by the increase in trichloroacetic acid (TCA) soluble counts in the 
blood  as  early  as  5  min  after  dosing.  It  is  considered  to  be  likely  that  the  early  increase  in  TCA-
precipitable  radioactivity  reflects  the  rapid  metabolism  of  dibotermin  alfa  ,  but  it  is  also  bourne  in 
mind  that  the  systemic  exposure  to  dibotermin  alfa    may  be  overestimated  by  measuring  TCA-
precipitable radioactivity. 
The pharmacokinetics of IV bolus dose of dibotermin alfa  in the cynomolgus monkey are in line with 
those obtained in rats.  
Following  implantation  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS,  125I-dibotermin  alfa    was  slowly  released  from  the 
implant  site  with  a  mean  residence  time  of  approximately  8  days.  The  peak  amount  of  radiolabeled 
dibotermin alfa  detected in the blood was small; 0.1% of the implanted dose, and consistent with the 
rapid  systemic  clearance  described  above.  Studies  evaluating  retention  of  dibotermin  alfa    when 
implanted  SC  in  rats  showed  an  initial  recovery  at  the  site  of  implantation  of  70–75%  of  the 
dibotermin alfa , and a mean residence time of 4.6 to 5.6 days. The pharmacokinetic data obtained in 
the  implant  studies  correlate  with  a  bi-exponential  model  in  which  the  initial  half  live  is  very  short  
5/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(0.1 to 0.04 days) and the second half life is 3 to 4 days. After 2 weeks 1.2 to 4 % of the implanted 
radioactivity is still present in the implant. Systemic exposure appears to be low and to decline rapidly. 
Cmax values were generally less than 10 ng/ml and, hence, reliable AUC  values for dibotermin alfa  
could not be calculated. 
Release  of dibotermin alfa   in vitro  and in  vivo  from ACS was  studied in the rabbit ulna  osteotomy 
model.  The  results  of  this  study  show  that  the  incorporation  of  dibotermin  alfa    in  ACS,  when  the 
sponge  is  soaked  with  dibotermin  alfa    at  the  concentration  intended  for  clinical  use,  varies 
substantially from as low as 54% to virtually complete incorporation. Although the % incorporation in 
the  sponge  did  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  of  the  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  device,  the 
possibility of the total dose and the efficacy being affected has been examined since it has been argued 
that the ACS has the capacity to absorb more fluid than what is administered in the soaking process. 
The  worst  possible  case  scenario  has  been  examined  (where  up  to  70%  of  the  fluid  administered 
would  be  lost  from  the  ACS)  and  it  is  agreed  that  a  loss  of  this  magnitude  is  unlikely  to  affect  the 
efficacy of the product.  
Different  buffers  have  been  used  in  the  dibotermin  alfa    formulations  during  development  of  the 
product. The pharmacokinetic parameters following intravenous administration of dibotermin alfa  in 
Arg/His  or  MFR  00842  are  similar  after  adjusting  for  the  doses  administered  in  each  study.  
The  original  formulation  of  dibotermin  alfa    used  with  ACS  was  MFR  00842.  Very  minor 
modifications to the MFR 00842 buffer were made to minimize the potential for precipitation of the 
protein  in  the  presence  of  ACS.  These  modifications  have  had  no  impact  on  the  efficacy  of  the 
dibotermin alfa /ACS product. 
-  Distribution in normal and pregnant animals used in reproduction studies 
The  distribution  of  rhBMP-s  is  restricted  to  the  blood  volume  in  monkeys  and  to  the  extracellular 
volume  in  rats.  dibotermin  alfa    is  transiently  observed  in  the  liver  kidney  and  spleen  in  rats. 
Preclinical studies evaluating the PK of dibotermin alfa  during pregnancy, placental transfer and milk 
excretions have not been performed. 
-  Biotransformation & Excretion  
Dibotermin  alfa    is  an  endogenous  protein  that  is  rapidly  degraded  in  the  liver  and  excreted  via  the 
kidneys.  The  renal  excretion  was  found  to  consist  mainly  of  trichloroacetic  acid  (TCA)-soluble 
radioactivity, reflecting dibotermin alfa  metabolism. 
Toxicology 
The toxicity studies that were performed conform to GLP.  
Dose extrapolation 
Dose  extrapolation  is  complex  for  this  product,  it  has  been  difficult  to  identify  an  effective  dose. 
Species  variances  for  this  local  implant  application  are  unknown,  which  makes  dose  extrapolation 
complex. Based on the highest single IV dose (5.3 mg/kg), the CMax values in the toxicity studies are a 
multiple (10 to 103) of the anticipated human CMax (2.3 µg/ml- 2.3 ng/ml). In rats the highest IV dose 
used in the repeated toxicity studies was 0.16 mg/kg. 
- 
Single dose toxicity 
In Sprague-Dawley rats the intravenous no-toxic-effect level was 0.533 mg/kg, the highest dose tested. 
A second single-dose intravenous toxicity study of dibotermin alfa  using doses up to 5.33 mg/kg in 
Sprague-Dawley rats showed no toxicity.  Single-dose i.v. administration in beagle dogs resulted in a 
no-toxic-effect dose of 5.33 mg/kg, the highest dose tested. 
-  Repeated dose toxicity 
In  rats  and  dogs  receiving  i.v.  injections  of  dibotermin  alfa    for  28  days,  there  were  no  treatment-
related haematology, clinical chemistry, urinalysis, or organ weight findings. In rats discoloration was 
noted  at  the  injection  site  of  some  rats.  Treatment  and  dose-related  histopathology  findings  at  the 
injection site included soft tissue thickening and cartilage and bone formation. In dogs histologically, 
dose-related perivascular fibroplasia was observed at the injection site in all dibotermin alfa -treated 
6/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups.  Slight-to-severe  osseous  metaplasia  of  the  fibrous  tissue  surrounding  the  injection  site  was 
observed in some dogs from the mid- and high-dose groups after 28 days and in all of the high-dose 
dogs after the 28-day recovery period. All injection-site-related changes were a result of the expected 
pharmacologic  activity  of  dibotermin  alfa    and  were  not  considered  toxicologically  significant.  
The no-toxic-effect level was 0.16 mg/kg/day in rats and dogs, the highest dose tested. No remote site 
effects on bony tissues were observed macroscopically or microscopically. 
The safety of implanted dibotermin alfa /ACS was evaluated in a mandibular/maxillofacial inlay study 
in beagle dogs and a femoral onlay study in Sprague-Dawley rats. 
In both studies there were no treatment-related adverse systemic effects and dose-related increases in 
the incidence of post-surgical swelling was observed.  In dogs, histologic examinations of the implant 
sites demonstrated dose-related fibrocellular tissue and/or new bone formation within and around the 
implant  sites  in  the  dibotermin  alfa  -treated  groups.  There  were  also  fluid-filled  tissue  cysts  and 
sites  with  apparent 
occasional 
regression/remodeling,  but  not  complete  resolution  of  these  changes  between  3  and  6  months.  
The implant site tissue responses were the expected pharmacologic response to dibotermin alfa /ACS 
and  were  not toxicologically adverse.  There  was  no  systemic toxicity at any dose level, and  the  no-
toxic-effect dose was 0.78 mg/kg. 
residual  ACS  material  at 
strands  of 
implant 
some 
In  rats  hard,  raised  areas  or  masses  at  the  implant  sites  of  dibotermin  alfa  -treated  animals  were 
observed  in  a  dose  related  fashion.  Microscopically,  the  implant  sites  were  characterized  by  dose-
related  periosteal  new  bone  formation  with  occasional  fibrocellular  tissue  proliferation  within  the 
center  of  the  newly  formed  bone.  The  presence  and  persistence  of  slight  to  moderate  new  bone 
formation  along  the  lateral  aspect  of  the  femur  resulted  in  remodeling  over  time  with  cancellation 
(increased  porosity)  of  the  pre-existing  cortex  and  integration  of  the  new  bone  into  the  cortex.  
These changes were considered to result from normal remodeling due to altered biomechanical forces 
on the cortex as a result of the new bone formation.  
The administration of dibotermin alfa /ACS as a femoral orthotopic implant in the rat at doses up to 
1.6 mg/kg did not result in toxicity during the 12-month duration of this study. There was an expected 
pharmacologic response of dose-related increased incidence and/or severity of post-surgical soft tissue 
swelling,  which  was  associated  with  the  expected  bone  formation  at  the  implant  site.  The  no-toxic- 
effect dose observed was 1.6 mg/kg (4.0 mg/ml). 
Antibodies to rh-BMP-2 were only detected in the dog implant study. 
-  Reproduction studies 
In all the studies animals received the dibotermin alfa  via intravenous injection. In fertility and early 
embryonic  development  studies  dibotermin  alfa    treatment  at  dosages  up  to  0.16  mg/kg/day  had  no 
effect on reproduction and fertility in male and female rats. 
Embryo-fetal  development  studies  in  gravid  rabbits  treated  with  dibotermin  alfa    did  not  result  in 
systemic  maternal  toxicity,  embryo  lethality  or  gross  fetal  abnormalities  at  dosages  up  to  
1.6 mg/kg/day. Measurement of dibotermin alfa  transfer across the placenta at doses comparable to 
those  used  clinically  cannot  be  performed  because  the  ELISA  (sensitivity  limit  of  0.9 ng/ml  in  rat 
serum) will not detect the dibotermin alfa  in the serum of the dam or the fetus. 
Treatment of rats with high intravenous doses of rhBMP (1.6 or 0.5 mg/kg/day) during organogenesis 
resulted  in  increased  foetal  weight  in  2/3  experiments.  Additionally,  some  skeletal  variations  were 
observed  indicating  a  more  advanced  foetal  development.  These  differences  were  attributed  to  the 
variance  in  time  to  cesarean  section.  An  effect  of  BMP-2  can  not  be  ruled  out.  The  product  should 
therefore not be used in pregnant women and is contraindicated as such in the SPC. 
The route, level and frequency of exposure of the effects can be considered to be of limited relevance 
for the clinical situation. 
7/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Mutagenic potential 
The mutagenic potential was not investigated.  This is acceptable according to the (ICH) guidance on 
Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-Derived Pharmaceuticals. 
-  Oncogenic/carcinogenic potential 
In vitro studies to assess the potential effects of dibotermin alfa  on tumor cell growth using various 
tumor  cell  lines  and  primary  tumor  isolates  have  shown  minimal  evidence  of  growth  potentiation, 
including studies of osteosarcoma cell lines.  
Additionally,  the  literature  review  of  the  role  of  BMP-2  on  growth  regulation  and  tumor  biology 
provided indicates that BMP-2 and its role in growth regulation and tumor biology does not warrant 
cause for concern about the carcinogenic potential of dibotermin alfa /ACS in relation to its surgical 
application. The product is intended for single local use and there is almost no systemic exposure; the 
local exposure is transient. 
A  panel  of  human  tumor  cell  lines  were  assayed  for  their  ability  to  respond  to  dibotermin  alfa.  
The tumor cell types were chosen for their relationship to bone (osteosarcomas) and by the increased 
incidence of certain tumor types to metastasize to bone (prostate, breast, lung). dibotermin alfa  had no 
statistically  significant  effect  on  thymidine  uptake  in  the  presence  or  absence  of  serum  in  TE-85, 
SaOS-2  or  U-2  OS  osteosarcoma  cell  lines.  MG-63  osteosarcoma  cells  were  slightly  inhibited  
(not significantly).  
The applicant proposes that further studies be carried out to investigate the effects of dibotermin alfa  
on  tumor  cell  growth.  BMP-2  receptor  expression  will  be  assessed.  Post-authorisation  studies  have 
been proposed and the tumor types/cell lines outlined by the applicant are considered to be sufficient. 
dibotermin alfa  did not change basal alkaline phosphatase activity in MG-63, U2 OS or TE-85 cells, 
but  slight  to  moderate  increases  were  observed  in  the  SaOS-2  cells.  This  suggests  inhibition  of 
proliferation  and  increased  differentiation  of  this  osteosarcoma  cell  line.  However  the  changes  in 
alkaline  phosphatase  are  also  quite  modest  relative  to  the  response  to  dibotermin  alfa    in  other  cell 
lines  and  it  has  been  concluded  that  dibotermin  alfa    has  minimal  effects  on  SaOS-2  cells.  
A more careful evaluation of the effects of dibotermin alfa  on tumor cell growth is warranted, and a 
series of in vitro and in vivo experiments are underway as mentioned above. 
Standard  in  vivo  carcinogenicity  testing  has  not  been  carried  out  with  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS. 
Considering the product profile, the arguments against requiring standard carcinogenicity testing are: 
• 
The product is intended for single dose administration and biologically active dibotermin alfa  is 
expected to be present locally for a limited period of time. dibotermin alfa  released into blood 
circulation is rapidly eliminated in all studied animal species. 
The availability of a relevant animal model is questionable.  
Considering experience with other products containing recombinant bone morphogenetic factor 
and collagen matrix, the finding that no neoplasia was induced by dibotermin alfa /ACS in the 
long-term observation studies is reassuring. 
• 
• 
-  Local tolerance 
Due to the nature of the product, local tolerance assessment was part of the general toxicity studies.  
In  the  6-month  toxicity  study  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  in  dogs  using  the  mandibular/maxillofacial 
inlay model, gum lesions adjacent to implant were observed. The histologic findings observed in the 
gingival (gum)  lesions  adjacent to  the  implant  site  did  not  correlate with the induction of detectable 
anti-dibotermin alfa  antibodies. Furthermore, soft tissue cyst formation was noted in the same study. 
Two types of cystic lesions were observed: reversible soft tissue cysts and less readily reversible bony 
cysts. The development of these lesions is likely to be a reflection of the pharmacodynamic activity of 
the  product.  Histological  analysis  and  immunohistochemistry  did  not  suggest  that  the  lesions  were 
inflammatory or of vascular (endothelial) origin. 
- 
Immunogenicity 
The  immunogenicity  of  dibotermin  alfa    and  bovine  collagen  was  not  assessed  in  most  of  the 
preclinical studies nor were the antibodies detected evaluated for neutralising activity. This is not ideal 
8/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
because the potential impact of immune responses either on the presence or absence of toxicological 
findings or variability in efficacy in the animal models cannot be assessed. Immunogenicity in the rat 
cannot be excluded due to very sparse sampling. Dibotermin alfa  was clearly immunogenic in dogs 
and  rhesus  monkeys.  Anti-dibotermin  alfa    antibody  responses  were  more  frequent  than  anti-bovine 
type I antibody responses. Indeed, the possibility of neutralising antibodies cannot be excluded based 
on  the  available  preclinical  data.  However,  at  least  the  limited  available  data  do  not  suggest  that 
antibody response to dibotermin alfa  was associated with lack of osteogenic efficacy. 
- 
Special toxicity studies 
This  section  contains  studies  for  medical  devices.  The  studies  were  performed  according  to 
International Standard ISO-10993 “Biological Evaluation of Medical Devices Part 1: Evaluation and 
Testing”. They revealed no adverse effects. 
-  Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
The  applicant’s  evaluation  of  environmental  risk  was  reviewed.  The  manufacture  and  use  of  the 
medicinal product is not expected to lead to any adverse environmental consequences.  
3. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Appropriate statements regarding GCP compliance have been attached to the clinical study reports. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  osteoinductive  effect  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  has  been  evaluated  in  three  dental-craniofacial 
studies  where  the  product  was  used  for  alveolar  ridge  preservation/augmentation  (study  C9514-11) 
and  maxillary  sinus  floor  augmentation  (studies  C9409/10-11  and  C9531-11).  Bone  formation  was 
assessed  by  measurement  of  the  change  in  alveolar  ridge  height  and  width  and  bone  density  using 
quantitative computed tomography (QTC) and histology.  
Three concentrations of dibotermin alfa /ACS applied to the matrix have been studied in these trials: 
0.43, 0.75, and 1.5  mg/ml. Osteoinduction was demonstrated at all 3 concentrations in a  majority of 
patients (80% to 100%). The lowest concentration was found to be suboptimal (C9409/10-11) and the 
highest  was  the  most  effective  for  bone  induction  (C9531-11  and  C9514-11).  A  concentration-
dependent  response  was  observed  between  0.75  and  1.5  mg/ml  in  2  dental-craniofacial  studies 
(C9514-11 and C9531-11).  
In a study in which a matrix-only control was feasible to use, dibotermin alfa /ACS was more effective 
than  the  matrix  alone;  both  the  matrix  alone  and  no  treatment  were  not  significantly  osteoinductive 
(C9514-11).  Comparisons  made to  ACS  alone,  clearly demonstrate  that dibotermin alfa   has a  more 
than ancillary role in the product.  
Pharmacokinetics 
-  General: 
The  applicant  has  not  performed  formal  pharmacokinetic  trials  in  healthy  subjects  since  such  trials 
were not feasible in view of the nature and intended use of the product. 
The applicant has collected a limited set of blood samples in two exploratory clinical trials (C9414-11 
and  C9109-11).  Dibotermin  alfa    was  measured  using  ELISA  method  (limit  of  detection  10  ng/ml). 
Dibotermin alfa   (max. dose 12  mg) implanted in patients with bone fractures, revealed  no concrete 
data with regard to the pharmacokinetics, as only predose and 1 day post-dose samples were analysed. 
In  the  1  day  post-dose  samples  no  dibotermin  alfa    could  be  detected  (detection  limit  10  ng/ml  and  
4 ng/ml).  
According  to  preclinical  pharmacokinetic  data  in  rats  and  monkeys,  rapid  elimination  of  dibotermin 
alfa    from  blood  is  expected.  However,  this  cannot  be  verified  in  man  with  the  currently  available 
methods. 
9/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In preclinical studies, the mean local residence time of dibotermin alfa  when implanted with ACS was 
approximately  5  to  8  days  (using  radiolabeled  dibotermin  alfa  ).  Similar  studies  are  not  feasible  in 
man. 
Altogether,  the  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of  dibotermin  alfa    in  man  are  unknown.  However, 
preclinical data suggest that any dibotermin alfa  escaping the implant to circulation would be rapidly 
eliminated.  
The  influence  of  renal  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  dibotermin  alfa    is  not  studied.  
This  is  agreed,  as  renal  elimination  of  dibotermin  alfa    is  considered  to  be  a  minor  pathway  for 
dibotermin alfa  clearance. 
The influence of hepatic function on the pharmacokinetics of dibotermin alfa  is not studied. As it is 
expected  that  the  metabolic  pathway  of  dibotermin  alfa    will  follow  the  pathways  of  other  proteins 
(peptide  hydrolysis),  an  impaired  liver  function  is  not  expected  to  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
dibotermin alfa  in a clinically significant way. 
In  this  particular  case,  considering  the  nature  and  intended  clinical  use  of  the  product,  the  lack  of 
human pharmacokinetic data is not considered an obstacle for marketing authorisation. 
- 
Interaction studies: 
In vitro interaction studies have not been carried out and no specific in vivo clinical drug interaction 
studies have been performed. It is argued that s dibotermin alfa  is a protein, it is: 1) not expected to 
bind to proteins, 2) expected that metabolic degradation will follow the pathways of other proteins, i.e. 
peptide  hydrolysis,  and  therefore  unlikely  to  be  a  candidate  for  pharmacokinetic  drug-drug 
interactions. 
Clinical efficacy  
Clinical documentation of the efficacy and safety of dibotermin alfa /ACS consists of one pivotal trial 
in  open  tibial  shaft  fractures  requiring  surgical  management  (Study  report  C9530-11)  and  a  dose-
finding study in open tibial shaft fractures (C9612-11). In addition to these two studies, the applicant 
has conducted two small-scale pilot studies (C9414-11 and C9320-11) where the emphasis is on safety 
of  the  product.  Several  small-scale  studies  have  evaluated  the  rationale  for  methodology,  endpoints 
and choice of patient population for the pivotal trial. 
The  maximum  feasible  concentration  of  dibotermin  alfa 
to  be  1.5  mg/ml.  
Higher concentrations have been found to lead to precipitation when the active substance is added to 
the collagen sponge. This is important, since the clinical trial results cannot conclude that 1.5 mg/ml is 
the optimal concentration, although it has shown to be superior to the 0.75 mg/ml concentration. 
is  noted 
Dose response study 
Study report C9612-11: A dose finding study of dibotermin alfa /ACS in open tibial shaft fractures 
requiring  surgical  management  and  intramedullary  (IM)  nailing.  This  was  a  multicentre  (n=10) 
randomised, single-masked, dose-finding, stratified controlled study. The objectives were to evaluate 
the  safety  of dibotermin  alfa  /ACS,  to  identify  the  optimal  dibotermin  alfa    dose  that  will  prevent  a 
delayed union of open tibial shaft fractures, to assess the time to radiographic fracture union, and to 
evaluate  the  potential  economic  benefit  of  treatment.  Patients  were  randomised  to  standard  surgical 
treatment or standard treatment plus one of two dibotermin alfa  doses (0.75 mg/ml or 1.5 mg/ml) at 
the  time  of  definitive  wound  closure.  Patients  were  followed  for  12  months  after  definitive  wound 
closure. 
Sixty  patients  were  planned,  59  were  assessed  for  efficacy  and  60  were  evaluated  for  safety.  
There  were  19  patients  evaluable  for  efficacy  in the  control  group,  20  in  the  0.75  mg/ml  group  and  
20 in the 1.5 mg/ml group. 
Based on current knowledge, it appears that the assumptions behind sample size determination for this 
dose-finding study were unrealistic and the study was underpowered to detect differences between the 
standard and standard plus dibotermin alfa /ACS treatment groups.  
10/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Main study C9530-11 
1. 
Description of the study 
This is a multinational, multicentre, prospective, single-blind, stratified, randomised, controlled Phase 
III  study  of  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  in  open  tibial  shaft  fractures  requiring 
surgical management (treatment with intramedullary nailing - IM - nailing).  
An appropriate statement regarding GCP compliance has been attached to the final study report. 
The  primary  objectives  of  the  study  were  to  demonstrate  that  in  at  least  one  of  the  two  treatment 
groups in which dibotermin alfa /ACS (0.75 mg/ml or 1.5 mg/ml) was added to the standard of care 
(SOC) at the time of Definitive Wound Closure (DWC): 
• 
• 
An increased assurance of fracture healing in patients treated with dibotermin alfa /ACS 
The safety of dibotermin alfa /ACS 
The secondary objectives were as follows: 
• 
To  demonstrate  that  the  rate  of  fracture  healing  at  6  months  is  higher  among  patients  who 
receive dibotermin alfa /ACS as compared to SOC 
To  demonstrate  that  the  independent  radiographic  assessment  of  fracture  union  is  observed 
earlier among patients who receive dibotermin alfa /ACS as compared to SOC 
To evaluate the potential economic benefit compared to SOC 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  proportion  of  patients  who  require  a  secondary 
intervention  to  promote  fracture  healing  within  12  months  of  DWC.  All  surgical  procedures 
performed  to  promote  fracture  healing  after  DWC  were  considered  secondary  interventions 
(such procedures included augmentation bone grafting with autograft or allograft, or bone graft 
substitutes,  IM  nail  dynamisation,  exchange  nailing,  or  exchange  to  external  fixation).  
In  addition,  noninvasive  treatments  (ultrasound,  magnetic  field  or  electrical  stimulation)  were 
considered  secondary  interventions.  Patients  with  hardware  failure  resulting  in  dynamisation 
were counted as treatment failures 
To check for potential bias in the assessment of fracture union, the investigator's assessment was to be 
compared  with  the  independent  radiographic  assessment.  A  combined  clinical  and  radiographic 
endpoint  (CCRE)  analysis  was  performed,  incorporating  both  the  investigator's  and  the  independent 
radiology panel's assessments. This endpoint combines 2 independent sets of outcomes: 
1.  
• 
• 
2.  
• 
• 
Investigator's assessment: 
no secondary intervention recommended and/or performed (success) 
secondary intervention recommended and/or performed (failure) 
Independent radiographic assessment: 
fracture united (success) 
not united (failure) 
The secondary efficacy variables were as follows: 
• 
Clinical  -  rate  of  fracture  healing  at  6  months:  The  proportion  of  patients  healed  without 
secondary  intervention.  This  variable  was  based  on  investigator's  clinical  and  radiological 
assessment:  radiographic  fracture  union  as  assessed  by  investigator,    full  weight  bearing,  
no tenderness at the fracture site upon palpation. 
Independent radiographic assessment - time to fracture union: Three radiologists blinded to 
treatment assignment.  
Pharmacoeconomic 
• 
• 
Patient  treatment  assignments  were  stratified  by  Gustilo  fracture  classification  at  the  time  of 
randomisation.  Stratum  A  consisted  of  Gustilo  Grade  I,  II  and  IIIA.  Stratum  B  consisted  of  Gustilo 
Grade  IIIB  fractures.  This  prospective  stratification  was  justified  on  the  basis  of  study  C9402-11 
where the rate of secondary interventions was substantially higher in Gustilo IIIB fractures compared 
11/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  less  severe  grades.  Only  patients  with  high  risk  of  amputation  (Gustilo  IIIC)  were  excluded.  
Patients were followed up for 12 months after DWC. 
IM nails are used more frequently and were the standard treatment for patients in this study. Use of a 
larger  diameter  nail  requires  enlargement  of  the  intramedullary  canal  (IM  reaming).  The  effect  of 
reaming is uncertain, but benefit in terms of fracture healing has been described. As there is no clear 
consensus  about  the  use  of  reaming  in  open  tibial  shaft  fractures,  both  reamed  and  unreamed  nail 
insertion techniques were included in the study. 
The  total  dose  of  dibotermin  alfa    was  6  mg  or  12  mg.  In  line  with  the  experience  from  the  pilot 
studies, the use of dibotermin alfa /ACS in the treatment of open tibial shaft fractures is limited to one 
unit. The choice of control group (standard of care) is acceptable. Since ACS alone has not been found 
to  possess  osteoinductive  properties  in  preclinical  experiments,  the  omission  of  a  "placebo"  (ACS 
matrix plus buffer)  is acceptable. Had a "placebo" group been included, the SOC control group would 
still  have  been  necessary,  effectively  preventing  the  conduct  of  the  study  under  double-blind 
conditions.  
The method of implantation, the amount of ACS used, the location of ACS relative to tibia and bone 
circumference covered by ACS were well balanced in the 0.75 mg/ml and 1.5 mg/ml dibotermin alfa 
/ACS treatment groups. 
The study evaluations occurred at 7 postoperative time points at 6, 10, 14, 20, 26, 39, and 50 weeks. 
Treatment was administered within 24 hours of randomisation. 
2. 
Statistical analysis 
For  the  purpose  of  sample  size  estimation,  a  conservative  rate  of  recommendation  for  secondary 
interventions  (35%)  was  projected  for  the  SOC  group  (based  on  study  C9402-11).  Under  these 
conditions, a  sample of  120  patients per treatment  group  would  give  >80%  power to  detect an  18% 
difference in the rate of recommendation for secondary interventions using a two-sided Fisher's exact 
test.  The primary analysis was based on the ITT population. A second analysis was performed on the 
evaluable  patient  population  (patients  who  underwent  the  assigned  treatment  within  14  days  of  the 
initial injury, had no major protocol violations, and had a verifiable study outcome). 
Two analyses of the CCRE endpoint were performed. In the first analysis, patients with no secondary 
intervention  and  united  (category  1)  and  patients  with  no  secondary  intervention  and  not  united 
(category  2)  were  considered  successes.  In  the  second,  more  conservative  analysis,  only  category  
1 patients was considered a success.  
3. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
Altogether  49  investigators  from  11  countries  participated  in  the  study,  and  450  patients  were 
randomised. Of the 450 patients, 150 were randomized to the standard of care (SOC) group, 151 were 
randomized  to  the  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  group,  and  149  were  randomized  to  the  1.50 
dibotermin alfa /ACS group. A total of 421 of the 450 randomized patients (94%) completed the final 
study visit. Nineteen of the 29 patients (66%) who did not complete the study were lost to follow-up. 
Seven patients withdrew at the patient’s or investigator’s request and 3 patients died during the study. 
A total of 437 (97%) patients received their randomized treatment: 149 patients in the SOC group, 147 
patients in the 0.75 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS group, and 141 patients in the 1.50 dibotermin alfa 
/ACS group. At the time of randomisation, 85% of the patients were in Stratum A and 15% in Stratum 
B. The ITT population consisted of 437 patients, and the evaluable population of 404 patients. 
Although there was a statistically significant difference among treatment groups for patient age, with 
younger  patients  in  the  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  group  as  compared  with  the  SOC  and  
0.75 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS groups (P = 0.0243 and P = 0.0202, respectively), the difference was 
not clinically meaningful. It appears likely that 1) there were very few postmenopausal female patients 
and 2) there were few elderly patients, male or female (actually only 14 patients were at least 65 years 
of  age).  A  great  majority  (>70%)  of  the  patients  were  Caucasian.  There  was  a  slightly  higher 
proportion of patients with smoking history in the dibotermin alfa /ACS groups compared to controls, 
12/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
but this is unlikely to be of clinical significance. Less than 3% of the patient population had diabetes. 
Approximately 58% of the population had isolated tibia fractures. Most injuries were caused by a high 
energy  trauma  and  61%  were  motor-vehicle  accidents.    Most  fractures  (85%)  were  classified  as 
Gustilo Grade I, II, or IIIA (stratum A). There were more Gustilo IIIB fractures in the dibotermin alfa 
/ACS  groups,  but  the  difference  among  groups  was  not  statistically  significant.  The  distribution  of 
fractures  by  AO  classification  also  was  similar  among  treatment  groups.  Most  fractures  in  all  
3 treatment groups were between the middle and distal third of the tibia and the fracture location was 
similarly distributed across treatment groups.  
Efficacy results  
4. 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint:  Rate  of  secondary  interventions  within  12  months  after  Definitive 
Wound  Closure:  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  evaluated  for  the  ITT  and  evaluable  patient 
populations. Patients in the SOC group had a higher rate of secondary intervention (46%) than patients 
in  the  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  treatment  groups  (37%  and  26%  for  the  0.75  and  1.50  mg/ml  groups, 
respectively);  the  difference  among  treatment  groups  reflects  a  dose-dependent  effect  and  was 
statistically  significant  (P  =  0.0017,  chi-square  test).  Pairwise  comparison  of  the  difference  between 
the  SOC  and  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  groups  was  highly  significant  (P  =  0.0005,  Fisher’s 
exact  test).  The  rate  of  secondary  interventions  in  the  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  group  was 
lower  than  that  in  the  SOC  group;  however,  the  difference  between  groups  was  not  statistically 
significant  (P  =  0.1162,  Fisher’s  exact  test).  Patients  treated  with  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS 
had a 44% reduced risk for secondary intervention to promote fracture healing compared with patients 
in the SOC group (RR = 0.56; 95% CI = 0.40 to 0.78). 
Results for the primary efficacy endpoint analysis in the evaluable patient population were similar to 
those for the ITT population.  
The rate of secondary interventions in the standard of care control group is somewhat higher than the 
expected 35%. Although  dose-dependence of clinical  effect cannot  be deduced from  two  points, the 
results  do  suggest  a  trend  of  increasing  efficacy  towards  the  higher  1.5  mg/ml  concentration. 
According to the applicant, 1.5 mg/ml is the highest feasible concentration since precipitation has been 
found to occur above this.  
Examination  of  subgroups  for  primary  endpoint:  Demographic  and  baseline  comorbidity:  To 
establish  whether  demographic  characteristics  influenced  treatment  outcomes,  the  rate  of  secondary 
interventions by age, sex, race and smoking history were examined. Within each of these subgroups, 
the results of the primary efficacy analysis were similar to the entire ITT population.  
The nails were inserted using a reaming procedure in 33% of all patients. The percentage of patients 
with reamed nails was lowest in the SOC group (27%) and highest in the 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa 
/ACS group (41%); the difference between these 2  groups was statistically significant (P = 0.0131). 
This imbalance appears to be attributable to an imbalance at some centers in patients randomized to 
the  SOC,  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /  ACS,  and  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  groups,  which 
coincided with those centers’ preferred use of reamed nails in a majority of their patients, independent 
of  treatment  group.  More  patients  randomized  to  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  were  entered  in 
centers  using primarily reamed  nails. In contrast, an evaluation of the  distribution by center of SOC 
patients  reveals  that  more  were  recruited  at  centers  using  unreamed  nails.  This  baseline  imbalance 
seen in the ITT population was not statistically significant for  the randomized and evaluable  patient 
populations.  In  each  of  the  3  treatment  groups,  the  median  IM  nail  diameter  was  9  mm.  Over  all 
treatment  groups,  88%  of  the  IM  nails  were  statically  locked;  this  proportion  was  consistent  across 
treatment groups. 
Primary efficacy variable: analysis according to nail type (reamed vs unreamed) 
As  noted  previously,  the  proportion  of  subjects  receiving  reamed  IM  nails  was  higher  in  the  
1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS group compared to control group (standard of care). According to 
the pivotal study report, dibotermin alfa /ACS was more effective than SOC only in the subgroup of 
patients who received an unreamed IM nail. Overall, the results were better in the subgroup of patients 
13/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who received reamed nails, but dibotermin alfa /ACS did not provide improvement over SOC in this 
subgroup.  
The  applicant  confirms  in  the  response  that  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  was  not  better  than  SOC  in  the 
subgroup  of  patients  who  received  reamed  IM  nail.  The  rate  of  secondary  intervention  (primary 
efficacy endpoint) was the same in the SOC and dibotermin alfa  groups (24%). Furthermore, although 
not  statistically  significant,  there  was  a  trend  (p=0.08)  in  the  post  hoc  logistic  regression  analysis 
suggesting  nail  type  and  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  treatment  interaction  with  respect  to  the  primary 
efficacy endpoint. The odds ratio of secondary intervention for delayed union was significantly lower 
in patients who received reamed IM nails compared to unreamed nails (0.55, 95% CI 0.35-0.86).   
Both  the  protocol  defined  and  post  hoc  analyses  (requested  by  the  CPMP)  suggest  that  the  clinical 
benefit is mainly observed in patients who receive unreamed IM nail. However, it is recognised that 
the  study  was  not  powered  for  subgroup  analyses.  Furthermore,  although  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint  analysis  does  not  confirm  efficacy  in  the  important  subgroup  of  patients  who  received 
reamed  IM  nails,  several  secondary  efficacy  variables  (acceleration  of  fracture  healing,  reduction  in 
the rate of hardware failure, acceleration of soft tissue healing) are favourable. In conclusion, the data 
do not suggest that the indication should be limited to tibia fractures treated with unreamed IM nails. 
The  SPC  states  that  the  rate  of  secondary  intervention  was  not  reduced  by  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS 
compared to standard of care in patients who received reamed IM nail. 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoint:  Clinical  -  rate  of  fracture  healing  at  6  months:  Fracture  healing 
status  at  6  months  (Visit  7)  for  each  patient  was  determined  based  on  clinical  and  radiographic 
assessments performed by the investigator. There was a dose-dependent increase in the rate of fracture 
healing. The higher rate of fracture healing observed in the 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS group 
(58.2%)  compared  with  the  other  2  treatment  groups  (0.75  mg/ml  41.9%,  SOC  37.6%  healed)  was 
statistically  significant  (P  =  0.0013).  Pairwise  comparisons  revealed  statistically  significant 
differences between the 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS group compared with the SOC (P = 0.0008) 
and 0.75 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS groups (P = 0.0082). For the purpose of this analysis, patients 
who were not yet healed at 6 months comprised those who already required a secondary intervention 
and those who were recommended follow-up care with no intervention. 
Combined clinical and radiographic endpoint (CCRE): This secondary endpoint was developed to 
assess outcomes by taking into consideration both the investigators' and independent radiology panel's 
assessments. The CCRE analysis was performed in an expanded patient data set comprising the ITT 
population and the non-ITT patients who were treated. The four different outcome categories analysed 
are shown in Table 11.4.1.5.2-1. 
14/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Two analyses of the CCRE were performed, comparing successes with failures. In the first analysis, 
patients  in  the  first  and  second  categories  (no  secondary  intervention  and  united,  no  secondary 
intervention  and  not  united)  were  scored  as  treatment  successes  and  all  other  patients  as  treatment 
failures.  In  this  analysis,  the  difference  in  success  rates  among  treatment  groups  was  statistically 
significant  (P  =  0.0027,  chi-square  test).  Pairwise  comparison  of  the  difference  between  the  73% 
success  rate  for  the  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  group  and  the  54%  success  rate  for  the  SOC 
group was statistically significant (P = 0.0009, Fisher’s exact test).  
In the second, more conservative analysis only patients in the first category (no secondary intervention 
and united) were scored as treatment successes and all other patients were scored as treatment failures. 
In  this  analysis,  the  difference  in  success  rates  among  treatment  groups  also  was  statistically 
significant (P = 0.0114, chi-square test), as was the pairwise comparison between the 
1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  and  SOC  groups  (success  rates  of  64%  and  47%,  respectively;  
P = 0.0042, Fisher’s exact test). 
Internal  validity  of the study has also  been  examined to  address  the issue of  presence  or absence of 
bias  in  the  study  and  the  evidence  points  to  consistent  results  supporting  the  conclusion  that  study 
conduct  and  primary  outcome  determination  were  not  biased.  The  most  important  findings  are  as 
follows: 
• 
• 
A centralised, automated block randomisation procedure was used 
An  independent  radiology  panel,  blinded  to  treatment  assignment  reviewed  the  radiographs. 
High  concordance  was  found  between  clinical  diagnosis  and  blinded  independent  radiology 
review.  Patients  without  recommendations  for  secondary  intervention  were  consistently 
considered  united  by  the  radiology  panel.  Similarly,  patients  with  recommendations  for 
secondary  intervention  were  consistently  considered  not  united  by  the  radiology  panel  at  the 
time the recommendation was made. Atlhough these analyses were secondary, they support the 
primary efficacy variable analysis. 
The  imbalance  observed  in  the  rate  of  outpatient  rehabilitation  (clearly  more  frequently 
prescribed in the 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS group compared to control group) could be a 
chance finding. Although the latter cannot be verified, it is important to note that no significant 
interaction  was  found  between  the  prescription  of  outpatient  rehabilitation  and  efficacy  of  the 
product  with  respect  to  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  (Breslow-Day  test)  and  the  overall 
treatment  effect  was  confirmed  in  the  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  test  identifying  patients  with 
and without outpatient rehabilitation. 
• 
15/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
The  imbalance  observed  in  the  distribution  of  reaming  procedure  (reamed  vs.  non-reamed 
intramedullary nailing) in the treatment groups (more frequent in the dibotermin alfa /ACS 1.50 
mg/ml  group  than  in  the  control  group)  appears  to  be  the  result  of  the  central  randomisation 
system. Centres that enrolled a higher proportion of patients in the 1.50 mg/ml group were also 
centres  that  primarily  used  reamed  IM  nails.  However,  within  those  centres  which  used 
predominantly  reamed  IM  nails,  there  was  no  noticeable  imbalance  between  the  treatment 
groups,  suggesting  that  the  choice  of  fixation  method  was  not  affected  by  treatment  group 
allocation. Hence,  the  likelihood of  bias caused  by knowledge  of  treatment  allocation appears 
small.  The  possible  impact  of  this  imbalance  as  a  confounding  factor  on  efficacy  results  is 
discussed below. 
The  fact  that  the  time  to  recommendation  for  secondary  intervention  was  similar  across 
treatment group and that there was good concordance between prescription and performance of 
secondary interventions suggest absence of meaningful bias.  
The treatment effect was dose-dependent and consistent across a number of subgroup analyses, 
including  analysis  by  geographical  region  and  risk  factors  (smoking  and  Gustilo-Andersen 
type).  
Secondary  efficacy  endpoint:  Independent  radiographic  assessment  -  time  from  definitive 
fracture  fixation  to  fracture  union:  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the 
treatment  groups  in  the  time  to  independent  radiographic  assessment  of  fracture  union.  The  median 
time to fracture union was 275, 271, and 271 days for the SOC, 0.75 mg/ml and 1.5 mg/ml groups. 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  Pharmacoeconomic:  Initial  hospitalisations  were  evaluated  to 
establish comparability between treatment groups. The incidence and duration was similar across the 
groups.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  inpatient  rehabilitation  prescribed  after  the  initial 
hospitalisation was similar across groups. However, a statistically significant number of patients in 1.5 
mg/ml group (37%) had outpatient rehabilitation prescribed as compared with the SOC group (22%). 
This imbalance appears to be driven by differences in prescribed rehabilitation at specific centres, but 
could bias the results in favour of dibotermin alfa /ACS. 
Rate of secondary and subsequent interventions to promote healing: This measure of health resource 
consumption  was  expected  to  closely  relate  to  the  primary  efficacy  measure.  It  differs,  however,  in 
two respects: it captures only interventions actually performed and considers overall procedures. In the 
ITT  population,  there  was  a  dose-dependent  trend  towards  a  decrease  in  the  overall  number  of 
procedures  that  was  caused  by  a  decrease  in  the  number  of  most  invasive  interventions  
(Table  11.4.1.4.2-1).  Some  of  the  procedures  required  hospitalisation.  This  resulted  in  317  hospital 
days for patients in the SOC group compared to 185 days in the 1.5 mg/ml group. 
16/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
These data are important in showing that 1) the rate of both invasive and less invasive procedures was 
lower  in  the  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  groups  compared  to  SOC,  although  the  difference  was  not 
statistically significant with regard to less invasive procedures, and 2) the division of interventions into 
invasive and less invasive within the threatment groups is similar.  
Secondary  endpoint:  Time  from  definitive  fracture  fixation  to  fracture  healing:  There  were 
statistically significant, and clinically meaningful, differences between treatment groups in the time to 
fracture healing, with earlier healing in the 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS group compared with the 
SOC  group  (P  =  0.0022  [Wilcoxon];  P  =  0.0595  [log  rank])  and  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS 
group  (P  =  0.0127  [Wilcoxon];  P  =  0.0407  [log  rank]).  A  50%  probability  of  fracture  healing  was 
observed  at  184,  187,  and  145  days  in  SOC,  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS,  and  1.50  mg/ml 
dibotermin alfa /ACS groups, respectively. However, the median time to clinical decision of healing 
was  138  days in the 1.5 mg/ml group,  157  days in the 0.75 mg/ml group, and 155 days in the SOC 
group. Here the clinical relevance of the difference is less obvious.  
It  is  agreed  that  there  is  medical  need  to  improve  treatment  results  in  long  bone  fractures  requiring 
open  surgical  reduction  and  IM  nail  fixation  and  also  that  tibia  fractures  are  the  most  demanding 
model  for  new  treatments.  However,  tibia  fractures  tend  to  heal  more  slowly  and  delayed  union  or 
non-union are more frequent in fractures of the tibia compared to other long bone fracture. Therefore, 
the  question  is  left  open  whether  use  of  this  medicinal  product  would  offer  any  clinically  relevant 
advantage  over  standard  of  care  in  fractures  which  heal  more  rapidly.  The  claim  for  a  broader 
indication  would  have  to  be  substantiated  with  data.  The  indication  is  therefore  restricted  to  the 
following: 
“InductOs is indicated in the treatment of acute tibia fractures in adults, as an adjunct to standard care 
using open fracture reduction and IM nail fixation.”  
Clinical studies in special populations 
There is very limited experience with the use of dibotermin alfa /ACS in children and elderly patients. 
Sections  4.2  (Posology)  and  4.3  (Contraindications;  for  children)  of  the  SPC  have  been  revised  to 
reflect this.  
Experience with the use of dibotermin alfa /ACS in diabetic patients is limited. Results up to now do 
not indicate an increased risk for retinopathy in diabetic patients. 
The use of dibotermin alfa /ACS in patients with osteoporosis or age-related osteopenia should be safe 
because dibotermin alfa /ACS, when applied to long-bone diaphyseal fractures, does not increase the 
risk of bone resorption. However a statement in the warning section of the SPC that the product should 
17/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not  be  used  for  direct  applications  to  trabecular  when  bone  resorption  may  create  a  risk  of  bone 
fragility has been added.  
Subgroup analyses and exploratory analysis performed across trials 
Fracture and wound characteristics: Subgroup analyses of the primary endpoint were also done by 
Gustilo  strata  and  AO  classification,  and  the  presence  of  gap  following  fracture  reduction.  In  the 
analysis of patients in stratum A (Gustilo I-IIIA), the rate of secondary intervention was statistically 
significantly  lower  in  the  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  group  (23%)  compared  with  the  SOC 
(41%)  and  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  (35%)  groups  (P  =  0.0026  and  0.0438,  respectively; 
Fisher’s  exact  test).  For  patients  with  more  severe  fractures  (stratum  B;  Gustilo  IIIB),  the  rates  of 
secondary  intervention  were  also  statistically  significantly  lower  in  the  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa 
/ACS  group  (42%)  and  the  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  group  (45%)  compared  with  the  SOC 
group (88%) (P = 0.0074 and P = 0.0157, respectively; Fisher’s exact test). AO classification did not 
appear  to  be  a  strong  predictor  of  outcome.  The  failure  rate  in  SOC  patients  with  type  A,  B  or  C 
fractures did not show a progression from less to more severe.  Overall, the presence of a post fracture 
reduction  gap  was  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  secondary  intervention.  In  the  SOC  group, 
patients  who  were  left  after  fracture  reduction  with  a  gap  >2mm  had  twice  as  many  secondary 
interventions to promote fracture healing as compared with SOC  patients with no gap (P = 0.0129). 
However,  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  appears  to  affect  healing  and  decrease  the  rate  of  secondary 
interventions irrespective of the presence of a post reduction gap. 
The  results  of  primary  efficacy  variable  analysis  according  to  nail  type  (reamed,  nonreamed)  has 
already been discussed above.  
Time from definitive fracture fixation to clinical decision of secondary intervention was similar in 
the three treatment groups (105 to 107 days).  This is suggested to show that no bias was introduced in 
assessment of patient status and recommending secondary interventions.  
The  number  of  secondary  interventions  that  were  recommended  but  not  performed  was  low  and 
similarly distributed among the groups. There were no patients with a clinical outcome of secondary 
intervention who met the criteria of a healed patient at the time of the decision. 
An analysis of investigator treatment interaction has been subsequently presented and. the results do 
not suggest that the treatment effect was different across countries/centres. 
A total of 11 patients had diabetes, 10 of these had a clinical outcome. The rate of outcomes was 75% 
in the SOC group and 50% in the 1.5 mg/ml group.  
The  rate  of  secondary  interventions  has  been  analysed  according  to  NSAID  and  corticosteroid  use. 
Only 16 patients used corticosteroids and the results do not allow a clear conclusion (20-33% rate of 
secondary  interventions,  no  dose-related  trend).  Altogether  151  patients  used  NSAIDs.  The  rate  of 
secondary interventions in these patients decreased with increasing dibotermin alfa /ACS  dose: 60% 
(SOC), 45% (0.75 mg/ml), and 39% (1.5 mg/ml). The relatively high rate of secondary interventions 
in  patients  who  used  NSAIDs  regardless  of  treatment  group  is  noteworthy.  NSAIDs  may  impair 
fracture healing. 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  has  been  evaluated  in  altogether  13  studies.  For  the  Integrated 
Summary  of  Safety  (ISS),  two  separate  data  sets  were  generated.  The  first  includes  the  orthopaedic 
trauma studies (long-bone fracture data set). The second includes all GI sponsored studies (all-studies 
data  set).  The  five  studies  included  in  the  long-bone  data  set  are  C9320-11,  C9414-11,  C9530-11 
(pivotal phase III trial), C9612-11, and C9828-11, all evaluating the safety of the medicinal product in 
patients with open tibial shaft fractures. 
18/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
The  long-bone  fracture  data  set  comprises  588  patients.  A  total  of  202  patients  were  treated  with 
standard of care (SOC), 12 with 0.43 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS, 172 with 0.75 mg/ml and 202 with 
1.50 mg/ml. 
The all-studies data set comprises 1000 patients, and includes 348 patients who received 1.50 mg/ml 
dibotermin alfa /ACS, 239 patients treated with 0.75 mg/ml, and 48 patients treated with 0.43 mg/ml. 
The proposed dibotermin alfa /ACS concentration for clinical use is 1.50 mg/ml. 
Long-bone fracture data set 
No  patients  were  withdrawn  from  studies  due  to  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  complications.  The  average 
follow-up was 45 weeks. The patients were predominantly under 65 years of age (97%), male (81%) 
and Caucasian (67%).  
The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  (reported  by  at  least  10%)  are  representative  of  the 
morbidity observed in the trauma setting (pain, oedema, anaemia) (Table 4.3.1-1). The frequency of 
these AEs was similar across treatment groups with the exception of pain (more frequent in the SOC 
group compared to dibotermin alfa /ACS groups). 
Adverse  events  reported  in  <10%,  but  more  than  10  patients  (>1.7%)  also  were  consistent  with  the 
morbidity  associated  with  trauma  setting.  The  frequency  of  AEs  in  this  category  was  similar  across 
groups with two exceptions: tachycardia and increased serum amylase occurred more frequently in the 
dibotermin alfa /ACS compared to controls. A total of 4, 11, and 11 patients in the SOC, 0.75 mg/ml, 
and 1.50 mg/ml groups, respectively, reported tachycardia (overall in 2% of patients in the SOC group 
and 6% in the combined dibotermin alfa /ACS groups). The events were graded mild to moderate and 
resolved  without  sequelae.  The  tachycardia  was  correlated  to  concurrent  anaemia  and/or  fever 
19/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
secondary  to  trauma.  Patients  who  experienced  increased  amylasaemia  did  not  show  overt  signs  of 
pancreatitis.  A  total  of  6,  21,  and  10  patients  in  the  SOC,  0.75  mg/ml,  and  1.50  mg/ml  groups, 
respectively,  experienced  increased  amylasaemia.  Two  additional  patients  (1  in  the  SOC  and  1  in  
0.75  mg/ml group)  were identified in the all-studies data set.  This  finding has been attributed  to the 
trauma setting. The overall frequency of increased amylasaemia was 3% in the SOC group and 8% in 
the combined dibotermin alfa /ACS groups. No dose- response effect was observed. This issue, as well 
as cases of pancreatitis, will remain under close surveillance. 
The  updated  data  with  regard  to  cardiovascular  reactions,  including  tachycardia,  do  not  suggest  that 
these reactions are related to the use of dibotermin alfa /ACS. 
Twenty-eight Grade 4 (life-threatening) adverse events were reported. The most frequent Grade 4 AE 
was anaemia.  
The frequency of serious AEs was similar in the SOC (42%) and dibotermin alfa /ACS groups (38%).  
Five deaths were reported in this data set, one patient randomised to SOC and 4 patients randomised to 
dibotermin alfa /ACS. All cases were considered unrelated to administration of dibotermin alfa /ACS.  
Six  patients  underwent  amputation  of  the  limb  under  study.  Three  of  these  patients  received 
dibotermin alfa /ACS before amputation. Five of the cases were considered unrelated to treatment. In 
one case, the relationship to dibotermin alfa /ACS was reported as unknown.  
Overall, the patients treated with dibotermin alfa /ACS had fewer instances of hardware failure when 
compared to SOC, and fewer patients experienced delayed union or nonunion. Hypertrophic callus or 
soft tissue calcification was reported in 3% of patients. The ISS data set does not suggest an increased 
risk of hypertrophic callus or soft tissue calcification compared to SOC.  
In contrast, the pivotal efficacy and safety study showed, quite expectedly, that hypertrophic callus or 
local  heterotopic  ossification  was  more  frequent  following  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  implantation.  
The frequency in the SOC group was 2.7% and in the 1.50 mg/ml group it was 5.5%. Furthermore, it 
should  be  noted  that  patients  with  a  history  of  heterotopic  ossification  were  excluded  from  clinical 
studies. 
Twenty-five  percent  of  patients  evaluated  in  this  data  set  for  the  region  under  study  developed 
infections. Of these, 20% required administration of antibiotics and 8% required surgery. There was 
no difference in the frequency of infection across treatment groups.  
Soft  tissue  healing  complications  (e.g.  delayed  wound  healing,  discharge,  erythema,  necrosis, 
inflammation) were equally distributed in the SOC and dibotermin alfa /ACS treatment groups.  
In  the  long  bone  fracture  studies  dataset,  the  frequency  of  soft  tissue  healing  complications  
(e.g.  delayed  healing,  discharge,  erythema,  necrosis,  inflammation)  were  equally  distributed  in  the 
treatment groups. The higher incidence of ”healing abnormal”, wound draining and oozing in one of 
the studies is a cause of some concern. However, this could be related to pharmacological activity of 
dibotermin alfa  with resulting oedema and extravasation of fluid.  
Compartment  syndrome  was  not  reported,  but  one  patient  treated  with  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS 
underwent fasciotomy after definitive wound closure.  
The updated integrated summary of safety shows that the frequency of hypesthesia is not significantly 
higher in dibotermin alfa /ACS treated patients compared to controls. However, the frequency remains 
slightly  higher  (10.7%  vs.  7.1%).  The  severity  of  trauma  (and  differences  in  the  severity  between 
treatment  groups)  and  resulting  oedema/compression  is  thought  to  be  the  most  likely  explanation.  
No  clear  association  was  found  between  hypesthesia  and  inflammation,  heterotopic  ossification  or 
antibody response. 
20/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All-studies data set 
The  average  follow-up  was  54  weeks.  The  majority  of  patients  were  under  65  years  of  age  (94%), 
male (69%) and Caucasian (72%). 
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  (at  least  10%  of  patients)  were  pain,  oedema,  anaemia,  and 
hyperglycaemia. With the exception of pain, oedema, and rash (erythema) which were observed more 
frequently in SOC patients, the frequency of AEs was similar across treatment groups.  
The  incidence  of  tachycardia  and  increased  amylasaemia  was  not  significantly  different  across 
treatment groups in this larger data set. The increased amylasaemia is thought to reflect the patients’ 
trauma  status.  The  high  incidence  of  hyperglycemia  is  largely  a  result  of  postoperative  fluid 
replacement. 
With regard to AEs reported in <10% of patients, but in more than 10 patients (>1%), headache was 
reported by a statistically significant higher percentage of patients treated with dibotermin alfa /ACS 
when compared to SOC.  By treatment group, 7% of SOC patients, 12% of 0.75 mg/ml patients and 
10% of 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS treated patients reported headache.  
All deaths and Grade 4 AEs were reported in the long-bone fracture data set. Serious adverse events 
were evenly distributed cross treatment groups.  
Malignancies 
An  updated  review  of  all  reported  cases  of  cancer  or  other  malignancies  in  all  patients  enrolled  in 
dibotermin alfa /ACS studies sponsored by Genetics Institute up to 15 September 2001. 
This  evaluation  includes  1250  patients,  with  a  cumulative  follow-up  of  1744  years.    A  total  of  
517 patients were enrolled in control groups, 28 received only the ACS matrix, and 705 patients were 
enrolled in dibotermin alfa  treatment groups. 
Of  the  517  patients  enrolled  in  control  groups,  6  patients  (1%)  reported  6  cases  of  malignancy.   
Of  705  patients  enrolled  in  dibotermin  alfa  -treatment  groups,  7  patients  (1%)  reported  9  cases  of 
malignancy.    No  case  was  reported  in  any  of  the  28  patients  who  received  the  ACS  alone.   
Of the 9 cases reported by dibotermin alfa -treated patients, 3 occurred either before treatment or at 
short  intervals  after  exposure  to  dibotermin  alfa    (<52  weeks).    This  makes  drug-related 
carcinogenicity  unlikely.    No  reports  of  malignancy  have  been  received  for  patients  in  the  pivotal 
study, C9530-11. 
Thirteen  (13)  of  15  cases  reported  were  found  in  patients  enrolled  in  dental  craniofacial  or  in 
orthopedic  nontrauma  studies.    This  observation  is  consistent  with  the  older  patient  population 
enrolled in these studies and the longer follow-up required by these studies.  There are various types of 
malignancies  reported,  which  are  generally  representative  of  those  observed  in  this  older  patient 
population:  6  skin cancers  (including 1  melanoma),  4 breast  cancers, 2  prostate  cancers,  1  cancer  of 
abdominal lining cells, 1 multiple myeloma, and 1 brain tumor.  None of the cancers appeared at the 
site of product implantation, and there is no indication that their development was unusual.  The low 
number of cases observed does not allow for an accurate calculation of the incidence index for any one 
of them.  
Data on the occurrence of malignancies seem to be reassuring, with no indication of an increased risk 
of cancer in patients exposed to dibotermin alfa /ACS. However, total follow-up is still relatively short 
for most patients. Therefore postmarketing periodic safety updates will specially address this issue of 
the occurrence malignancies.  
Due  to  the  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  dibotermin  alfa  ,  use  of  the  product  must  be 
contraindicated in the vicinity of any tumor or metastasis. The limited data available so far (including 
tumor  incidence  in  control  and  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  groups  and  tumor  types)  does  not  suggest  an 
increased incidence relative to general population. However, the available database is too small to be 
conclusive. The concerns with regard to oncogenic potential of dibotermin alfa  have been outlined in 
the preclinical assessment report. 
21/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality of bone 
Bone biopsies were obtained systematically only in patients enrolled in the oral surgery studies, and 
occasionally  in  a  subset  of  patients  treated  for  long-bone  fractures.  These  samples  indicated  that 
osteoinduction was observed without signs of excessive inflammation or excepssive or abnormal bone 
formation.  No  residual  ACS  was  found  16  weeks  following  implantation.    Unfortunately,  in  the 
pivotal efficacy and safety trial, only a limited number of bone biopsies were performed and only at 
the  time  of  secondary  intervention.  Therefore,  it  is  not  unexpected  that  the  findings  were  consistent 
with fibrous nonunion.  
The  “radiolucent  voids”  that  were  reported  in  dental-craniofacial  studies  were  actually  hypodense 
areas  of  nonmineralized  bone  rather  than  radiolucent  voids.  The  findings  of  hypodense  areas  were 
reported as “radiolucent void” in the clinical studies because the reporting form did not include other 
options  such  as  “hypodense  area.”  Furthermore  this  radiographic  finding  is  quite  different  from  the 
radiographic  findings  observed  in  the  preclinical  program  where,  unlike  in  the  human  radiograph,  
a distinct shell of bone is present at the dibotermin alfa /ACS implantation site. 
The  occurrence  of  adjacent  bone  resorption  (trabecular  or  cortical)  clearly  appears  to  exceed  the 
expected  resorption  taking  place  during  remodelling.  This  finding  has  been  observed  in  both 
preclinical and clinical trials (c.f. C9524-11) and has been reflected in the SPC: it has been mentioned 
that dibotermin alfa /ACS should not be used in the treatment of metaphyseal fractures and should not 
be used to facilitate attachment of endoprosthetic devices. 
Safety in special populations 
Safety of dibotermin alfa /ACS was also analysed in subsets of the population (age, gender, and race). 
No conclusion could be drawn for patients over 65 years of age due to low numbers. In addition, no 
conclusion could be drawn when examining the data by gender since women were more numerous in 
the oral surgery studies and males were more numerous in the long-bone fracture studies. The Black 
population was found to have no increased risks. Administration of dibotermin alfa /ACS in pregnant 
or nursing women and in  children has not been systematically studied. Three patients in the clinical 
trials  became  pregnant  10-582  days  after  administration  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS.  In  one  case  the 
pregnancy was diagnosed 10 days after administration. The patient delivered a full-term healthy baby. 
One of the patients had an elective abortion and the third had 2 uncomplicated pregnancies carried to 
term.  
The very limited experience in elderly patients has been stated in the SPC. The use of the medicinal 
product has been contraindicated during pregnancy. 
Interactions 
The  concomitant use of  glucocorticoids or  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)  was not 
found  to  increase  overall  safety  risks.  However,  patients  taking  NSAIDs  for  more  than  14  days  and 
who  received  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  concomitantly,  experienced  an  increased  frequency  of  mild  to 
moderate healing abnormal AEs when compared with patients receiving dibotermin alfa /ACS without 
concomitant NSAIDs. 
NSAIDs  may  impair  normal  healing  process.  An  interaction  between  NSAIDs  and  dibotermin  alfa 
/ACS leading to impaired efficacy/safety of the medicinal product cannot be excluded. The above data 
are  consistent  with  the  efficacy  results  of  the  pivotal  long-bone  fracture  trial.  In  the  pivotal  trial,  a 
relatively  high  rate  of  secondary  interventions  (to  promote  fracture  healing)  in  patients  who  used 
NSAIDs is noted regardless of the treatment group.  
Immunogenicity 
In  all  studies  combined,  3%  of  patients  had  an  immune  response  to  dibotermin  alfa  .  Almost  all 
patients presenting with an immune response were exposed to dibotermin alfa /ACS. Twenty-three of 
582  (4%)  patients  who  received  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  developed  antibodies  to  dibotermin  alfa  
compared with  2/296 (0.7%)  patients in the SOC group. This difference  was significant (p=0.0045). 
The incidence in the group receiving 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa  was 6%. 
22/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  pivotal  phase  III  trial,  a  dose-dependent  immune  response  to  dibotermin  alfa    was  observed.  
The  number  of  patients  who  developed  antibodies  against  dibotermin  alfa    in  the  SOC,  0.75  mg/ml 
dibotermin  alfa  /ACS,  and  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  groups,  respectively,  were  1  (1%),  
3  (2%),  and  9  (6%).  The  immune  response  was  characterized  by  low  titers  mostly  present  6  weeks 
after definitive fracture fixation and of a transient nature (titers were negative in 10/10 patients with 
samples  available  for  follow-up).  However,  based  on  the  small  data  set,  there  appears  to  be  no 
relationship  between  antibody  responses  and  secondary  interventions  (efficacy)  or  incidence  of 
specific adverse events. However, a larger database would be needed to rule out an impact.  
Anti-bovine Type I collagen antibody responses: For all protocols combined, 14% of patients had 
antibody responses to bovine Type I collagen. Increased levels of circulating antibodies were observed 
in 11% of patients in the SOC group, 7% of the patients treated with buffer/ACS alone, and 15% of all 
patients  in  the  BMP-2/ACS  group.  The  difference  in  the  incidence  of  anti-bovine  Type  I  collagen 
antibodies  in  patients  receiving  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  compared  with  SOC  approached  significance 
(p=0.0610).  To  evaluate  this  trend,  2  analyses  were  performed:  1)  comparing  the  incidence  of  anti-
bovine Type I collagen antibodies in SOC and dibotermin alfa /ACS-treated patients in the long-bone 
and  other  orthopaedic  studies  and  2)  comparing  the  incidence  of  anti-bovine  Type  I  collagen 
antibodies  in  SOC  and  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS-treated  patients  in  the  oral  surgery  studies.  
The  difference  between  SOC  and  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS-treated  patients  in  the  long-bone  and  other 
orthopaedic studies was significant (p=0.0010), the result of this analysis for the oral surgery studies 
was not (p=0.5132). 
A  review  of  the  immune  response  to  dibotermin  alfa    and  to  bovine  Type  I  collagen  in  a  subset  of 
patients  enrolled  in  6  dental  craniofacial  studies  was  also  carried  out.    A  separate  evaluation  of  this 
dental  craniofacial  subgroup  of  patients  was  thought  to  be  relevant  because  they  were  enrolled  in 
studies designed to have a longer follow-up (up to 5 years). There was no time-dependent emergence 
of  manifestations  associated  with  the  presence  of  autobodies  to  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  or  to  bovine 
Type I collagen. 
It is not clear why patients in the SOC group developed antibodies to bovine collagen. A review of the 
medical  history  for  these  patients  indicated  they  were  not  exposed  to  other  medical  products 
containing bovine collagen. Overall, patients receiving 1.50 mg/ml dibotermin alfa /ACS experienced 
a 19% incidence of anti-bovine Type I collagen antibodies. 
No association between the presence of circulating anti-bovine type I collagen antibodies and clinical 
symptoms of an immune/allergy response was noted. Since the bovine type I collagen in the product is 
clearly immunogenic, the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions cannot be ruled out.  
All  of  the  patients  with  positive  titers  to  bovine  type  I  collagen  were  tested  for  the  presence  of  an 
immune response to human type I collagen. Cross-reacting antibodies were not found.  
Thus  far there is no  evidence of an  association  of antibody  response to  dibotermin alfa   and loss of 
efficacy  or  undesirable  effects.  However,  the  current  database  is  too  limited  to  be  conclusive.  
The applicant will continue to address this issue in ongoing studies and post-marketing surveillance.  
The immunogenicity of the product is reflected in the SPC. 
Based on the current database, both the local safety of the product, in terms of adverse events affecting 
the  anatomical  region  of  interest,  and  general  safety  appears  favourable.  The  fact  that  an  increased 
incidence  of  inflammation,  infections  and  wound/soft  tissue  healing  abnormalities  was  not  reported 
compared  to  control  group  in  the  target  population  is  reassuring.  No  deleterious  effect  on  wound 
healing  was  observed,  but  actually  a  potentially  favourable  outcome  in  the  high  dose  group  despite. 
The favourable wound healing profile altogether is also a reflection of the patient population selected 
for the pivotal trial (e.g. the number of diabetic patients was small).  Furthermore, hardware failures 
were clearly less frequent in the dibotermin alfa /ACS 1.5 mg/ml group compared to SOC group.  
23/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  
Viral  Safety  and  Batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  test  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications. Appropriate post-approval commitments related to 
the ACS matrix and the stability testing of the vialed protein have been agreed. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Locally  administered  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  results  in  the  induction  of  new  bone  at  the  site  of 
implantation.  Pharmacodynamic  studies  in  rats,  dogs,  rabbits,  sheep,  goats  and  nonhuman  primates 
were conducted to show the safe and efficacious use of dibotermin alfa /ACS. The submitted in vitro 
data describe several bone forming related effects of dibotermin alfa . From the in vivo studies it can 
be  concluded  that  depending  on  the  dose  of  dibotermin  alfa    used,  new  formed  bone  by  dibotermin 
alfa  /ACS  was  as  strong  as  native  bone.  A  clear  dose-dependent  effect,  however,  was  not  always 
observed.  Furthermore,  in  long-bone  critical-sized  defect  studies,  especially  in  nonhuman  primates, 
the bone formation effect of dibotermin alfa /ACS  was variable and not always reproducible.  
Dibotermin  alfa    is  an  endogenous  protein  which  distribution  is  restricted    to  the  blood 
volume/extracellular volume and dibotermin alfa  is rapidly degraded in the liver and excreted via the 
kidneys.  After  implantation  0.1  %  of  the  implanted  dose  is  released  systemically.  The  half  life  of 
dibotermin alfa  is approximately 15 minutes. 
The  toxicity  of  rhBMP  was  studied  in  rats  and  dogs  either  by  i.v.  injection  or  by  a  dibotermin  alfa 
/ACS implants. The only effects observed were related to the pharmacodynamic action of dibotermin 
alfa  ,  i.e.  bone  formation.  Antibodies  to  dibotermin  alfa    were  monitored  in  the  toxicity  studies,  the 
reporting  of  these  studies  was  not  complete  therefore  a  final  conclusion  can  not  be  reached. 
Reproduction and fertility in male and female rats was not affected by dibotermin alfa . 
Embryo-fetal  development  studies  in  gravid  rabbits  treated  with  dibotermin  alfa    did  not  result  in 
systemic  maternal  toxicity,  embryo  lethality  or  gross  fetal  abnormalities  at  dosages  up  to  
1.6 mg/kg/day. 
Treatment of rats with high intravenous doses of rhBMP (1.6 or 0.5 mg/kg/day) during organogenesis 
resulted  in  increased  foetal  weight  in  2/3  experiments.  Additionally,  some  skeletal  variations  were 
observed indicating a more advanced foetal development.  
From preclinical studies no clear optimal dose can be extrapolated for the clinical use of this product 
due to efficacy differences between used models and species. With the exception of bone formation, 
local  inflammatory  changes,  possible  effects  on  skeletal  variants  in  teratology  studies  and  antibody 
formation, no significant effects were observed in the preclinical toxicology studies. The fact that all 
of the studied species were sensitive to the primary pharmacologic action is naturally reassuring and 
the  main  reason  for  the  differences  in  sensitivity  between  species  may  well  be  the  species-specific 
differences  in  bone  formation  kinetics.  The  absence  of  a  sufficiently  sensitive  method  to  quantify 
dibotermin  alfa    in  human  plasma  following  implantation  of  the  product  makes  it  impossible  to 
compare systemic exposure between experimental animals and man. 
Efficacy 
Clinical efficacy of dibotermin alfa /ACS is mainly based on one pivotal trial in 450 patients (C9530-
11). This was a multinational, multicenter, single blind, stratified, randomised, controlled study in 450 
patients  with  open  tibial  shaft  fractures  that  required  surgical  management  with  IM  nailing.  Patients 
with  all  fracture  severity  levels  were  included,  excluding  only  patients  at  high  risk  of  amputation 
(Gustilo  classification  IIIC).  Furthermore,  patients  were  required  to  undergo  immediate  wound 
treatment  (to  reduce  the  infection  risk),  fracture  reduction  and  stabilisation  with  IM  nailing,  which 
represents  the  standard  of  care  for  tibial  shaft  fractures  at  the  participating  sites.  Patient  treatment 
assignments  were  stratified  by  Gustilo  classification.  Patients  were  randomised  to  1  of  3  treatment 
24/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups:  standard  of  care  (SOC),  0.75  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS,  or  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa 
/ACS.  In  each  of  the  3  treatment  groups,  patients  received  standard  surgical  management  of  the 
fractured  tibia  (including  IM  nailing)  and  soft  tissue.  In  the  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  treatment  groups, 
patients  received  standard  surgical  management  plus  0.75  or  1.50  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS 
implanted at the time of definitive wound closure (DWC). 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  patients  who  required  a  secondary  intervention  to 
promote  fracture  healing  within  12  months  of  DWC.  Secondary  endpoints  were  healing  rate  at  
6  months,  acceleration  of  fracture  union.  Additional  endpoints  were  the  combined  clinical  and 
radiographic endpoint, time to prescription of secondary intervention, and number and invasiveness of 
interventions actually performed. 
Treatment  with  1.5  mg/ml  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  produced  a  significant  reduction  in  the  rate  of 
secondary interventions prescribed to promote fracture healing, and in the invasiveness of the second 
and  subsequent  interventions  actually  performed.  The  treatment  was  associated  with  a  significantly 
increased rate of clinical fracture healing at 6 months after definitive wound closure, with significant 
improvement  in  fracture  healing  rates  seen  as  soon  as  10  weeks  after  DWC,  and  further  confirmed 
through 12 months after DWC.  
As regards the acceptability of the single pivotal trial for marketing authorisation, it is concluded that 
with the exception of external validation (suitability for extrapolation) and consistency of effect across 
subgroups, the criteria for acceptance have been fulfilled. These two deficiencies have been resolved 
through  restriction  of  the  therapeutic  indications  and  appropriate  description  of  study  results  in  the 
SPC. 
Safety 
With respect to safety, data presented up to date has not revealed any concerns. In particular, there was 
no difference in the occurrence of infections across treatment groups, dibotermin alfa /ACS does not 
appear to increase the incidence of bone disorders, such as local soft tissue or heterotopic ossification. 
Furthermore,  findings  from  histologic  analysis  were  unremarkable.  Antibody  formation  was  not  a 
cause for a significant safety concern. Until now, 15 malignancies (most skin cancers) were reported 
in 13 patients. However, safety data are limited to 1000 patients with a mean follow up of 54 weeks. 
This time period is considered to be too short for the development and diagnosis of malignancies, and 
for  the  formation  of antibodies. The applicant will continue to  monitor this issue in  ongoing  studies 
and post-marketing surveillance. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
From  a  quality  and  pre-clinical  point  of  view,  appropriate  post-marketing  commitments  have  been 
made. The product information reflects the pre-clinical findings. 
It  is  concluded  that  efficacy  and  safety  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  are  acceptable  for  the  patient 
population  studied,  that  is:  for  patients  with  an  open  tibial  shaft  fracture  requiring  surgical 
management with intramedullary nailing. The use of more than one kit should be avoided. 
dibotermin alfa /ACS is not recommended for use in  
• 
• 
in children and in elderly patients, 
in large segmental defect repair of long bones, in which significant soft tissue compression can 
occur, 
in patients with any malignancy. 
• 
Efficacy and safety have not been demonstrated in patients with other long-bone fractures that require 
open  surgical  management.  Although  one  might  suppose  that  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS  will  be 
osteoinductive in these fractures, the benefit for the patient in reduction of secondary intervention and 
time to fracture healing in patients with other long-bone fractures is not clear.  
25/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant has made the following commitments: 
• 
• 
to  conduct  a  controlled,  randomised  clinical  trial  of  InductOs  (plus  standard  care)  versus 
standard care in patients treated with reamed IM nails.  
studying  long-term  risks  of  dibotermin  alfa  /ACS,  especially  for  the  development  of 
malignancies and antibodies. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus  
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  InductOs  was  favourable  in  the  treatment  of  acute  tibia  fractures  in 
adults, as an adjunct to standard care using open fracture reduction and intramedullary nail fixation. 
26/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
