European Medicines Agency 
Post-authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 24 April 2008 
EMEA/397365/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
INDUCTOS 
International non-proprietary name: dibotermin alfa 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/000408/II/0036 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 71 29 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
I. 
II. 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
III. 
IV. 
INTRODUCTION.......................................................................................................... 3 
CLINICAL ASPECTS................................................................................................... 3 
Risk of infection in other clinical studies of rhBMP-2/ACS in tibial fractures ............... 3 
Infections with use of rhBMP-2/ACS in tibial fractures, in the MAH pharmacovigilance 
database ............................................................................................................................ 4 
Review of infections with use of rhBMP-2/ACS in other indications ............................. 4 
Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities............................................................................ 5 
Discussion ........................................................................................................................ 5 
Conclusion........................................................................................................................ 7 
CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION .................................................. 8 
CONCLUSION............................................................................................................... 8 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
InductOs  contains  dibotermin  alfa.  The  preparation  is  an  integral  osteoinductive  product  for 
periosseous  implantation,  consisting  of  dibotermin  alfa,  a  recombinant  human  Bone  Morphogenetic 
Protein-2 (rhBMP-2), with the accompanying solvent (sterile water) for reconstitution of dibotermin 
and matrix. The matrix is an Absorbable Collagen Sponge (ACS). 
Dibotermin  alfa  is  an  osteoinductive  protein  that  results  in  the  induction  of  new  bone  at  the  site  of 
implantation. Dibotermin alfa binds to receptors on the surface of mesenchymal cells and causes cells 
to  differentiate  into  cartilage-  and  bone-forming  cells.  The  differentiated  cells  form  trabecular  bone 
and the matrix is degraded, with vascular invasion being evident at the same time. The bone formation 
process develops from the outside of the implant towards the centre until the entire InductOs implant 
is replaced by trabecular bone. 
InductOs is indicated for the treatment of acute tibia fractures in adults, as an adjunct to standard care 
using open fracture reduction and intramedullary nail fixation. InductOs is also indicated for single-
level (L4 – S1) anterior lumbar spine fusion as a substitute for autogenous bone graft in adults with 
degenerative disc disease who have had at least 6 months of non-operative treatment for this condition.  
Following  the  assessment  of  the  six  monthly  study  progress  report  on  study  400  (A  Prospective, 
Randomised,  Controlled,  Stratified  Study  of  InductOs  in  Subjects  with  Open  Diaphyseal  Tibia 
Fractures  Treated  with  Reamed  Locked  Intramedullary  Nail  Fixation)  and 
the  Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder’s  (MAH’s)  notification  regarding  an  increased  infection  rate  observed  among 
rhBMP-2/ACS treated patients compared to the standard of care control group, on 16 August 2007 the 
CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  submit  a  review  of  infection  risk  across  all  indications  and  a  risk 
minimisation plan concerning infections. Thus, the MAH submitted a cumulative review of infections 
with  the  use  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  all  therapeutic  indications  and  proposed  to  exclude  “reamed  nail 
fixation in tibia fractures” from the therapeutic indications of InductOs as part of its risk minimisation 
activities. Furthermore, the MAH proposed to update sections 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions 
for use”, 4.8 “Undesirable effects” and 5.1 “Pharmacodynamic properties” of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SPC) to include that in a clinical study in subjects with open tibia fractures and treated 
with reamed nail fixation, an increased rate of infection was observed in the InductOs-treated group. 
Finally, the MAH proposed to re-order existing statements concerning nerve compression in sections 
4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC and to replace the term rhBMP-2/ACS with InductOs in sections 4.2 and 4.4 of 
the SPC.  
As  part  of  its  risk  minimisation  activities,  the  MAH  proposed  to  circulate  a  Direct  Healthcare 
Professional Communication (DHPC) to inform Health Care Professionals about the increased risk of 
infection in subjects with open tibial fracture treated with reamed nails and rhBMP-2/ACS. 
II.  CLINICAL ASPECTS 
2.1 Risk of infection in other clinical studies of rhBMP-2/ACS in tibial fractures 
Study  3100N8-400-WW  (study  400)  was  a  multicentre,  multinational,  prospective,  single-blind 
(subject  only),  stratified,  randomised,  open-label,  parallel  comparison  of  standard  of  care  (SOC) 
versus  SOC  and  InductOs.  The  study  population  comprises  subjects  with  open  tibia  shaft  fractures 
requiring  reamed,  statically  locked  intramedullary  (IM)  nail  fixation.  Following  definitive  fracture 
fixation with a reamed IM nail, 300 subjects will be randomly assigned to receive either InductOs, to 
be implanted at the time of definitive coverage, or standard of care, routine wound closure. This study 
showed an increased infection rate associated with the use of the products (19.0% vs 9.0%, difference 
10% with a 95% CI 2 – 19%). 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three studies of rhBMP-2/ACS have been performed in subjects with open tibial fractures in which 
unreamed and reamed IM nails for definitive fracture reduction were used. These studies were shortly 
presented below: 
−  Studies  C9530-11  and  C9612-11  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  effect  of rhBMP-2/ACS  in 
subjects  with  open  tibia  fractures  using  either  reamed  or  unreamed  IM  nails,  compared  to 
standard  soft  tissue  and  bone  care  without  rhBMP-2/ACS  (SOC).  In  Study  C9530-11,  the 
overall difference in the risk of infection between the SOC and the rhBMP-2/ACS treatment 
groups  (comparing  those  with  reamed  nails  with  the  total  (reamed  +  unreamed)  was  –0.14 
(95% CI, -0.30 to 0.03; two-sided Fisher exact test, p=0.0896). In Study C9612-11 the overall 
difference  in  the  risk  of  infection  between  SOC  and  rhBMP-2/ACS  treatment  groups  was  -
0.01  (95%  CI,  -0.25  to  0.22;  two-sided  Fisher  exact  test,  p=1.0000).  Although  the  risk  of 
infection  was  lower  in  the  rhBMP-2/ACS  groups  in  both  studies,  the  difference  was  not 
statistically significant. 
− 
In  study  C9828-11,  conducted  to  evaluate  external  skeletal  fixation  of  open  tibia  fractures 
without (SOC) or with rhBMP-2/ACS, the overall difference in the risk of infection between 
SOC and rhBMP-2/ACS treated subjects was –0.06 (95% CI, -0.26 to 0.13; two-sided Fisher 
exact  test  p=0.5459).  Again,  there  was  no  significant  difference  in  the  risk  of  infection 
between the SOC and rhBMP-2/ACS treated groups. 
The MAH presented a pooled data analysis of the studies described above, including study 400. No 
significant difference in the rate of infections between patients treated with rhBMP-2/ACS and other 
treatment  groups  was  observed.  The  overall  difference  in  the  risk  of  infection  between  control  and 
rhBMP-2/ACS  treated  patients  was  –0.01  (95%  CI,  -0.06  to  0.05;  two-sided  Fisher’s  exact  test 
p=0.8719). The MAH performed an additional analysis, using only data from patients with open tibia 
fractures  treated  with  IM  nails,  no  difference  was  found  in  the  rate  of  infections  between  treatment 
groups.  The  overall  difference  in  the  risk  of  infection  between  standard  of  care  and  rhBMP-2/ACS 
treated subjects was 0.02 (95% CI, -0.03 to 0.08; two-sided Fisher exact test, p=0.4564). 
2.2  Infections  with  use  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  tibial  fractures,  in  the  MAH  pharmacovigilance 
database 
The MAH performed a search in their Pharmacovigilance database up to 8 September 2007. In total, 
88 reports of infection in patients with tibial fractures, 77 of which were surgical site infections, were 
reported  in  temporal  association  with  InductOs.  All  reports  were  received  from  clinical  trials 
conducted by the MAH, most involving open tibial fractures. A variety of organisms were identified; 
Staphylococcus was the most common genus. Twenty-eight infections were reported within one month 
of receiving the product, and 48 were reported later.  
The  MAH  stated  that  in  literature  (Bowen  TR,  Widmaier  JC.  Host  classification  predicts  infection 
after  open  fractures.  Clin Orthop  Relat  Res.  2005; 433:205-11)  it  was  shown  that the  occurrence  of 
infections  in  open  tibial  fractures  treated  without  rhBMP-2/ACS  was  twice  that  observed  for  open 
fractures at other locations, at least partly related to the likelihood of contamination during injury.  
2.3 Review of infections with use of rhBMP-2/ACS in other indications 
The MAH has reviewed all available information for the spinal indications from clinical studies and 
from the pharmacovigilace database.  
Spinal indications: clinical studies 
In  2  of  4  clinical  studies  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  use  in  anterior  lumbar  interbody  fusion  and  in  a  single 
study  of  posterolateral  lumbar  fusion,  the  rate  of  infections  was  lower  in  the  rhBMP-2/ACS  treated 
group than in those subjects who did not receive this product. In the remaining 2 studies of rhBMP-
2/ACS  involving  anterior  lumbar  interbody  fusion  (ALIF)  and  in  a  single  study  with  posterior 
interbody lumbar fusion (PLIF), there was no significantly increased risk of infection in the rhBMP-
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2/ACS  treated  subjects.  A  total  of  796  patients  were  treated  with  rhBMP-2/ACS  in  these  clinical 
studies.  In  ALIF,  infection  rates  ranged  from  5.9%  to  12.7%  in  rhBMP-2/ACS  treated  subjects  vs. 
7.0%  to  11.8%  of  those  not  treated  with  this  product.  In  the  small  (34  subjects,  33  controls)  PLIF 
study,  the  infection  rate  was  20.6%  in  the  rhBMP-2/ACS  treated  group  and  15.2%  in  controls;  the 
Posterolateral Lumbar Fusion Study (25 subjects, 21 controls) demonstrated an infection rate of 16% 
in the treated group and 23.8% in the controls. 
Spinal indications: pharmacovigilance database  
A cumulative review was performed of all reports of infection with use of rhBMP-2/ACS submitted to 
the  MAH  safety  database  through  8  September  2007.  This  review  included  all reports  (spontaneous 
and  study)  received  by  the  MAH.  A  total  of  166  reports  of  infections  were  received,  117  of  which 
were  local  (i.e.  occurring  at  the  surgical  site),  44  non-local,  and  5  indeterminable.  There  were 
68 reports  of  infection  when  rhBMP-2/ACS  was  used  for  spinal  surgery;  49  of  these  were  from 
sponsored clinical studies. Of the 39 surgical site infections, 22 were early-onset, 10 were late-onset, 
and  7  were  indeterminable.  Positive  bacterial  cultures  were  reported  in  13  patients,  with 
Staphylococcus the most common identified organism. Post-operative spinal wound infections occur 
in approximately 1-12% of patients overall, with Staphylococcus aureus the most commonly identified 
organism.  
Dental-Craniofacial Procedures: clinical studies 
In all maxillary sinus studies, sinusitis was reported as an adverse event. The incidence ranged from 
11-17% in the rhBMP-2/ACS treatment groups and 13-38% in the bone graft treatment groups. In the 
2 comparative studies the difference in incidence of infection between the rhBMP-2/ACS and control 
treatment groups was not statistically significant. 
Dental-Craniofacial Procedures: pharmacovigilance database  
Local infection has been reported in one patient, who received rhBMP-2/ACS for dental implantation. 
2.4 Proposed Risk Minimisation Activities 
The  MAH  initially  halted  enrolment  in  study  400  pending  the  outcome  of  Clinical  Safety  Review 
Team  assessment.  When  this  assessment  was  unable  to  explain  the  difference  in  infection  rates 
between rhBMP-2/ACS-treated subjects and controls, enrolment in study 400 was terminated. 
The  MAH  proposed  to  exclude  “reamed  nail  fixation”  from  the  indication  to  use  InductOs  in  open 
tibial fractures and to revise the SPC to include information regarding the increased risk of infection 
observed in study 400.   
The  MAH  also  proposed  the  circulation  of  a  DHPC  informing  orthopaedic  practitioners  about  the 
increased risk of infection observed in subjects with open tibial fracture treated with reamed nails and 
rhBMP-2/ACS in study 400. The DHPC will also highlight the change in indication for treatment of 
open tibial fractures with rhBMP-2/ACS, for use with unreamed (not reamed) nails.  
The MAH  will  continue  to  closely  monitor  reports  of  infection  with  use  of  rhBMP-2/ACS  received 
from  both  study  and  spontaneous  sources.  Monitoring  includes  review  of  Individual  Case  Safety 
Reports  as  received  as  well  as  weekly  review;  aggregate  review  of  adverse  events  is  performed 
monthly  to  determine  trends  in  reporting.  Cumulative  reviews  of  specific  adverse  events  will  be 
performed as appropriate.  
2.5 Discussion 
From the analysis of the studies in subjects with open tibial fractures, the CHMP noted that the rate of 
infection between the treatment groups and the standard of care group was comparable (differences in 
infection rate respectively -0.01 and 0.02; both not significant). The CHMP also noted that the analysis 
was  not  stratified according  to  the  nails  which  were used  (reamed  or  unreamed)  and therefore from 
these  data  no  conclusion  about  difference  in  the  infection  rate  between  reamed  and  unreamed  nails 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
could be drawn. Nevertheless, the CHMP stratified the results according to reamed or unreamed nails 
in the table below and noted that whatever the type of nail, the infection rate was fairly consistent with 
InductOs  (around  20%)  whereas  it  differed  with  SOC  (lower  rate  for  reamed  than  unreamed).  The 
excess of infections for reamed IM nails with InductOs was only driven by the results of study 400, in 
which  no  patients  were  treated  with  unreamed  IM  nails;  previously  there  had  been  evidence  of  an 
excess of infections for reamed IM nails on SOC. 
SOC 
Reamed 
14/41 (34%) 
Unreamed 
25/109 (23%) 
InductOs (all doses) 
Reamed 
22/108 (20%) 
Unreamed 
41/192 
1/10 (10%) 
2/9 (22%) 
2/18 (11%) 
4/22 (18%) 
12/135 (9%) 
27/186 (15%) 
27/118 (23%) 
26/135 (19%) 
50/261 (19%) 
45/214 
Study C9530-11 
(21%) 
Study C9612-11 
Study 400-WW 
Pooled data 
(21%) 
The  CHMP  highlighted  that  the  MAH  has  not  presented  a  comprehensive  discussion  on  the 
plausibility  of  differences  in  incidence  of  infections  between  reamed  and  unreamed  nails  or  of  the 
influence  of  InductOs.  As  there  may  be  a  concern  if  the  data  from  study  400  indicate  absence  of 
efficacy with reamed nails, evidence of efficacy for use with unreamed nails may be questioned. Thus, 
the  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  commit  to  provide  efficacy  from  study  400  data  as  soon  as 
available,  even  if  results  are  preliminary,  and  to  submit  a  benefit/risk  assessment  including  all  data 
which are currently available. 
The CHMP noted that the MAH received spontaneous reports concerning infection and should provide 
additional information on these cases. The MAH should continue the close monitoring of infections 
and discuss this on a yearly basis in the PSUR. 
Up to 8 September 2007, 88 reports of infections have been reported to the MAH. At the time of the 
renewal  (June  2007  CHMP  plenary  meeting),  74  spontaneous  cases  were  reported  (74  reports  /  52 
months = 1.4 report per month). In the period from the renewal until 8 September 2007, 14 additional 
cases were reported (14 / 9 =1.6). This number is in line with the number reported in the period before 
the  renewal.  However,  no  information  about  these  cases  has  been  provided  by  MAH.  Also  no 
information  is  provided  about the  nails  which  have  been  used  in  these  cases  (reamed  or  unreamed). 
Thus the CHMP requested that the MAH should discuss the 14 additional cases in the next PSUR.  
Based on the  review  of  infections  in  clinical studies in  spinal indication,  the rate  of  infection in the 
treatment groups compared to the rate of infection in the standard of care group was lower. However, 
in the analysis of the MAH, a comparison was made between the infection rate of the two treatment 
groups vs the standard of care group.  
Up to 8 September 2007, 39 reports of surgical site infections have been reported to the MAH. At the 
time  of  the  renewal,  38  spontaneous  cases  were  reported.  In  the  period  from  the  renewal  until 
8 September 2007, 1 additional case was reported (14 / 9 =1.6). This number is in line with the number 
reported  in the  period  before  the  renewal. Thus, the CHMP  requested  that the MAH  should  discuss 
this case in the next PSUR.  
With regard to the change of the therapeutic indication, the CHMP highlighted that in one of the main 
studies performed before registration of InductOs (C9530-11), both the protocol defined and post hoc 
analyses (requested by the CPMP) suggested that the clinical benefit was mainly observed in patients 
who  receive  unreamed  IM  nail.  Since  this  study  was  not  powered  for  subgroup  analyses,  the  MAH 
committed to conduct a controlled, randomised clinical trial of InductOs (plus standard care) versus 
standard care in patients treated with reamed IM nails (study 400). In study 400, an increased infection 
rate associated with the use of the products, was observed (19.0% vs 9.0%, difference 10% with a 95% 
6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CI 2 – 19%). The overall efficacy of patients treated with InductOs in combination with reamed nails, 
compared to SOC group, was comparable. However, the efficacy was lower among patients with an 
infection  (both  treatment  and  SOC)  compared  to  patients  without  infection.  Already  before 
registration,  a  clinical  trial  showed  that  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  who  received  reamed  IM  nail 
fixation,  InductOs  was  not  observed  to  reduce  the  rate  of  secondary  intervention.  However, 
statistically  significant  differences  in  favour  of  InductOs  were  observed  for  some  of  the  secondary 
efficacy variables (i.e. acceleration of the rate of fracture and soft tissue healing, and reduction of the 
rate of hardware failure). Thus, the proposed change of the indication to exclude “reamed nail fixation 
in tibia fractures” was considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
Finally, considering that no new data on efficacy and infection rate with unreamed intramedullary nail 
fixation have become available, the CHMP recommended that the MAH should monitor the infection 
rate for InductOs used with unreamed intramedullary nail fixation and discuss it on a yearly basis in 
the PSUR. 
2.6 Conclusion 
The CHMP concluded that the number of cases regarding infection, received by the MAH since the 
renewal, was in line with the number of reported cases in the period up to the renewal. No information 
on the nails which have been used in these cases (reamed or unreamed) has been provided. The CHMP 
concluded  that  the  MAH  should  discuss  the  14  additional  cases  in  the  next  PSUR.  In  addition,  the 
MAH should discuss the additional case of infection in spinal surgery in the next PSUR. Furthermore, 
the  CHMP  concluded  that the  MAH  should  continue the  close  monitoring  of  infections  and  discuss 
this on a yearly basis in the PSUR. 
The CHMP concluded that the risk minimisation activities were currently considered to be sufficient. 
Nevertheless,  the  MAH  should  continue  to  closely  monitoring  infections  and  discussing  this  on  a 
yearly  basis  in  the  PSUR.  The  CHMP  agreed  with  the  DHPC  together  with  the  action  plan  for  its 
distribution as proposed by the MAH. 
The CHMP highlighted that the excess of infections for reamed IM nails with InductOs is only driven 
by the results of study 400, that the number of patients included in study 400 was higher compared to 
the numbers in study C9530-11, and that the difference in infection rate between the two groups was 
found to  be significant. Thus,  the  CHMP  concluded  that the  change  of  the  therapeutic indication of 
InductOs to exclude “reamed nail fixation in tibia fractures” was adequate.  
The  CHMP  requested  the  MAH  to  submit  a  benefit/risk  assessment  including  all  data  which  are 
currently available. 
Finally the CHMP requested the MAH to provide the efficacy data of study 400 as soon as possible, 
even if the results are preliminary, to enable a full benefit/risk assessment. 
The CHMP agreed to the changes to the Product Information as outlined in section III “CHANGES 
TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION” of this discussion. 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.  CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION 
The CHMP agreed to exclude “reamed nail fixation in tibia fractures” from section 4.1 of the SPC and 
to  include  in  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  information  on  the  increased  rate  of  infection  observed  in  the 
InductOs-treated group versus the standard of care control group in reamed nail fixation. The CHMP 
also agreed with the MAH’s proposal to re-order existing statements on nerve compression in sections 
4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC and to replace the term “rhBMP-2/ACS” with “InductOs” in sections 4.2 and 
4.4 of the SPC in order to facilitate the translation in different languages. 
With  regard  to  section  4.8  of  the  SPC,  the  CHMP  noted  that  it  was  not  acceptable  to  include  a 
statement to describe adverse events “being observed more frequently in the control group than in the 
InductOs treatment group”. Thus, the CHMP recommended the deletion of the sentence related to pain 
in extremity which was observed more frequently in the control group than in the InductOs treatment 
group. The CHMP also requested to include a sentence in this section to highlight that for use with 
unreamed nails, estimated rates of infection were similar between treatment groups in a study (21% 
versus 23% respectively). 
With regard to the MAH’s proposal for section 5.1 of the SPC, the CHMP recommended to delete the 
information on infections in patients with open tibia fracture treated with reamed intramedullary nails. 
The CHMP agreed with the MAH’s proposal to delete the sentence related to patients with Gustilo III 
fractures treated with InductOs. The CHMP requested to delete the following paragraph from section 
5.1 of the SPC: “In the subgroup of patients who received reamed IM nail fixation, InductOs was not 
observed to reduce the rate of secondary intervention. However, statistically significant differences in 
favour of InductOs were observed for some of the secondary efficacy variables (i.e. acceleration of the 
rate of fracture and soft tissue healing, and reduction of the rate of hardware failure).” Finally, the data 
regarding the infection rate should not be repeated again in section 5.1 of the SPC.  
The  MAH  agreed  to  amend  the  SPC  as  recommended  by  the  CHMP  and  submitted  a  revised 
document. 
The MAH took also the opportunity to update the contact details of the German local representative in 
the Package Leaflet. 
IV.  CONCLUSION 
On  24  April  2008  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
