PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for InductOs (dibotermin alfa) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  InductOs.    The  RMP  details 
important risks of InductOs, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about InductOs' risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
InductOs'  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how InductOs should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for InductOs should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of InductOs' 
RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
InductOs is authorised for single level lumbar interbody fusion as a substitute for autogenous 
bone graft and as treatment of acute tibia fractures as an adjunct to standard care (see SmPC for 
the  full  indication).    It  contains  dibotermin  alfa  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by 
implantation. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  InductOs’  benefits  can  be  found  in  InductOs’ 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/inductos. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise 
or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of InductOs, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about InductOs' risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition to  these measures,  information  about adverse reactions  is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.  These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of InductOs are risks that need special risk management  activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.    Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of InductOs.  Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Heterotopic ossification
Important potential risks 
Medication errors (incl. incorrect use) 
Missing information 
None
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Heterotopic ossification
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Clinical trials; Literature; Post-marketing reports
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not applicable
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, and 6.6. 
Restricted to medical prescription 
-
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-
Educational materials 
Important potential risk: Medication errors (incl. incorrect use)
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Clinical trials; Post-marketing reports
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not applicable
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-
SmPC sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6 
Restricted to medical prescription 
-
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-
Educational materials 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of InductOs. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
EUPAS32916  -  A  cross-sectional  study  to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  additional  Risk 
Minimisation  Measures:  A  Survey  among  surgeons  to  assess  their  knowledge  and 
understanding of selected risks of InductOs (dibotermin alfa/ACS) in Europe 
Purpose of the study:  
Additional risk minimisation measures (aRMM) to increase awareness about the identified risk 
of  heterotopic  ossification  (especially  in  posterior  surgical  approaches  for  lumbar  interbody 
fusion)  and  the  potential  risk  of  medication  errors  and  misuse  are  available  in  the  form  of 
educational materials.  This study is set up to measure the effectiveness of InductOs educational 
materials. 
The goal of this study is to assess the awareness of InductOs-using spine surgeons concerning 
heterotopic ossification in relation to the InductOs Risk Management Plan.  A supplementary 
goal of this study is to gauge the clinician’s awareness about the development of heterotopic 
ossification and the risk minimisation measures; specifically identifying from which source was 
any knowledge obtained. 
