25 June 2015 
EMA/602151/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis 
(acellular, component), hepatitis b (rdna), poliomyelitis (inact.) and 
haemophilus type b conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001122/201410 
Period covered by the PSUR:  23 October 2011 – 22 October 2014 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis 
(acellular, component), hepatitis b (rdna), poliomyelitis (inact.) and haemophilus type b conjugate 
vaccine (adsorbed), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Due to the misalignment of several adverse events between the MAH’s reference safety information 
and the SmPC, the PRAC recommends update of the SmPC of Infanrix Hexa to include upper 
respiratory tract infection (uncommon) and bronchitis (rare) from clinical data, and thrombocytopenia 
(rare) from post-marketing data. The package leaflet is updated accordingly. Furthermore, the risk of 
apnoea and the need for respiratory monitoring when administering the primary immunisation series 
to very premature infants (born ≤28 weeks of gestation) should be more spread among parents in 
order to determinate the appropriate timing and modalities of the immunisation. Therefore, the PRAC 
considers that changes to the PL were also warranted; specifically, section 2 should advise parent on 
what they need to know before their child receives Infanrix Hexa and that they should talk to the 
doctor or pharmacist before the child is given Infanrix Hexa if the baby was born very prematurely (at 
or before 28 weeks of gestation). In these babies, longer gaps than normal between breaths may 
occur for 2-3 days after vaccination and they may require respiratory monitoring for 48-72h following 
the administration of the first two or three doses of Infanrix Hexa. 
The SmPC of Infanrix Hexa is also recommended to be updated with detailed information on the 
experience with hepatitis B vaccine, which is already reflected in the MAH’s reference safety 
information for this medicinal product. The following events are to be added: Allergic reactions 
mimicking serum sickness, neuritis, hypotension, vasculitis, lichen planus, erythema multiforme, 
arthritis and muscular weakness.  
Therefore, in view of available data regarding respiratory disorders and the experience with hepatitis B 
vaccine, the PRAC considered that changes to the product information were warranted.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), 
hepatitis b (rdna), poliomyelitis (inact.) and haemophilus type b conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) the 
CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing diphtheria, 
tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component), hepatitis b (rdna), poliomyelitis (inact.) and haemophilus 
type b conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the product 
information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.  
EMA/602151/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
