• 
• 
and 
• 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
the  approval  of  Infanrix  Hexa.  
This  module  reflects 
This  scientific  discussion  has  been  updated  until  01.11.02.  For  information  on  changes  after  
01.11.02 please refer to module 8B. 
initial  scientific  discussion  for 
the 
1. 
Introduction 
Infanrix hexa is a combined vaccine, which contains 
• 
• 
• 
diphtheria toxoid (D), adsorbed 
tetanus toxoid (T), adsorbed 
three purified pertussis antigens (pertussis toxoid (PT), filamentous haemagglutinin (FHA) and 
pertactin (PRN; 69 kiloDalton outer membrane protein), adsorbed 
the purified major surface antigen (HBsAg) of the Hepatitis B virus (HBV), adsorbed 
three types of inactivated Polioviruses (IPV type 1: Mahoney strain; IPV type 2: MEF-1 strain; 
IPV type 3: Saukett strain) 
a conjugate of Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) capsular polysaccharide and Tetanus 
toxoid (PRP-T), adsorbed. 
The  first  five  components  are  in  a  liquid  aluminium  salt  adsorbed  state  (suspension  for  injection) 
whereas  the  Hib  component  is  a  lyophilised  powder  adsorbed  onto  aluminium  salt.  Prior  to 
administration,  the  lyophilised  Hib  powder  has  to  be  reconstituted  with  the  liquid  suspension  for 
injection containing the DTPa-HBV-IPV component. 
In the following this combination vaccine will be referred to as “Infanrix hexa” or as the “candidate 
vaccine”. The components of the vaccine will be referred to as “DTPa-HBV-IPV component” or “Hib 
component”. 
All  antigens  of  Infanrix  hexa  have  already  been  licensed,  either  in  monovalent  vaccines  or  as 
combined vaccines in EU member states and are manufactured by the applicant (e.g. Infanrix HepB: 
D,  T,  Pa  and  HBV;  Infanrix  IPV:  D,  T,  Pa  and  IPV;  Hiberix:  Hib).  Infanrix  hexa  is  thus  a  new 
combination of known and approved antigens.  
The  rationale  for  the  development  of  this  combination  vaccine  is  :  to  facilitate  the  universal 
vaccination  of  infants  against  diphtheria,  tetanus,  pertussis,  hepatitis  B,  poliomyelitis  and  invasive 
disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b, in countries recommending the use of inactivated 
poliovirus  vaccine  as  well  as  universal  vaccination  against  hepatitis  B  and  Haemophilus  influenzae 
type b by simplifying vaccine delivery.  
The therapeutic indication for Infanrix hexa is “for primary and booster vaccination of infants against 
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae 
type b”. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The composition of Infanrix hexa is given in Table 1. 
To  potentiate  the  immune  response,  D,  T,  pertussis  antigens  (PT,  FHA  and  PRN),  and  HBsAg  are 
adsorbed on aluminium salts (aluminium hydroxide and aluminium phosphate) which are well-known 
and universally accepted immunopotentiating agents. The IPV component, although not pre-adsorbed 
for  formulation,  does  adsorb  when  mixed  with  the  other  antigens.  The  Hib  component  is  adsorbed 
also. 
1/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  antimicrobial  agent  (2-phenoxyethanol)  is  added  since  it  is  not  possible  to  terminally  filter  the 
DTPa-HBV-IPV  component  and  the  cloudy  appearance  of  the  suspension  could  mask  microbial 
contamination.  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Pharmaceutical  and 
Biological  Aspects  of  Combined  Vaccines  (CPMP/BWP/477/97).  Sodium  chloride  is  added  to 
establish isotonicity and Medium 199 is used as a stabiliser during production of IPV component. 
Lactose is used as a stabiliser for the Hib component. 
Table 1: Composition of Infanrix hexa 
Composition of the reconstituted DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine 
Ingredients 
Quantity/dose(*)  
(0.5 ml) 
Function 
Active substances 
1.  Diphtheria toxoid, adsorbed (D)  
2.  Tetanus toxoid, adsorbed (T) 
3.  Pertussis toxoid, adsorbed (PT) 
4.  Filamentous haemagglutinin, adsorbed 
(FHA) 
not less than 30 IU 
not less than 40 IU 
25 µg 
25 µg 
5.  Pertactin (69kDa Outer Membrane  Protein - 
PRN adsorbed) 
6.  r-DNA Hepatitis B surface antigen, adsorbed 
8 µg 
10 µg 
(HBsAg) 
7.  Inactivated Polio Virus (IPV) Type 1 
8.  Inactivated Polio Virus (IPV) Type 2 
9.  Inactivated Polio Virus (IPV) Type 3 
10. Conjugate of Haemophilus influenzae type b 
capsular polysaccharide (PRP) and Tetanus 
toxoid (T), adsorbed (PRP-T) 
40 DU 
8 DU 
32 DU 
10 µg of PRP and 
20-40 µg of T 
Excipients 
1.  2-phenoxyethanol 
2.  Sodium chloride (NaCl) 
3.  Medium 199 (M199) 
 (including aminoacids) 
4.  Lactose 
5.  Water (H20) for injections q.s. ad 
Adjuvants 
Aluminium  
0.5 mg as aluminium hydroxide (Al(OH)3) 
0.32 mg as aluminium phosphate (AlPO4) 
2.5 mg 
4.5 mg 
1.15 mg  
(0.09 mg) 
12.6 mg 
0.5 ml 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Immunogen 
Preservative 
For isotonicity 
IPV stabiliser 
Hib stabiliser 
Solvent 
0.82 mg 
Adjuvant 
0.12mg from Hib 
The vaccine is presented as combination pack consisting of one container of liquid DTPa-HBV-IPV 
component and  one container of lyophilised Hib component.  Infanrix hexa is  to  be  administered by 
intramuscular injection after reconstitution of the lyophilised Hib component with the contents of the 
liquid sterile suspension of DTPa-HBV-IPV component. 
- 
- 
The DTPa-HBV-IPV component is presented as 0.5 ml monodose preparations in 1 ml prefilled 
glass  (Type  I,  Ph.  Eur.)  syringes.  Syringes  are  presented  with  separate  needles  or  without 
needles.  Syringes  without  needles  are  fitted  with  grey  butyl  rubber  tip  caps.  Separate  needles 
are  fitted  with  grey  butyl  rubber  shields.  Plunger  stoppers  are  grey  butyl  rubber.  Needles 
23G1”, 25G5/8” or 25G1” can be used for needleless syringes. 
The  adsorbed  Hib  component  is  presented  as  a  lyophilised  preparation  in  3  ml  uncoloured 
neutral glass vials (Type I, Ph. Eur.) with butyl rubber closures suitable for lyophilisation and 
sealed  with  either  flip-off  caps  (green  aluminium  skirt  with  purple  polypropylene  cap  top)  or 
Bioset caps. 
2/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Bioset  cap  is  a  newly  developed  capping  system,  which  is  used  as  an  alternative  to  the  normal 
aluminium seal used for lyophilised vaccines. The objective of this new system is to provide the user 
with  a  facile  and  safer  means  of  combining  liquid  and  lyophilised  components  of  this  combination 
vaccine. 
Bioset caps are received ready sterilised by gamma irradiation. Technical drawings of the cap and a 
list of control tests applied by both the manufacturer Biodôme and SB Biologicals are provided.  
Development pharmaceutics 
Compatibility studies regarding DTPa-HBV-IPV component 
The compatibility between D, T, Pa and HBV and between D, T, Pa and IPV have been established 
technically  and  clinically  via  licensed  formulations  containing  these  antigen  combinations  (Infanrix 
Hep B and Infanrix IPV). 
The  Company  provided  specific  and  appropriate  data,  technical  and  clinical,  to  demonstrate  the 
compatability of the DTPa-HBV-IPV combination. 
Compatibility between DTPa-HBV-IPV and Hib adsorbed components 
In order to demonstrate the compatibility of the DTPa-HBV-IPV and adsorbed Hib components in the 
candidate  vaccine,  various  parameters  were  monitored  just  prior  to  and  following  reconstitution  of 
different lots of adsorbed Hib component with different lots of DTPa-HBV-IPV component. Two of 
the  DTPa-HBV-IPV  lots  and  three  of  the  adsorbed  Hib  component  lots  had  been  used  in  clinical 
studies.  
Appropriate  tests,  including  toxicity  tests,  were  performed  on  the  combination  vaccine  lots.  The  in 
vivo  potency/immunogenicity  of  all  antigens  and  in  vitro  immunogenicity  for  the  HBV  and  IPV 
antigens were also monitored. Where pertinent, the tests used were the same as those used for routine 
release  of  the  two  final  containers.  For  non-routine  tests,  references  to,  or  details,  of  methods  were 
supplied by the applicant. 
The results obtained from these studies demonstrate satisfactory compliance with the CPMP guideline 
CPMP/BWP/477/97 on combined vaccines, which for reconstituted vaccines require demonstration of 
the compatibility of the two components following reconstitution by testing different lots. 
Method of preparation 
Finished product 
DTPa-HBV-IPV component 
For  the  preparation  of  the  finished  product,  the  sterile  adsorbed  DT,  PT,  FHA,  PRN  and  HBsAg 
concentrates  and  the  IPV  component  (trivalent  bulk)  are  mixed  with  a  sterile  solution  of  sodium 
chloride and with water for injections. A sterile solution of 2-phenoxyethanol is added. The adsorbed 
DTPa-HBV-IPV vaccine is distributed aseptically in sterile glass (type I, Ph. Eur.) syringes. 
In-process  control  consists  of  checking  pH  during  formulation.  During  filling,  homogeneity  of  the 
suspension  and  filled  volume  are  checked.  Environmental  monitoring  and  counting  of  non-viable 
particles is carried out. Humidity and temperature of the filling room is monitored. 
The aseptic filling system is validated by media fill studies. The entire process is carried out in aseptic 
conditions that ensure that the final product is sterile. 
The  formulation  process  has  been  adequately  described  and  validated.  ELISA  tests  showed  that, 
within  the  detection  limits  of  the  tests,  all  the  antigens  engaged  in  the  formulation  process  are 
3/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adsorbed on aluminium and remain bound to the carrier over time. The IPV component, which is not 
pre-adsorbed  for  formulation,  does  adsorb  on  aluminium  when  mixed  with  the  other  antigens. 
Consistency of the production process is highlighted by the results of QC testing on routine production 
lots. 
Hib component 
The active ingredient used for the preparation of the final bulk is the adsorbed PRP-T conjugate bulk, 
which is manufactured in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monograph on Haemophilus influenzae type b 
conjugate vaccines and with WHO requirements for the same vaccine. 
For the preparation of the final bulk, the sterile adsorbed PRP-T conjugate bulk is subsequently added 
to a sterile concentrated lactose solution and the resulting suspension is stirred and the pH is checked. 
The final bulk is stored in the sterile formulation tank between +2°C and +8°C and then filled in 3-ml 
capacity glass vials. Vials are then lyophilised, sealed with aluminium caps or Bioset caps and stored 
at +2 to +8°C. 
All  the  above  operations  are  carried  out  in  aseptic  conditions  to  ensure  the  quality  of  the  finished 
product. 
GMP inspection status 
The adsorbed DT concentrate and the tetanus toxoid concentrate for the Hib component are prepared 
by  Chiron-Behring  (formerly  Behringwerke),  Postfach  1140,  D-3550  Marburg  1,  Germany.  The 
adsorbed PT, FHA, PRN, HBsAg concentrates, PRP component and IPV concentrate are prepared by 
SB  Biologicals  at  Rixensart,  Belgium.  Both  sites  have  active  manufacturing  authorisations 
demonstrating compliance with GMP. 
During  its  meeting  on  19-21  October  1999,  the  CPMP  agreed  that  a  GMP  inspection  of  the 
manufacturing sites was not necessary. 
Control of starting materials 
D and T 
Diphtheria and tetanus toxoids are obtained by formaldehyde treatment of purified Corynebacterium 
diphtheriae  and  Clostridium  tetani  toxins.  The  toxoids  are  produced  and  controlled  by  Chiron-
Behring, Marburg, Germany as previously described and approved for Infanrix HepB. 
PT, FHA and PRN 
The  acellular pertussis vaccine components are  obtained  by extraction and purification from phase I 
Bordetella  pertussis  cultures,  followed  by  irreversible  detoxification  of  the  pertussis  toxin  by 
glutaraldehyde  and  formaldehyde  treatment,  and  formaldehyde  treatment  of  FHA  and  PRN.  The 
antigens are  produced according  to the  methods approved for Infanrix  HepB. They comply with the 
specification limits and are tested as approved for Infanrix HepB. 
The  pertussis  antigens  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  1356  (1999 
supplement). 
Elimination of adenylate cyclase, tracheal cytotoxin and dermonecrotic toxin was demonstrated for all 
the production scales validated. Absence of residual pertussis toxin is shown on each lot of the three 
antigens using the CHO cell test. The histamine sensitisation test in mice is not carried out at that stage 
but is performed on the finished product. 
Elimination  of  detoxifying  agents  and  other  reagents  has  been  validated.  Polysorbate  80  is  the  only 
quantifiable reagent that remains in the bulk antigens (approximately 40 µg/dose). 
4/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HBV 
The  surface  antigen  of  the  HBV  is  produced  by  culture  of  genetically-engineered  yeast  cells 
(Saccharomyces  cerevisiae)  which  carry  the  gene  coding  for  the  major  surface  antigen  of  the  HBV. 
The  HBsAg  is  expressed  in  yeast  cells  and  purified  by  several  physico-chemical  steps.  The  HBsAg 
assembles  spontaneously,  in  the  absence  of  chemical  treatment,  into  spherical  particles  of  20  nm  in 
average  diameter  containing  non-glycosylated  HBsAg  polypeptide  and  a  lipid  matrix  consisting 
mainly  of  phospholipids.  Extensive  tests  have  demonstrated  that  these  particles  display  the 
characteristic properties of the natural HBsAg. 
The final HBsAg bulk is tested for sterility, HBsAg identity, protein content and mercury content.  
IPV 
The  inactivated  polio  vaccine  component  is  produced  on  the  Vero  cell  line  using  poliovirus  strains 
Mahoney (type 1), MEF-1 (type 2) and Saukett (type 3) as seed materials. The origin and history of 
the polio virus strains are known. Identity was confirmed by seroneutralisation, infectivity measured 
and microbiological purity demonstrated (tests for mycoplasma, bacteria, fungi and extraneous agents 
in animals). A test for the detection of Marburg virus was also performed. 
Production and controls follow the requirements of WHO and Ph. Eur. Production is based on the seed 
lot principle: each production starts with inoculation of Vero cells expanded from one ampoule of the 
manufacturers working cell bank with one ampoule of the virus working seed lots. 
The seed lot and cell banking system has been adequately established and characterized. 
Production of the vaccine includes the following steps: preparation of cell substrate, virus inoculation, 
virus harvest, virus purification, virus inactivation, sterile filtration and pool of the monovalent bulks 
to obtain a trivalent concentrate. 
Results of in process and quality control tests indicate that the production process is adequate. Virus 
yield  after  culture  is  reproducible.  Purification  gives  a  product  of  consistent  quality  from  which 
proteins and VERO cell DNA are virtually eliminated. 
Inactivation  is  performed  in  standard  conditions  using  formaldehyde  and  effective  inactivation  is 
consistently achieved.  
For quality control, all the tests recommended by WHO and Ph. Eur. are performed.  
PRP-T 
The  manufacture  and  testing  of  the  PRP-T  active  ingredient  of  the  Hib  adsorbed  component  is 
described  in  Ph.  Eur.  Monograph  1219  on  Haemophilus  influenzae  type  b  conjugate  vaccine  (1998) 
and WHO TRS 814 (note the 1991 version is under revision). It involves the following steps: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fermentation of Haemophilus influenzae type b (strain 20,752) based on the seed lot principle, 
extraction and purification of PRP, 
activation of PRP with cyanogen bromide and adipic acid dihydrazide, 
coupling to purified tetanus toxoid,  
purification of the conjugate by size exclusion chromatography, 
diafiltration. 
Control of intermediate products 
Intermediate  products  are  prepared  in  advance  and  a  shelf  life  is  claimed  for  them.  These  are  the 
adsorbed DT concentrate, the adsorbed PT, FHA and PRN concentrates, the trivalent polio concentrate 
and  the  tetanus  toxoid  concentrate  used  to  prepare  the  purified  tetanus  toxoid  for  coupling  with  the 
PRP component.  
As  the  adsorbed  DT  concentrate  is  prepared  at  Chiron-Behring,  Marburg,  Germany,  the  product  is 
released by them and retested at SB Biologicals prior to use. Each lot of DT concentrate is tested for 
5/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aluminium,  formaldehyde,  sodium  chloride  and  2-phenoxyethanol  content,  for  pH  and  sterility,  for 
potency in animals, specific toxicity and for absence of blood group substances. Batch analysis data 
show consistency of production and quality. 
The adsorbed Pa antigen concentrates are prepared at SB Biologicals and are in process tested for pH 
and sterility after adsorption and prior to use. 
The  trivalent  polio  concentrate  is  tested  in  conformity  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  requirement  for  absence  of 
infectious poliovirus, sterility, antigen content and polysorbate 80 content. 
The tetanus toxoid concentrate used to prepare the purified tetanus toxoid for coupling with the PRP 
component is manufactured by Chiron-Behring. The tetanus toxoid concentrate complies with Ph. Eur. 
452  (bulk  purified  toxoid)  and  WHO  (TRS  No.  800,  1990)  requirements.  The  tests  performed  for 
release  are  sterility,  antigenic  purity,  absence  of  tetanus  toxin,  reversion  to  toxicity,  formaldehyde 
content,  sulphate  content,  sodium  chloride  content  and  pH.  Batch  release  protocols  from  Chiron-
Behring  are  provided  in  the  application.  This  intermediate  may  be  stored  at  +2°C  to  +8°C  for  a 
designated time before being processed at SB Biologicals. The shelf life is supported by stability data. 
Control of finished product 
DTPa-HBV-IPV component 
For the control of the finished product, tests can be performed either on the final bulk or on the final 
container. Several final container lots can be filled from the same final bulk. Therefore, tests, which 
involve animals, are carried out on the final bulk in order to avoid unnecessary use of animals. This 
principle is considered acceptable. 
The following in vivo and in vitro tests are carried out: 
• 
• 
Specific toxicity test for diphtheria and tetanus performed according to Ph. Eur. 444. 
Potency  for  diphtheria  and  tetanus,  performed  according  to  Ph.  Eur.  requirements  2.2.7  and 
2.2.9 respectively. 
Potency  for  pertussis  antigens  in  mice  (in-house  method  based  on  Ph.  Eur.  214,  supplement 
1999) 
Test for residual pertussis toxin activity in mice (in-house method). 
Potency for IPV component in rats (in house method) 
In vitro potency assay for IPV component by ELISA (final bulk) 
In vitro potency assay for HBV component  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The other tests performed on each final bulk vaccine are pH, sterility, 2-phenoxyethanol content and 
formaldehyde  content.  Each  final  container  lot  is  tested  for  appearance,  identity  for  all  antigens, 
volume, pH, aluminium content and as indicated above, for HBV and IPV content (in vitro potency). 
Validation data for these methods are presented in  the application. The specification limits and tests 
performed  are  in  accordance  with  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  153  (1999  supplement)  “Vaccine  for  Human 
use”, where applicable. 
Hib component 
Control tests are performed on the final bulk lot and on the final container lot following reconstitution 
in  water.  The  final  bulk  is  tested  for  sterility.  The  final  container  is  tested  for  visual  aspect,  pH, 
identity,  PRP  content,  aluminium  content,  residual  moisture,  sterility,  and  pyrogens  (endotoxin 
content). The routine testing is thus in compliance with Ph. Eur. 1219 except for the absence of a test 
for  immunogenicity  in  mice.  The  applicant  justifies  the  absence  of  the  mouse  potency  test  from  the 
release  specifications  by  validation  data  comprising  10  batches.  These  data  show  a  satisfactory 
immunogenicity  of  the  Hib  component  in  mice  (i.e.  at  least  50%  of  inoculated  mice  show 
seroconversion). 
6/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib (reconstituted vaccine) 
A potency test is performed on the reconstituted DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib.  
Stability 
Stability tests on active substances 
Infanrix  hexa  is  formulated  using  the  same  bulk  antigens  as  for  other  licensed  DTPa-based 
combination vaccines (Infanrix DTPa, Infanrix Hep B and Infanrix IPV). Therefore the applicant has 
made reference to the data generated on the above mentioned vaccines to support the shelf life claimed 
for the active ingredients. 
• 
The stability data presented in the application support all agreed storage periods for the active 
ingredients.  
Stability tests on the finished product 
DTPa-HBV-IPV component 
Three  vaccine  lots  presented  as  mono-dose  vials  and  three  lots  presented  in  pre-filled  syringes  are 
included in the stability studies. 
The potency of the vaccine (Ph. Eur. assay for D, T & Pa, mouse immunogenicity for HBV and rat 
immunogenicity  for  IPV),  through  the  whole  shelf-life,  meets  the  specifications  applied  to  routine 
quality control tests conducted before each vaccine lot release. After 24 and 36 months of storage, the 
vaccine  is  also  tested  for  appearance,  identity,  volume,  pH,  aluminium  content,  2-phenoxyethanol, 
formaldehyde,  endotoxin,  sterility,  general  safety,  D  and  T  specific  toxicity  and  residual  pertussis 
toxin activity. Antimicrobial effectiveness was performed after 12 months and will be done after 36 
months. 
24  months  stability  studies  are  presented  in  the  dossier.  The  results  indicate  that  a  shelf  life  of  24 
months with storage at +2°C to +8°C is acceptable. 
Hib component 
Twelve final container lots were included in stability studies. Based on the data presented, a shelf life 
of 3 years at 2-8°C for the Hib component is acceptable.  
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib (reconstituted vaccine) 
After  reconstitution,  it  is  recommended  to  inject  the  vaccine  promptly  and  not  later  than  8  hours. 
Therefore, long-term stability studies for the reconstituted product are not relevant. The compatibility 
results demonstrate the stability of the reconstituted DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine for up to 24 hours 
stored  at  ambient  temperature  (approx.  21°C).  The  maximum  storage  period  of  8  hours  indicated  is 
practical and ensures that no reconstituted vaccine is stored over night for use the following day. 
Infanrix hexa will be supplied as a package consisting of one container of DTPa-HBV-IPV component 
and one container of adsorbed Hib component. The shelf life for each container will be calculated as 
follows: 
• 
• 
for Hib component: start of validity period (36 months) on the filling date 
for DTPa-HBV-IPV component: start the validity period (24 months) on the date of first valid 
potency tests. 
Each container will be labelled with the calculated expiry date based on the shelf life of its contents. 
The  expiry  date  on  the  outer  carton  will  correspond  to  the  shorter  of  the  two  expiry  dates  for  the 
separate constituents. This approach is considered acceptable. 
7/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TSE risk assessment 
Comprehensive  information  on  the  origin  and  preparation  of  substances  of  animal  origin  used  in 
master and working seed lots and in routine production is included in the dossier. The applicant has 
switched  when  possible  from  materials  of  bovine  origin  to  materials  of  either  synthetic  or  non-
ruminant origin. 
Animal derived material used in the manufacture of Infanrix hexa complies with the requirements of 
the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  for  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal  spongiform 
encephalopathy via medicinal products (Revision April 1999, CPMP/BWP/1230/98). 
Conclusion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Infanrix hexa is obtained by adding the entire contents of the supplied container of the liquid DTPa-
HBV-IPV component to the vial containing the lyophilised adsorbed Hib component. 
The  two  constituents  of  Infanrix  hexa  are  prepared  according  to  the  procedures  described  in  the 
established Ph. Eur. and WHO guidelines for the different components. Starting materials of adequate 
quality are used. The vaccine is prepared according to Good Manufacturing Practices rules and meets 
the  WHO  requirements  for  the  manufacture  of  biological  substances.  Consistency  of  production  is 
demonstrated. No novel excipient is used in the finished product. 
The vaccine complies with approved specifications and is tested according to Pharmacopoeia methods 
where  applicable.  Methods  developed  in  house  are  validated.  Packaging  materials  are  the  same  as 
those used for other vaccines manufactured by the applicant (except for the Bioset cap). The separate 
DTPa-HBV-IPV  and  Hib  adsorbed  components  vaccines  are  stable  during  storage  at  +2°C  to  +8°C 
and following reconstitution for up to 24 hours at ambient temperature (approx. 21°C). 
Several  outstanding  quality  issues  will  be  addressed  by  the  applicant  on  an  ongoing  (post-approval) 
basis. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Toxicology 
As  indicated  in  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  Preclinical  Pharmacological  and  Toxicological 
Testing  of  Vaccines  (CPMP/SWP/465/95),  studies  on  reproductive  function,  embryo/foetal  and 
perinatal  toxicity  are  not  necessary  for  paediatric  vaccines  and  studies  on  mutagenicity  and 
carcinogenicity  are  normally  not  needed  for  vaccines.  The  absence  of  perinatal  toxicity  data  in  the 
application  is  thus  justified  on  the  basis  that  Infanrix  hexa  is  intended  for  paediatric  use  only.  The 
absence  of  mutagenicity  and  carcinogenicity  data  in  the  application  is  justified  on  the  basis  that  the 
product  is  a  vaccine  and  none  of  the  active  ingredients  or  excipients  are  novel  or  known  to  induce 
mutagenic or carcinogenic effects. 
The  preclinical  testing  included  a  repeated  dose  toxicity  study  reflecting  the  clinical  use  of  the 
vaccine. Local tolerance was also evaluated as required by the CPMP Note for Guidance. The vaccine 
was well tolerated and no significant toxicological reaction was observed. 
Data  were  presented  from  in  vivo  safety  studies  for  inactivated  trivalent  polioviruses  demonstrating 
the safety of these components.  
The adsorbed Hib component of the vaccine was tested for pyrogenicity according to Ph. Eur. (2.6.8). 
All  three  lots  of  Hib  adsorbed  final  container  tested  complied  with  the  specifications.  It  should  be 
noted  that  for  routine  QC  release,  the  adsorbed  Hib  component  final  containers  are  tested  for 
endotoxin by the Ph. Eur. in vitro LAL method. 
8/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other  data,  which  provide  assurance  with  respect  to  the  safety  of  the  candidate  vaccine  come  from 
routine release in vivo tests which are performed on the DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine. These are the 
specific toxicity test for diphtheria and tetanus (Ph. Eur. 444) and the test for residual pertussis toxin 
activity  (histamine  sensitisation  test)  which  are  performed  on  the  DTPa-HBV-IPV  component. 
General  safety  (abnormal  toxicity)  testing  is  no  longer  required  by  Ph.  Eur.  for  routine  release. 
However, data were presented in the application. All lots met the requirements of this test.  
Some final bulk lots of Hib adsorbed component were also tested to demonstrate that the conjugation 
reaction  does  not  influence  the  irreversibility  of  the  toxoiding  for  the  tetanus  toxoid  used  as  protein 
carrier. 
In addition, the applicant addressed the question of potential toxicity and/or potential allergenicity for 
2-phenoxyethanol,  which  is  contained  as  a  preservative  in  the  DTPa-HBV-IPV  component 
(2.5mg/dose). The same preservative is used at the same concentration in other vaccines manufactured 
and  commercialized  by  the  applicant.  The  results  of  a  comparison  of  the  adverse  event  profile  of  a 
vaccine containing  2-phenoxyethanol and another vaccine without 2-phenoxyethanol gave no reason 
for concern. 
Pharmacology (Immune response in animals) 
The applicant only presents primary pharmacologic data. The absence of secondary pharmacodynamic 
data  (safety  pharmacology)  is  justified  because  all  the  vaccine  components  are  well  known  and  are 
described  in  either  Ph.  Eur.  or  WHO  monographs.  Furthermore,  any  undesirable  pharmacological 
activities would have been revealed in the repeated dose toxicity study, the safety studies for IPV or 
other routine toxicity tests. 
It  is  indicated  in  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  Preclinical  Pharmacological  and  Toxicological 
Testing of Vaccines that pharmacokinetics studies are normally not needed and this is considered to be 
the case for Infanrix hexa. 
Potency  tests  for  diphtheria  and  for  tetanus  demonstrated  a  satisfactory  potency  response  for  the 
concerned components. A satisfactory immune response for the IPV component was demonstrated in 
immunogenicity tests. The vaccine elicited a satisfactory immune response for the HBV component in 
an  in  vivo  immunogenicity  test.  For  the  pertussis  component,  the  immunogenicity  has  been 
demonstrated in mice.  The protective capacity of the anti-pertussis antibodies was demonstrated using 
a lung clearance activity test in a Bordetella pertussis intranasal challenge model of infection in mice. 
An in vivo immunogenicity test in mice for the adsorbed Hib component was performed on some of 
the adsorbed Hib final container lots. 
The applicant has also provided data demonstrating that the reconstitution of Hib adsorbed component 
with the DTPa-HBV-IPV component does not influence the potency/immunogenicity of the different 
vaccine antigens in animals. 
Environmental risk assessment 
The  applicant  has  indicated  that  although  the  hepatitis  B  component  of  the  candidate  vaccine  is 
derived  from  a  genetically  modified  yeast  strain,  the  final  vaccine  preparation  does  not  contain  any 
genetically  modified  organisms  as  the  HBsAg  undergoes  extensive  purification  following  its 
extraction from the yeast. With respect to the risk associated with use of the vaccine, the applicant has 
stated  that  no  drug  substance  or  identifiable  metabolite  will  be  introduced  into  the  environment  in 
quantities that merit concern. 
Conclusion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
In conclusion, the applicant has performed adequate preclinical toxicity testing in accordance with the 
CPMP Note for Guidance on Preclinical Pharmacological and Toxicological Testing of Vaccines .The 
testing shows that the vaccine was well tolerated in animals with no significant toxicological reaction 
9/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or abnormality. 
The applicant has provided adequate primary pharmacodynamic data to demonstrate that Infanrix hexa 
elicits  a  satisfactory  potency/immunogenicity  response  in  animals  with  respect  to  all  the  vaccine 
components.  The  pharmacological  properties  of  all  the  vaccine  components  have  been  shown  to  be 
satisfactory. 
No  environmental  hazard  meriting  concern  has  been  identified  as  being  associated  with  use  of  this 
vaccine. 
4. 
Part IV:  
4.1 Clinical aspects at the time of initial marketing authorisation 
Overview of clinical documentation 
Complete  reports  of  9  primary  vaccination  studies  are  presented  in  the  application.  A  total  of  
7  different  lots  of  the  DTPa-HBV-IPV  component  and  6  different  lots  of  the  Hib  component  were 
used.  During  the  development  programme,  the  manufacturing  process  was  modified.  This  was 
addressed in the clinical development programme: 
The primary vaccination studies include 
• 
• 
• 
• 
2 feasibility studies. 
1 lot to lot consistency study. 
1 double blind bridging study from the old to the new manufacturing process. 
5  open  randomised  studies  evaluating  the  safety  and/or  immunogenicity  of  the  candidate 
vaccine according to various primary vaccination schedules including the Expanded Programme 
on Immunization (EPI) schedule. 
These studies included a total of 4970 infants of more than 6 weeks of age, of which 3145 received the 
candidate vaccine and were included in the according to protocol cohort for analysis of reactogenicity, 
and 1352 were included in the ATP cohort for analysis of immunogenicity. 
In addition, 5 booster studies are included in the initial application, and data from 3 additional booster 
studies assessing Infanrix hexa as a fourth dose during the second year of life following priming with 
the same vaccine, were submitted with the responses to the consolidated list of questions. 
The  procedures  used  in  these  studies  were  in  accordance  with  the  Declaration  of  Helsinki.  The 
protocols were designed according to the Good Clinical Practice guidelines. 
Clinical efficacy 
The  immunogenicity  of  the  candidate  vaccine  was  evaluated  by  measuring  the  antibody  response 
elicited  by  each  vaccine  component.  All  assays  were  performed  blinded  to  vaccine  treatment  using 
validated procedures with adequate controls. 
Descriptive analysis of each vaccine group was provided for all studies. The statistical methodology 
used in most studies to evaluate the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of the candidate vaccine was 
equivalence or non inferiority testing based on a 90% CI. The pre-specified limits for non-inferiority 
were defined by the sponsor prior to analysis.  
Primary vaccination 
Feasibility studies 
The  reactogenicity  and  immunogenicity  of  the  candidate  vaccine  was  evaluated  in  comparison  with 
the separate administration of licensed vaccines according to the same schedule (2, 4 and 6 months) in 
10/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
an open randomized trial including 2 groups. There was no clinically relevant difference in tolerability 
between  the  candidate  vaccine  and  the  separate  administration  of  commercial  vaccines.  In  terms  of 
seroprotection  or  vaccine  response  rates,  the  candidate  vaccine  was  at  least  as  immunogenic  as  the 
commercial  vaccines  administered  at  different  sites  for  all  antigens  other  than  PRP.  When  anti-PRP 
titres  >1.0  mcg/ml  were  considered,  the  lower  limit  of  the  90%  CI  of  the  difference  in  vaccine 
response rate was below the limit for clinical equivalence. The clinical significance of the response to 
the  Hib  component  in  mixed  administration  (that  is  after  administration  of  the  combined  candidate 
vaccine) in terms of vaccine efficacy will be discussed further in this report. 
Assessment of the candidate vaccine compared to the separate administration of its components 
Additional studies compared the reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the candidate vaccine to that of 
the  separate  administration  of  its  DTPa-HBV-IPV  and  Hib  components  according  to  2  different 
schedules. 
In  these  studies  the  reactogenicity  profile  of  the  DTPa-HBV-IPV  co-administered  with  the  Hib 
component  at  a  different  site  was  similar  to  that  of  the  candidate  vaccine.  The  seroprotection  and 
vaccine  response  rates  and  the  GMTs  were  similar  in  the  groups.  When  analyzed  according  to  the 
predefined clinical plan, the proportion of subjects with anti-PRP antibodies > 1.0 mcg/ml was higher 
in  the  separate  injections  group.  The  clinical  significance  of  the  response  to  the  Hib  component  in 
mixed administration in terms of vaccine efficacy will be discussed further in this report. 
Lot to lot consistency 
The lot-to-lot consistency of the candidate vaccine was evaluated in a double-blind randomized study 
in which infants  received vaccine from 1 of 3 different lots mixed with 1 of 3 different lots of the Hib 
component, according to a 3, 4 and 5 months schedule. 
There was no difference between the 3 groups in terms of incidence of local reaction and fever. The 
immune  responses  elicited  were  not  different  according  to  the  pre-specified  limits  for  equivalence, 
except for the anti-PRP response. However when the reverse cumulative distribution curves for anti-
PRP antibodies were plotted, the curves for each of the 3 groups closely aligned. 
To address the  bridging  of  the  manufacturing  process used  during early development of the product 
and the final process, a randomized study evaluated the reactogenicity and immunogenicity of one lot 
of DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib from each process.  There were no differences between the 2 lots in terms of 
incidence of local reaction and fever. Also in this trial, the immune response elicited by the 2 lots were 
not different according to  the pre-specified limits for equivalence, except for the anti-PRP response. 
The  difference  for  anti-PRP  was  considered  to  reflect  the  stringency  of  the  non-equivalence  criteria 
rather than any clinically significant difference. 
Primary vaccination studies according to various vaccination schedules 
The following schedules have been investigated: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
2, 3 and 4 months  
3,4 and 5 months  
2, 4, and 6 months 
3, 5 and 11 months  
11/2, 21/2 and 31/ months with one dose of HBV vaccine at birth (EPI schedule)) 
In one of these studies, the candidate vaccine was compared to a commercial combination including a 
whole cell pertussis vaccine (DTPw-IPV/Hib, Pentacoq), in others with a licensed acellular pertussis-
inactivated poliovirus -Hib vaccine (Infanrix IPV Hib). 
11/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2-3-4, the 3-4-5 and the 2-4-6 months schedules 
Overall,  one  month  after  completion  of  the  primary  vaccination  schedule  >99.8%  of  subjects  had 
protective titres against diphtheria and tetanus, over 98.6% had protective anti-HBs titres, 95.7% had 
neutralizing  antibodies  to  each  of  the  3  polio  antigens,  and  vaccine  response  to  any  of  the  pertussis 
antigens was >95.9%. Anti-PRP titres above the 0.15 mcg/ml level were present in more than 96% of 
the  subjects,  above  1  mcg/ml  in  more  than  61.9%  of  the  subjects.  A  schedule  effect  was  seen  for 
vaccine response rates and GMTs: values tended to be higher for schedules in which the first dose of 
vaccine was given later in infancy and in which the interval between doses is longer. 
In an open randomized study comparing the candidate vaccine with a combination vaccine containing 
whole cell pertussis vaccine (Pentacoq) administered with a licensed HBV vaccine at another site, the 
immune response was similar for the candidate vaccine and the licensed comparator group except for 
anti-PRP  antibodies.  The  clinical  significance  of  the  response  to  the  Hib  component  in  mixed 
administration in terms of vaccine efficacy will be discussed further in this report. 
3-5-11 months schedule 
The  3,  5  and  11  months  schedule  was  investigated:  DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib  was  compared  to  DTPa-
IPV/Hib+HBV  administered  at  another  site.  At  the  time  of  submission,  only  month  6  data  (blood 
samples  tested  one  month  after  the  second  dose)  were  included  in  the  registration  file.  The  data 
analysis  showed  that  the  candidate  vaccine  was  not  inferior  to  the  commercially  available  vaccines 
used  as  comparators.  For  HBsAg,  a  higher  seroprotection  rate  (96.5%  versus  82.6%)  and  higher 
GMTs (582 versus 82 mIU/ml) was seen with the candidate vaccine than with the licensed monovalent 
hepatitis B vaccine. As requested by the CPMP, the applicant provided further data on reactogenicity 
and  immunogenicity  obtained  one  month  after  the  third  vaccine  dose,  which  confirmed  the  results 
obtained after 2 doses of vaccine. 
6-10-14 weeks schedule (Expanded Programme of Immunization / EPI schedule) 
In another study, 2 groups of infants received the candidate vaccine according to the EPI schedule, one 
of  the  groups  receiving  an  additional  dose  of  hepatitis  B  vaccine  at  birth.  This  additional  dose  of 
hepatitis B vaccine had no effect on the reactogenicity profile of the candidate vaccine. The candidate 
vaccine was immunogenic when administered according to this schedule. However, for anti-HBsAg, a 
seroprotection rate of 77.7% was obtained in the group of infants who did not receive a dose of HBV 
at  birth,  compared  to  98.5%  in  those  who  did  receive  the  additional  dose.  This  indicates  that,  for 
subjects  who  will  be  vaccinated  with  the  candidate  vaccine  according  to  the  EPI  schedule,  an 
additional dose of HBV vaccine should be given at birth. 
No  issues  specific  to  the  Pa  component  of  the  candidate  vaccine  were  identified,  other  than  those 
already relevant for the licensed DTPa vaccines. 
Persistence of antibodies up to booster vaccination and booster vaccination 
The initial clinical documentation contained only studies evaluating the candidate vaccine as a booster 
in children primed with other vaccines. At the time of submission, data derived from 5 clinical trials 
were presented in the registration dossier to support the use of the candidate vaccine as a booster dose. 
From these studies, it became apparent that the candidate vaccine induces lower anti-PRP titres than 
the  conjugate  Hib  vaccine  administered  separately.  Following  the  request  to  provide  complete 
immunogenicity data of the candidate vaccine after primary vaccination, the applicant submitted with 
the  response  to  the  consolidated  list  of  questions  the  results  from  3  additional  trials  evaluating  the 
candidate  vaccine  when  used  as  a  fourth  dose  in  the  second  year  of  life.  In  addition,  results  from  
6  trials  were  submitted  to  support  the  booster  use  of  the  pentavalent  component  administered 
concomitantly with various licensed Hib vaccines. 
The  results  of  two  comparative  trials  are  of  particular  interest.  One  study  was  an  open,  randomised 
trial  aimed  at  assessing  the  immunogenicity  and  reactogenicity  of  various  booster  regimens.  Non-
12/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inferiority  as  per  pre-defined  criteria  for  pre-booster  seroprotection/  seropositivity  rates  of  the 
candidate vaccine compared with the pentavalent component plus separate administration of Hib could 
not be established for some of the antigens, including PRP, for which lower titres were observed for 
the group which received the candidate vaccine. Following booster administration, important increases 
in antibody levels were seen for all components in both groups. Anti-PRP levels tended to be lower for 
the  group  which  received  candidate  vaccine.  There  was  a  trend  towards  lower  anti-PRP  immune 
response with regard to pre- and post- booster titres of the mixed candidate vaccine compared with the 
separate administration of Hib. 
In the other study, pre-booster antibody levels to all vaccine antigens after primary vaccination with 
the pentavalent component given either in separate injections or combined with Hib component were 
compared to a combination vaccine containing whole cell pertussis vaccine (Pentacoq). In this study, 
the  rates  of  subjects  assumed  to  be  seroprotected  against  diphtheria  and  anti-PRP  were  lower 
compared to Pentacoq the seroprotection rates for antipolio and GMTs for pertussis components were 
higher for the candidate vaccine. As for the first study, the antibody titres after the booster dose were 
substantially  increased  with  respect  to  prevaccination  levels  for  all  components  and  in  all  study 
groups. 
Based  on  the  experience  with  already  licensed  vaccines  in  EU  Member  States,  it  is  known  that 
combination  of  Hib  valences  with  acellular  Pertussis  components  is  associated  with  an  interference 
phenomenon: a reduction in the antibody titres to the PRP. This phenomenon is also observed for the 
present  candidate  vaccine.  The  applicant  was  therefore  asked  to  address  this  issue  in  an  oral 
explanation. In particular, the applicant was asked to demonstrate that the lower PRP titres do not have 
any clinical impact on the protection conferred.  
Analysis of the clinical studies included in the application showed that one month after completion of 
the  primary  vaccination  course,  the  GMTs  of  antibodies  against  the  Hib  component  ranged  from  
1.52 to 3.53 µg/ml, with between 93.5 and 100% of the subjects reaching antibody titres ≥0.15 µg/ml. 
One month after the booster dose given in the second year of life, the GMTs ranged from 19.1 to 94.0 
µg/ml, with 99.5 to 100% of the subjects reaching antibody titres ≥0.15 µg/ml. These GMTs are lower 
with  respect  to  separate  administration  of  the  Hib  component,  but  they  are  not  different  from  those 
elicited by licenced DTPa/Hib and DTPa-IPV/Hib vaccines.  
The  humoral  immune  response  (as  measured  by  serum  antibody  levels)  is  complemented  by  the 
induction of a cellular immune response (or immune memory), which has been shown to be present as 
early as four months after completion of the primary immunisation schedule with Infanrix hexa. Data 
from field  studies in  the  United Kingdom  have shown that Hib  vaccine efficacy remains  high for at 
least  6  years  after  primary  vaccination,  despite  low  levels  of  serum  antibodies  and  without 
administration of a booster dose. Immune memory has thus been proposed as an important mechanism 
in the long-term protection against invasive Hib disease.  
The  effectiveness  of  the  applicant’s  Hib  component  (when  combined  with  DTPa  or  DTPa-IPV)  has 
been confirmed through an extensive post-marketing surveillance study conducted in Germany over a 
2  year  follow-up  period,  where  the  effectiveness  of  three  primary  doses  of  DTPa/Hib  or  DTPa-
IPV/Hib was 98.8%.  
Concerns regarding the lower anti-Hib antibody levels with Pa/Hib-containing combinations were also 
addressed in an Ad hoc Expert Group Meeting which was convened at request of the CPMP in order 
to  clarify  the  risks  and  advantages  of  new  combination  vaccines  presently  under  CPMP  evaluation. 
The  experts  confirmed  that  the  historically  accepted  cut-off  limits  of  1.0  micrograms/ml  for 
unconjugated  Hib  vaccines  and  of  0.15  micrograms/ml  for  conjugated  Hib  vaccines  as  minimum 
levels indicative of protection may be questioned. Good clinical efficacy against Hib disease has been 
observed in populations with lower anti-PRP antibody levels (e.g. in Finland). The anti-PRP level after 
primary vaccination is today known to reflect only part of the immune response to the conjugated Hib 
vaccines.  After  vaccination  with  conjugated  Hib  vaccines,  a  major  protective  role  is  played  by 
immunological  memory  as  indicated  by  antibody  titre  response  following  boosting  either  with 
unconjugated  or  conjugated  PRP.  Maturation  of  the  immune  response  is  indicated  by  an  increased 
13/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
avidity  of  the  antibodies  prior  to  and  after  booster  challenge.  It  was  concluded  that  memory  lasts 
longer than measurable antibodies (silent memory) even though it is not known how long. Therefore, 
adequate  surveillance  studies  are  necessary  to  further  study  persistence  of  memory  following  the 
primary immunisation series. 
Clinical safety 
The safety of the vaccine and the reactogenicity profile was evaluated on the day of the vaccination 
and  on  the  3  following  days  on  the  basis  of  a  checklist  of  solicited  local  and  general  signs  and 
symptoms. Non solicited symptoms could be recorded on the diary cards. The parents were instructed 
to  immediately  inform  the  investigators  of  the  occurrence  of  any  serious  adverse  event  occurring 
during the study period and investigators had to notify the sponsor within 24 hours. 
Primary vaccination 
For primary vaccination, the reactogenicity of the candidate vaccine was comparable to other licensed 
DTPa vaccines. 
Booster vaccination 
After the booster dose the incidence of grade 3 fever appears to be increased compared to the primary 
vaccination (grade 3 fever up to 4.4% in one study). In another study with a higher sample, size grade 
3 fever was recorded in 4.0 %) of subjects. Consequently, the incidence of grade 3 fever (> 39.5°C) 
appears to be higher than that observed with licensed vaccines.  
The applicant was requested to address the reactogenicity of the candidate vaccine after boosting. In 
particular, the company was asked to show that the high fever induced by the candidate vaccine is not 
a matter of concern and has no influence on the vaccine acceptability. 
The  applicant  performed  an  analysis  of  fever  after  4  different  boosters  (DTPw-IPV/Hib+HBV; 
Infanrix  hexa,  DTPa-IPV/Hib+HBV;  DTPa-IPV/Hib).  The  data  were  pooled  regardless  of  priming. 
Furthermore,  the  duration  of  fever  above  37.5°C  was  compared  following  4  different  boosters 
(DTPa+Hib; DTPa/Hib; DTPa-IPV/Hib; Infanrix hexa). From the data it can be concluded that there 
was a similar incidence and distribution of high fever and a similar duration of fever episodes in the 
various booster groups. 
The incidence of high fever above 39°C observed with Infanrix hexa after boosting was also discussed 
in the Ad hoc Expert Group Meeting on combined vaccines. It was concluded that concerns are still 
present with reference to high fever, even though such reactions have been observed also with other 
licensed combined  vaccines. An appropriate  statement  on this subject is  present in the SPC. Further 
detailed  evaluation  of  such  severe  adverse  reactions  is  needed  with  post-marketing  studies  based  on 
well-defined protocols and conformity in data measurements across study centres. 
Serious adverse events 
In total, 99 subjects reported a serious adverse event after receiving a dose of the candidate vaccine. 
Only 3 reports were considered as related or probably related to vaccination. 
In  the  booster  trials,  all  SAEs  were  assessed  as  unrelated  to  vaccination,  except  one  considered 
suspected to be related to vaccination. This subject recovered without sequelae. 
The applicant performed a review of all serious neurological events observed in temporal relationship 
to  vaccination  with  the  candidate  vaccine.  An  independent  review  of  all  cases  confirmed  the  initial 
reports  of  the  investigators  in  concluding  that  it  is  unlikely  that  these  events  are  causally  related  to 
immunisation.  Importantly  and  irrespective  of  the  relationship  to  vaccination,  the  incidences  of  the 
events  reported  following  administration  of  the  candidate  vaccine  were  not  different  from  what  has 
been  previously  observed  with  either  DTPa  or  other  DTPa-based  combinations.  This  additional 
information was considered acceptable. 
14/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions on clinical efficacy and safety 
The clinical investigation of the candidate vaccine followed a well conducted programme developed 
according to comprehensive design. Infanrix hexa has shown to be immunogenic in defined conditions 
of use (specific primary and booster vaccination schedules). 
On  the  basis  of  the  current  scientific  knowledge  of  immune  response  against  conjugated  Hib 
containing  multivalent  vaccines  and  of  effectiveness  observed  in  field  studies,  the  lower  anti-PRP 
antibody levels observed after vaccination in clinical trials with Infanrix hexa is considered not to be 
an  issue  preventing  the  granting  of  a  marketing  authorisation.  Nevertheless  adequate  surveillance 
studies  are  recommended  to  confirm  long-term  effectiveness  of  this  vaccine  as  well  as  to  further 
explore immune response patterns. 
The observed tendency towards higher reactogenicity following a booster dose of Infanrix hexa was 
not  considered  to  be  a  barrier  to  a  positive  scientific  opinion  for  this  vaccine.  Further  detailed 
evaluation  of  severe  reactions  and  their  impact  on  vaccines  acceptance  will  be  monitored  via  well-
defined post-marketing studies. 
4.2 Clinical aspects from the post-authorisation phase 
Adverse Drug Reactions: 
Since  the  Marketing  Authorisation  was  granted,  new  safety  data  have  been  received  which  led  to 
changes  in  the  product  information.  These  data  concerned  the  following  adverse  drug  reactions: 
convulsions,  skin  reactions  (rash  dermatitis,  eczema),  anaphylactoid  reactions  (urticaria),  and 
thrombocytopenia. 
5. 
Overall conclusions on quality, efficacy and safety and benefit/risk assessment 
The  quality  of  Infanrix  hexa  has  been  acceptably  documented.  The  applicant  has  agreed  to  solve 
remaining quality issues by providing additional data on an ongoing basis after approval. 
Following  evaluation  of  the  toxicological/pharmacological  documentation,  it  was  concluded  that  the 
applicant  has performed adequate preclinical toxicity testing in accordance with the CPMP Note for 
Guidance  on  Preclinical  Pharmacological  and  Toxicological  Testing  of  Vaccines.  The  testing  shows 
that  the  vaccine  was  well  tolerated  in  animals  with  no  toxicological  significant  reaction  or 
abnormality.  The  pharmacological  properties  of  all  the  vaccine  components  have  been  shown  to  be 
satisfactory. 
The  clinical  documentation  presented  by  the  applicant  conforms  to  ICH  guidelines  and  is  adequate 
from a GLP and GCP point of view. Infanrix hexa was shown to be immunogenic when administered 
according  to  a  variety  of  vaccination  schedules.  Comprehensive  data  have  been  submitted  to 
characterise the reactogenicity profile of Infanrix hexa. The lower anti-PRP antibody levels as well as 
the observed tendency towards higher reactogenicity of Infanrix hexa as a booster (incidence of high 
fever) was not considered to be a barrier to a positive scientific opinion for this vaccine. The applicant 
is asked to perform adequate surveillance studies to confirm long term effectiveness of Infanrix hexa 
and to further monitor severe adverse reactions and their impact on vaccine acceptability.  
From  the  practical  point  of  view,  Infanrix  hexa  is  a  further  contribution  to  decrease  the  number  of 
injections required for primary and booster vaccination in infants. The vaccine will assist in increasing 
vaccination compliance and in further simplifying vaccination schedules and programmes. 
Benefit/Risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Infanrix hexa is favourable for the primary and booster vaccination of 
15/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infants  against  diphtheria,  tetanus,  pertussis,  hepatitis  B,  poliomyelitis  and  disease  caused  by 
Haemophilus influenzae type b. 
16/16 
EMEA 2004 
 
