15 September 2016 
EMA/719044/2016 
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Infanrix hexa  
diphtheria (D), tetanus (T), pertussis (acellular, component) (Pa), hepatitis B (rDNA) (HBV), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) (IPV) and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) conjugate vaccine 
(adsorbed) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000296/P46/120 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
1.1. Steps taken for the assessment ............................................................................. 4 
2. Assessment of the post-authorisation measure PAM ............................... 4 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion ............................................................ 18 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 2/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH:  
Stand-alone submission of the final study report for study 112921 (10PN-PD-DIT-050), in 
accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006. A short critical expert 
overview has been provided. The Company concluded that currently no changes to the 
Product Information of Infanrix hexa are needed. 
Previous clinical trials have shown an increase in the incidence of fever (rectal temperature ≥38.0 C) in 
infants following the co-administration of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines with standard infant 
vaccines compared to infants that receive either the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine or standard 
infant vaccines separately.  Another study showed that the use of paracetamol as prophylactic 
antipyretic treatment could prevent and reduce the incidence of febrile reactions, in intensity and/or 
duration, following pneumococcal conjugate vaccination, co-administered with standard infant 
vaccines.  
However, lower immune responses to the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine (Synflorix) and to some of the co-
administered antigens were observed in the group that received prophylactic paracetamol treatment to 
prevent febrile reactions. For all vaccine pneumococcal serotypes, lower antibody Geometric Mean 
Concentrations (GMCs) were observed one month post-primary and post-booster vaccination in the 
group receiving prophylactic paracetamol treatment compared to the non-antipyretic group. The same 
tendency was observed for antibodies against diphtheria, tetanus, pertactin (PRN) and polyribosylribitol 
phosphate (PRP) antigens after primary vaccination. After booster vaccination, this tendency was only 
observed for antibodies against tetanus. However, the seropositivity or seroprotection rates were not 
impacted and remained in line with previous experiences with Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis 
(DTPa)-based or pneumococcal vaccines with the exception of serotype 6B after primary vaccination 
[Prymula, 2009]. As a consequence, prophylactic administration of antipyretic drugs at the time of 
vaccination should not be routinely recommended since antibody responses to several vaccine antigens 
were reduced. 
For Synflorix,  section 4.4 of the SmPC and corresponding section of the PL were updated in order to 
reflect results from study 10PN-PD-DIT-0501 which aimed to determine whether ibuprofen given 
prophylactically, significantly impacts the immune response in children receiving primary vaccination 
with Synflorix, co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines, at 3, 4 and 5 months of age and a 
booster dose at 12-15 months of age. The impact of antipyretics on the incidence of febrile reactions 
and other safety and reactogenicity parameters was evaluated as well. In this study, there were no 
effects of prophylactic ibuprofen administration, either delayed or immediate, on the immune 
responses to Synflorix, or the routine childhood vaccines given concomitantly with Synflorix. The same 
conclusions can be drawn for both primary and booster vaccinations. In agreement with other studies, 
there was a reduction of immune responses when prophylactic paracetamol was administered either 
immediately, or delayed, both to Synflorix, and to some concomitant vaccine antigens of Infanrix hexa.  
The primary safety outcome in this study was fever. There were no beneficial effects of immediate 
administration of ibuprofen compared to no ibuprofen in terms of fever reduction, and a trend towards 
fever reduction in delayed ibuprofen administration. There were no new safety signals, and the overall 
safety profile was in agreement with previous studies.  
1 Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000973/II/0092. EMA/804788/2014. 23 December 2014. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 3/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
1.1.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
circulated on: 
CHMP Rapporteur’s updated assessment report 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
23/06/2016 
18/07/2016 
08/09/2016 
09/09/2016 
15/09/2016 
2.  Assessment of the post-authorisation measure PAM 
112921, 10PN-PD-DIT-050, EudraCT 2010-019761-28 
Methods : 
Primary Objectives : 
• 
To show that GSK 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine administered as a three dose 
primary vaccination course with immediate OR delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment is 
non-inferior to 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine without prophylactic ibuprofen 
treatment in terms of percentage of subjects with pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≤ 0.2 
µg/mL, despite a statistically significant decrease in ELISA Geometric Mean Concentration 
(GMC). 
Criteria for each pair-wise group comparison (IIBU versus NIBU; DIBU versus NIBU) at one 
month after primary immunization: 
o  Non-inferiority was demonstrated if the upper limit (UL) of the two-sided 98.25% 
confidence interval (98.25%CI) (adjusted one-sided alpha = 0.875%) of the difference 
between groups (NIBU minus IIBU or DIBU), in terms of percentage of subjects with 
pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≤ 0.2 µg/mL, was lower than 10% for at least 
seven out of the 10 pneumococcal serotypes 
o  A statistically significant decrease in GMC was established if the UL of the two-sided 
99.8% CI (adjusted one-sided alpha = 0.11364%) for the GMC ratios (IIBU or DIBU 
over NIBU) was below 1 for at least one of the 10 vaccine pneumococcal serotypes or 
for protein D. 
Secondary objectives : 
• 
To determine the percentage reduction in febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) when 
immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment is administered compared to no 
prophylactic ibuprofen treatment, after primary vaccination with GSK Biologicals’ 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines.  
Criteria for detection of febrile reduction:  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 4/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to control the type I error, the secondary objective was only assessable if the primary 
objective was met. A statistically significant reduction was demonstrated if the lower limit (LL) 
of the 97.5% CI around the difference (NIBU group minus IIBU group OR NIBU group minus 
DIBU group) in terms of percentage of subjects with fever ≥38°C (rectal temperature) within 4 
days (Day 0-3) after at least one primary vaccine dose was higher than 0%.  
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the 
immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered 
with DTPa-combined vaccines as a three-dose primary vaccination course.  
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the 
incidence of febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38°C) after primary vaccination with GSK 
Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined 
vaccines.  
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment on the 
incidence of febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38°C) after booster vaccination with GSK 
Biologicals' 10- valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined 
vaccine.  
To assess the impact of immediate prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the incidence of 
febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38°C) after booster vaccination with GSK Biologicals' 10-
valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccine.  
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment on the safety 
and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and DTPa-
combined vaccines, when administered as a three-dose primary vaccination course or as a 
booster dose.  
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the 
safety and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and 
DTPacombined vaccines, when administered as a three-dose primary vaccination course. 
To assess the impact of immediate prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the safety and 
reactogenicity of a booster dose of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 
and DTPa-combined vaccine.  
To assess, prior to booster vaccination, the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic 
ibuprofen treatment on the persistence of antibodies induced by GSK Biologicals' 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and DTPa-combined vaccines given as primary vaccination 
course.  
To assess, prior to booster vaccination, the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic 
paracetamol treatment on the persistence of antibodies induced by GSK Biologicals' 10-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and DTPa-combined vaccines given as primary vaccination 
course.  
To assess the impact of immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment on the 
immunogenicity of a booster dose of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccine. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 5/22 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
To assess the impact of immediate prophylactic paracetamol treatment on the immunogenicity 
of a booster dose of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-
administered with DTPa-combined vaccine. 
Study design : 
Phase IV, multicentre in Romania, open-label, randomized and controlled study. 
Treatment allocation :  
Internet-based randomization (SBIR) 3:3:3:1:1:1 into the different treatment groups (N = 210 for 
each of the three IBU groups or N = 70 for each of the three PARA groups) for primary vaccination. 
The three primary IBU groups were each randomized 1:1:1 into three subgroups (N = 70) at the time 
of booster vaccination. The three primary PARA groups (N = 70 each) were kept at the time of booster 
vaccination without sub-randomization but were assigned new antipyretic treatment. 
Treatment: 
The study groups were as follows: 
Primary vaccination: 
IBU groups: 
• 
IIBU group (Immediate ibuprofen group): subjects receiving immediate ibuprofen 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 210). 
•  DIBU group (Delayed ibuprofen group): subjects receiving delayed ibuprofen administration 
after each primary vaccine dose (N = 210). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 6/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  NIBU group (No ibuprofen group): subjects receiving no prophylactic ibuprofen administration 
after each primary vaccine dose (N = 210). 
PARA groups: 
• 
IPARA group (Immediate paracetamol group): subjects receiving immediate paracetamol 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 70). 
•  DPARA group (Delayed paracetamol group): subjects receiving delayed paracetamol 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 70). 
•  NPARA group (No paracetamol group): subjects receiving no prophylactic paracetamol 
administration after each primary vaccine dose (N = 70). 
Booster vaccination: 
IBU groups: 
• 
• 
• 
IIBU-IIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary IIBU group receiving immediate 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
IIBU-DIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary IIBU group receiving delayed 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
IIBU-NIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary IIBU group receiving no prophylactic 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DIBU-IIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary DIBU group receiving immediate 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DIBU-DIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary DIBU group receiving delayed 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DIBU-NIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary DIBU group receiving no prophylactic 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NIBU-IIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary NIBU group receiving immediate 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NIBU-DIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary NIBU group receiving delayed 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NIBU-NIBU group: 1/3 of the subjects from the primary NIBU group receiving no prophylactic 
ibuprofen administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
PARA groups: 
• 
IPARA-NPARA group: subjects from the primary IPARA group receiving no paracetamol 
administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  DPARA-IPARA group: subjects from the primary DPARA group receiving immediate 
paracetamol administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
•  NPARA-IPARA group: subjects from the primary NPARA group receiving immediate 
paracetamol administration after booster vaccination (N = 70). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 7/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment groups and vaccination schedule is shown in Table below. Of note, Infanrix hexa was given 
only at month 3 and 5 and at month 4, Infanrix-IPV/Hib, was given. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 8/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study population 
Male or female infants between, and including, 12 and 16 weeks (84-118 days) of age at the time of 
the first vaccination, born after a gestation period of 36 to 42 weeks inclusive, free of obvious health 
problems as established by medical history and clinical examination before entering into the study and 
for whom the investigator believed that their parents/guardians could and would comply with the 
requirements of the protocol.  
Primary Outcome/Efficacy Variable: 
• 
Evaluation of immune responses to components of the investigational vaccine one month after 
primary immunization. 
•  Anti-pneumococcal antibody serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19F and 23F antibody 
concentrations ≥0.2 μg/mL. 
•  Concentrations of antibodies against the 10 vaccine pneumococcal serotypes.  
•  Concentrations of antibodies against protein D. 
Secondary Outcome/Efficacy Variables: 
Safety 
•  Occurrence of each solicited adverse event (AE) within 4 days (Days 0 to 3) after each primary 
vaccination dose and following booster vaccination. 
o 
Local (any, grade 3) AEs.  
o  General (any, grade 3, related) AEs. 
•  Occurrence of unsolicited AEs within 31 days (Days 0 to 30) after each primary vaccination 
dose and following booster vaccination. 
•  Occurrence of serious adverse events (SAEs) during the entire study period. 
Immunogenicity 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 9/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Evaluation of immune responses to components of the investigational vaccine for additional 
parameters, one month after primary immunization, prior to and one month after booster 
immunization: 
o  Concentrations of antibodies against pneumococcal serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 
14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 23F. 
o  Opsonophagocytic activity (OPA) against pneumococcal serotypes 1, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 
9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 23F*. 
o  Concentrations of antibodies against protein D. 
• 
Evaluation of immune responses to components of the co-administered DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and 
DTPa-IPV/Hib vaccines, one month after primary immunization, prior to and one month after 
booster immunization: 
o  Antibody concentrations against diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, pertussis toxoid, 
filamentous haemagglutinin, pertactin, hepatitis B surface antigen*, polyribosylribitol 
phosphate. 
o  Poliovirus types 1, 2 and 3 titres*. 
*Note that the OPA, hepatitis B and polio results will be provided in an Annex Report. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis of demographics 
The analysis of demographics were performed separately for each epoch: 
•  Demographic characteristics (age in weeks at the time of each dose of primary vaccination and 
in months at the time of the booster dose, gender, weight, geographic ancestry) of each study 
cohort were tabulated. 
• 
The mean age (plus range and standard deviation) of the enrolled subjects as a whole study 
population and per group was calculated. 
Analysis of immunogenicity 
The analysis of immunogenicity was performed separately for each epoch. 
Within groups assessment 
Where appropriate, for each group, at each timepoint that a blood sample result was available: 
•  Geometric Mean Concentrations/Titres (GMCs/GMTs) with 95% CIs were tabulated for each 
serotype/antigen. 
•  Seropositivity/seroprotection rates with exact 95% CIs were calculated for each appropriate 
serotype/antigen. 
•  Vaccine response rates one month post-dose III and one month post-booster dose with exact 
95% CIs were calculated for each pertussis antigen. 
• 
The distribution of antibody concentrations/titres for each appropriate serotype/antigen was 
displayed using tables and/or RCCs. 
Between group assessment 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 10/22 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmatory inferential analysis 
•  Standardized asymptotic 98.25% CIs for the difference between groups (NIBU group minus 
IIBU group or NIBU group minus DIBU group), in terms of percentage of subjects with 
pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≥0.2 μg/mL one month post dose III, were computed 
using StatXact. The primary objective was demonstrated for one of the two pair-wise group 
comparisons if the UL of these two-sided 98.25% CIs was below 10% for seven out of the 10 
vaccine pneumococcal serotypes. 
•  99.8% CIs for the ELISA GMCs ratio (GMCs from the IIBU group over the GMCs from NIBU 
group OR GMCs from the DIBU group over the GMCs from NIBU group) one month post-dose 
III, was computed for each of the 10 conjugate vaccine pneumococcal serotypes and for 
protein D, using a one-sided ANOVA test on the logarithm10 transformation of the 
concentrations. A statistical significant difference in GMC was established if the UL of these 
two-sided 99.8% CIs was below 1 for at least one of the 10 vaccine pneumococcal serotypes or 
for protein D. 
Analysis of safety 
Analysis of safety relative to the primary epoch included analysis of safety data collected following 
administration of the three primary doses of study vaccine. Analysis of safety relative to the booster 
epoch included analysis of safety data collected following administration of the booster dose of study 
vaccine. At this second stage, in order to avoid missing SAEs that were reported, the SAE summary 
table included all events reported during the entire study period. 
Within groups assessment 
The percentage of subjects with at least one local AE (solicited and unsolicited), with at least one 
general AE (solicited and unsolicited) and with any AE during the 31-day (Day 0 - Day 30) 
postvaccination period was tabulated with exact 95% CI for each group, after each vaccine dose and 
overall primary doses. The percentage of doses followed by at least one local AE (solicited and 
unsolicited), by at least one general AE (solicited and unsolicited) and by any AE was tabulated for 
each group, over the full primary vaccination course, with exact 95% CI. The same calculations were 
performed for AEs rated as grade 3 and general AEs with causal relationship to vaccination. 
The percentage of subjects reporting each individual solicited local and general AE during the 4-day 
(Day 0 - Day 3) post-vaccination period was tabulated for each group, after each vaccine dose and 
overall primary doses, with exact 95% CI. The percentage of doses followed by each individual 
solicited local and general AE was tabulated for each group, over the full primary vaccination course, 
with exact 95% CI. The same tabulation was performed for grade 3 solicited AEs and for solicited AEs 
with causal relationship to vaccination. For redness and swelling, grade 2 or 3 AEs were also tabulated. 
Occurrence of fever was reported per 0.5°C cumulative increments. 
The proportion of subjects/doses with at least one report of unsolicited AE classified by the Medical 
Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) and reported up to 30 days after primary or booster 
vaccination was tabulated with exact 95% CI for each group. The same tabulation was performed for 
grade 3 unsolicited AEs and for unsolicited AEs with a relationship to vaccination. 
The proportion of AEs resulting in a medically attended visit was also tabulated. 
The number and percentage of subjects who took concomitant antipyretic/medication at least once 
during the 4-day (Day 0 - Day 3) solicited follow-up period were tabulated for each group, after each 
vaccine dose and overall primary doses, with exact 95% CI. The number and percentage of doses for 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 11/22 
 
 
 
 
 
which the subjects took concomitant antipyretic/medication at least once during the 4-day (Day 0 - 
Day 3) solicited follow-up period were tabulated for each group, over the full primary vaccination 
course, with exact 95% CI. 
SAEs, large swelling reactions (after booster dose) and withdrawal(s) due to SAE(s) were described in 
detail. 
Dosage of antipyretics taken and the summary of time interval between study vaccination and 
antipyretics were described in the groups receiving ibuprofen or paracetamol. 
Between group assessment 
Confirmatory inferential analysis: 
Standardized asymptotic 97.5% CIs for the difference between groups (NIBU group minus IIBU group 
OR NIBU group minus DIBU group), in percentage of subjects reporting rectal temperature ≥38.0°C 
after at least one primary vaccination, were computed using StatXact. 
The first secondary objective was demonstrated if the primary objective was reached and if the LL of 
the 97.5% CI around the difference NIBU group minus IIBU group OR if the LL of the 97.5% CI around 
the difference NIBU group minus DIBU group was higher than 0%. 
Conduct of the study 
During the course of the study, the following issues with regard to the conduct of the study were 
identified, either via site monitoring activities or were brought to GSK Biologicals’ attention by other 
mechanisms. These issues were investigated and corrective/preventive actions where possible were 
taken as described below: 
Following a letter notifying GSK about potential improper study conduct (), an assessment of this site 
was performed by the GSK’s Global Quality Assurance group in March 2012. Following comparison of 
diaries from selected subjects, lack of confidence in the integrity of the data was noted. Additionally, 
there were concerns that the conduct of the informed consent process and documentation practices at 
the site did not meet the ICH-GCP requirements. Therefore GSK Biologicals decided to terminate all 
study-related activities at this site. Ethics Committee and Regulatory authorities were informed. All 
subjects a, who had not completed the study when site activities were put on hold, were withdrawn 
from the study and offered continuation of vaccination outside the study. All 35 subjects enrolled at 
this site were eliminated from the Total Vaccinated Cohort. Their blood samples were used to assess 
the immune response to allow individual counselling of the impacted study subjects. The SAEs reported 
for the subjects enrolled at this centre are presented separately.  
Results : 
This multi-centre study was conducted in 23 centers in Romania, however all 35 subjects from site 
were eliminated from the TVC (site closed after audit). Therefore the TVC included 812 subjects 
enrolled in 22 centers with a maximum of 210 subjects (25.9%) enrolled in a single study center. A 
summary of study continuation for subjection initially vaccinated in the primary epoch is presented in 
Table 21.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 12/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21 Summary of study continuation for subjects initially vaccinated in the primary epoch (Primary 
epoch) (Total vaccinated cohort) 
Out of the 812 subjects vaccinated in the primary epoch, 792 completed the primary vaccination phase 
and 20 subjects were withdrawn. Among those, one subject was withdrawn due to an SAE assessed by 
the investigator as not related to vaccination. 
Out of the 792 subjects who completed the primary vaccination phase, 768 were vaccinated during the 
booster epoch (note that with reference to Section 6.2.1, 769 subjects participated in the booster 
epoch but one subject did not receive the booster dose). Among those, 751 subjects completed the 
study and 17 did not complete the booster phase (one subject was withdrawn because of an SAE 
assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination). 
1.  Immunogenicity results  
Non-inferiority of GSK Biologicals' 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine when administered as 
a three-dose primary vaccination course with immediate OR delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment 
in terms of percentage of subjects with pneumococcal antibody concentrations ≥0.2 µg/mL to 10-
valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine without prophylactic ibuprofen treatment for both pairwise 
group comparisons (IIBU versus NIBU; DIBU versus NIBU) was demonstrated since for nine out of 10 
vaccine serotypes. 
Assessor’s comment:  
Booster responses to the co-administered antigens follow the same pattern as the primary responses. 
As for the pneumococcal immune responses, no indication that ibuprofen diminishes the immune 
responses was seen. The responses in the paracetamol receiving groups were slightly lower compared 
to the control group.  Overall, in this study, there were no effects of prophylactic ibuprofen 
administration, either delayed or immediate, in the immune responses to Synflorix, or the routine 
childhood vaccines given concomitantly with Synflorix. The same conclusions can be drawn for both 
primary and booster vaccinations. In agreement with other studies, there was a reduction of immune 
responses when prophylactic paracetamol was administered either immediately, or delayed, both to 
Synflorix, and to some concomitant vaccine antigens of Infanrix hexa. 
2.  Safety results  
-  Between groups assessment 
The secondary confirmatory objective was to determine the percentage reduction in febrile reactions 
(rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) when immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment was 
administered compared to no prophylactic ibuprofen treatment, after primary vaccination with GSK 
Biologicals’ 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine co-administered with DTPa-combined vaccines.  
No statistically significant reduction in febrile reactions (rectal temperature ≥38.0°C) when 
immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen treatment was administered compared to no prophylactic 
ibuprofen treatment after primary vaccination was demonstrated as the LL of the 97.5% CI around the 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 13/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difference (NIBU group minus IIBU group and NIBU group minus DIBU group) in terms of percentage 
of subjects with fever ≥38°C within 4 days (Day 0-3) after at least one primary vaccine dose was not 
higher than 0% (-11.04% for the NIBU group minus IIBU group difference and -1.15% for the NIBU 
minus DIBU group difference).  
Assessor’s comment:  
There was no difference in fever in the no ibuprofen and immediate ibuprofen, while there was a 
tendency towards lower fever incidence in the delayed ibuprofen group.  
-  Primary vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine and DTPa-(HBV)-IPV/Hib 
•  Any symptom: During the 31-day post-primary vaccination period, the overall/dose incidence 
of reported symptoms (solicited and/or unsolicited; local and/or general) ranged from 70.9% 
(DPARA group) to 85.2% (NPARA group). 
•  Solicited local symptoms: During the 4-day post-primary vaccination period, redness was 
the most frequently reported solicited local symptom (overall/dose incidence ranged from 
29.5% [DIBU group] to 41.7% [NPARA group]), whatever the injection site, except for the 
DPARA group where the most frequently reported solicited local symptom was pain 
(overall/dose incidence was 33.3%). The overall/dose incidence of reported solicited grade 3 
local symptom was not higher than 4.2% [pain in the NPARA group], whatever the injection 
site. 
•  Solicited general symptoms: During the 4-day post-primary vaccination period, irritability 
was the most frequently reported solicited general symptom (overall/dose incidence ranged 
from 35.6% [IPARA group] to 50.5% [NPARA group]), except for the IPARA group where the 
most frequently reported solicited general symptom was drowsiness (overall/dose incidence 
was 38.0%). The overall/dose incidence of grade 3 solicited general symptoms was not higher 
than 2.4% (irritability in the IPARA group). The incidence of solicited general symptoms with 
causal relationship to vaccination as assessed by the investigator ranged from 9.6% (loss of 
appetite in the IPARA group) to 33.4% (irritability in the NIBU group). 
•  Unsolicited symptoms: During the 31-day post-primary vaccination period, at least one 
unsolicited symptom was reported after a maximum of 9.5% of doses (NPARA group). One 
grade 3 unsolicited symptom was reported after 0.2% of doses in the DIBU and NIBU groups 
and after 0.5% of doses in the IPARA group. At least one unsolicited symptom with causal 
relationship to vaccination was reported after 0.3% of doses in the IIBU group, after 0.5% of 
doses in the DIBU group and after 1.0% of doses in the IPARA group.  
-  Booster vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine and DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib 
•  Any symptom: During the 31-day post-booster vaccination period, the incidence of reported 
symptom (solicited and/or unsolicited; local and/or general) ranged from 57.6% (IIBU-NIBU 
group) to 83.3% (NIBU-IIBU group). 
•  Solicited local symptoms: During the 4-day post-booster vaccination period, pain and 
redness were the most frequently reported solicited local symptoms (incidence of pain ranged 
from 25.4% [IIBU-NIBU group] to 50.8% [NIBU-DIBU group] and incidence of redness ranged 
from 24.6% [DIBU-DIBU group] to 42.9% [IIBU-IIBU group]), whatever the injection site. 
Solicited grade 3 local symptom were reported for a maximum of 7.9% of subjects [redness in 
the NIBU-DIBU group], whatever the injection site. A large swelling reaction was reported 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 14/22 
 
 
 
 
 
during the primary epoch for one subject from the NPARA-IPARA group one day after 
administration of the third dose of the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine. 
•  Solicited general symptoms: During the 4-day post-booster vaccination period, irritability 
was the most frequently reported solicited general symptom (incidence ranged from 32.8% 
[DPARAIPARA group] to 60.0% [NIBU-IIBU group]). Grade 3 solicited general symptoms were 
reported for a maximum of 5.1% of subjects (irritability in the IIBU-DIBU and DIBU-NIBU 
groups). The incidence of solicited general symptoms with causal relationship to vaccination as 
assessed by the investigator ranged from 6.8% (loss of appetite in the IIBU-NIBU group) to 
45.0% (irritability in the NIBU-IIBU group). 
•  Unsolicited symptoms: During the 31-day post-booster vaccination period, at least one 
unsolicited symptom was reported for a maximum of 10.0% of subjects (IIBU-DIBU group). 
Two grade 3 unsolicited symptoms were reported: one for a subject (1.6%) in the IIBU-IIBU 
group and another for a subject (1.5%) in the IPARA-NPARA group. One unsolicited symptom 
with causal relationship to vaccination, which was of grade 3 intensity, was reported for a 
subject (1.6%) in the IIBU-IIBU group. 
•  Serious adverse events: (Amended: 07 November 2014) 
o  One fatal SAE (craniocerebral injury) was reported for a subject from the Total enrolled 
cohort (DPARA group;) 132 days after the third dose and was considered by the 
investigator as not related to vaccination.  
o  Among the subjects included in the TVC, at least one non-fatal SAE was reported for 
ten subjects during the primary epoch, for three subjects during the booster epoch and 
for two subjects during the period between both epochs. All SAEs recovered/resolved 
and were assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination. 
o  For subjects eliminated from the TVC), in addition to the fatal SAE, at least one non-
fatal SAE was reported for three subjects during the period starting with the 
administration of study vaccine dose 1 up to the end of booster epoch. All SAEs 
recovered/resolved and were assessed by the investigator as not related to 
vaccination.  
•  Withdrawals due to adverse events/serious adverse events: Two subjects from the TVC 
were withdrawn due to an SAE during the study period. These events were considered as 
recovered/resolved and were assessed by the investigator as not related to vaccination.- 
Assessor’s comment:  
The primary safety outcome in this study was fever. There were no beneficial effects of immediate 
administration of ibuprofen compared to no ibuprofen in terms of fever reduction neither in a trend 
towards fever reduction in delayed ibuprofen administration. There were no new safety signals, and the 
overall safety profile was in agreement with previous studies. 
MAH Discussion  
A.  Study results of 10PN-PD-DIT-050 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 15/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Ibuprofen effect on immune responses to 10Pn-PD-DiT and co-administered 
DTPacombined vaccines during primary and booster vaccination  
In summary, no clinically relevant impact of prophylactic administration of ibuprofen (immediate or 
delayed) at primary or booster vaccination on the immune response to pneumococcal, protein D and 
co-administered antigens (D, T, pertussis, Hib) was observed in this study.  
2.  Ibuprofen effect on reactogenicity following co-administration of 10Pn-PD-DiT and 
DTPa-combined vaccines  
No statistically significant reduction in febrile reactions (rectal temperature  ≥38.0°C) during primary 
vaccination in subjects receiving immediate or delayed prophylactic ibuprofen administration compared 
to no prophylactic ibuprofen administration was demonstrated. The results indicate no impact of 
immediate prophylactic administration of ibuprofen on observed rate of post-primary vaccination fever.  
No differences in reporting rates of fever following booster vaccination between prophylactic ibuprofen 
groups and no ibuprofen group were observed.  
3.  Paracetamol impact on immune responses to 10Pn-PD-DiT and co-administered 
DTPa-combined vaccines  
In the primary epoch, approximately 70 subjects were included in each of the PARA groups, while at 
the time of the booster epoch, approximately 50 subjects included in the PARA groups were assessed 
for immunogenicity.  
Paracetamol used prophylactically during primary vaccination  
Concerning co-administered vaccine antigens, for which the results were available (diphtheria, tetanus, 
pertussis [PT, FHA and PRN], Hepatitis B (HBV) and Hib PRP), immediate or delayed prophylactic 
administration of paracetamol during primary vaccination did not reveal major differences in 
seroprotection/seropositivity rates or antibody GMCs. The lowest GMC ratios were observed for anti-
PRP (0.66) and anti-tetanus (0.78) in the group with immediate prophylactic paracetamol 
administration (IPARA versus NPARA) and for anti-tetanus (0.81) in the group with delayed 
prophylactic paracetamol administration (DPARA versus NPARA). While no antipyretics were given at 
booster dose, a trend for decreased post-booster antibody GMCs for majority of co-administered 
vaccine antigens was observed with no impact on seroprotection/seropositivity rates.  
Paracetamol used prophylactically during booster vaccination  
Concerning co-administered vaccine antigens, for which the results were available (diphtheria, tetanus, 
pertussis [PT, FHA and PRN], Hepatitis B (HBV) and Hib PRP), immediate prophylactic administration of 
paracetamol at booster seems to reduce antibody GMCs to some antigens (e.g. PT), however 
seroprotection rates and seropositivity rates remained high (≥95.5%).  
4.  Paracetamol effect on reactogenicity following co-administration of 10Pn-PD-DiT and 
DTPa-combined vaccines  
With regard to fever, no major differences between paracetamol groups and control groups were 
observed during primary vaccination (overall/subject). However, a trend for decrease in rate of 
reported fever after at least one vaccine dose during primary vaccination was observed in the groups 
receiving immediate or delayed paracetamol administration (32.9% and 38.0% of subjects, 
respectively) versus control group (no paracetamol) (54.1% of subjects) (overall/subject).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 16/22 
 
 
 
 
 
Immediate prophylactic administration of paracetamol after the booster dose (only at booster dose or 
after delayed prophylactic administration of paracetamol during primary vaccination) tended to reduce 
fever (28.1% and 20.9% of subjects with fever in the NPARA-IPARA and DPARA-IPARA groups, 
respectively, versus 45.9% of subjects in the control NIBU-NIBU group.  
5.  Results limitations of the 10PN-PD-DIT-050 study 
The group comparisons in exploratory analyses should be interpreted with caution considering that 
there was no adjustment for multiplicity of comparisons and that the clinical relevance of any 
differences remains unknown.  
B.  Study results in context of other publications  
By the time of the MAH report finalisation, several publications presenting the results of the clinical 
trials assessing impact of antipyretics on immunogenicity and reactogenicity of various paediatric 
vaccines have become available. Short overview of the key findings from these studies is presented 
below. For further details refer to the publications.  
1.  GSK’s studies 10PN-PD-DIT-010 and -014 assessing immediate prophylactic 
paracetamol treatment during primary and booster vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT 
and DTP-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccines [Prymula, 2009]:  
- 
Lower immune responses to the 10Pn-PD-DiT vaccine and to some of the coadministered 
antigens were observed in the group that received prophylactic paracetamol treatment to 
prevent febrile reactions.  
- 
For all vaccine pneumococcal serotypes, lower antibody GMCs were observed one month 
post-primary and post-booster vaccinations in the group receiving prophylactic 
paracetamol treatment compared to the non-antipyretic group.  
- 
The same tendency was observed for antibodies against diphtheria, tetanus, pertactin 
(PRN) and polyribosylribitol phosphate (PRP) antigens after primary vaccination. After 
booster vaccination, this tendency was only observed for antibodies against tetanus. 
-  However, the seropositivity or seroprotection rates were not impacted and remained in line 
with previous experiences with DTPa-based or pneumococcal vaccines with the exception 
of serotype 6B after primary vaccination.  
2.  Pfizer’s study assessing paracetamol and ibuprofen impact (given in immediate and 
delayed manner each) during primary vaccination with PCV13 and DTP-HBVIPV/ Hib 
vaccines [Wysocki, International Symposium on Pneumococci and Pneumococcal Diseases 
2014, abstract number: ISPPD-0238]. These are preliminary results:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Prophylactic paracetamol may interfere with infant series immune response to 
pneumococcal antigens.  
Ibuprofen did not interfere with pneumococcal responses, but may reduce responses to 
pertussis FHA and tetanus antigens.  
These effects are particularly apparent when antipyretic prophylaxis is administered at the 
time of vaccination.  
These effects were not observed after a toddler dose.  
The clinical significance of these findings is unclear but suggests that antipyretic 
prophylactic should be given careful consideration in the setting of infant vaccination.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 17/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Novartis’ study assessing immediate paracetamol impact (given in immediate and 
delayed manner) during primary vaccination with multicomponent meningococcal 
serogroup B vaccine (4CMenB) co-administered with routine vaccinations (DTaPHBV- 
IPV/Hib and PCV7) [Prymula, 2014].  
- 
The results from part of a phase 2, randomized, clinical trial show that prophylactic 
paracetamol in infants decreases fever and reactogenicity with no apparent clinically 
relevant impact on immune responses to the multicomponent meningococcal serogroup B 
vaccine (4CMenB), nor the concomitantly administered routine vaccinations (DTaP-HBV-
IPV/Hib and PCV7).  
- 
The administration of oral paracetamol at the time of vaccination, with 2 subsequent doses 
at 4–6 h intervals, significantly reduced the incidence of febrile reactions ≥ 38.5°C over 7 
days post-vaccination, and fewer infants experienced solicited local reactions.  
- 
The proportion of infants experiencing any fever was lowered by 51–65% by paracetamol 
prophylaxis, and reports of rectal temperature >39.5 °C after any the 3-dose primary 
series were noticeably less common.  
MAH Conclusions 
Overall our study results showed no clinically relevant impact of prophylactic administration of 
ibuprofen (immediate or delayed) during primary or booster vaccination on the immune response to 
pneumococcal and to co-administered antigens (D, T, pertussis, HBV, Hib). This seems to be in 
agreement with preliminary findings of Pfizer’s study. In addition, no significant decrease in febrile 
reactions or in reporting of safety/reactogenicity after prophylactic administration of ibuprofen was 
observed in our study.  
Impact of prophylactic immediate or delayed administration of paracetamol on immune responses to 
PCV and DTP-combined vaccines antigens and on fever rates during priming seemed to be in line with 
the findings of the previous GSK’s study and Pfizer’s study, but detailed scope and magnitude of 
antipyretic impact varied. In the current study, trends of reduction on immune responses for delayed 
paracetamol administration were observed, but less pronounced than for immediate administration.  
Compared to no prophylactic antipyretics administration during primary and booster vaccinations, 
immediate prophylactic administration of paracetamol only at booster did not reveal clinically relevant 
differences of immune response suggesting that paracetamol can be used for prophylaxis of febrile 
reactions/convulsions when a booster dose is given in the 2nd year of life. 
Assessor’s comment:  
The Assessor agrees in general on the discussion and overall conclusions of the Applicant. Meanwhile 
the SmPC of Infanrix hexa should be consistent and in line with the one of Synflorix concerning section 
4.4 , 4.5 which contain specific wordings on antipyretics and its impact as well as the 
recommendations formulated.  
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion 
Overall, the results of study 10PN-PD-DIT-050 showed no clinically relevant impact of prophylactic 
ibuprofen during primary or booster vaccination on the immune response to the co-administered 
antigens included in Infanrix hexa except for polio (too low number of subjects with available results. 
Also, no ibuprofen effect on febrile reactions  or in reporting of safety/reactogenicity. Impact of 
prophylactic immediate or delayed administration of paracetamol on immune responses to Infanrix 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 18/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hexa combined antigens and on fever rates during primary immunization seemed in line with the 
findings of previous GSK studies 10PN-PD-DIT-010 and -014 assessing immediate prophylactic 
paracetamol treatment during primary and booster vaccination with 10Pn-PD-DiT and DTP-HBV-
IPV/Hib vaccines [Prymula, 2009].  
The procedure Infanrix hexa variation type II EMEA/H/C/000296/II/0177 amended the Product 
Information (PI) of Infanrix hexa to include information on co-administration with several paediatric 
vaccines. Meanwhile, the use of antipyrectics was not discussed at that time. 
The Assessor considers the Applicant’s discussion and conclusions as acceptable. The currently 
submitted study results do not change the B/R of Infanrix hexa. Nevertheless, in the interest of the 
patient and the HCP, the current SmPC and PIL should be UPDATED in line with the wordings provided 
in the SmPC of Synflorix concerning the antipyretics use, the impact on the immune response and the 
safety/reactogenicity as well as on the derived recommendations (please refer to Appendix 1 for 
overview of the current wordings of the SmPCs on those 2 items). 
The Assessor requests a type II variation in which all data are reviewed and modifications to the SmPC 
are proposed, in line with Synflorix. 
  PAM fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required 
  PAM not fulfilled (not all commitments fulfilled) and further action required: 
The Assessor requests a type II variation in which all data are reviewed (immunogenicity data of the 
Infanrix hexa antigens in primo/booster immunization when co-administered with Synflorix) and 
modifications to the SmPC are proposed, in line with the PI of Synflorix concerning the use of 
antipyretics and the eventual recommendations needed. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 19/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Appendix 1 
In the current SmPC of Synflorix compared to Infanrix hexa (as of 6th Sept. 2016) : 
Synflorix SmPC 
Section 4.4 
Infanrix hexa SmPC 
Section 4.4 
Prophylactic administration of antipyretics before or 
immediately after vaccine administration can reduce the 
incidence and intensity of post-vaccination febrile reactions. 
Clinical data generated with paracetamol and ibuprofen 
suggest that the prophylactic use of paracetamol might reduce 
the fever rate, while prophylactic use of ibuprofen showed a 
limited effect in reducing fever rate. The clinical data suggest 
that paracetamol might reduce the immune response to 
Synflorix. However, the clinical relevance of this observation 
is not known.  
The use of prophylactic antipyretic medicinal products is 
recommended:  
- for all children receiving Synflorix simultaneously with 
vaccines containing whole cell pertussis because of higher 
rate of febrile reactions (see section 4.8).  
- for children with seizure disorders or with a prior history of 
febrile seizures.  
The physician should be aware that the rate of febrile 
reactions is higher when Infanrix hexa is co-administered 
with a pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7, PCV10, 
PCV13), or with a measles-mumps-rubella-varicella 
(MMRV) vaccine, compared to that occurring following the 
administration of  Infanrix hexa alone. These reactions were 
mostly moderate (less than or equal to 39°C) and transient 
(see sections 4.5 and 4.8).  
Increased reporting rates of convulsions (with or without 
fever) and hypotonic hyporesponsive episode (HHE) were 
observed with concomitant administration of Infanrix hexa 
and Prevenar 13 (see section 4.8).  
Antipyretic treatment should be initiated according to local 
Antipyretic treatment should be initiated according to local 
treatment guidelines. 
Section 4.5 
treatment guidelines. 
Section 4.5 
Use with other vaccines  
Synflorix can be given concomitantly with any of the 
following monovalent or combination vaccines [including 
DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib and DTPw-HBV/Hib]: diphtheria-
tetanus-acellular pertussis vaccine (DTPa), hepatitis B 
vaccine (HBV), inactivated polio vaccine (IPV), 
Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (Hib), diphtheria-
tetanus-whole cell pertussis vaccine (DTPw), measles-
mumps-rubella vaccine (MMR), varicella vaccine (V), 
meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine (CRM197 and 
TT conjugates), meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 and 
Y conjugate vaccine (TT conjugate), oral polio vaccine 
(OPV) and oral rotavirus vaccine. Different injectable 
vaccines should always be given at different injection sites.  
Clinical studies demonstrated that the immune responses and 
the safety profiles of the co-administered vaccines were 
unaffected, with the exception of the inactivated poliovirus 
type 2 response, for which inconsistent results were observed 
across studies (seroprotection ranging from 78% to 100%). In 
addition when the meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 
and Y vaccine (TT conjugate) was co-administered with a 
booster dose of Synflorix during the second year of life in 
children primed with 3 doses of Synflorix, lower antibody 
geometric mean concentration (GMC) and opsonophagocytic 
assay geometric mean titre (OPA GMT) were observed for 
one pneumococcal serotype (18 C). There was no impact of 
co-administration on the other nine pneumococcal serotypes. 
Enhancement of antibody response to Hib-TT conjugate, 
Infanrix hexa can be given concomitantly with pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine (PCV7, PCV10 and PCV13), 
meningococcal serogroup C conjugate vaccine (CRM197 and 
TT conjugates), meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 and 
Y conjugate vaccine (TT conjugate), oral rotavirus vaccine 
and measles-mumps-rubella-varicella (MMRV) vaccine.  
Data have shown no clinically relevant interference in the 
antibody response to each of the individual antigens, although 
inconsistent antibody response to poliovirus type 2 in co-
administration with Synflorix was observed (seroprotection 
ranging from 78% to 100%) and the immune response rates to 
the PRP (Hib) antigen of Infanrix hexa after 2 doses given at 
2 and 4 months of age were higher if co-administered with a 
tetanus toxoid conjugate pneumococcal or meningococcal 
vaccine (see section 5.1). The clinical relevance of these 
observations remains unknown.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 20/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diphtheria and tetanus antigens was observed. The clinical 
relevance of the above observations is unknown.  
Data from clinical studies indicate that, when Infanrix hexa is 
co-administered with pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, the 
Use with prophylactic administration of antipyretics  
rate of febrile reactions is higher compared to that occurring 
See section 4.4. 
Section 4.8 
following the administration of Infanrix hexa alone. 
Section 4.8 
Experience in co-administration:  
Analysis of postmarketing reporting rates suggests a potential 
increased risk of convulsions (with or without fever) and 
HHE when comparing groups which reported use of Infanrix 
hexa with Prevenar 13 to those which reported use of Infanrix 
hexa alone.  
In clinical studies in which some of the vaccinees received 
Infanrix hexa concomitantly with Prevenar (PCV7) as a 
booster (4th) dose of both vaccines, fever ≥ 38.0°C was 
reported in 43.4% of infants receiving Prevenar and Infanrix 
hexa at the same time as compared to 30.5% of infants 
receiving the hexavalent vaccine alone. Fever ≥39.5°C was 
observed in 2.6% and 1.5% of infants receiving Infanrix hexa 
with or without Prevenar, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 
4.5). The incidence and severity of fever following co-
administration of the two vaccines in the primary series was 
lower than that observed after the booster dose. 
According to different studies, immune response to the PRP 
antigen of Infanrix hexa after 2 doses given at 2 and 4 months 
of age will vary if co-administered with a tetanus toxoid 
conjugate vaccine. Infanrix hexa will confer an anti-PRP 
immune response (cut-off ≥ 0.15μg/ml) in at least 84% of 
the infants. This rises to 88% in case of concomitant use of 
pneumococcal vaccine containing tetanus toxoid as carrier 
and to 98% when Infanrix hexa is co-administered with a TT 
conjugated meningococcal vaccine (see section 4.5). 
Synflorix PIL 
Infanrix hexa PIL 
Your doctor may ask you to give your child a medicine that 
lowers fever (such as paracetamol) before or immediately 
after Synflorix is given. This can help to lower some of the 
side effects (febrile reactions) of Synflorix. However if your 
child has received paracetamol before or immediately after 
Synflorix is given, the obtained levels of antibodies may be 
slightly reduced. It is not known whether the reduction in 
antibody levels has an impact on the protection against 
pneumococcal disease. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 21/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/719044/2016  
Page 22/22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
