EMA/670868/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000296 
EPAR summary for the public 
Infanrix hexa 
diphtheria (D), tetanus (T), pertussis (acellular, component) (PA), hepatitis B 
(rDNA) (HBV), poliomyelitis (inactivated) (IPV) and Haemophilus influenzae 
type b (Hib) conjugate vaccine (adsorbed) 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Infanrix hexa. It explains how 
the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. 
It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Infanrix hexa. 
For practical information about using Infanrix hexa, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Infanrix hexa and what is it used for? 
Infanrix hexa is a vaccine used to protect babies and toddlers against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis 
(whooping cough), hepatitis B, poliomyelitis (polio) and diseases such as bacterial meningitis caused 
by the bacterium Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). Infanrix hexa contains the following active 
substances: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
toxoids (chemically weakened toxins) from diphtheria and tetanus; 
parts of Bordetella pertussis (B. pertussis, a bacterium that causes whooping cough); 
parts of the hepatitis B virus; 
inactivated polioviruses; 
polysaccharides (sugars) from Haemophilus influenzae type b. 
How is Infanrix hexa used? 
Infanrix hexa is available as a powder and suspension that are made up into a suspension for injection. 
The vaccination schedule for Infanrix hexa is a course of 2 or 3 doses, given at least 1 month apart, 
according to official recommendations, usually in the first 6 months of life. Infanrix hexa is given by 
deep injection into a muscle. Subsequent injections should be given in different areas. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
A booster dose of Infanrix hexa or a similar vaccine must be given at least 6 months after the last dose 
of the initial course. The choice of booster vaccine depends on official recommendations. 
The vaccine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Infanrix hexa work? 
Infanrix hexa is a vaccine that protects against a range of infections. Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the 
immune system (the body’s natural defences) to defend the body against the infections.  
When a child is given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the parts of the bacteria and viruses 
in the vaccine as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. The immune system will then be able to 
produce antibodies more quickly when the person comes into contact with the bacteria or viruses. This 
helps to protect against the diseases that these bacteria and viruses cause. 
The vaccine is ‘adsorbed’. This means that the active substances are fixed onto aluminium compounds, 
to stimulate a better response.  
What benefits of Infanrix hexa have been shown in studies? 
Infanrix hexa has been studied in nine studies, involving a total of almost 5,000 children aged between 
6 weeks and 2 years. Over 3,000 of the children received a course of vaccination with Infanrix hexa. 
The effects of Infanrix hexa were compared with those of separate vaccines containing the same active 
substances. The main measure of effectiveness was the production of protective antibodies. 
Results of the studies taken together showed that a course of injections with Infanrix hexa was as 
effective at producing protective levels of antibodies as giving separate vaccines containing the same 
active substances. Overall, between 95 and 100% of the children had antibodies to diphtheria, tetanus, 
pertussis, hepatitis B virus, polioviruses, and Hib, 1 month after the vaccination course. 
An additional five studies looked at the effects of a booster vaccination with Infanrix hexa. These 
studies showed that booster vaccinations with Infanrix hexa were as effective as giving separate 
vaccines containing the same active substances 1 month after the booster vaccination. 
What is the risk associated with Infanrix hexa? 
The most common side effects with Infanrix hexa (seen in more than 1 in 10 doses of the vaccine) are 
swelling, pain and redness at the injection site, loss of appetite, fever of 38ºC or more, tiredness, 
abnormal crying, irritability and restlessness. For the full list of side effects reported with Infanrix hexa, 
see the package leaflet. 
Infanrix hexa must not be used in infants who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any of the active 
substances, to any of the other ingredients of the vaccine, or to neomycin and polymyxin (antibiotics) 
and formaldehyde. It must not be used in infants who have had an allergic reaction to a vaccine 
containing diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, polio or Hib. Infanrix hexa must not be used in 
infants who have had encephalopathy (brain disease) of unknown cause within 7 days of receiving a 
pertussis vaccine. Infanrix hexa should be postponed in infants with a severe sudden fever. 
Why is Infanrix hexa approved? 
Infanrix hexa has been shown to be effective at producing protective levels of antibodies against 
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B virus, polioviruses, and Hib. The safety of Infanrix hexa is 
Infanrix hexa  
EMA/670868/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
similar to other vaccines used to prevent these conditions. The European Medicines Agency therefore 
decided that Infanrix hexa’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of Infanrix 
hexa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Infanrix hexa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Infanrix hexa: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Infanrix hexa 
on 23 October 2000.  
The full EPAR for Infanrix hexa can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Infanrix hexa, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2017.  
Infanrix hexa  
EMA/670868/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
