19 September 2013 
EMA/355024/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report under Article 46 
Infanrix hexa  
International non-proprietary name: diphtheria (d), tetanus (t), pertussis 
(acellular, component) (pa), hepatitis b (rdna) (hbv), poliomyelitis 
(inactivated) (ipv) and haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) conjugate 
vaccine (adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000296/P46/106.2 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
Invented name of the medicinal 
Infanrix Hexa 
product: 
INN (or common name)  
Diphtheria toxoid, adsorbed/ Tetanus toxoid, adsorbed/ 
of the active substance(s):  
Pertussis toxoid, adsorbed/ Filamentous haemagglutinin, 
adsorbed/ Pertactin, adsorbed/ Recombinant Hepatitis B 
surface Antigen (S protein), adsorbed/ Inactivated type 
1 Poliovirus/ Inactivated type 2 Poliovirus/ Inactivated 
type 3 Poliovirus/ Conjugate of Haemophilus influenzae 
type b capsular polysaccharide and Tetanus toxoid, 
adsorbed 
MAH: 
GSK Biologicals (GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals) S.A.-
N.V.(Belgium) 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
Infanrix hexa is indicated for primary and booster 
vaccination of infants against diphtheria, tetanus, 
pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis and disease caused 
by Haemophilus influenzae type b. 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
J07CA09 - Diphtheria-hemophilus influenzae B-
(ATC Code): 
pertussis-poliomyelitis-tetanus-hepatitis B 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and 
Powder and suspension for suspension for injection in a 
strength(s): 
pre-filled syringe  
After reconstitution, 1 dose (0.5 ml) contains:  
Diphtheria toxoid not less than 30 International Units 
(IU)  
Tetanus toxoid not less than 40 International Units (IU)  
Bordetella pertussis antigens  
Pertussis toxoid ** 25 micrograms  
Filamentous Haemagglutinin ** 25 micrograms  
Pertactin ** 8 micrograms  
Hepatitis B surface antigen ** 10 micrograms  
Poliovirus (inactivated)  
type 1 (Mahoney strain) ** 40 D-antigen unit  
type 2 (MEF-1 strain) ** 8 D-antigen unit  
type 3 (Saukett strain) ** 32 D-antigen unit  
Haemophilus influenzae type b polysaccharide (10 
micrograms) (polyribosylribitol phosphate) conjugated 
to tetanus toxoid as carrier protein approximately 25 
micrograms 
Assessment report under Article 46  
EMA/355024/2014  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
1.  Executive Summary 
This document contains the assessment of the responses to the second RSI (see also P46/106 and 
P46/106.1).  
No SmPC and PL changes are proposed. 
2.  Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and recommendation  
The MAH submitted the results of a double-blind, randomised, multicentre study to assess safety and 
immunogenicity of 2 new formulations of the MAH's DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine compared to the 
licensed Infanrix Hexa vaccine when co-administered with Prevenar 13 to healthy infants as a primary 
vaccination course at 2, 3 and 4 months of age.  
The primary objective, i.e. non-inferiority of the immunogenicity of at least one of the novel DTPa-
HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine formulations compared to the licensed Infanrix Hexa vaccine, was not met 
according to the criteria set for non-inferiority, as the immune response to the pertactin component of 
both novel formulations was not non-inferior to Infanrix Hexa. No divergent safety signals were 
detected in the comparison of the new formulation with the licensed Infanrix Hexa. 
The MAH should continue to investigate in pertussis vaccines that offer prolonged protection compared 
to the currently authorised vaccines in view of the resurgence of pertussis in fully vaccinated 
individuals which appears to be at least partly due to waning vaccine-induced immunity (Cherry, 
2012). 
The second request for supplementary information has been addressed by the MAH. 
No further action required.  
3.  MAH's responses to the second RSI 
Question No. 1 - Regulatory 
It is noted that the Company has put on hold any further clinical development. Preclinical 
investigations are currently ongoing to try to identify the root cause for these observed 
differences. A comprehensive data pack will be available in 1H2013 to allow planning for the 
next steps. The MAH’s results are awaited for further evaluation. The MAH should provide 
update on the posed question by the end of 1st half of 2013. 
The Company conducted a phase I/II, double-blind, randomized, multicentre study to evaluate the 
safety and immunogenicity of new formulations of the Company’s DTPa- HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine when 
administered to healthy infants as a primary vaccination course at 2, 3 and 4 months of age (Study 
113948, DTPA-HBV-IPV-124 PRI). The study failed to meet its primary inferential non-inferiority 
criteria due to lower anti-PRN antibody concentration with both new formulations: the upper limits of 
the 97.5% CI on the GMC ratio for anti-PRN was 1.54 (Control group divided by Form A group) and 
1.84 (Control group divided by Form B group), and exceeded the pre-defined non-inferiority margin of 
1.5. A trend to higher reactogenicity was observed for solicited symptoms and grade 3 solicited 
symptoms, in particular with regard to pain and fever (p<0.001): the observed incidence of solicited 
adverse events tended to be higher in the investigational groups than in the Control group. Overall 
Assessment report under Article 46  
EMA/355024/2014  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
  
solicited incidence of fever >38 °C per subject was higher in Form A (33.8%) and Form B (30.8) 
compared to the control group (18.1%). 
Based on the clinical study results, the Company has decided to stop the clinical evaluation of the 
candidate formulations evaluated in this clinical study.  
Please note that a preclinical investigation has been performed to identify the root cause for the 
reactogenicity signal observed in the clinical study. Two in vivo models were evaluated but were not 
successful in reproducing the clinical observation: a pyrogenicity model based on high frequency 
temperature monitoring of rabbits immunized with vaccines under study (abdominal insert), and a 
reactogenicity study in rabbits based on local pain assessment using a P.A.M. (Pressure Application 
Measurement) device. An in vitro model was developed to pre-clinically evaluate the reactogenicity of 
candidate vaccine formulations (innate pro-pyretic mediators secretion profile after a short stimulation 
of adult whole blood cells). Although this new preclinical model is not validated and the use of adult 
blood cells may be questionable to assess reactogenicity of a paediatric vaccine, clear differences 
between the candidate vaccine and the commercial Infanrix hexa comparator were observed: a six-
hour stimulation of whole blood by both candidate vaccines results in a statistically significantly 
increased secretion of five cytokines (IL-1b, IL-6, TNFa, IL-1a,IL-8) when compared to stimulation by 
commercial Infanrix Hexa. Preclinical evaluation has been stopped since the clinical evaluation of the 
candidate formulation has been stopped.  
The Company believes the additional information provided herewith adequately addresses the request 
for supplementary information expressed in the Assessment Report of EMEA-H-C-296-P46 106. 
Rapporteur's comment: 
Issue resolved.  
Assessment report under Article 46  
EMA/355024/2014  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
