20 September 2012 
EMA/149930/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Infanrix hexa 
(diphtheria (d), tetanus (t), pertussis (acellular, component) (pa), hepatitis b 
(rdna) (hbv), poliomyelitis (inactivated) (ipv) and haemophilus influenzae 
type b (hib) conjugate vaccine (adsorbed)) 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000296/P46/0105  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
I. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
SmPC and PL changes in section 5.1 will be proposed by the MAH in due time.  
RECOMMENDATION1 
II. 
The MAH has submitted the results of an open, phase IV, multicentre study to assess the long-
term  persistence  of  antibodies  against  hepatitis  B  and  the  immune  response  to  a  hepatitis  B 
(Engerix-B Kinder) vaccine challenge in children aged 7–8 years, previously primed and boosted 
in the first two years of life with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals’ DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib (Infanrix 
hexa) vaccine (Study No. 112688 (DTPA-HBV-IPV-113)). 
The results of this study warrant a change in section 5.1 of the SmPC. 
INTRODUCTION 
III. 
In  the  global  context  of  vaccination  against  hepatitis  B,  the  European  Medicines  Agency  had 
requested  that  GSK  Biologicals  set  up  a  long-term  surveillance  programme  of  vaccines 
containing a recombinant hepatitis B component. This study is post-approval commitment study 
for Infanrix hexa. 
In  Germany,  GSK  Biologicals’  hepatitis  B  vaccine,  Engerix-B,  is  licensed  and  marketed  under 
the trade name Engerix-B Kinder.  
This study is the second of a series of four studies, constituting a common follow-up programme 
of  vaccination  with  Infanrix  hexa  which  aimed  to  determine  the  persistence  of  hepatitis  B 
immunity,  from  childhood  to  adolescence  resulting  from  infant  vaccination  with  Infanrix  hexa. 
Persistent  immunity  to  hepatitis  B  was  to  be  assessed  successively  in  different  cohorts  aged 
five,  eight,  twelve  and  fifteen  years,  who  received  four  consecutive  doses  of  Infanrix  hexa  as 
primary and booster vaccination. These studies are being conducted in Germany. 
The 5-year-old cohort study was completed in 2007 (Steiner et al. 2010), the 8-year-old cohort of 
vaccinees  was assessed in the current study and the recruitment for the 12-year and 15- year 
age groups will be performed when the cohort of Infanrix hexa vaccinees reach the target age 
for enrolment. 
On  3  July2012,  the  MAH  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study  for  Infanrix  Hexa,  in 
accordance  with  Article  46  of  Regulation  (EC)  No1901/2006,  as  amended,  on  medicinal 
products for paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  submitted  paediatric  study  does  not  influence  the  benefit  risk  for 
Infanrix  Hexa  and  that  there  is  no  consequential  regulatory  action.  However,  the  MAH  has 
concluded  that  an  update  of  the  SmPC  is  deemed  necessary  and  will  submit  an  update  of 
section 5.1 in due date.  
IV. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
IV.1  Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report(s) for Study No. 112688 (DTPA-HBV-IPV-113). 
2. Clinical study 
1 The recommendation from section V can be copied in this section 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/149930/2013  
Page 2/7 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Study No. 112688 (DTPA-HBV-IPV-113) 
  Description 
The MAH submitted the results for the following study: an open, phase IV, multicentre study to 
assess the long-term persistence of antibodies against hepatitis B and the immune response to 
a hepatitis B (Engerix-B Kinder) vaccine challenge in children aged 7–8 years, previously primed 
and  boosted  in  the  first  two  years  of  life  with  GlaxoSmithKline  (GSK)  Biologicals’  DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib (Infanrix hexa) vaccine. There was only one study group, the Hexa Group, and a single 
dose of HBV vaccine was administered to all subjects who were previously primed and boosted 
with four doses of Infanrix hexa in the first two years of life. 
This study was conducted across 12 centres in Germany. 
  Methods 
•  Objective(s) 
Primary Objective 
-  To  assess the  anti-HBs antibody  response to  a challenge  dose  of  HBV vaccine  (Engerix-B 
Kinder) in subjects 7–8 years of age, previously vaccinated with four doses of Infanrix hexa 
in the first two years of life. 
Secondary Objective 
-  To  assess  the  persistence  of  anti-HBs  antibodies  in  subjects  7–8  years  of  age,  previously 
vaccinated with four doses of Infanrix hexa in the first two years of life. 
-  To  evaluate  the  safety  and  reactogenicity  of  a  challenge  dose  of  HBV  vaccine  (Engerix-B 
Kinder) in terms of solicited symptoms (local and general), unsolicited symptoms and serious 
adverse events (SAEs) during the study period. 
•  Study design 
An  open-label,  phase  IV,  single-group,  non-randomised, multicentre  study.  Two  blood  samples 
were drawn: one before, and the other, one month after the challenge dose of HBV vaccine. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/149930/2013  
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Study population /Sample size 
A  healthy  male  or  female  7  to  8  years  of  age  (from  and  including  the  7th  birthday  up  to,  but 
excluding  the  9th  birthday)  at  the  time  of  enrolment,  with  documented  evidence  of  previous 
vaccination with Infanrix hexa that included three doses of primary vaccination received by nine 
months of age and one booster dose received between 11 and 18 months of age. Subjects with 
written informed consent obtained from the parent(s)/legally acceptable representative [LAR(s)] 
of  the  subject  and  with  written  informed  assent  from  the  subject,  if  applicable  at  the  time  of 
enrolment were included in the study. The evidence of previous hepatitis B booster vaccination 
since administration of the fourth dose of Infanrix hexa booster in the second year of life, history 
of, or intercurrent hepatitis B disease and hepatitis B vaccination at birth excluded subjects from 
the study. 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  assess  if  the  anti-HBs  antibody  response  to  a 
challenge  dose  of  HBV  vaccine  was  above  90%.  A  total  of  300  children  aged  7–8  years,  who 
received  four  doses  of Infanrix  hexa  in  the first two  years  of  life,  were  enrolled  in  this  study.  It 
was assumed that 10% of subjects enrolled in this study might have been non-evaluable at the 
time of the analysis (e.g., drop-outs, non-compliance with protocol, etc.). A sample size of 270 
evaluable  subjects  provides  a  power  of  at  least  86%  for  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  confidence 
interval (CI) for the percentage of subjects who have responded to the HBV vaccine challenge 
(i.e. anti-HBs antibody concentrations ≥ 100 mIU/ml one month after HBV vaccine challenge) to 
be more than 90%, if the true percentage of subjects who have responded to the HBV vaccine 
challenge is 95%, as shown in Table 8 (of the study report, not shown here). 
•  Treatments 
A  single  dose  of  HBV  vaccine,  Engerix-B  Kinder  was  administered  to  all  subjects  as  an 
intramuscular (IM) injection into the deltoid region of the non-dominant arm. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Outcome: 
Immunogenicity: Immunogenicity with respect to the components of the study vaccine. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/149930/2013  
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Subjects  with  antibodies 
to  hepatitis  B  surface  antigen 
(anti-HBs)  antibody 
concentrations ≥ 100 mIU/ml, one month after the challenge dose of HBV vaccine 
Secondary Outcome: 
Immunogenicity: 
-  Anti-HBs antibody persistence after previous vaccination with Infanrix hexa. 
- 
-  Distribution  of  subjects  with  anti-HBs  antibody  concentrations  ≥  3.3  mIU/ml,  ≥  10 
mIU/ml,  10  to  <  100  mIU/ml,  ≥  100  mIU/ml  and  anti-HBs  geometric  mean 
concentration (GMC), before the challenge dose of HBV vaccine. 
Immunogenicity with respect to the components of the study vaccine. 
-  Distribution  of  subjects  with  anti-HBs  antibody  concentrations  ≥  3.3  mIU/ml 
(seropositive titer), ≥ 10 mIU/ml (seroprotective titer) and anti-HBs GMC, one month 
after the challenge dose of HBV vaccine. 
-  Anamnestic response to the HBV challenge dose, which was defined as: 
At least (i.e. greater than or equal to) a 4-fold rise in anti-HBs antibody concentrations 
post-HBV  challenge  dose  in  subjects  seropositive  at  the  pre-challenge  dose  time-
point.  Anti-HBs  antibody  concentrations  ≥  10  mIU/ml  post-HBV  challenge  dose  in 
subjects seronegative at the pre-challenge dose time-point. 
Safety and reactogenicity: 
-  Solicited  local  and  general  symptoms:  Occurrence  of  each  solicited  local  and  general 
symptom during the 4-day (Day 0–Day 3) follow-up period after the challenge dose of HBV 
vaccine. 
-  Unsolicited adverse events (AEs): Occurrence of unsolicited AEs during the 31-day (Day 0–
Day 30) follow-up period after the challenge dose of HBV vaccine. 
-  Serious adverse events: Occurrence of SAEs after the challenge dose of HBV vaccine up to 
study end. 
•  Statistical Methods 
Analyses  were  performed  as  specified  in  the  protocol  and  in  the  study  reporting  and  analysis 
plan (RAP). 
  Results 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
•  Efficacy results 
The primary analysis of immunogenicity was performed on the ATP cohort for immunogenicity. 
An analysis on the Total Vaccinated cohort was not performed to complement the ATP analysis 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/149930/2013  
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since not more than 5% of the subjects with available immunogenicity data were excluded from 
the planned ATP cohort for immunogenicity. 
Primary outcome 
One month after the challenge dose of HBV vaccine, 97.5% of subjects had anti-HBs antibody 
concentrations ≥ 100 mIU/ml. 
Secondary outcome 
Persisting  seroprotective  (≥  10  mIU/ml)  anti-HBs  antibody  concentrations  were  observed  in 
80.5% of children aged 7 to 8 years who were vaccinated in infancy with four doses of Infanrix 
hexa in routine clinical practice. 
An anamnestic response to the hepatitis B challenge dose was mounted by 97.2% of subjects. 
•  Safety results 
The safety analysis was performed on the Total Vaccinated cohort. 
-  Any Symptom: During the 4-day post-challenge dose follow-up period at least one symptom 
(solicited or unsolicited, local or general) was reported for 56.2% of subjects. 
-  Solicited  local  symptoms:  Pain  at  the  injection  site  was  the  most  frequent  solicited  local 
symptom  (reported  for  30.6%  of  subjects).  Pain  of  Grade  3  intensity  was  reported  for  two 
subjects. 
-  Solicited general symptoms: Fatigue and headache were the most frequent solicited general 
symptom  (reported  for  12.5%  and  12.1%  of  subjects,  respectively).  Gastrointestinal 
symptoms of Grade 3 intensity were reported for five subjects. 
-  Unsolicited symptoms: At least one unsolicited symptom was reported for 14.1% of subjects 
during the 31-day (Day 0-Day 30) follow up period. Abdominal pain of Grade 3 intensity was 
reported  for  one  subject.  One  subject  experienced  injection  site  haematoma  that  was 
considered by the investigator to be causally related to vaccination. 
-  Serious  adverse  events:  Two  subjects  experienced  three  SAEs  during  the  study  period 
which  resolved  by  the  end  of  the  study.  None  of  these  SAEs  were  considered  by  the 
investigator  to  be  causally  related  to  the  vaccination.  No  fatal  events  were  reported  during 
the study. 
-  Withdrawals due to AEs /SAEs: None of the subjects were withdrawn due to an AE or SAE 
during the study period. 
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
- 
In  children  routinely  primed  and  boosted  in  infancy  with  four  doses  of  Infanrix  hexa, 
seroprotective anti-HBs antibody concentrations were still observed in 80.5% of subjects at 7 
to 8 years of age. 
-  One month after a challenge dose of HBV vaccine, 97.5% of subjects had anti-HBs antibody 
concentrations ≥100 mIU/ml and 97.2% of subjects displayed an anamnestic response.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/149930/2013  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  The challenge dose of HBV vaccine was generally well tolerated. Unsolicited symptoms were 
reported for 14.1% of subjects during the 31-day follow-up period. Three SAEs were reported 
during the study, which were not considered by the investigator to be causally related to the 
vaccination, and were resolved by the end of this study.  
-  These  results  are  consistent  with  previous  observations  in  another  study  conducted  in  the 
same country and in the same age group (Zinke et al. 2009). 
V. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND 
RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
Infanrix  Hexa  was  licensed  in  2000  in  Europe  for  the  primary  immunisation  of  children  against 
diphtheria,  tetanus,  pertussis,  poliomyelitis,  hepatitis  B,  and  invasive  infections  caused  by 
Haemophilus  influenzae  b. The  current  study  was  performed  to  assess the  quality  of the  long-
term immunogenicity of the Hepatitis B component of the vaccine by characterisation of the anti-
HB antibody persistence and the anamnestic response (following HB vaccine administration) in 
children 7-8 years previously primed and boosted in the first two years of life with Infanrix Hexa. 
Protection  against  HB  is  dependent  on  seroprotective  antibody  titres  and  the  individual's 
capacity to mount an anamnestic response upon HB infection.  
The  data  presented  in  the  current  report  that  in  the  subjects  under  study,  80%  displays 
seroprotective  anti-HB  antibody  titers  in  children  7-8  years  following  infant  immunisation.  One 
month following HB challenge, 99% of the individuals displayed seroprotective titres and in 97% 
an  anamnestic  response  was  demonstrated  fulfilling  the  criteria  set  for  such  response. 
Altogether, these data demonstrate that the immunogenicity of the HB component of the Infanrix 
Hexa  vaccine,  when  administered  according  to  the  infant  immunisation  schedule,  results  in 
adequate protection until at least the age of 7-8 years.  
Similar  results  as  presented  in  this  report  have  been  published  in  the  same  or  younger  age 
groups (Zinke et al. 2009; Steiner et al. 2010; Zanetti et al. 2010). 
  Recommendation  
A Type II variation will be submitted by the MAH in due time. 
VI. 
REQUEST FOR SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 
Not applicable 
VII.  REFERENCES 
Steiner, M., Ramakrishnan, G., Gartner, B., Der Meeren, O. Van, Jacquet, J.-M., and Schuster, 
V. (2010). Lasting immune memory against hepatitis B in children after primary 
immunization with 4 doses of DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib in the first and 2nd year of life. BMC 
infectious diseases 10, 9. 
Zanetti, A. R. et al. (2010). Hepatitis B immune memory in children primed with hexavalent 
vaccines and given monovalent booster vaccines: an open-label, randomised, controlled, 
multicentre study. The Lancet infectious diseases 10, 755-61. 
Zinke, M. et al. (2009). Immune memory to hepatitis B virus in 4-9-year old children vaccinated 
in infancy with four doses of hexavalent DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib vaccine. Human vaccines 5, 
592-8. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/149930/2013  
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
