Amsterdam, 20 July 2023 
EMA/361395/2023 
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Infanrix hexa  
Diphtheria (d), tetanus (t), pertussis (acellular, component) (pa), hepatitis b (rdna) (hbv), 
poliomyelitis (inactivated) (ipv) and haemophilus influenzae type b (hib) conjugate vaccine 
(adsorbed) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000296/P46/135 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program .............................................................. 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study .............................. 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 5 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 22 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ...................................... 23 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 2/23 
 
 
  
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 20 April 2023, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for GSK’s Infanrix hexa (DTPa-
HBV-IPV/Hib) vaccine, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that study DTPA-HBV-IPV-141 ‘A Phase IV, single-blind, randomised, controlled, multi-
country study to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of GSK's Infanrix Hexa (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib) 
vaccine versus MCM Vaccine BV's Vaxelis (DTaP5-HBV-IPVHib) vaccine, when administered 
intramuscularly according to a 2, 4, and 12 months schedule in healthy infants and toddlers’ (protocol 
number 212645, trial registry number 2019-002988-10) is a stand-alone study. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
A list of investigational products used in this study are presented in Table 1. 
Table 1. Treatments Administered (Source: Report Body Table 2) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 3/23 
 
 
  
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 4/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report(s) for: 
Study 212645 -DTPA-HBV-IPV-141: “A Phase IV, single-blind, randomised, controlled, multi-country 
study to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of GSK’s Infanrix hexa (DTPa-HBV-IPV/Hib) vaccine 
versus MCM Vaccine BV’s Vaxelis (DTaP5-HBV-IPV-Hib) vaccine, when administered intramuscularly 
according to a 2, 4, and 12 months schedule in healthy infants and toddlers.” 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Study 212645 -DTPA-HBV-IPV-141: “A Phase IV, single-blind, randomised, controlled, multi-
country study to evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of GSK’s Infanrix hexa (DTPa-HBV-
IPV/Hib) vaccine versus MCM Vaccine BV’s Vaxelis (DTaP5-HBV-IPV-Hib) vaccine, when 
administered intramuscularly according to a 2, 4, and 12 months schedule in healthy infants 
and toddlers.” 
Description 
Infanrix hexa was registered in Europe in 2000 and is currently licensed for primary and booster 
vaccination of infants against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis, and disease 
caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) in more than 90 countries worldwide. 
Barbour et al. (Emerg Infect Dis. 1996;2:176-182) reported that the acquisition of Hib or the 
prolonged Hib carriage in the nasopharynx may occur only below a threshold concentration of serum or 
mucosal anti-polyribosylribitol phosphate (PRP) antibodies. Other literature reports that high anti-PRP 
antibody concentrations above the established correlates of clinical protection (0.15 μg/mL for short-
term and 1.0 μg/mL for long-term protection) may be needed to reduce Hib nasopharyngeal 
colonisation and carriage. Also, the protection against colonisation seems to be well correlated with 
anti-PRP antibody concentrations ≥5 μg/mL at 1-month following the third vaccine dose in infants. 
Comparative data on the proportion of subjects reaching the 5 μg/mL titre after Infanrix hexa or 
Vaxelis are not publicly available. 
This phase IV, single-blind, randomised, controlled, multi-country study was intended to show both the 
non-inferiority of Infanrix hexa versus Vaxelis, as well as the superiority of Infanrix hexa versus Vaxelis 
in terms of anti-PRP geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) and proportion of subjects with antibody 
concentrations greater than or equal to a threshold of 5 μg/mL 1-month after the booster dose. 
Methods 
Study participants 
Inclusion criteria: 
•  Subjects’ parent(s)/ LAR(s) who, in the opinion of the investigator, can and will comply with 
the requirements of the protocol (e.g., return for follow-up visits) 
•  Written or witnessed/thumb printed informed consent obtained from the parent(s)/LAR(s) of 
the subject prior to performing any study specific procedure. 
•  A male or female child between and including 6 and 12 weeks of age (42 to 84 days) at the 
time of the first vaccination. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 5/23 
 
 
  
 
•  Subject born after at least 37 weeks of gestation. 
•  Healthy subjects as established by the investigator based on medical history and the clinical 
examination before entering into the study. 
Exclusion criteria: 
Medical conditions 
•  Any clinical condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, might pose any risk to the subject 
due to participation in the study. As with other vaccines, administration of Infanrix hexa should 
be postponed in subjects suffering from acute severe febrile illness. The presence of a minor 
infection is not a contraindication. 
•  Known history of diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, HBV, poliomyelitis and Hib diseases since birth. 
•  History of any reaction or hypersensitivity likely to be caused or exacerbated by any excipient 
or active component of the vaccine(s). 
•  Any confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition, including 
malignancies, based on medical history and physical examination (no laboratory testing 
• 
• 
required). 
Family history of congenital or hereditary immunodeficiency. 
•  Major congenital defects, as assessed by the investigator. 
•  Acute or chronic clinically significant pulmonary, cardiovascular, hepatic or renal functional 
abnormality, as determined via medical history including physical examination. 
•  Medical history of neurological disorder, including seizures. 
Prior/Concomitant Therapy 
• 
Previous vaccination for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, HBV, poliomyelitis, Hib diseases and 
previous vaccination against pneumococcal infection with pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, 
with the exception of a birth dose of HBV vaccine, which may be given in accordance with local 
recommendations. 
•  Use of any investigational or nonregistered product (drug, vaccine, or medical device) other 
than the study vaccine(s) during the period starting 30 days before the first dose of study 
vaccine(s) (Day -29 to Day 1), or planned use during the study period. 
• 
Planned administration/administration of a vaccine not foreseen by the study protocol in the 
period starting 30 days before the first dose and ending 30 days after the last dose of 
vaccine(s) with the exception of administration of vaccines given as part of the national 
immunisation schedule and as part of routine vaccination practice, e.g., rotavirus vaccine, that 
are allowed at any time during the study period. In case emergency mass vaccination for an 
unforeseen public health threat (e.g., a pandemic) is organised by public health authorities 
outside the routine immunisation programme, the time period described above can be reduced 
if necessary for that mass vaccination vaccine, provided this vaccine/product(s) is licensed and 
used according to its Product Information. 
•  Administration of long-acting immune-modifying drugs in the period starting 30 days before 
the first dose and at any time during the study period. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 6/23 
 
 
  
 
•  Administration of immunoglobulins and/or any blood products or plasma derivatives from birth 
or planned administration during the study period. 
•  Chronic administration (defined as more than 14 days in total) of immunosuppressants or 
other immune-modifying drugs during the period starting 3 months prior to the first vaccine. 
For corticosteroids, this will mean prednisone ≥0.5 mg/kg/day (for paediatric subjects), or 
equivalent. Inhaled and topical steroids are allowed. 
Prior/Concurrent Clinical Study Experience 
•  Concurrently participating in another clinical study, at any time during the study period, in 
which the subject has been or will be exposed to an investigational or a non-investigational 
vaccine/product (drug or medical device). 
Other exclusions 
•  Child in care. 
Treatments 
The subjects were assigned to 1 of 2 parallel groups: 
• 
Inv_group (Investigational group): All subjects in this group received 3 doses (2 primary 
doses+1 booster dose) of Infanrix hexa co-administered with 3 doses of Prevenar 13 at 2-, 4-, 
and 12- months. 
•  Com_group (Comparator group): All subjects in this group received 3 doses (2 primary 
doses+1 booster dose) of Vaxelis co-administered with 3 doses of Prevenar 13 at 2-, 4-, and 
12- months. 
Figure 1. Study Schema (Source: Report Body Figure 1) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 7/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
CHMP comment 
Participants were randomised in two groups (n=250 subjects/group). The investigational group 
received 3 doses (2 primary doses+1 booster dose) of Infanrix hexa and the comparator group 
received 3 doses (2 primary doses+1 booster dose) of Vaxelis, at 2-, 4-, and 12-months timepoints. All 
subjects in both groups received co-administration with 3 doses (2 primary doses+1 booster dose) of 
Prevenar 13. As stated in the SmPC, Infanrix hexa can be given concomitantly with pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccines (PCV7, PCV10 and PCV13).  
Blood samples were taken post-primary vaccination (1 month post-dose 2), but not pre-primary 
vaccination. Blood samples were also taken pre- and post-booster (after 1 month) vaccination. 
Objectives and Endpoints 
Objectives and endpoints are presented in Table 2. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 8/23 
 
 
  
 
 
Table 2. Study Objectives and Endpoints (Source: Report Body Table 1) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 9/23 
 
 
  
 
 
CHMP comment 
The study has a co-primary immunogenicity objective, in order to assess non-inferiority and superiority 
of Infanrix hexa vs. Vaxelis, in terms of anti-PRP antibody concentrations at 1-month post-booster 
vaccination and anti-PRP antibody concentration ≥5 μg/mL at 1-month post-booster vaccination. A 
hierarchical approach is used.  
The success criterion for NI demonstration in terms of GMCs is that the LL of the 2-sided 95% CI on 
group GMC ratio (Infanrix hexa/Vaxelis) is >0.5. The chosen margin could have been more stringent, 
i.e. 0.67. 
In terms of percentages of subjects with anti-PRP Ab titers ≥5 µg/ml, the success criterion for NI 
demonstration is that the LL of the 2-sided 95% CI on group difference in the percentage (Infanrix 
hexa/Vaxelis) is >-10%, which is deemed appropriate. 
Both superiority criteria are deemed adequate. 
The confirmatory analyses of non-inferiority is based on the per-protocol set (PPS) while the 
confirmatory analyses of superiority is based on the Exposed set (ES) (see section ‘Participant flow’). 
The reason for this difference is unclear. 
The secondary immunogenicity objective is to assess immunogenicity of Hib-components in terms of 
percentage of subjects above the thresholds for short-term (≥0.15 µg/mL) and long-term (≥1.0 
µg/mL) protection as well as in terms of GMCs (post-primary, pre-, and post-booster vaccination). 
Anti-PRP IgG were measured by ELISA with a LLOQ of 0.066 µg/ml. 
The secondary safety objective is to assess safety of Infanrix hexa and Vaxelis co-administered with 
Prevenar 13 in terms of unsolicited AEs during the 31-day follow-up period after each vaccination and 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 10/23 
 
 
  
 
 
SAEs until the end of the study (approximately 11 months after first vaccination; 1 month after the 
booster). Safety data will be analysed on the ES population. 
Sample size 
The study will enrol approximately 500 subjects in a 1:1 ratio. Assuming that 20% of the subjects 
would not be evaluable, the power was computed for 400 evaluable subjects (i.e., 200 subjects each in 
the Inv_group and Com_group). Evaluable is defined as: meeting all eligibility criteria, complying with 
the procedures defined in the protocol, and, therefore, qualified for inclusion in the according-to-
protocol analysis. 
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
The subjects were randomised at a 1:1 ratio to Inv_group or Com_group using a minimisation 
algorithm with the study country and maternal immunisation status of the infants as minimisation 
factors. This was done at the study entry using an Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) 
randomisation. 
The study is single-blinded. In a single-blind study, the investigator knows the identity of the 
treatment assigned while the subject’s parent(s)/legally acceptable representatives(s) don’t know. 
The laboratory in charge of sample testing was blinded to the intervention assignment. The data 
management and biostatistics teams remained blinded to the study treatment until after the final 
database lock. No unblinded data summaries (presented by treatment) were available prior to the final 
database lock. An independent unblinded Biostatistician was identified to review potentially unblinding 
information ahead of the final database lock, e.g., randomisation specifications and schedule. 
Statistical Methods 
All analyses were based on the intervention as received at Dose 1. 
Demographics and Other Baseline Characteristics: Baseline and demographic information were 
summarised using descriptive statistics for continuous and ordinal variables (e.g., age, weight, height 
[Day 1 only]), and counts and percentages for categorical variables (e.g., sex, race). 
Immunogenicity Analyses: The confirmatory analyses of non-inferiority were based on the per protocol 
set (PPS) defined as all eligible and vaccinated subjects. Lab results were censored after DTPa-
combination study vaccines deviating from protocol, after intercurrent conditions that may interfere 
with immunogenicity or after prohibited concomitant medication/vaccination. In addition, lab results 
from Visits 3 and 5 blood draws were censored for the visit when taken outside of allowed study 
intervals. The confirmatory analyses of superiority were based on the exposed set (ES). 
Method for non-inferiority and superiority in anti-PRP antibody concentration at 1-month post-booster 
vaccination: The 2-sided 95% CI for group GMC ratio derived from an analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
model on log10 transformed concentration was used. The model included country, maternal 
immunisation, and group as fixed effects. Concentration below assay cut-off was replaced by half the 
assay cut-off. 
Method for non-inferiority and superiority in the percentage of subjects with anti-PRP antibody 
concentration ≥5.0 μg/mL at 1-month post-booster vaccination: The 2-sided 95% CI on group 
difference in seroconversion rate (Inv_group minus Com_group) was computed based on Miettinen and 
Nurminen method. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 11/23 
 
 
  
 
Descriptive analysis for each study group was provided by country and maternal immunization status 
for anti-PRP antibody concentrations and for the percentage of subjects with anti-PRP antibody 
concentration ≥0.15, 1, and 5.0 μg/mL at 1-month post-primary vaccination, pre-booster and 1-month 
post-booster vaccination. 
Safety Analyses: Safety data was analysed on the ES population. Descriptive analyses for the AEs and 
SAEs were provided by study group. Adverse events were coded using the Medical Dictionary for 
Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). For each study treatment, number of AEs and percentage of subjects 
with AE within 31 days post-vaccination was tabulated by preferred term and system organ class. The 
same summary was provided for related AE within 31 days post-vaccination, by maximal severity and 
for SAE after vaccination up to study end. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Table 3. Disposition of Subjects (Source: Report Body Figure 2) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 12/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Analysis Sets (Source: Protocol Table 7) 
CHMP comment 
In total, 500 subjects were enrolled, randomised and received study intervention. The investigational 
group which received Infanrix hexa includes 249 subjects and the comparator group with Vaxelis 251 
subjects. These subjects represent the Enrolled set and Exposed set (ES).  
The Per-Protocol Set (PPS) includes all subjects who received all study vaccines as per protocol, who 
had anti-PRP results post-vaccination, who complied with vaccination/blood draw intervals, without 
intercurrent conditions that may interfere with immunogenicity and without prohibited concomitant 
medication/vaccination. In total 429 subjects are part of the PPS, of which 211 in the Infanrix hexa 
group and 218 in the Vaxelis group. 
In total, 30 subjects withdrew from the study, of which 12 in the Infanrix hexa group and 18 in the 
Vaxelis group. The main cause was withdrawal by the subject. 
Recruitment 
The first subject was enrolled on 17 February 2021 and the last subject complete on 25 July 2022. 
Baseline data 
Subject demographics and other baseline characteristics are presented in Table 5. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 13/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Summary of Demographics and Baseline Characteristics (Exposed Set) (Source: 
Report Body Table 9) 
CHMP comments 
In both groups, the majority of the subjects were of White Caucasian/European heritage (94.2%), had 
a median age of 9.0 weeks at Dose 1 study intervention administration and were born after a median 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 14/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
gestational age of 39.0 weeks. Overall 52% of the subjects were male, with some imbalance between 
groups: 57.8% of males in the Infanrix hexa group and 46.2% of males in the Vaxelis group. 
In total, 379 (75.8%) of the subject’s mothers received DTPa vaccine during pregnancy, 109 (21.8%) 
mothers did not, and for 12 (2.4%) subjects it was unknown for the mother to have received DTPa 
vaccination during pregnancy. DTPa vaccination characteristics are balanced between both groups. 
Immunogenicity results 
Co-primary endpoints 
Table 6 presents the statistics of the first co-primary efficacy endpoint: Anti-PRP antibody 
concentrations at 1-month post-booster vaccination. 
Table 7 presents the statistics of the second co-primary endpoint: Anti-PRP antibody concentration ≥5 
μg/mL at 1-month post-booster vaccination. 
Table 6. Ratio of GMCs for Anti-PRP between Groups (Infanrix hexa divided by Vaxelis), 1-
Month Post-Booster Vaccination (Per Protocol Set – Post Booster) (Source: Report Body 
Table 11) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 15/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Difference Between Groups in Percentage of Subjects with Anti-PRP Antibody 
Concentrations Equal to or Above 5.0 μg/mL at 1-month Post-Booster Vaccination (Per 
Protocol Set Post-Booster) (Source: Report Body Table 12) 
CHMP Comments 
The adjusted ratio of anti-PRP GMCs (95% CI) induced by Infanrix hexa vs. Vaxelis one month post-
booster was 0.917 (0.710; 1.185). As the LL of the 95% CI of the GMC ratio was above 0.5, the first 
criterion of the first co-primary objective in relation to GMCs was met.  
The percentage of subjects with anti-PRP antibody concentrations equal to or above 5.0 μg/mL at 1-
month Post-Booster was 75.4% in the Infanrix hexa group and 81.7% in the Vaxelis group, resulting in 
a difference (95% CI) of -6.30% (-14.10; 1.49). As the LL of the 2-sided 95% CI on group difference 
in the percentage was not more than -10%, the second criterion of the first co-primary objective in 
relation to percentage of subjects with anti-PRP antibody concentrations ≥5 μg/mL was not met.  
As a result, the co-primary objectives of the study demonstrate that the Hib response induced at 1-
month post-vaccination with Infanrix hexa was non-inferior to vaccination with Vaxelis in terms of anti-
PRP GMC, though not in terms of the percentage of subjects with anti-PRP Ab concentrations ≥5.0 
μg/mL.  
Consequentially, the condition for meeting the second co-primary objective on superiority of Infanrix 
hexa vs. Vaxelis at 1-month post-booster vaccination is also not satisfied. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 16/23 
 
 
  
 
 
Anti-PRP Antibody Concentrations (Secondary objective) 
Table 8. Number and Percentage of Subjects with Anti-PRP Antibody Concentrations Equal 
to or Above 0.15 μg/mL, 1.0 μg/mL, and 5.0 μg/mL and GMCs at 1-Month Post-Primary 
Vaccination, Pre-Booster and 1-Month 
Post-Booster Vaccination (Per Protocol Set) (Source: Report Body Table 13) 
CHMP Comments 
Anti-PRP antibody concentrations were measured at 1-month post-primary vaccination, pre-booster, 
and at 1-month post-booster. 
The Infanrix hexa group showed that 79.8% of subjects had short-term protection (anti-PRP ≥0.15 
µg/mL), and 30.5% of the subjects had long-term protection (protection (anti-PRP ≥1.0 µg/mL) at one 
month post-primary vaccination, while in the Vaxelis group, 100% of subjects had short-term 
protection and 92.2% of subjects had long-term protection. 
At the pre-boost timepoint, seven months later, a decrease in antibody concentrations is noted in both 
groups, with sustained short-term protective levels in 61.2% of the Infanrix hexa vaccinated subjects 
and 94.4% of the Vaxelis vaccinated subjects; and long-term protective levels in 13.1% of the Infanrix 
hexa vaccinated subjects and 69.0% of the Vaxelis vaccinated subjects.  
At one month post-boost, both groups showed an increase in the proportion of subjects with protective 
anti-PRP titers, with in the Infanrix hexa group 99.5% of the subjects with short-term protective levels 
and 97.2% of the subjects with long-term protective levels; and in the Vaxelis group 99.5% of the 
subjects with short-term protective levels and 94.5% of the subjects with long-term protective levels. 
At the one month post-primary and pre-boost timepoint, anti-PRP GMCs [95%CI] were significantly 
lower in the Infanrix hexa group vs. the Vaxelis group (0.5 [0.41-0.62] vs. 11.3 [9.35-13.60] and 0.2 
[0.19-0.28] vs. 1.9 [1.56-2.26], respectively). At one month post-boost, the anti-PRP GMC [95% CI] 
are similar in both groups (12.0 [9.96-14.34] vs. 12.9 [10.75-15.55]). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 17/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Avidity Index of Anti-PRP Antibodies (Tertiary objective) 
Table 9. Avidity Index (AI%) of Anti-PRP and Geometric Mean Concentrations (GMC) at 1-
Month Post-Booster Vaccination by Treatment Group (Per Protocol Set – Post Booster) 
(Source: Report Body Table 15) 
CHMP Comments 
A tertiary objective aimed to evaluate potential differences in anti-PRP antibody avidity for the 2 
vaccines. This was evaluated at the post-boost timepoint. The avidity index (95% CI) was similar in 
the Infanrix hexa group (25.7 [23.88; 27.68]) and in the Vaxelis group (23.2 [21.63; 24.88]). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 18/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety results 
Unsolicited Adverse events 
Table 10. Incidence of Unsolicited Adverse Events Occurring in ≥2.0% of Subjects in Either 
or Both Treatment Groups (Exposed Set) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 19/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP Comments 
Adverse events were classified according to the Medical Dictionary of Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) 
version 25.0. 
A total of 178 (71.5%) subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 199 (79.3%) subjects in the Vaxelis 
group experienced at least one symptom of unsolicited AE within the 31 days follow-up period after 
each vaccination. The highest incidence of AE by preferred term (PT) was pyrexia (103 [41.4%] 
subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 132 [52.6%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), followed by 
irritability (31 [12.4%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 37 [14.7%] subjects in the Vaxelis 
group), and upper respiratory tract infection (18 [7.2%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 20 
[8.0%] subjects in the Vaxelis group). While pyrexia and irritability are known as AEs with a very 
common frequency following vaccination with Infanrix hexa and Vaxelis, upper respiratory tract 
infection is only included in the SmPC of Infanrix hexa with uncommon frequency. For Vaxelis, upper 
respiratory tract infection is not known as an AE reported following vaccination, while Rhinitis is a 
known AE with uncommon frequency. In addition, upper respiratory tract infection or any related AE 
has not been reported upon vaccination with Prevenar 13. The very common occurrence of upper 
respiratory tract infection in this study is thus unexpected. 
No relevant imbalances in unsolicited AEs reported withing one month after vaccination are observed 
between both groups. 
Most of the unsolicited AEs were mild (144 [57.8%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 156 
[62.2%] subjects in the Vaxelis group) or moderate (30 [12.0%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group 
and 38 [15.1%] subjects in the Vaxelis group) in severity. There were similar number of subjects in 
both groups (4 [1.6%] in the Infanrix hexa group and 5 [2.0%] in the Vaxelis group) with severe 
symptoms. The unsolicited AEs with the highest reported severity were irritability (1 [0.4%] subjects in 
the Infanrix hexa group and 2 [0.8%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), restlessness (1 [0.4%] subjects 
in the Infanrix hexa group and 2 [0.8%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), eczema and injection site 
swelling (1 [0.4%] report of each in the Infanrix hexa group and no severe symptoms in the Vaxelis 
group), pyrexia (no severe symptoms in the Infanrix hexa group and 1 [0.4%] in the Vaxelis group), 
and respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis (no severe symptoms in the Infanrix hexa group and 1 
[0.4%] in the Vaxelis group).  
A total of 113 (45.4%) subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 142 (56.6%) subjects in the Vaxelis 
group experienced at least one unsolicited AE considered by the Investigator to be related to the study 
intervention. Most unsolicited AEs assessed as possibly related to study intervention were mild in 
severity and resolved. The most frequently reported AE considered to be related to study intervention, 
in both treatment groups was pyrexia (88 [35.3%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 118 
[47.0%] subjects in the Vaxelis group). The next most frequently reported AEs considered to be 
related to study intervention were irritability (29 [11.6%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 33 
[13.1%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), restlessness (8 [3.2%] subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 
13 [5.2%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), injection site erythema (6 [2.4%] subjects in the Infanrix 
hexa group and 8 [3.2%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), injection site pain (6 [2.4%] subjects in the 
Infanrix hexa group and 8 [3.2%] subjects in the Vaxelis group), and injection site swelling (7 [2.8%] 
subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 8 [3.2%] subjects in the Vaxelis group). All AEs considered to 
be related to the study intervention are known AEs reported after vaccination with Infanrix hexa, 
Vaxelis or Prevenar 13. None of the upper respiratory tract infections was considered by the 
Investigator to be related to the study intervention. 
There was 1 SAE of seizure considered to be related to study intervention (refer to section ‘Deaths and 
other Serious Adverse events’ below). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 20/23 
 
 
  
 
There were no AEs leading to discontinuation of subjects for this study. 
Deaths and other Serious Adverse events 
Table 11. Number and Percentage of Subjects with Serious Adverse Events by System Organ 
Class and Preferred Term During the Study Period (Exposed Set) 
CHMP Comments 
There was no case of death in the study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 21/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
A total of 14 (5.6%) subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 10 (4.0%) subjects in the Vaxelis group 
experienced at least 1 SAE during the study.  
The most common SAEs in the Infanrix hexa group were pyrexia, bronchiolitis, urinary tract infection, 
and seizure, each reported by 2 (0.8%) subjects. Among these SAEs, 1 report of seizure in a 38 week-
old female subject at enrolment, was considered related to study treatment. The participant received 
the first primary dose, second primary dose and booster dose of Infanrix hexa + Prevenar 13 on Study 
day 1 , Study day 58 and Study day 286 respectively. On Study day 1, 6 hours after receiving the first 
primary dose of Infanrix hexa + Prevenar 13, the participant developed an adverse event of seizure 
(afebrile presumptive convulsive event) of moderate intensity [CTCAE grade 2]. The participant 
experienced 5 to 6 episodes of afebrile convulsive event with cyanotic lips without fever. The 
participant was taken to emergency room (ER) and was subsequently hospitalized. The event was 
serious as it required hospitalization. The participant was hospitalized for 36 hours. A brain ultrasound 
scan result showed no pathological signs on Study day 1 and on Study day 6. On Study day 45, the 
electroencephalogram showed no marker for a convulsive event or manifestation of epilepsy. The 
participant did not receive any treatment for the event of seizure. On Study day 45, the event of 
seizure was resolved. The duration of the event of seizure was 44 days. The participant did not 
experience additional adverse events during the study, which was completed on Study day 315. 
The most common SAEs reported in the Vaxelis group were bronchiolitis and respiratory syncytial virus 
bronchiolitis, each reported by 3 (1.2%) subjects and acute pyelonephritis, reported by 2 (0.8%) 
subjects in this group. None of these reports were considered related to study treatment. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Infanrix hexa is registered in Europe since 2000 and is licensed for primary and booster vaccination of 
infants against diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, poliomyelitis, and disease caused by 
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib).  
This phase IV, single-blind, randomised, controlled, multi-country study was intended to show both the 
non-inferiority of Infanrix hexa versus Vaxelis, as well as the superiority of Infanrix hexa versus Vaxelis 
in terms of anti-PRP geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) and proportion of subjects with antibody 
(Ab) concentrations greater than or equal to a threshold of 5 μg/mL 1-month after the booster dose.  
Whereas serum anti-PRP Ab levels greater than 0.15 µg/mL are associated with short-term protection 
and 1 µg/mL with long-term protection, the anti-PRP Ab level required for protection against carriage is 
greater than 5 µg/mL. Thus, the level needed for protection against colonization is much higher than 
those needed to protect against invasive disease. 
In total, 500 subjects were enrolled, of which 249 subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 251 subjects 
in the Vaxelis group. Subjects received 3 doses of either Infanrix hexa or Vaxelis, co-administered with 
Prevenar 13, at 2-, 4- and 12 months (= booster dose). 
The main demographic and baseline characteristics were overall similar between groups. 
The co-primary objectives of the study to demonstrate that the Hib response induced at 1-month post-
vaccination with Infanrix hexa was non-inferior to vaccination with Vaxelis was met in terms of anti-
PRP GMC, but not in terms of the percentage of subjects with anti-PRP Ab concentrations ≥5.0 μg/mL.  
In addition, the condition for meeting the second co-primary objective on superiority at 1-month post-
booster vaccination was not satisfied. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 22/23 
 
 
  
 
 
Regarding the secondary objectives, post-primary short-term seroprotection was observed in 79.8% of 
the subjects following vaccination with Infanrix hexa and in 100% following Vaxelis. At Pre-booster, a 
decrease in antibody concentrations is observed in both groups resulting in 61.2% of participants 
showing short-term seroprotection following vaccination with Infanrix hexa and in 94.4% following 
Vaxelis.  Long-term seroprotection at one-month post-primary vaccination was reached in 30.5% of 
Infanrix hexa vaccinated subjects as compared to 92.2% of subjects vaccinated with Vaxelis.’ 
‘Altogether, the submitted descriptive anti-PRP data suggest that a 2-doses primary vaccination with 
Vaxelis may have an added value over Infanrix hexa in terms of humoral immune responses up to the 
booster. Following administration of a booster dose, both vaccines achieve comparable short-term and 
long-term seroprotection rates.’ 
In total 71.5% of the subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 79.3% of the subjects in the Vaxelis 
group experienced at least one symptom of unsolicited AE within the 31 days follow-up period after 
each vaccination, with the highest incidence of pyrexia, irritability and upper respiratory tract infection. 
A total of 45.4% of the subjects in the Infanrix hexa group and 56.6% of the subjects in the Vaxelis 
group experienced at least one unsolicited AE considered by the Investigator to be related to the study 
intervention. Most frequently reported AE considered related are pyrexia, irritability, restlessness, 
injection site erythema, injection site pain and injection site swelling.  
These are all known AEs reported with a very common/common frequency after vaccination with 
Infanrix hexa, with the exception of upper respiratory tract infection. Of note, despite the very 
common occurrence in this study, none of the upper respiratory tract infections was considered by the 
Investigator to be related to the study intervention. 
No relevant imbalances in unsolicited AEs reported within one month after vaccination are observed 
between both groups. Severe symptoms were reported in 1.6% of subjects in the Infanrix hexa group 
and 2.0% in the Vaxelis group, which include irritability, restlessness, eczema, injection site swelling, 
pyrexia and RSV bronchiolitis.  
One SAE of seizure (afebrile presumptive convulsive event of moderate intensity) was considered 
related to the first dose of study vaccination (Infanrix hexa + Prevenar 13). The subject was 
hospitalized for 36 hours and the event was considered resolved after 44 days without complications. 
The participant continued in the study and did not experience additional adverse events. In addition, 
there were 23 SAEs considered not related to study intervention. There were no cases of death in the 
study. 
There is no need to update of the SmPC of Infanrix hexa based data of this study. 
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 23/23 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
