EMA/402688/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002778 
EPAR summary for the public 
Inflectra 
infliximab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Inflectra. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Inflectra. 
For practical information about using Inflectra, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Inflectra and what is it used for? 
Inflectra is an anti-inflammatory medicine that contains the active substance infliximab. It is usually 
used when other medicines or treatments have failed, in adults with the following diseases: 
• 
rheumatoid arthritis (an immune-system disease causing inflammation of the joints). Inflectra is 
used with methotrexate (a medicine that acts on the immune system); 
•  Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the digestive tract), when the disease is 
moderate to severe or fistulising (with the formation of fistulae, abnormal passageways between 
the gut and other organs); 
•  ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut); 
• 
• 
• 
ankylosing spondylitis (a disease causing inflammation and pain in the joints of the spine); 
psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin and inflammation of the joints); 
psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin). 
Inflectra is also used in patients aged between six and 17 years with severe, active Crohn’s disease or 
severely active ulcerative colitis, when they have not responded to or cannot take other medicines or 
treatments. 
See the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR) for full details. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
‘Inflectra is a ‘biosimilar’ medicine. This means that Inflectra is similar to a biological medicine (the 
‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the European Union (EU) and that Inflectra and the 
reference medicine contain the same active substance. The reference medicine for Inflectra is 
Remicade. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Inflectra used? 
Inflectra is available as a powder to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. It can 
only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a specialised 
doctor who has experience in the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases that Inflectra can be used to 
treat. 
Inflectra is usually given as 3 mg per kilogram body weight in rheumatoid arthritis, although the dose 
can be increased if necessary. The dose is 5 mg per kilogram for the other diseases. How often the 
treatment is repeated depends on which disease is being treated, and on the patient’s response to the 
medicine. 
Inflectra is given as an infusion lasting one or two hours. All patients are monitored for any reactions 
during the infusion and for at least one to two hours afterwards. To reduce the risk of infusion-related 
reactions, patients may be given other medicines before or during treatment with Inflectra or the 
infusion time may be slowed down. For more information, see the package leaflet. 
Patients who receive Inflectra must be given a special alert card that summarises the safety 
information about the medicine. 
How does Inflectra work? 
The active substance in Inflectra, infliximab, is a monoclonal antibody. A monoclonal antibody is an 
antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure 
(called an antigen) in the body. Infliximab has been designed to attach to a chemical messenger in the 
body called tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). This messenger is involved in causing 
inflammation and is found at high levels in patients with the diseases that Inflectra is used to treat. By 
blocking TNF-alpha, infliximab improves the inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. 
Inflectra is produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’. The infliximab is made by 
cells that have received a gene (DNA), which makes them able to produce it.  
What benefits of Inflectra have been shown in studies? 
Inflectra was studied to show that it is comparable to the reference medicine, Remicade. Inflectra was 
compared with Remicade in one main study involving 606 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis. 
Patients received either Inflectra or Remicade in addition to methotrexate for 30 weeks. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the change in symptoms. After 30 weeks of treatment Inflectra was as 
effective as Remicade with around 60 % of patients responding to treatment with either medicine. 
An additional study was also carried involving 250 patients with ankylosing spondylitis out to show that 
Inflectra produces levels of the active substance in the body that are comparable to the reference 
medicine, Remicade. 
What are the risks associated with Inflectra? 
The most common side effects with Inflectra (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are viral infections 
(such as flu or cold sores), headache, upper respiratory-tract infection (colds), sinusitis (inflammation 
Inflectra  
EMA/402688/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
of the sinuses), nausea (feeling sick), abdominal pain (stomach ache), infusion-related reactions and 
pain. Some side effects, including infections, may be more common in children than in adults. For the 
full list of all side effects reported with Inflectra, see the package leaflet. 
Inflectra must not be used in patients who have experienced hypersensitivity (allergy) to infliximab in 
the past, or who are hypersensitive (allergic) to mouse proteins or any of the other ingredients of 
Inflectra. Inflectra must not be used in patients with tuberculosis, other severe infections, or moderate 
or severe heart failure (an inability of the heart to pump enough blood around the body). 
 For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Inflectra approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Inflectra has been shown to have a comparable quality, safety and efficacy 
profile to Remicade. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Remicade, the benefit outweighs the 
identified risks. The Committee recommended that Inflectra be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Inflectra? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Inflectra is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Inflectra, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients.  
In addition, the company that markets Inflectra will provide educational material to doctors who are 
expected to prescribe the medicine in adults and children including information on the safety of the 
medicine and an alert card to be given to patients. The company will also carry out studies to confirm 
the long-term safety of the medicine.   
Other information about Inflectra 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Inflectra on 10 September 2013.  
The full EPAR for Inflectra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Inflectra, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09/2013. 
Inflectra  
EMA/402688/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
