Summary of risk management plan for 
Inhixa 
2,000 IU (20 mg)/0,2 ml,  
4,000 IU (40 mg)/0,4 ml,  
6,000 IU (60 mg)/0,6 ml,  
8,000 IU (80 mg)/0,8 ml,  
10,000 IU (100 mg)/1 ml,  
12,000 IU (120 mg)/0,8 ml,  
15,000 IU (150 mg)/1 ml,  
30,000 IU (300 mg)/3 ml,  
50,000 IU (500 mg)/5 ml,  
solution for injection (Enoxaparinum sodium) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Inhixa 2,000 IU (20 mg)/0,2 ml, 4,000 IU 
(40  mg)/0,4  ml, 6,000  IU  (60 mg)/0,6 ml,  8,000 IU  (80 mg)/0,8 ml,  10,000  IU  (100 mg)/1 ml, 
12,000 IU (120 mg)/0,8 ml, 15,000 IU (150 mg)/1 ml, 30,000 IU (300 mg)/3 ml, 50,000 IU (500 
mg)/5  ml,  solution  for  injection  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  Inhixa  products).  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Inhixa products, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Inhixa's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Inhixa's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Inhixa products should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Inhixa products should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Inhixa's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Inhixa is authorised for: 
Prophylaxis  of  venous  thromboembolic  disease  in  moderate  and  high  risk  surgical  patients,  in 
particular those undergoing orthopaedic or general surgery including cancer surgery. 
Prophylaxis  of  venous  thromboembolic disease  in  medical  patients  with  an  acute  illness  (such  as 
acute heart failure, respiratory insufficiency, severe infections or rheumatic diseases) and reduced 
mobility at increased risk of venous thromboembolism. 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, excluding pulmonary embolism likely 
to require thrombolytic therapy or surgery. 
Prevention of thrombus formation in extra corporeal circulation during haemodialysis. 
Acute coronary syndrome: 
- 
- 
Treatment of unstable angina and Non ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), 
in combination with oral acetylsalicylic acid, 
Treatment of acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) including patients 
to be managed medically or with subsequent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).  
Further information about the evaluation of Inhixa’s benefits can be found in Inhixa’s EPAR, including 
in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/inhixa 
 
 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Inhixa products, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Inhixa's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that  may  affect the safe use of Inhixa products is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Inhixa products are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Inhixa. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term 
use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
• Major haemorrhages 
• Heparin induced thrombocytopenia  
• Medication error  
• Use in patients with hepatic impairment 
• Use un pregnant women and lactating women 
• Use in children and adolescents 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Major haemorrhages 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk 
to the medicine 
In clinical studies, haemorrhages were the most commonly reported 
reaction.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Active major bleeding and conditions with a high risk of uncontrolled 
renal 
haemorrhage, 
recent  haemorrhagic 
including 
stroke, 
 
impairment, elderly  and  extremes  of  weight,  impaired  haemostasis, 
history of peptic ulcer, recent ischaemic stroke, uncontrolled  severe 
arterial  hypertension,  diabetic  retinopathy,  recent  neuro-  or 
ophthalmologic  surgery,  organic  lesions  liable  to  bleed,  invasive 
procedures  or  the  concomitant  use  of  medications  affecting 
haemostasis such as systemic salicylates, acetylsalicylic acid at anti-
inflammatory doses, NSAIDs including ketorolac, other thrombolytics, 
e.g. alteplase, reteplase, streptokinase, tenecteplase, urokinase and 
anticoagulants. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 and 4.9 
PL sections 2 and 4 
SmPC  section  4.4  where  advice  is  given  on  monitoring  of  platelet 
counts 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Not applicable. 
Important identified risk: Heparin induced thrombocytopenia  
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk 
to the medicine 
Frequency not known. The sharp drop in platelet count is caused by 
antibodies  binding  to  a  complex  of  PF4  and  heparin.  Since  LMWHs 
generally display less interaction with PF4 it could be that they may 
give rise to a lower incidence of HIT; this was indeed found to be the 
case  in  a  prospective  study  of  unfractionated  heparin  versus 
enoxaparin. The incidence is difficult to estimate and depends on the 
type of clinical indication and the duration of therapy, but is generally 
thought to be around 1–3%. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Enoxaparin  is  to  be  used  with  extreme  caution  in  patients  with  a 
history  of  heparin-induced  thrombocytopenia  with  or  without 
thrombosis. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
PL sections 2 and 4 
SmPC  section  4.4  where  advice  is  given  on  monitoring  of  platelet 
counts 
Targeted follow-up questionnaire 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Not applicable. 
Important potential risk: Medication error 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk 
to the medicine 
The majority (47.6%) of heparin errors originate in administering the 
medication,  followed  by  18.8%  in  transcribing  the  order,  14.1%  in 
prescribing the product, 13.9% in dispensing functions and 5.4% in 
 
 
 
 
 
patient/laboratory  monitoring  activities.  Nursing  staff  were  most 
frequently involved with heparin errors (60%), followed by pharmacy 
staff (14%) and prescribers (13%). 
Risk factors and risk groups 
All patients under heparin treatment are potentially at risk. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 2, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 
PL section 2, 3 and 6 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Not applicable. 
Missing information: Use in children and adolescents 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.8 
PL section 2 and 3 
Missing information: Use in patients with hepatic impairment 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4 
PL section 2  
Missing information: Use un pregnant women and lactating women 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies which  are conditions  of  the marketing  authorisation  or specific  obligation  of 
Inhixa products. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Inhixa products. 
 
 
