20 May 2010 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
INOmax  
International non-proprietary name: NITRIC OXIDE 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000337/A46/0018 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new corporate 
identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently produced by the 
Agency 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
Invented name of the medicinal product: 
INOmax 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
Nitric Oxide 
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
INO Therapeutics AB 
treatment of newborns ≥ 34 weeks gestation with hypoxic 
respiratory failure associated with clinical 
or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary 
hypertension, in order to improve oxygenation and to 
reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane 
oxygenation. 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Other respiratory system products 
R07 AX 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and strength(s): 
400 ppm mol/mol inhalation gas 
INOmax 
2/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
On 11 January 2010 the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for INOmax, in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The MAH stated that the submitted paediatric study does not influence the benefit risk for Inomax and that 
there is no consequential regulatory action. 
II. 
II.1 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Nitric oxide (NO) is the active component of endothelium-derived relaxing factor. Exogenous inhaled 
NO acts selectively on the pulmonary circulation. In smooth muscle cells, NO activates soluble 
guanylate cyclase to form cyclic GMP, which in turn promotes a calcium dependent relaxation. It has 
little systemic effect because of its short half-life caused by inactivation by binding to haemoglobin, 
rapid oxidation and the interaction with free radicals. 
INOmax 400 ppm contains the active drug substance, nitric oxide, formulated as a series of dilutions 
in nitrogen. It is delivered to the patient via mechanical ventilation after dilution with an air/oxygen 
mixture using approved (CE-marked) ventilators and delivery devices.  
The current indication is for the treatment, in conjunction with ventilatory support and other appropriate 
agents, of newborns ≥ 34 weeks gestation with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or 
echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension, in order to improve oxygenation and to 
reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. The maximum recommended dose is 20 
ppm decreasing to 5 ppm within 4-24 hours provided arterial oxygenation is adequate at lower dose. 
The 20 ppm dose should not be exceeded. In the pivotal clinical trials, the starting dose was generally 
20 ppm. 
II.2 
Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
- 
INOT27 “The effects of nitric oxide for inhalation on the development of chronic lung disease in preterm 
infants”. 
INOmax 
3/10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Clinical study 
INOT27  “The effects of nitric oxide for inhalation on the development of chronic lung disease in 
preterm infants”. 
  Description 
This was a prospective, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial of nitric oxide therapy 
in preterm infants with respiratory distress. 
  Methods 
•  Objective(s) 
To assess the safety and efficacy of inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) to reduce the risk of chronic lung disease (CLD) 
in preterm infants with respiratory distress, and to assess the long-term effects of the therapy on the 
development of these children over 7 years of clinical follow-up. 
•  Study population /Sample size 
The main criteria for inclusion into the study were as follows: Inborn preterm infants 24+0 days weeks to 28+6 
days weeks gestational age (GA) (defined by first-trimester ultrasound or, if not available, based on the last 
menstrual period) who required the use of surfactant within 24 hours of birth (either prophylactically or for 
signs of developing respiratory distress), or who required the use of continuous positive airway pressure 
(CPAP) (fraction of inspired oxygen concentration [FiO2] of 0.30 or greater on a mean airway pressure of 4cm 
or greater H2O) within 24 hours of birth in order to maintain an oxygen saturation by pulse oximeter(SpO2) of 
85% or greater. 
A total of 800 subjects (400 in each group) were planned. 
•  Treatments 
Subjects received nitric oxide 5 ppm or placebo (100% Grade 5 Nitrogen [N2] gas) for a minimum of 7 days, 
and a maximum of 21 days in a blinded fashion. Subjects who required less than 7 days of assisted ventilation 
completed the minimum duration of therapy via face mask or nasal cannula. Subjects otherwise remained on 
study treatment as long as respiratory support was required, or until 21 days of therapy were completed. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary: Success, defined as infant alive without bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) at 36 weeks’ 
Gestational age. 
Secondary: 
•  Number of days of assisted ventilation;  
• 
• 
• 
• 
length of hospitalisation;  
survival without severe intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), and periventricular leukomalacia (PVL);  
total number of days in hospital from 36 weeks’ GA to 1 year and 2 years corrected age;  
average number of days in hospital for respiratory illness from 36 weeks’ GA to 1 year and 2 years corrected age. 
Safety:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Incidence of methemoglobinemia and elevated nitrogen dioxide concentrations;  
incidence and types of reported adverse events (AEs);  
incidence of medically treated and/or surgically ligated ductus arteriosus;  
incidence of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP);  
incidence of death after 36 weeks’ GA to 1 year and 2 years corrected age, stratified by GA at birth;  
incidence of death after 36 weeks’ GA to 7 years corrected age, stratified by GA at birth;  
INOmax 
4/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
long-term neurodevelopmental outcome assessed by a validated, age-appropriate developmental 
assessment at 2 and 7 years corrected age;  
•  pulmonary function testing at 7 years corrected age. 
  Statistical Methods 
All efficacy analyses were performed on the Intend-to-Treat (ITT) Population that included all randomized 
subjects. Safety analyses were performed on the Safety Population including all treated subjects. The primary 
efficacy variable was analysed by logistic regression. The secondary efficacy variables were evaluated using 
either an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model or logistic regression. Additional statistical methods included 
the Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test. 
Safety data were summarized by either descriptive statistics or frequency table. 
  Results 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Two populations were used in the analyses of this study: the ITT Population and the Safety Population. 
•  Baseline data 
In general, the demographic and baseline characteristics for subjects and mothers were similar between the 
iNO and placebo treatment groups for the 800 subjects in the ITT Population. The treatment groups were 
comparable in GA, race, age of mother, Apgar scores at 5 and 10 minutes, length, head circumference, 
oxygenation index, and intubation/CPAP. The use of prenatal corticosteroids was quite high in subjects in both 
INOmax 
5/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment groups; 89.5% of mothers of subjects of the iNO group and 90.3% of mothers of subjects in the 
placebo group. There were slightly more females (48.1% vs. 45.1%) and a slightly lower mean birth weight 
(851.5 grams vs. 864.1 grams) in subjects in the iNO group compared with subjects in the placebo group, 
respectively. Chorioamnionitis was more common in the mothers of subjects in the iNO treatment group 
compared with mothers of subjects in the placebo group (27.6% vs. 23.4%, respectively). 
•  Efficacy results 
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
In this study, treatment with iNO 5 ppm and less for 21 days was comparable with placebo (p = 0.7340) for 
survival without BPD in preterm infants with respiratory distress. There were 258 (65.3%) successes in the 
iNO group and 262 (65.5%) in the placebo group. The odds ratio of iNO compared with placebo was 1.05 
For subjects with at least 21 days of treatment, a higher success rate was observed in the iNO group compared 
with placebo; there were 98 (70.0%) successes in the iNO group and 90 (60.8%) in the placebo group (p = 
0.0839) (Section 14.2, Table 14.2.1.10). 
No treatment difference was observed for the primary outcome by BPD severity. 
INOmax 
6/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy variable was also analysed in the ITT population by various strata of demographic 
characteristics using Wald Chi-square. In all stratifications (GA, race, birth weight, and type of ventilation) 
with the exceptions of race non-black, GA greater than or equal to 26 weeks and CPAP, subjects in the iNO 
group had a higher percentage of successes when compared with subjects in the placebo group. No differences 
were significant.  
Gestational age was a significant covariate (p < 0.0001) in terms of survival without BPD. Subjects born at 26 
weeks GA or older had a higher success rate (72.7%) than younger subjects (51.6%). However, there were no 
treatment differences observed in either age strata.  
Secondary Efficacy Analyses 
For secondary efficacy variables, length of assisted ventilation, survival without significant brain injury, and 
length of hospitalisation no treatment differences were observed. 
INOmax 
7/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comments 
The results for the primary efficacy endpoint (survival without BPD following treatment with nitric oxide 5 
ppm and less for 21 days)showed no difference between the two groups; 65.3% for the nitric oxide group 
versus 65.5% for the placebo group. Although there was a small benefit in babies treated for at least 21 days 
with nitric oxide, the results were not statistically significant. 
Not surprisingly, gestational age and birth weight were significant covariates with heavier and older infants 
more likely to survive without BPD. However, this was not affected by treatment. 
There were no significant differences between the two groups for secondary outcomes length of assisted 
ventilation, length of hospitalisation or brain injury. 
The results of this study failed to demonstrate efficacy of nitric oxide at the dose used in this study in 
premature babies with respiratory distress syndrome. 
•  Safety results 
The 2 treatment groups were well matched at baseline and the extent of exposure was comparable between the 
treatment groups.  
Adverse events were very common in both groups, and there were more AEs in the iNO-treated group than in 
the placebo group (96.2% vs. 91.9%). This difference was most noticeable in the cohort of subjects 26 weeks or 
older GA, with an AE incidence of 95.3% of subjects in the iNO group compared with 88.6% of subjects in the 
placebo group. 
Study drug was temporarily stopped due to an AE for 4.1% of subjects in the iNO group and 3.0% of subjects 
in the placebo group. Study drug was permanently stopped due to an AE for 6.1% of subjects in the iNO group 
and 5.5% of subjects in the placebo group. 
The incidence of severe AEs was similar in the 2 treatment groups; severe AEs experienced by 3% or more 
subjects in either treatment group included patent ductus arteriosus, intestinal perforation, sepsis, 
haemorrhage intracranial, and pulmonary haemorrhage. 
Adverse events with a higher incidence rate in the iNO group compared with the placebo group (greater than 
5%) included patent ductus arteriosus, haemorrhage intracranial, anaemia, and hyperglycaemia. The 
incidences of all other AEs were similar between the treatment groups. The 3 most frequently reported AEs in 
both treatment groups were patent ductus arteriosus, anaemia, and hyperbilirubinaemia. There were no 
incidences of methaemoglobinaemia reported during the treatment period. Two subjects, 1 in each treatment 
group, experienced elevated NO2 levels. Serious adverse events reported by greater than or equal to 3% of 
subjects in either treatment group were patent ductus arteriosus, intestinal perforation, sepsis, haemorrhage 
intracranial, pneumothorax and pulmonary haemorrhage. The incidences of these and all other SAEs were 
similar between the treatment groups. 
Perinatal care was very good, and the overall death rate was relatively low in both groups. Reviewing outcomes 
through Week 36, there was a trend toward more deaths in the iNO group. The death rate during the treatment 
period was slightly higher in the iNO treated group than the placebo treated group: 8.9% of iNO subjects 
compared with 7.6% of placebo subjects. During the period after cessation of therapy and before 36 weeks, 
there were also more deaths in the iNO-treated group 4.6% vs. 2.8%; it is not clear why cessation of therapy 
would lead to an increased death rate. The overall death rate in the Safety Population at 36 weeks was not 
significantly different between the treatment groups; 13.4% and 10.6% of subjects in the iNO and placebo 
groups, respectively, for all treated subjects.  
Assessor’s comments 
The incidence of adverse events was similar between the two groups. However, the death rate was slightly 
higher in the nitric oxide group during the treatment period, in the period after cessation of therapy before 
INOmax 
8/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 weeks and overall. Given the lack of efficacy and the trend toward more deaths after nitric oxide 
treatment in premature infants, the use of nitric oxide in premature infants with respiratory distress 
syndrome cannot be recommended.  
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
The MAH has submitted results of this study of therapy with nitric oxide in premature infants with respiratory 
distress syndrome. The primary efficacy endpoint was survival without BPD following treatment with nitric 
oxide 5 ppm and less for 21 days.  
Patients were randomised to treatment with nitric oxide or placebo. 399 patients were included in the ITT 
population for the iNO group and 401 in the placebo group. 
In general, the demographic and baseline characteristics for subjects and mothers were similar between the 
iNO and placebo treatment groups for the 800 subjects in the ITT Population. There were slightly more females 
and a slightly lower mean birth weight in subjects in the iNO group compared with subjects in the placebo 
group, respectively. Chorioamnionitis was more common in the mothers of subjects in the iNO treatment group 
compared with mothers of subjects in the placebo group. 
The results for the primary efficacy endpoint (survival without BPD following treatment with nitric oxide 5 
ppm and less for 21 days) showed no difference between the two groups; 65.3% for the nitric oxide group 
versus 65.5% for the placebo group. Although there was a small benefit in babies treated for at least 21 days 
with nitric oxide, the results were not statistically significant. 
The safety results showed a similar pattern of adverse events between the two groups. However, the death rate 
was slightly higher in the nitric oxide group during the treatment period, in the period after cessation of therapy 
before 36 weeks and overall. 
Given the lack of efficacy and the trend toward more deaths following nitric oxide therapy in this age group, 
the use of nitric oxide in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome cannot be recommended. 
Furthermore, the MAH should submit a variation to include a summary of this study discussing both the lack of 
efficacy and the trend towards more deaths to section 5.1 of the SPC. 
III. 
Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion AND RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
Given the lack of efficacy and the trend toward more deaths following nitric oxide therapy in this age group, 
the use of nitric oxide in premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome cannot be recommended. 
Furthermore, the MAH should submit a variation to include a summary of this study discussing both the lack of 
efficacy and the trend toward more deaths to section 5.1 of the SPC. 
The following wording should also be included in section 4.2: “The safety and efficacy of INOmax in 
premature infants less than 34 weeks gestation has not yet been established.” 
  Recommendation  
  Fulfilled –  
Type II variation to be requested from the MAH to include a summary of this study discussing both the lack of 
efficacy and the trend toward more deaths to section 5.1 of the SPC, with a cross reference to section 4.2. 
INOmax 
9/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. 
ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS REQUESTED 
 Not applicable 
INOmax 
10/10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
