EMA/121935/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000337 
EPAR summary for the public 
INOmax 
nitric oxide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for INOmax. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
INOmax. 
What is INOmax? 
INOmax is a gas for inhalation that contains the active substance nitric oxide diluted in nitrogen gas at 
400 or 800 parts per million (ppm). 
What is INOmax used for? 
INOmax is used in combination with artificial ventilation and other medicines to help improve blood 
oxygen levels in the following groups of patients: 
•  newborn babies (born after 34 weeks of gestation) with breathing problems associated with 
pulmonary hypertension (high blood pressure in the lungs). INOmax is used in these babies to 
improve oxygen supply levels and to reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
(ECMO, a technique to oxygenate the blood outside the body using a device similar to a heart-lung 
machine). 
• 
patients of all ages who are undergoing or have undergone heart surgery and develop pulmonary 
hypertension. In these patients INOmax is used to help improve heart function and reduce blood 
pressure in the lungs. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is INOmax used? 
INOmax treatment should be supervised by a doctor who has experience in intensive care or neonatal 
intensive care if the patient is a newborn baby. INOmax should only be used in units where staff have 
been trained in the use of a nitric oxide delivery system. 
INOmax is used in patients who are undergoing artificial ventilation, once the ventilation is optimised. 
INOmax is given after being diluted in an oxygen/air mixture supplied to the patient through the 
ventilator. 
The maximum starting dose of INOmax is 20 ppm for children up to 18 years of age, and 40 ppm for 
adults. This should then be reduced to 5 ppm, provided the blood in the arteries contains enough 
oxygen. In newborn babies with breathing problems, treatment can be continued at this dose until 
there is improvement in oxygen levels, for a maximum of four days. In children and adults undergoing 
heart surgery, treatment usually lasts for 24 to 48 hours. Treatment should not be stopped abruptly. 
For more information, see the summary of product characteristics. 
How does INOmax work? 
The active substance in INOmax, nitric oxide, is a naturally-occurring chemical in the body, which 
causes the muscles in the lining of the blood vessels to relax. When inhaled, it causes the vessels in 
the lungs to dilate (widen); this allows blood to flow more easily in the lungs to supply oxygen to the 
rest of the body and remove carbon dioxide, reducing pulmonary hypertension. It also helps to 
decrease inflammation in the lungs. 
How has INOmax been studied? 
Because nitric oxide is a well-known chemical, the company used data from the published literature to 
support INOmax’s use in newborn babies with pulmonary hypertension, and in adults and children 
undergoing heart surgery. 
INOmax has also been studied in 421 neonates from 34 weeks gestation with pulmonary hypertension 
in two main studies. In the first study, 235 neonates with respiratory failure received either INOmax or 
placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of neonates who 
died or needed ECMO over the first 120 days in hospital. In the second study, 186 neonates with 
respiratory failure received either INOmax or placebo. The main measure of effectiveness was the 
proportion of neonates who needed ECMO. 
What benefit has INOmax shown during the studies? 
In the two main studies in newborn babies with breathing problems, INOmax was more effective than 
placebo at reducing the need of ECMO. In the first main study, 52 (46%) of the 114 neonates receiving 
INOmax died or needed ECMO, compared with 77 (64%) of the 121 receiving placebo. This was mainly 
due to a reduction in the need for ECMO, rather than a reduction in death rates. In the second main 
study, 30 (31%) of the neonates receiving INOmax needed ECMO, compared with 51 (57%) of the 89 
receiving placebo. 
In the published literature, INOmax treatment was shown to reduce the blood pressure in the lungs 
and improve heart function when used during or after heart surgery. 
INOmax  
EMA/229386/2011  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What is the risk associated with INOmax? 
The most common side effect with INOmax (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are thrombocytopenia 
(low blood platelet counts), hypokalaemia (low blood potassium levels), hypotension (low blood 
pressure), atelectasis (collapse of the whole, or part of a, lung), and hyperbilirubinaemia (high blood 
levels of bilirubin). For the full list of all side effects reported with INOmax, see the package leaflet. 
INOmax should not be used in babies who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to nitric oxide or the other 
ingredient (nitrogen). It must not be used in babies who have right-to-left or significant left-to-right 
shunting of blood (abnormal circulation of blood in the heart). 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe use of INOmax? 
The company must put in place an educational programme to ensure that doctors who are going to use 
INOmax for the treatment of patients undergoing heart surgery are aware of the risks and the 
precautions necessary when using the medicine. 
Why has INOmax been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that INOmax’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about INOmax 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
INOmax on 1 August 2001. The marketing authorisation holder is Linde Healthcare AB. The marketing 
authorisation is valid for an unlimited period. 
The full EPAR for INOmax can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with INOmax, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist.. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2012. 
INOmax  
EMA/229386/2011  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
