SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of INOmax. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the new-born (PPHN) is a disorder of the transition from foetal 
to extra-uterine life, a clinical syndrome characterised by persistence of elevated pulmonary vascular 
resistance producing right-to-left shunting of deoxygenated blood across the still patent foramen ovale 
and/or ductus arteriosus as well as systemic hypoxemia. PPHN may be idiopathic or associated with 
parenchyma  lung  disease  as  respiratory  distress  syndrome  of  prematurity,  meconium  aspiration 
syndrome,  pneumonia  and  sepsis  or  congenital  diaphragmatic  hernia  and  pulmonary  hypoplasia. 
Although anatomical changes such as pulmonary vascular smooth muscle hypertrophy may occur and 
contribute  to  increased  pulmonary  resistance,  pulmonary  vasoconstriction  and  altered  vascular 
reactivity are central to the pathophysiology of this syndrome. PPHN is an uncommon life threatening 
condition (the incidence is less than 0.1% of life births and mortality up to 40%). 
Conventional therapy consists in hyperoxygenation through mechanical ventilation with hyperoxic gas 
mixtures, induced  metabolic or respiratory alkalosis, deep sedation and pharmacological paralysis to 
reduce pulmonary vasoactivity. Intravenous vasodilators as sodium nitroprusside or tolazoline may be 
useful but can lead to severe systemic hypotension, which in turn aggravate the right-to-left shunt.  
In  the  most  severe  forms  of  hypoxic  respiratory  failure,  invasive  procedures  of  extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation (ECMO) have proven efficacy in reducing mortality compared to conventional 
therapies.  However,  these  techniques  remain  procedures  of  exception  performed  by  a  trained  and 
specialised  neonatology  team.  They  require  catheterisation  and  often  ligation  of  the  cervical  great 
vessels  (jugular  vein  and  carotid  artery)  need  continuous  blood  anticoagulation  and  use  of  blood 
products.  Potential  drawbacks  are  related  to  the  increased  risk  of  brain  haemorrhage  and  infarction. 
Prognosis into adult life is unknown. 
Nitric oxide (NO) is the active component of endothelium-derived relaxing factor. Exogenous inhaled 
NO  acts  selectively  on  the  pulmonary  circulation.  In  smooth  muscle  cells,  NO  activates  soluble 
guanylate cyclase to form cyclic GMP, which in turn promotes a calcium dependent relaxation. It has 
little systemic effect because of its short half-life caused by inactivation by binding to haemoglobin, 
rapid oxidation and the interaction with free radicals.  
INOmax 400 ppm contains the active drug substance, nitric oxide, formulated as a series of dilutions 
in nitrogen. It is delivered to the patient via  mechanical ventilation after dilution with an air/oxygen 
mixture using approved (CE-marked) ventilators and delivery devices.  
The  indication  is  for  the  treatment,  in  conjunction  with  ventilatory  support  and  other  appropriate 
agents, of newborns ≥ 34 weeks gestation with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or 
echocardiographic  evidence  of  pulmonary  hypertension,  in  order  to  improve  oxygenation  and  to 
reduce  the  need  for  extracorporeal  membrane  oxygenation.  The  maximum  recommended  dose  is  20 
ppm decreasing to 5 ppm within 4-24 hours provided arterial oxygenation is adequate at lower dose. 
The 20 ppm dose should not be exceeded. In the pivotal clinical trials, the starting dose was generally 
20 ppm. 
For this indication, inhaled NO reduced the need for ECMO without altering mortality and morbidity. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
INOmax is a gas for inhalation. It is presented as a compressed gaseous mixture of nitric oxide (active 
substance)  diluted  with  nitrogen  (dilutent).  The  diluted  gas  is  administered  to  the  patient  via 
1/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mechanical  ventilator  and  using  a  CE-marked  delivery  system,  in  which  the  gas  is  diluted  to  a 
therapeutic concentration with a medical air/oxygen mixture.  
Three  strengths  were  initially  proposed:  100ppm,  400ppm  and  800ppm  (mol/mol).  The  provision  of 
cylinders  of  three  different  concentrations  increases  the  chances  of  an  error  in  administration;  the 
applicant consequently has restricted INOmax to a single 400-ppm strength.  
The  container  is  a  colour  coded  aluminium  alloy  cylinder  of  10-litres  capacity,  closed  by  stainless 
steel  positive  pressure  (residual)  valve,  which  presents  an  unique  outlet  to  eliminate  the  risk  for 
connection  to  the  wrong  type  of  equipment.  Satisfactory  packaging  component  specifications  and 
detail on colour coding and labelling were provided. To ensure that the gas mixture can be delivered at 
1  atmosphere  and  15°C,  an  overfill  is  used;  each  cylinder  containing  thus  an  amount  of  product 
equivalent to 1535 litres. 
Active substance 
The active substance, nitric oxide, is synthesised in a continuous process by the reaction of nitric acid 
and sulphur dioxide (2 HNO3 + 3 SO2 + 2 H2O→ 2 NO + 3 H2SO4), followed by further purification 
steps to remove by-products and moisture. The purified gas is filled in steel gas cylinders fitted with 
diaphragm sealed stainless steel valves specified for use with pure NO. Compatibility of the gas with 
the packaging was established. Satisfactory details on the manufacturing process are provided. 
The in-process controls performed during the synthesis are  minimal. This approach is acceptable, as 
there  are  no  intermediates  in  the  synthesis,  and  since  synthesis,  purification  and  packaging  are 
performed  as  a  single  continuous  process,  and  the  potential  impurities  and  assay  are  effectively 
controlled  on  the  active  substance  and  sampling  could  lead  to  contamination  with  air.  The 
manufacturing  process  was  validated  on  three  consecutive  batches.  Results  are  within  the  proposed 
specification and confirm batch-to-batch consistency. 
Nitric oxide is a colourless gas and a stable molecule radical, but with the exception that when mixed 
with  air,  it  immediately  forms  a  brown  cloud  of  nitrogen  dioxide.  It  is  not  flammable  but  supports 
combustion.  
Potential  impurities  in  the  bulk  gas  are  nitrogen,  nitrous  oxide,  nitrogen  dioxide,  carbon  dioxide,  and 
sulphur  dioxide.  Other  oxides  of  nitrogen  exist  but  are  not  considered  due  to  their  instability  and 
concentration dependent equilibria and only minute undetectable amounts are likely to exist in the drug 
substance. 
IR  and  mass-spectrometry  have  confirmed  the  structure  of  nitric  oxide.  The  impurities  and  related 
substances are controlled by IR-based method for the assay of nitric oxide and by GC for nitrogen and 
argon. All analytical methods used were validated. Specifications on all starting materials, impurities and 
related  substances  are  provided  and  are  acceptable.  Batch  analysis  results  from  5  batches  of  drug 
substance are presented. Data comply with specifications. 
Concerning stability, the active substance stored in cylinders filled at 20 bar was tested for up to 24 
months  under  different  temperatures.  Increase  of  the  main  oxides  of  nitrogen  can  be  observed, 
indicating that degradation is dependent on temperature, time and pressure. Degradation is decreased 
by dilution. Potential degradation products remain within the proposed specifications. Overall, the data 
support the re-test period of 6 months under the proposed storage conditions. 
Other ingredients 
The excipient, nitrogen, is used as diluent since it is inert and free from oxygen. Satisfactory details 
and validation data were provided on the determination of oxygen and carbon monoxide in nitrogen 
and  assay  of  nitrogen.  Compatibility  studies  were  presented  demonstrating  compatibility  between 
NO/N2 mixtures and the containers and dispensing devices. The choice and specification of excipient 
used are justified. Specification complies with Ph.Eur. requirements. 
Product development and finished product 
The  pharmaceutical  development  revolved  around  the  physical  properties  of  the  gas  mixtures.  In 
presence of oxygen, NO is easily oxidised to NO2, which is highly toxic. The challenge is to avoid the 
formation  of  NO2. Dilutions are therefore  necessary to avoid immediate  oxidation  after  mixing  with 
oxygen/air before administration and to deliver a therapeutic concentration from pure NO. The NO/N2 
2/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
mixture has the same properties as pure nitrogen, and there is no risk of separation, which only occur 
below  -140ºC.  The  rationale  behind  the  choice  of  the  strength  was  explained  (see  also  the  section 
Composition). A 10-litres cylinder is selected, since it contains sufficient product to treat one patient 
and is easily handle in the hospital environment.  
The batches of product used in the various clinical studies were identified, and an acceptable degree of 
equivalency was established. 
Dilution of the pure active substance to the finished product is performed in two steps. Intermediate 
premix  is  manufactured  by  dilution  of  NO  with  nitrogen  into  46.5  litre  aluminium  cylinders  closed 
with stainless steel valves and teflon rings. From that premix, 400 ppm-finished products are prepared 
by further dilution with nitrogen. Cylinders of finished product are manufactured in batches of ten by 
dilution of the NO/N2 premix with nitrogen into 10 litre cylinders. The premix is filled by weight and 
the  finished  product  is  filled  by  mass-flow.  In-process  controls  were  performed  and  they  are 
acceptable. 
Validation  data  on  batches  of  finished  product  indicate  the  ability  of  the  process  to  manufacture 
homogenous finished product with satisfactory filling volumes and pressures.  
The control tests and specification for the intermediate and finished products are adequately drawn up 
and considered to be acceptable. Assay of nitric oxide in the premix and finished product was by an 
IR-based method as per the method used to determine gaseous impurities. Control of nitrogen dioxide 
in  the  finished  product  was  by  UV  detection.  The  absence  of  test  for  microbiological  quality  was 
justified, this was based on the absence of recoverable organism from the gas; but the requirements of 
Ph.  Eur.  category  2  products  are  applied  for  limits  for  the  microbial  status.  The  validated  analytical 
methods  employed  are  capable  of  controlling  the  drug  premixes  and  products  within  the  proposed 
specifications.  The  impurity  limits  in  the  product  specifications  guarantee  acceptable  levels  after 
dilution for administration. 
Batch  analyses  data,  resulting  from  batches  of  premixes  and  batches  of  finished  product,  met  the 
proposed specification. 
The product is manufactured in the facilities that hold the necessary Manufacturing Authorisation (see 
Annex II of the Opinion). 
Stability of the Product 
Intermediate premixes - Cylinders were stored at different temperatures (25ºC and 55ºC). Data up to 
24  months  was  available.  The  NO  assay  was  the  only  parameter  monitored  and  was  within 
specification limits. The results showed that temperature was not an influencing factor. However, until 
further  stability  data  on  the  intended  premixes  including  data  on  the  content  of  nitrogen  dioxide 
(which will be a better indicator of stability) is provided, the retest period should be restricted to 12 
months. 
Finished  product  -  Cylinders  were  stored  in  uncontrolled,  unheated  storage  outdoors,  at  the  ICH 
conditions and at the conditions to simulate storage exposed to direct sunlight. Data were generated up 
to  36  months.  The  parameters  monitored  were  NO  assay  and  nitrogen  dioxide  and  the  same 
specification is applied at release and check. No significant decreases in assay or increases in nitrogen 
dioxide were observed. The results support the shelf life of 2 years. 
Containers and delivery system 
The  cylinders used for the intermediate premixes and finished product is  manufactured according to 
Directive 84/526/EEC and each unit is identified by a unique number and colour code. The cylinders 
are  closed  by  stainless  steel  positive  pressure  (residual)  valves  complying  with  the  requirements 
specified in the draft CEN technical document "General guidance on the equipment used for inhaled 
NO  therapy".  Satisfactory  specifications  and  technical  details  were  provided  for  the  cylinders  and 
valves. The ventilators and delivery devices used in the administration of INOmax should be intended 
for  the  delivery  of  NO,  CE-marked  (i.e.  approved  according  to  the  Medical  Devices  Directive)  and 
also meet the CEN requirements for delivery of nitric oxide. The requirements for the administration 
device are also covered in the SPC.  
3/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  bulk  drug  substance  is  adequately  controlled  and  characterised.  The  data  provide  confirm 
consistency of manufacture and demonstrate adequate stability profile based on the short retest period 
proposed. The proposed specification is justified. 
The  manufacture  of  the  intermediate  premix  and  finished  product  is  also  adequately  defined  and 
controlled.  The  development  pharmaceutics  and  validation  of  manufacture  are  satisfactory.  Batch  to 
batch consistency for the finished product has been demonstrated. The finished product exhibits good 
stability  and  no  degradation  is  observed  even  under  the  extreme  storage  conditions.  The  design 
specification was met over the proposed shelf life.  
Overall  the  chemical-pharmaceutical  dossier  is  well  documented  and  guarantees  the  quality  of  the 
active substance and finished product, both initially and throughout the shelf life. A number of quality 
points  were  not  resolved  at  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion.  However,  these  were  considered  to  be 
without  any  impact  on  the  efficacy  or  safety  of  the  product,  and  are  indicated  to  be  addressed  post-
approval (see section II.3 of this report). 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  pre-clinical  dossier  comprises  data  from  published  literature  and  additional  studies  conducted 
according to GLP. 
The  high  chemical  reactivity  of  nitric  oxide  in  the  presence  of  oxygen  renders  preclinical  studies 
related  to  inhaled  nitric  oxide  difficult  to  perform  and  to  interpret.  Moreover,  results  must  be 
interpreted in the light of not only of inhaled NO but also of inhaled NO2 levels. NO2 levels are not 
always specified, mainly in the older studies. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacological  properties  related  to  therapeutic  indications  -  The  pharmacology  of  nitric  oxide 
(NO)  relevant  to  its  use  in  hypoxic  respiratory  failure  is  centred  upon  NO’s  selective  properties  of 
causing  vasodilatation  of  hypertensive  pulmonary  vasculature.  Its  mechanism  of  action  through 
generation  of  c-GMP  in  smooth  muscle  cells  has  been  extensively  reviewed.  Inhaled  NO  enters  the 
circulation, but red blood cells prevent systemic vasodilatation. 
NO  reversed  pulmonary  vasoconstriction 
induced  by  hypoxia,  hypoxia  and  acidosis,  by 
vasoconstrictor  drugs,  by  thromboxane/endoperoxide  mimetic  or  by  endothelial  injury.  These  NO 
effects  were  tested  in  isolated  rat  lungs,  and  in  awake  and  anaesthetised  animals  as  lambs,  sheep, 
rabbit,  rat  and  dog.  NO  produced  a  dose-dependent  pulmonary  vasodilatation  over  a  large  range  of 
concentrations  (doses  from  5  to  120  ppm  have  been  tested).  Threshold  and  plateau  for  NO  activity 
varied according to the model tested. 
(endotoxin, 
Pulmonary  vasoconstriction  evoked  by  activation  of 
lipopolysaccharide)  or  by  infection  (group  B  streptococcus)  was  also  reversed  by  NO  inhalation  at 
doses  up  to  150  ppm  in  piglets.  In  anaesthetised  mechanically  ventilated  guinea  pigs,  300  ppm  NO 
decreased methacholine-induced bronchoconstriction. Histamine-induced bronchoconstriction in dogs 
was also reversed at doses between 100-200 ppm. 
the  coagulation  system 
The  vasodilator  effect  of  NO  was  independent  of  cyclooxygenase  as  indicated  by  the  lack  of 
modification by indomethacin and was additive to that of terbutaline inhalation. In sheep, NO reduced 
pulmonary  vascular  resistance  independent  of  pulmonary  blood  flow;  blood  flow  to  poor  and 
unventilated lung areas decreased.  
Secondary  pharmacology  -  Effects  of  NO  on  the  central  nervous  (CNS),  cardiovascular  (CVS),  and 
respiratory and immune systems and effects on platelets and metalloproteins were investigated. 
CNS - Inhalation of NO at 50 ppm for 180 minutes decreased performance in a discriminative learning 
task in rats. It also increased the amplitude and prolonged the auditory evoked potentials (AEP) at both 
10  and  50  ppm.  These  effects  were  not  fully  understood.  However,  the  results  of  a  clinical  trial 
(NINOS) indicate that this finding probably does not represent a hazard in clinical use. Patients with 
an average age of 1.7 days were exposed to NO concentrations ranging from 20 to 80 ppm for a mean 
4/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
duration  of  21  hours;  the  peak  metHb  levels  were  2%.  A  long-term  assessment  of  18-24  months  of 
neurodevelopment indicated no adverse treatment related effects.  
CVS and electrocardiograph evaluation of inhaled NO - In a study for acute cardiovascular evaluation 
of  inhaled  nitric  oxide,  20  anaesthetised  Beagle  dogs  were  exposed  to  NO  concentrations  of  0,  80, 
160,  320  and  640  ppm  for  6  hours.  Toxic  physiological  changes  were  evident  in  the  320-640  ppm 
range  and  consisted  of  elevated  metHb  and  signs  of  tissue  hypoxia,  increased  respiratory  rate  and 
minute  volume,  increased  heart  rate  and  late  hypotension.  Systemic  pressures  decreased  late 
particularly at NO ≥ 320 ppm, which was due to decreased vascular resistance attributed to lowered 
peripheral  tissue  oxygen  concentrations.  The  death  of  one  dog  at  640  ppm  was  attributed  to  these 
effects.  
Electrocardiograph changes were  found in  dogs exposed  to  NO,  some  of  them  were  already present 
during  baseline  measurements,  as  premature  ventricular  depolarisation  (sinus  tachycardia  was 
observed in a 3 animals in the 80 or 320 ppm group, junctional rhythm in 2 animals in the 80 and 160 
ppm group, R on T phenomena in 1 animal from the 640 ppm group). These findings might indicate 
that exposure to NO in this model produced ventricular irritability. 
In  six  non-anaesthetised  Beagle  dogs,  administration  of  NO  at  concentration  up  to  320  ppm  did  not 
affect cardiac conduction, rate or rhythm. It is therefore unlikely that cardiac dysrythmia would result 
from NO administration in the previous study and more probable that the cardiac anomalies were due 
to anaesthesia and/or invasive monitoring. 
No pathologies were found in the heart in either the rat or dogs studies. 
Immune  response  -  The  study  in  mice  at  low  dose  NO  (10  ppm)  for  up  to  30  weeks  suggest  that 
immune  responses  measured  (humoral  response  to  antibodies,  graft  versus  host  reaction)  were 
increased in early NO exposure and depressed later.  
Effects on platelets and metalloproteins - A prolonged bleeding time has been reported in rabbits and 
humans,  the  mechanism  is  unknown.  This  effect  warrants  investigation  of  interactions  with  anti-
coagulant platelet inhibitory compounds. 
Reaction with metalloproteins was evaluated after exposure to 9 ppm NO in mice. NO binds not only 
haemoglobin and others heme proteins, it can also modify metalloproteins as transferrin and catalase, 
the clinical implications of this phenomenon is unknown. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The data was solely from published literature, except for investigations of methaemoglobin (metHb) 
concentration as a function of time. 
Absorption - In rat the percentage of absorption of NO decreased with increasing concentrations, being 
90%, 60% and 20% at 138, 270 and 380 ppm respectively. In man, 80% of NO is absorbed in normal 
breathing and 90% in deep breathing for concentrations up to 5 ppm. 
Biotransformation and excretion - The major metabolic pathway of inhaled NO is that the inhaled gas 
combines  with  haemoglobin,  forming  nitrosyl-haemoglobin  (NOHb)  from  which,  nitrites  (NO2)  and 
nitrates  (NO3)  are  generated.  In  the  presence  of  oxygen,  there  is  a  rapid  oxidation  of  NOHb  into 
metHb  and  the  subsequent  reduction  by  methaemoglobin  reductase  of  metHb  into  ferrous  Hb  and 
nitrate. Nitrites and nitrates are in majority excreted in the urine; a small amount is discharged in the 
oral cavity via the salivary glands. Nitrite is converted to N2 gas in the stomach. Nitrate in the intestine 
is  partly  reduced  to  ammonia  (NH3),  re-absorbed  in  the  body  and  converted  to  urea.  Most  of  the 
metabolites of inhaled NO are excreted from the body within 48 hours.  
Methaemoglobin concentration as a function of time - Pharmacokinetic modelling of methaemoglobin 
concentration-time  was  investigated  in  normal  dogs  inhaling  80,  160,  320,  640  ppm  nitric  oxide. 
Based upon an elimination half-life of 3 hours, the time to reach the steady state of % methaemoglobin 
concentration, in anaesthetised dogs, would be 12-15 hours.  
In normal human volunteers inhaling 32, 64, 128 and 512-ppm nitric oxide, model-predicted steady-
state  %  metHb  concentrations  and  metHb  formation  rates  after  NO  exposures  demonstrated  a  linear 
relationship between these parameters and NO exposures. Based upon elimination half-life of 1 hour 
the time to reach steady state % metHb concentrations would be 4-5 hours. These models are probably 
5/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
not  relevant to clinical application in newborns, which have very different body weight, blood mass 
and reduced level of activity of methaemoglobin reductase. 
Toxicology 
Single  dose  toxicity  -  Studies  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  have  been  reported.  The  data  was  mainly  from 
published literature.  
In  mice,  the  exposure  to  NO  ranged  from  9  ppm  for  16  hours  to  320  ppm  for  8  hours.  The  main 
finding  reported  was  increased  metHb;  NO2  contamination  was  not  accounted  for.  In  dogs 
anaesthetised  with  i.v.  pentobarbitone,  exposure  to  20000  ppm  NO  resulted  in  death  within  50 
minutes;  one  of  two  dogs  exposed  to  5000  ppm  also  died.  Deaths  were  attributed  to  a  reduction  in 
arterial oxygen content due to methaemoglobinaemia, low arterial pressure and acidaemia.  
Mortality  can  be  deduced  only  in  more  recent  studies  where  NO2  levels  were  controlled.  Lethality 
depends both on the concentration of NO and on the duration of administration. Deaths are related to 
tissue  hypoxia linked to elevated  methaemoglobin levels.  In Sprague-Dawley rats, doses  of 400-500 
ppm  caused  death  within  1-3  hours  of  exposure  and  300  ppm  caused  death  in  26  of  30  animals 
exposed for six hours. In the literature, no death has been reported for 1-hour exposure to NO at 25-
260 ppm in rats. 
Repeat dose toxicity - Studies were conducted in the mouse, rat and rabbit. The mouse and rabbit data 
came solely from published literature.  
After repeated exposures to low dose of NO (2 to 10 ppm), structural and ultra-structural changes in 
lung  architecture  were  described  in  mice  (bronchiolar  epithelial  hyperplasia,  hyperaemia,  septal 
enlargement,  congestion  and  increased  relative  lung  weight)  and  rabbits  (fluid  containing  vacuoles 
inside the arteriolar endothelial cells and/or the intercellular junctions, and thickening of the alveolar 
capillary membrane). The changes are typical of the pulmonary responses to NO2, which was a likely, 
but unmeasured, contaminant in the whole-body exposure system used. 
Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed via a nose only exposure unit to 0, 80, 200, 400 and 500 ppm nitric 
oxide with 21% oxygen for 6 hours each day for 1, 3 or 7 consecutive days. NO2 concentrations were 
maintained at low levels of 0.4, 2.2, 4.0, 6.5 and 7.5 ppm, respectively. All animals on 400 and 500 
ppm NO and 24 of 30 animals on 300 ppm died the first day. Two more animals in the 300-ppm group 
died on the second day. No mortality was recorded in the 80 and 200-ppm groups. The cause of death 
was considered to  be  metHb-induced tissue anoxia. Methaemoglobin  values on  day 1 and  7 were in 
the normal range in the 80-ppm group (2.7 and 3.6 % at 1 and 7 days) and exceeded 20 % in a dose 
dependent manner for the other groups. Decreased in platelet counts and elevated blood nitrogen were 
recorded pre-mortem in the highest dose group. 
There was also an increase in the incidence and severity of interstitial oedema in the treated animals 
relative to the controls. 
In the twenty-eight day exposure with recovery of NO study, rats were exposed to concentrations of 0, 
40, 80, 160, 200 and 250 ppm of NO via a nose only inhalation system 6 hours a day for 28 days. NO2 
concentrations  were  0.1,  0.5,  1.5,  2.5  and  3.4  ppm,  respectively.  No  death  was  observed  in  animals 
receiving  up  to  160  ppm  NO.  Methaemoglobin  levels  were  elevated  in  rats  exposed  to  160  ppm  or 
more  of  NO.  Female  rats  exposed  to  NO  showed  a  higher  level  of  methaemoglobin  than  males. 
Explanation  of  the  expert  is  that  females  are  lighter  than  males  and  that  methaemoglobin  level  is 
related to body weight. Gross pathological examination revealed brown coloration of the lung in early 
decedents at 200 and 250 ppm. Histopathological examination of a wide range of organs did not detect 
changes that could be attributed to NO. Abnormal pulmonary findings made after 1 and 7 days dosing 
at 200 ppm could not be confirmed. 
Furthermore,  the  potential  problems  of  additive  toxicity,  which  may  be  associated  with  high 
concentrations  of  oxygen  and  NO2  in  the  range  0.25  to  2.0  ppm,  have  been  investigated.  There 
appears to be no treatment related adverse effects. 
Mutagenicity  -  A  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  mutagenicity  studies  with  NO  and  a  bacterial 
mutagenicity assay with NO2 were conducted. 
6/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
NO doses up to 5000 ppm were evaluated for mutagenicity in S. typhimurium strains and E. coli both 
in  the  presence  or  absence  of  metabolic  activation.  In  some  Salmonella  strains  in  the  presence  of 
metabolic activation, dose related and reproducible mutagenic activity was present at concentrations of 
1580 ppm NO or higher. A mutagenic potential of NO was also demonstrated in the mouse lymphoma 
assay with or without metabolic activation. 
NO  was  clastogenic  in  the  in  vitro  chromosome  aberration  study  performed  in  the  absence  of 
metabolic  activation  with  NO  doses  from  1500-1800  ppm,  which  produced  a  50-61  %  mitotic 
inhibition.  Whereas,  there  was  no  evidence  of  a  clastogenic  affect  in  the  in  vivo  chromosome 
aberration study at 40 ppm NO in 30 % oxygen for two hours (NO2 exposure was up to 1.5 ppm).  
NO2  was  shown  to  be  present  in  all  the  studies  in  which  it  was  monitored.  In  the  limited  data 
submitted, the results were contradictory. NO2 was mutagenic in S. Typhimurium strain TA 1535, but 
was  not  mutagenic  in  strain  TA100.  The  positive  result  occurred  at  ≥  10  ppm,  and  in  all  NO 
mutagenicity studies NO2 levels were ≤8 ppm, suggesting that the genotoxic activity in the test system 
resulted  from  NO  and  NO2  in  concert.  The  proposed  mechanism  of  mutagenicity  was  oxidative 
deamination of deoxynucleotide.  
Reproduction toxicity  - No studies  have been  conducted.  This  is  acceptable in  view  of the  proposed 
clinical indication and proposed patient population. 
Environmental Risk Assessment - Nitric oxide will enter the environment either during therapeutic use 
or  inadvertently  when  changing  gas  cylinders.  Based  on  the  estimated  likely  use,  the  environmental 
risk of medical NO use is probably negligible.  
However,  within  neonatal  units  using  NO,  chronic  low  dose  exposure  of  medical  staff  should  be 
avoided.  Gas  should  be  trapped  at  the  end  of  the  circuit  and  ventilation  system  effective  in  case  of 
accidental emptying of a cylinder. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
A fundamental problem  to all toxicology studies was the rapid conversion of high concentrations of 
NO  to  oxides  of  nitrogen  in  the  presence  of  oxygen.  The  toxicological  literature  did  not  always 
describe the method of gas administration in details and it is probable that the value of many studies 
was compromised by the presence of unknown amounts of oxides of nitrogen. 
However,  the  pharmacological  basis  for  treating  neonates  with  hypoxaemic  respiratory  failure  with 
NO  is  established.  NO  was  shown  to  reverse  pulmonary  vasoconstriction  induced  by  hypoxia, 
vasoconstrictor  drugs,  histamine  or  by  activation  of  the  coagulation  system  or  by  infection,  in  vitro 
and in vivo in both anaesthetised and awake animal models. 
In  a  limited  investigation  in  rats,  concern  was  that  NO  had  adverse  effect  on  CNS,  which  may  be 
beyond its hypoxic effect. It is not known whether the CNS toxicity identified was attributable to NO 
itself or the oxides of nitrogen. Limited reassurance had been provided by only one clinical study with 
patients  been  exposed  for  a  mean  duration  of  21  hours.  The  major  findings  related  to  CVS  were  an 
anticipated increase in metHb and ECG abnormalities. The ECG abnormalities were not observed in 
another study in dogs; these were most probably due to the fact that dogs may be more susceptible to 
cardiac  irritability  than  human.  The  NO  effect  on  the  immune  system  in  the  mouse  consisted  of  an 
initial increase in some parameters followed by a subsequent decrease; this may be secondary to stress 
or  to  the  uncontrolled  NO2  levels.  The  increased  bleeding  times  observed  in  animal  and  human 
warrant caution for the use of NO with anti-coagulant inhibitory compounds. 
In  acute  and  repeat  toxicity  studies,  the  main  findings  were  the  formation  of  metHb.  Deaths  were 
attributed  to  metHb  induced  tissue  anoxia.  The  results  that  NO  might  cause  lung  pathology  were 
however  not  consistent.  The  potential  of  additive  toxicity,  which  may  be  associated  with  high 
concentrations of oxygen and NO2 in the range of 0.25 to 2.0 ppm, have been investigated in the rat 
model, there appears to be no treatment related adverse effects. 
Under the test conditions employed, NO was mutagenic in prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. The 
data on clastogenicity was contradictory, NO was clastogenic in one in vitro study but not in an in vivo 
study. In the very limited data submitted concerning NO2, the mutagenicity results were contradictory. 
INOmax is indicated in newborns ≥ 34 weeks gestation, and the use of a genotoxic agent remains a 
concern and must be considered on a risk/benefit assessment. 
7/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
The main pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic findings are taken from observation from published 
literature.  The  primary  pharmacodynamic  development  programme  is  limited  because  many  of  the 
early studies did not take into account the ready oxidation of NO to NO2 in air or oxygen containing 
mixtures.  Different  delivery  systems,  quality  controls  and  assays  for  inhaled  nitric  oxide  have  been 
used.  There  is  no  uniform  definition  of  the  dose  of  inhaled  nitric  oxide.  For  these  reasons  a  dose 
response has not been established. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  inhaled nitric oxide are well documented in published literature although 
complicated by the wide range of administration devices.  
Nitric oxide is an endogenous mediator produced by many cells of the body. It is the active component 
of  endothelium-derived  relaxing  factor.  Unlike  other  pulmonary  vasodilators,  it  has  little  systemic 
effect because of its short half-life caused by inactivation by binding to haemoglobin, rapid oxidation 
and  the  interaction  with  free  radicals.  The  benefit  of  inhaled  NO  may  depend  upon  its  distribution. 
Exogenously administered NO diffuses into ventilated area of the lungs, crosses the alveolar-capillary 
membrane  and  reaches  the  arteriolar  pulmonary  vasculature  where  vasodilatation  occurs.  In  smooth 
muscle cells, NO activates soluble guanylate cyclase to form cyclic GMP, which in turn promotes a 
calcium  dependent  relaxation.  As  for  endogenous  produced  NO,  the  inhaled  gas  is  readily  cleared 
from  the  circulation  by  binding  to  haemoglobin  and  other  protein  compounds,  preventing  systemic 
vasoactive or other effects. 
NO was shown to reverse pulmonary vasoconstriction induced by hypoxia, acidosis or drugs in vitro 
and in vivo in animal models. Observations from literature suggest that the effects of inhaled NO on 
gas exchange and pulmonary artery pressure are apparent within minutes in the majority of newborns 
with  PPHN  (persistent  pulmonary  hypertension  of  the  newborn).  Oxygenation  improves  as  a 
consequence  of  increased  blood  pulmonary  flow  and  better  ventilation-perfusion  mismatch 
(vasodilatation occurs only in ventilated area of the lung). In adults with severe respiratory failure, the 
maximum pulmonary vasodilator response to NO, measured in terms of oxygen saturation, may occur 
at concentrations as low as 1 ppm when NO is administered by sampling gas from the distal tip of the 
endotracheal tube.  
A study conducted in Europe involved 33 neonates (≤ 7 days old) with PPHN and paediatric patients 
with acute pulmonary hypertension. Dose responses were measured between 0 and 100 ppm of NO for 
10 minutes. Although monitoring and delivery devices were imperfect, there was a rapid improvement 
of oxygenation even at low dose equal or less than 10 ppm. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General:  
Pharmacokinetics are characterised by nitric oxide  being a highly reactive free radical. Observations 
from the literature indicate that in vitro and in vivo nitric oxide oxidises to nitrite and also nitrosylates 
sulphydryl  groups  in  proteins,  such  as  plasma  albumin,  or  even  the  rubber  of  tubing,  bags  and 
connectors of the anaesthetic circuit, as well as nitrosylating lipids and haemoglobin.  
In  solution,  NO  binds  heme-  or  sulphydryl-containing  proteins,  to  form  nitrosyl-compounds  later 
metabolised  into  nitrites  and  nitrates  excreted  via  the  kidneys,  and  also  to  some  degree  through 
salivary  glands  into  the  oral  cavity.  Nitrite  is  converted  to  nitrate  principally  by  a  redox  reaction 
involving the iron of haemoglobin. The amount of free NO depends upon the equilibrium dissociation 
constants of the nitrosylated forms of NO in haemoglobin. 
Degradation of NO  has been studied in healthy subjects inhaling 25 ppm of NO for 60 minutes and 
patients with severe heart failure inhaling 20, 40 and 80 ppm in consecutive 10-minute periods (study 
CTN-NO-93-008).  During  inhalation  of  NO,  the  plasma  levels  of  nitrate  increased  progressively  in 
both  groups.  Methaemoglobin  also  increased.  Plasma  and  urinary  clearance  of  nitrate  in  healthy 
subjects averaged 20 ml/min. The relevance of this study is however limited as nitric oxide was mixed 
in air in concentrations that were not monitored. 
8/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short-term  exposure  of  inhaled  NO  in  healthy  adult  volunteers,  at  a  dose  of  0.6  to  2.3  ppm  for  two 
hours, showed a slight metHb increase from 0.6% to 1.1%. 
Methaemoglobin forms also from nitrogen dioxide and the rate can depend upon the degree of extra-
corporeal oxidation  of nitric oxide to nitrogen dioxide. It seems that nitrite can also be converted to 
methaemoglobin  and  HbNO.  Accumulation  of  methaemoglobin, 
form  of 
nitrosylhaemoglobin  (NOHb)  may  occur.  This  is  potentially  harmful  because  of  the  limited  oxygen 
binding capacity of methaemoglobin.  
the  oxidised 
Some of the cytotoxicity of nitric oxide is thought to be secondary to the formation of peroxynitrite. 
The  tissue  concentrations  of  this  highly  toxic  compound  are  difficult  to  measure.  Interacting  with 
nitric oxide can inactivate some toxic free radicals. 
The extend of exposure of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and central nervous system to nitric oxide and 
its  metabolites  is  not  clear.  The  absence  of  haemoglobin  and  relative  absence  of  proteins  in  CSF 
means that some of the interactions of nitric oxide with blood could reverse to release NO, depending 
upon the dissociation constants of each reaction. 
Overall,  the  degradation  pathways  for  nitric  oxide  are  complex,  as  might  be  expected  for  such  a 
reactive  free  radical.  The  majority  for  endogenously  formed  NO  is  eventually  metabolised  via 
subsequent  conversion  to  nitrate  and  metHb.  The  effects  of  nitrosylation  of  lipids  and  proteins  by 
exogenous or even endogenous nitric oxide are not well understood. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
Effects  on  haemostasis  -  Reports  from  the  literature  suggest  that  inhaled  NO  may  prolong  bleeding 
time, having a yet undetermined effect on platelets in animals and humans. These data could not be 
confirmed in the reported trials on humans. 
A  four  way  crossover  study  was  conducted  to  assess  the  effect  on  coagulation  factors  and  platelet 
function  of  nitric  oxide  80  ppm  given  as  a  30  minutes  inhalation  to  healthy  male  volunteers  with 
aspirin  600  mg  and  heparin  5000  IU  as  positive  control.  No  synergistic  effect  was  reported  on 
bleeding  time  between  heparin  and  NO.  The  effect  on  activated  clotting  time  of  nitric  oxide  was 
similar to the effect of aspirin. 
Effects on surfactant - Reports from the literature suggest that inhaled NO and mainly NO2 in excess 
of 5 ppm may interact adversely with surfactant, lipids and proteins. Therefore, exogenous surfactant 
supplementation may be useful before or during the administration of inhaled NO in hypoxic neonatal 
lung injury. This option has been incompletely studied; exogenous surfactant use has been generally 
encouraged before randomisation in NO trials. 
Interactions  with  phosphodiesterase  inhibitors  -  Reports  from  the  literature  suggest  that  he  cyclic 
GMP-specific  phosphodiesterases  inhibitors  may  have  a  synergistic  effect  with  inhaled  NO  on 
pulmonary arterial pressure that could be useful in clinical practice, but there are few studies in this 
area.  
Clinical efficacy  
Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN) is a disorder of the transition from fœtal to 
extra-uterine  life.  The  clinical  syndrome  is  characterised  by  persistence  of  elevated  pulmonary 
vascular resistance resulting in hypoxemia secondary to right-to-left shunting of deoxygenated blood 
across  the  still  patent  foramen  ovale  and/or  ductus  arteriosus.  In  human  newborns,  PPHN  may  be 
idiopathic or associated with parenchyma lung disease as respiratory distress syndrome of prematurity, 
meconium  aspiration  syndrome,  pneumonia  and  sepsis  or  congenital  diaphragmatic  hernia  and 
pulmonary  hypoplasia.  Although  anatomical  changes  such  as  pulmonary  vascular  smooth  muscle 
hypertrophy may occur and contribute to increased pulmonary resistance, pulmonary vasoconstriction 
and altered vascular reactivity are central to the pathophysiology of this syndrome. Involvement of NO 
in the adaptation to normal-extra uterine life has been proved in animals.  
In  the  most  severe  forms  of  hypoxic  respiratory  failure,  invasive  procedures  of  extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation (ECMO) have proven efficacy in reducing mortality compared to conventional 
therapies.  However,  these  techniques  remain  procedures  of  exception  performed  by  a  trained  multi-
disciplinary  team  of  specialised  physicians,  surgeons,  perfusionists  and  nurses.  They  require 
9/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
catheterisation, and often ligation of the cervical great  vessels (jugular vein  and carotid artery)  need 
continuous blood anticoagulation and massive use of blood products. Potential drawbacks are related 
to the increased risk of brain haemorrhage and infarction. Prognosis into adult life is unknown.  
The major and widely accepted ECMO criteria in newborn with severe hypoxemic respiratory failure 
consist  in  an  oxygenation  index  (OI)  of  higher  than  40  (the  oxygenation  index  is  calculated  as  the 
mean  airway  pressure  times  the  fraction  of  inspired  oxygen  times  100  times  divided  by  the  partial 
arterial oxygen pressure). In this condition, mortality reached up to 80% in historical conventionally 
treated  controls.  In  the  recent  UK  ECMO  trial,  mortality  decreased  from  59%  in  ECMO-treated  to 
32%  in  control  babies  with  no  concomitant  increased  morbidity  in  survivors.  Prognosis  was 
independent of initial severity of disease. 
The purpose of the studies presented was to evaluate the effectiveness of inhaled NO in a population 
of newborns of 34 weeks gestation age or more, with a grade of severity transiently reaching the main 
ECMO-criteria  (oxygenation  index  >40)  or  a  lesser  severe  stage  of  the  disease  (oxygenation  index 
≥25), suffering severe hypoxemic respiratory failure with or without PPHN, in reducing the need of 
ECMO without altering mortality and morbidity prognoses. 
Four  main  efficacy  clinical  trials  are  presented.  Three  recruited  patients  with  persistent  pulmonary 
hypertension  of  the  newborn  (PPHN)  and  one  neonate  with  hypoxaemic  respiratory  failure.  The 
clinical  trials  were  performed  according  to  GCP  standards,  except  for  INOSG  trial.  The  design, 
number of patients and status of these patients are given below in Table 1: 
Table  1  -  Phase  III  clinical  multicentre  randomised  trials  in  hypoxaemic  respiratory  failure  of  the 
newborn. 
Study 
Indication(s) 
Design and treatment duration 
INO-01/ 
PPHN - 
INO-02 
enrolled 
Patients 
within 72h of birth. 
Prospective, 
blinded, 
response. 
randomised, 
placebo-controlled, 
double-
dose-
Patients number  Centres  
number 
25 US centres 
155 
NO 5, 20, 80 ppm inhalation. 
Until threshold criteria or 14 days. 
NINOS 
Hypoxemic 
respiratory 
Prospective, 
placebo-controlled. 
randomised, 
blinded, 
235 
Failure -  
NO 20-80 ppm inhalation. 
and 
19  US 
Canadian 
centres 
12-336 hours. 
Neonates  ≤14  days 
(gestational 
age 
≥34  weeks)  and 
oxygenation 
index 
≥25. 
CINRGI 
PPHN -  
Prospective, randomised, 
186 
18 US centres 
neonates 
Term 
age 
(gestational 
≥34 
weeks), 
enrolled  within  96 
hours of birth. 
double-blinded, 
placebo-controlled, dose response. 
NO 20-5 ppm inhalation. 
4-96 hours. 
INOSG 
PPHN 
Randomised, double-blinded, 
58 
7 US centres 
placebo-controlled. 
NO 80 ppm inhalation 
for 20 minutes. 
Total 
634 
10/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Only two studies, NINOS and CINRGI, are to be considered as pivotal studies for the evaluation of 
inhaled  NO  in  neonatal  hypoxemic  respiratory  failure  (see  Tab.  2).  Efficacy  outcomes  can  only  be 
deduced  from  those  two  pivotal  studies,  which  will  be  largely  described,  as  the  other  two  studies 
presented deficiencies in GCP compliance (INOSG study) or in methodology (INO-01/INO-02 study). 
In addition, studies resulting from compassionate use experience were also reported (Studies NO-93-
009, NO-93-011 (AGA), NO-93-010). 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Dose response study 
A dose finding study (NO-93-003) was conducted with inhaled nitric oxide in neonatal patients with 
PPHN and paediatric patients with acute pulmonary hypertension, a conclusion could not be drawn as 
monitoring  and  delivery  devices  were  imperfect.  From  recently  published  clinical  trials,  lower 
concentrations of NO, 5 and 10 ppm, were reported. It seems that a lower dose of 10 ppm has similar 
efficacy to the 20 ppm.  
No formal dose response study was performed. The choice of dose of NO is not well defined. 
Main studies (CINRGI and NINOS) 
1. 
Description of the study 
Both  pivotal  studies  are  placebo-controlled,  double  blind,  multicentre  prospective  randomised  with 
defined  endpoints,  involving  a  large  number  of  patients.  The  endpoints,  patients  and  treatment 
characteristics concerning NINOS and CINRGI studies are given below in Table 2. 
Table 2: NINOS and CINRGI studies. 
Study 
Patients 
population 
NINOS 
Infants with hypoxic respiratory failure ≤14 
days,  gestational  age  ≥34  weeks  and 
oxygenation index ≥25 mmHg. 
Diagnosis by echocardiograph evaluation. 
Exclusion criteria  Cardiopathy. Significant structural congenital 
heart disease or diaphragmatic hernia. 
Patients number 
Primary  efficacy 
endpoint(s) 
Secondary 
efficacy 
endpoint(s) 
235 
(NO=114; placebo (O2)=121)* 
The  combined  outcome  of  death  and/or 
ECMO rescue before discharge home or 120 
days, whichever came first. 
The  separated  death  rate  and  ECMO  rescue 
rate. 
Assessment  of  short-term  in  oxygenation, 
incidence  of  infants  meeting  ECMO  criteria, 
duration  of  assisted  ventilation,  incidence  of 
air  leak,  incidence  of  chronic  lung  disease, 
length  of  hospital  stays,  neuro-development 
outcome at 18-24 months. 
Statistical method  The  primary  endpoint  was  analysed  by 
intention-to-treat paradigm. 
Treatment 
protocol 
The  initial  dose  of  NO  was  20  ppm  or  an 
equivalent flux  of  oxygen  (low  flow  of  gas), 
increasing  to  80  ppm  after  30  minutes  if  the 
increase  in  PaO2  was  <20  mmHg.  Weaning 
was  attempted  every 12  hours  (2  hours if  on 
high flow gas). 
CINRGI 
PPHN  neonates  with  gestational  age  ≥ 34 
weeks, age ≤96 hours and oxygenation index 
>25 mmHg. 
Diagnosis by echocardiograph evaluation. 
Cardiopathy.  Pulmonary  hypoplasia  and 
congenital diaphragmatic hernia group, who 
undergo ECMO.  
186 
(NO=97 ; placebo (N2)=89)  
Number of patients receiving ECMO rescue.
improvement 
in  oxygenation 
The 
(as 
measured  by  the  arterial-alveolar  oxygen 
ratio  and  gradient, 
the  arterial  partial 
pressure  of  oxygen  and  the  oxygenation 
index),  the  safety  profiles  (as  hypotension, 
methaemoglobinaemia, 
elevated 
and 
exchange), 
gas 
deterioration  of 
morbidities  and  mortalities  (as  chronic  lung 
disease, neurological abnormalities, survival 
to hospital discharge). 
The  primary  endpoint  was  analysed  by 
intention-to-treat  stratified  by  underlying 
disease  using  Cochran-Mantel  Haenszel 
method. 
Continuous  administration  of  study  gas 
starting  at  20  ppm  for  4  hours,  then  was 
stepwise withdrawn.  
The  dose  was  decreased  to  5  ppm  if  the 
neonates’s  condition  was  stable,  the  PaO2 
≥60  mmHg  and  the  pH  7.55  or  lower.  If 
11/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum time on ≥5 ppm NO was 10 days, 
maximum time of total treatment 14 days. 
Other monitoring  Blood  methaemoglobin  concentrations  at  1, 
3, 6, 12, and every 24 hours. 
NO,  NO2  and  total  oxides  of  nitrogen  were 
recorded  every  two  hours  in  the  inspiratory 
limb of the ventilator. 
not  met, 
criteria  were 
these 
the 
administration  of  study  gas  was  maintained 
and  the  neonate  re-evaluated  every  4  hours, 
up to 24 hours. After 24 hours, the dose was 
in  all  cases  decreased  to  5  ppm.  Treatment 
was continued at 5 ppm until the FiO2 ≤0.7. 
Placebo  was  weaned  in  the  same  manner. 
Those who did not tolerate the decrease to 5 
ppm  at  24  or  96  hours,  treatment  was 
considered as failure and discontinued. 
Blood  methaemoglobin  concentrations  at 
baseline, 4, 24, 96 hours. 
Continuous monitoring of FiO2, NO, NO2 at 
the tip of the endotracheal tube. 
* 230 effectively received study gas, 4 patients who were randomised to placebo and 1 to NO did not receive it. 
Blinding is difficult to maintain in such trials. It was assured using two independent teams. A blinded 
clinical team to take care of the patient and an unblinded respiratory therapist to administer and adjust 
treatment gas. The dedicated unblinded investigator at each site was responsible for the NO cylinders, 
maintained the bedside stock, calibrated the delivery and monitoring devices, and monitoring of NO, 
NO2  and  methaemoglobin  concentrations.  The  colour  coded  NO  tank  was  covered  to  inhibit  its 
identity.  
Study  populations  -  The  treatment  group  were  well  matched  for  demographic  and  baseline 
characteristics. A complete echocardiograph evaluation was required in each patient to assess PPHN 
diagnose  and  to  rule  out  cardiopathy,  but  diagnosis  of  persistent  pulmonary  hypertension  was  not 
required  if  pulmonary  parenchymea  disease  was  present.  The  average  patient  was  full  term, 
appropriate for gestation age. 
In NINOS study, the mean age was 1.7 days at randomisation. Baseline oxygenation index (OI) and 
partial arterial oxygen pressure suggested severe disease: baseline OI was 46 in controls and 47 in NO 
group; baseline PaO2 was 45 mmHg in controls and 46 mmHg in NO group. Echograph evidence of 
PPHN was found in 78% of the patients. Most of the patients (97 %) needed pressure support. Before 
randomisation, 72% of controls and 71% of the NO group were given surfactant. The type of therapies 
was  well  distributed  between  groups  except  for  the  use  of  vasopressors  and  alkalosis  that  were  less 
used in the inhaled NO group. 
In CINRGI study, patients enrolled  were assigned to one of five diagnostic categories of pulmonary 
disease (meconium aspiration syndrome, pneumonia, respiratory distress syndrome, idiopathic PPHN, 
pulmonary hypoplasia syndromes) and then randomly assigned to treatment. The patients, a majority 
of  males,  were  treated  at  a  mean  post-natal  age  of  30  hours.  The  control  group  had  a  higher  mean 
arterial  pressure  (56  versus  52  mmHg;  both  values  are  in  the  normal  range),  but  a  lower  PaO2  (55 
versus  78,  p-value  0.007)  and  a  higher  oxygenation  index  (44  versus  35,  p-value  0.011).  The  mean 
level  of  pressure  support  was  high  and  identical  between  the  two  groups  (more  then  90%  of  the 
patients were on vasopressors on baseline). At entry, 47% of the placebo group and 35% of the NO 
patients  had  received  exogenous  surfactant;  60%  and  49%  were  on  high  frequency  ventilation, 
respectively in the placebo and NO treated group. 
Treatment protocol - The treatment dose was mostly 20 ppm. Both studies used NO at an initial concentration of 
20 ppm. In NINOS trial, it could be increased to 80 ppm and in the CINRGI trial, it was decreased stepwise. The 
placebo consisted of N2 or O2 gas.  
Variations  in  treatment  protocol  are  responsible  for  different  duration  of  treatments  and  therefore 
different  duration  of  NO  exposure.  It  was  rarely  longer  than  seven  days  and  restricted  to  four  days 
maximum in CINRGI study. Also weaning procedures differed in both studies. The mean time on NO 
for  CINRGI  patients  was  40  hours  (median  28  hours)  and  71  hours  (median  40  hours)  for  NINOS 
patients, with large individual variations between patients.  
Protocol  deviation  was  observed  in  CINRGI  study,  where  15  patients  with  entry  violation  were 
included in the study.  Two patients  in  the  placebo  group  received NO, one  of  two  in the congenital 
diaphragmatic hernia group. Removal of these patients did not modify the efficacy outcome analysis. 
12/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ECMO  criteria  -  Neonates  with  treatment  failure  were  only  treated  with  ECMO  if  usual  criteria  of 
severity were met (oxygenation index>40 on 3 of 5 blood gases drawn 30 minutes apart, or PaO2<40 
mm Hg for 2 hours, or PaO2<35 mm Hg for 1 hour, or progressive haemodynamic deterioration with 
systemic blood pressure less then 35 mm Hg). 
2. 
Efficacy results 
Clinical  Inhaled  Nitric  Oxide  Research  Group  Study  (CINRGI)  -  Comparison  of  conventional 
therapy and nitric oxide in the management of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn: The 
main findings are given in Table 3 below. 
Table 3 – CINRGI Study 
Placebo 
Inhaled NO 
Received ECMO 
(% of treatment group) 
Death at 28 days  
(% of treatment group) 
Chronic  lung  disease/  patients  with 
information (%) 
Discharged on O2 or  
pulmonary medication (%) 
Duration  of  hospital  stay  days 
(number of patients) 
At  least  one  abnormal  neurologic 
result/total with results (%) 
51/89 
(57%) 
5/89 
(6%) 
11/82 
(13%) 
10/89 
(11%) 
25 
(79) 
19/89 
(21%) 
30/97 
(31%) 
3/97 
(3%) 
3/92 
(3%) 
6/97 
(6%) 
23 
(90) 
17/97 
(18%) 
* Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel chi squared test adjusting for underlying disease 
** Fischer’s exact p-value 
*** Student’s t test 
p-value 
<0.001* 
0.481** 
0.023** 
0.296** 
0.198*** 
0.579** 
Primary outcome: It was evaluated on 186 non-lung hypoplasia patients, in an intent-to-treat analysis. 
There  was  a  significant  reduction  in  the  rate  of  ECMO  in  the  NO  group  when  the  186  non-lung 
hypoplasia patients were analysed. The reduction with NO remained highly significant after exclusion 
of  the  protocol  violators.  NO  reduced  ECMO  in  each  stratum  of  underlying  disease  except  the 
pulmonary hypoplasia syndromes. The difference among strata was not statistically significant. 
Secondary outcome:  
Oxygenation - Both the partial pressure of oxygenation (PaO2), the others parameters of oxygenation 
arterial-  alveolar  oxygen  ratio  (PaO2  /PAO2)  and  alveolar-oxygen  gradient  (A-a  DO2)  and  the 
ventilator index were improved significantly in the NO group in comparison with the controls within 
24 hours of treatment gas (ANOVA repeated measures at 30 minutes, 1, 4, 12, 24 hours with a p-value 
≤ 0.001). 
Mortality and morbidity - There was no difference in mortality between groups either at 28 days or at 
6 months follow-up. Fewer infants in the inhaled NO group were discharged with diagnosis of chronic 
lung  disease  defined  as  oxygen  support  at  28  days  (p-value  0.023),  but  the  number  of  patients 
discharged on oxygen or pulmonary medication did not differ significantly between groups. Duration 
of  hospital  stay  and  neurological  abnormalities  (abnormal  head  ultrasound,  abnormal  computerised 
axial tomogram, or neurological examination) at discharge were also very similar. There was at least 
one abnormal neurological assessment in the controls and in the NO group. 
13/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short-term  complications  -  There  was  no  difference  between  groups  toward  a  very  large  number  of 
potential adverse events and biological haematological and chemical variables. Inhaled NO was well 
significant 
systemic  hypotension, 
tolerated  with  no  evidence  of 
methaemoglobinaemia (2 in 108 infants had more than 4%  methaemoglobin, i.e. 1.9%) nor elevated 
NO2.  Analysis  of  these  values  using  a  repeated  ANOVA  yielded  a  p  =  0.001  for  methaemoglobin 
levels and a p = 0.83 for NO2 levels, suggesting that the delivered dose of inhaled NO used in this trial 
does not appreciably increase the infant’s exposure to NO2. No patients had NO2 concentrations above 
5 ppm. 
the  development  of 
Response  to  treatment  and  duration  on  gas  -  Treatment  success  occurred  in  32/89  (36%)  of  the 
placebo treated patients and in 60/97 (62%) of the inhaled NO patients (p-value 0.0001). Mean time 
on inhaled study gas was 27 hours for placebo and 40 hours for NO. 
Outcome  in  the  lung  hypoplasia  patients:  The  most  common  diagnosis  of  these  patients  was 
congenital  diaphragmatic  hernia.  In  these  patients,  both  mortality  (35-40%)  and  need  for  ECMO  
(80-85%) is higher than for the others, independently from NO treatment. 
Neonatal Inhaled Nitric Oxide Study (NINOS) - Inhaled nitric oxide in full-term and nearly full term 
infants with hypoxic respiratory failure: The main findings are given in Table 4 below. 
Table 4 - NINOS Study 
Placebo 
Inhaled NO 
Incidence of death and/or ECMO 
77/121 
(64%) 
20/121 
(17%) 
66/121 
(55%) 
52/114 
(46%) 
16/114 
(14%) 
44/114 
(39%) 
p-value: 
P=0.006 
P=0.6 
P=0.0014 
10 ± 52 mm Hg 
58 ± 85 mm Hg 
P<0.001 
(% of treatment group) 
Death 
(% of treatment group) 
ECMO 
PaO2  
[mean±SD] 
Oxygenation index 
1 ± 21 
-14 ± 21 
P<0.001 
[mean±SD] 
A-aDO2 
[mean±SD] 
-7 ± 58 mmHg 
-60 ± 85 mmHg 
P<0.001 
Primary  outcomes: The  incidence  of  death  and/or ECMO  decreased significantly (p-value 0.006,  CI 
not  given)  from  64%  in  the  placebo  group  to  46%  in  the  inhaled  NO  group  (relative  reduction  of 
28%). This reduction was mainly the result of a significant reduction of ECMO use in the NO group, 
and not a consequence of reduced mortality. The number of patients who met ECMO criteria in each 
group was however not different (59% of the NO patients and 69% of controls). 
Secondary outcomes: There were statistically significant haemodynamic changes. Inhaled NO lead to 
a  significant  short-term  improvement  in  oxygenation.  After  30  minutes  of  gas,  PaO2  increased  an 
average 58 ± 85 mm Hg in the NO group and 10 ± 52 mm Hg in the control group (p-value less than 
0.001). In the same period of time, the oxygenation index decreased of -14 ± 21 in the NO group while 
it increased of 1 ± 21 in the controls. The alveolar-arterial gradient decreased in both groups. 
There  was  no  statistical  difference  in  the  others  secondary  outcomes  as  the  duration  of  mechanical 
ventilation, the incidence of air leak or chronic lung disease, and the length of hospital stay. 
As  expected,  the  mean  peak  levels  of  methaemoglobin  and  NO2  were  significantly  higher  in  the 
inhaled  NO  group  compared  to  the  controls  (p-value<0.001)  and  were  related  to  the  administrated 
14/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose of NO; 23 % of the NO treated patients showed a peak level of NO2 higher than 1 ppm at any 
time, 2 % had a toxic level higher than 5 ppm. 
Other  results:  An  increase  in  PaO2  of  at  least  20  mm  Hg  (full  response)  was  seen  in  15  %  of  the 
placebo patients and 51 % of the NO patients (p-value less than 0.001). The majority of patients who 
did not show a full response at 20 ppm study gas and who were evaluated at the 80 ppm dose had no 
response at the high gas flow whether they received placebo or inhaled NO (75 % in both groups). The 
mean  duration of  administration  of  NO was  71  ± 79  hours (from  less than one day to  maximum  14 
days). Examination of subgroups (data presented as supplementary post hoc analysis only) of patients 
stratified by underlying disease, surfactant use, high frequency ventilation use, baseline oxygenation 
index, initial response to treatment gas, were unable to show significant differences in the relative risk 
of death and/or ECMO, when the inhaled NO group was compared to the placebo group.   
Neurodevelopment outcome: Follow-up at 18 ± 6 months was available for 173 (88 control and 85 NO 
infants) of 199 survivors or 87% of them (1 late death was recorded in the NO group, 13 controls and 
12 inhaled NO patients were lost to follow-up). There were no significant difference between the two 
groups in reported medical problems and 78% of both groups were classified as neurologically normal 
and  11%  of  both  groups  had  cerebral  palsy.  The  incidence  of  reported  seizures  was  14.9%  for  the 
control group and 4.7% for the NO group (p<0.039). There were no statistically significant differences 
between the groups in mental and motor development, hearing and visual assessments. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No  clinical  studies  have  been  performed  in  special  populations,  e.g.  in  congenital  diaphragmatic 
hernia. 
Other studies 
The  INO-01/INO-02  study  failed  to  reach  his  objective  that  was  to  demonstrate  a  reduction  of 
mortality and morbidity with inhaled nitric oxide at a dose 5-80 in PPHN of the term newborn. The 
trial  was  underpowered,  interrupted  prematurely  because  of  low  enrolment  rate  as  the  use  of  high 
frequency ventilation and surfactant was excluded by the protocol. 
The  death  rate  and  the  incidence  of  neurological  sequelae  were  not  different  between  the  NO  and 
placebo group. ECMO rescue was used in 29% of the NO group and 39% of the placebo group. There 
were  no  statistically  significant  changes  in  secondary  endpoints.  High  levels  of  methaemoglobin 
(>5%) and NO2 (>2%) were only seen in the 80 ppm NO sub-group.   
The INOSG study planned to evaluate the effect of 20 minutes inhaled high dose (80 ppm) of NO in 
PPHN of term newborns. Issues related to GCP make efficacy conclusion unreliable. 
Compassionate use experience (Studies  NO-93-009, NO-93-010  and  NO-93-011 (AGA)) - These 
studies were performed on clinician’s initiative, are retrospective studies conducted at an earlier stage 
of  the  therapy  in  Europe,  Australia  and  the  USA.  Although  they  suggest  that  inhaled  NO  may  be 
effective on improving oxygenation, no deduction in term of efficacy can be driven. Adverse events 
were limited to some cases of reversible elevated levels of methaemoglobinaemia. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  inhaled  NO  are  well  documented  in  published  literature,  although 
complicated by the wide range of administration devices. Pharmacokinetics are characterised by NO 
being  a  highly  reactive  free  radical.  It  oxidises  readily  and  also  nitrosylates  sulphydryl  groups  in 
proteins  or  even  the  rubber  of  tubing,  bags  and  connectors  of  the  anaesthetic  circuit,  as  well  as 
nitrosylating  lipids  and  haemoglobin.  Some  of  the  cytotoxicity  is  thought  to  be  secondary  to 
peroxynitrite.  Some  NO  may  dissociate  from  nitrosylated  compounds  and  effect  the  central  nervous 
system as cerebrospinal fluid has no haemoglobin and few proteins to bind NO. 
Efficacy outcomes can be deduced from two pivotal studies. The NINOS study involves neonates with 
hypoxaemic  respiratory  failure.  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  combined  death  rate  and/or 
ECMO rescue rate, which was 64% for placebo and 46% for NO group. The ECMO rescue rate alone 
was 55% for placebo and 39% for NO. Neurological complications were similar, although the seizure 
rate was lower with NO. In the second study, CINRGI study, there were 186 neonates with persistent 
pulmonary  hypertension.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  ECMO  rescue,  which  was  57%  for 
15/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo and 31% for NO. Both studies showed an important reduction in ECMO, but it has not been 
shown  that  NO  decreases  mortality.  Secondary  variables  show  an  early  increase  in  oxygenation, 
which, in the absence of methaemoglobinaemia, increases tissue oxygen delivery. 
The  reduction  in  mortality,  as  reported  in  the  recent  UK  ECMO  trial,  is  in  contrast  to  NO  therapy, 
where no statistical significant benefit on survival has been shown. On the other hand, nitric oxide use 
might  decrease  ECMO-related  complications/sequelae:  ECMO  arterial  access  is  usually  by 
cannulation  of  the  right  common  carotid  artery  which  is  ligated  at  decannulation;  this  has  been 
associated  with  right  cerebral  hemispheric  ischaemic  or  haemorrhagic  abnormalities  and  adverse 
neuro-developmental outcome. Moreover, in the trial populations inhaled NO did not appear to delay 
the appropriate dispatch of traditional oxygenation therapies (Applicant responses to the CPMP list of 
Questions). 
The choice of NO dose is not well defined. Both pivotal studies used NO at an initial concentration of 
20 ppm. In the first study it could be increased to 80 ppm, but this provided no extra benefit. In the 
second  study  the  concentration  was  decreased  stepwise.  Duration  was  rarely  longer  than  seven  days 
and restricted to four days maximum in the second trial. The optimal concentration of inhaled NO is 
not known. Recent publications suggested that a lower maximum dose of 10 ppm might have similar 
efficacy to the 20 ppm dose. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
In the NINOS study the mean duration of exposure to the study gas in the placebo group was 21 hours 
(n=117), and the mean duration of exposure to NO was 71 hours (n=113). The initial dose of NO was 
20 ppm, but this was increased in some patients to 80 ppm. Only one patient received NO >5 ppm for 
more than 10 days. This infant showed some response to 20 ppm at randomisation but no response to a 
higher dose. For this reason the use of the high dose, with subsequent difficulty in weaning, does not 
appear justified. 
In  the  CINRGI  study,  the  mean  duration  of  exposure  to  the  study  gas  in  the  placebo  group  was  27 
hours (n=87), and the mean duration of exposure to NO was 40 hours (n=93). The total time the infant 
could receive any dose of inhaled NO was 96 hours. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths 
In  the  NlNOS  trial  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  of  the  NO  group  (n=114):control  group  (n=121) 
were: deaths 16:21; intracranial haemorrhage 18:19; periventricular leukomalacia 6:3; brain infarction 
7:7;  seizures  requiring  anti-convulsants  16:24;  pulmonary  haemorrhage  4:6;  gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage 1:1. 
In the CINRGI trial the incidence of adverse events for non-lung hypoplasia of the NO group (n=93): 
control  group  (n=87)  were:  deaths  3:5;  cardiovascular  adverse  events  31:31,  nervous  system  20:27; 
respiratory system 32:34; suspected sepsis 59:54, positive blood cultures 10:9. 
Adverse events that occurred in at least 5% of patients receiving INOmax in the CINRGI study, and 
that were more common on INOmax than on placebo. These events may or may not be associated with 
the use of INOmax. 
Adverse Event 
Placebo (n=89) 
INOmax (n=97) 
Hypotension 
Bacteraemia and/or Local Infection 
Rebound Hypoxemia on Withdrawal 
Atelectasis 
Haematuria 
Hyperglycaemia 
Stridor 
Cellulitis 
9 (10%)
5 (6%) 
9 (10%) 
8 (9%) 
5 (6%) 
6 (7%) 
3 (3%) 
0 (0%) 
13 (13%) 
13 (13%) 
12 (12%) 
9 (9%) 
8 (8%) 
8 (8%) 
5 (5%) 
5 (5%) 
16/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The severity of illness of the neonates in the main efficacy studies complicates safety assessment but it 
is  reassuring  that  NO  was  not  associated  with  an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  death,  intracranial 
haemorrhage or pulmonary haemorrhage. 
Withdrawal reactions 
The  use of  inhaled NO is  now well documented  to  cause  a withdrawal  reaction whereby  the  patient 
develops  increased  hypoxemia  and  pulmonary  hypertension  if  therapy  is  stopped  abruptly.  Severe 
reactions of life threatening pulmonary vasoconstriction have been described with sudden withdrawal 
of inhaled  NO. There were three  dangerous  withdrawal reactions in earlier trials by the applicant  in 
adult respiratory distress syndrome. Withdrawal can also occur in neonates who are classified as non-
responders. 
Safety in relation to toxicity of nitric oxide 
Nitric oxide is toxic for several reasons. It is highly reactive free radical, it forms the toxic oxidation 
product  peroxynitrite  in  tissues,  it  readily  oxidises  to  nitrogen  dioxide,  and  it  can  form 
methaemoglobin.  The  National  Institute  of  Occupational  Safety  and  Health  (USA)  recommends  a 
time-waited  average  exposure  of  5  ppm  of  nitrogen  dioxide  and  25  ppm  for  nitric  oxide.  Toxic 
pulmonary effects of nitrogen dioxide have been observed at 5 ppm or below and concentrations of 0.5 
ppm may increase human airway hyper-reactivity. The concentration of nitrogen dioxide administered 
is  influenced  by  the  duration  of  contact  of  nitric  oxide  with  oxygen,  and  the  concentration  of  the 
oxygen, before the gas mixture reaches the patient’s tissues. 
Dose-dependent Toxicity - The toxicity of nitric oxide depends on the inhaled concentration of nitric 
oxide itself and its oxidation products. The inhaled dose is critical, yet early studies did not use strict 
criteria  to  define  the  dose  administered  to  the  airway.  No  simple  pharmacodynamic  studies  were 
conducted measuring the concentration of NO delivered to the airway and the effect of differences in 
administration devices, ventilators, ventilator settings, inspired oxygen concentration and interactions 
with  the  materials  to  which  the  gas  is  exposed  before  reaching  the  patient’s  airway.  The  gas 
concentration  should  be  measured  in  a  specific  point  in  the  circuit  where  gas  is  analysed  for  nitric 
oxide and nitrogen dioxide concentrations, this is reflected in the SPC. The inspired gas at the tip of 
the endotracheal tube might be appropriate. 
Mutagenicity - In AGA study NO-93-006 12 healthy volunteers inhaled 40 ppm in 30% oxygen for 2 
hours and there were no chromosome abnormalities detected in peripheral blood lymphocytes. 
Laboratory and other findings 
Methaemoglobinaemia - In the NINOS study the initial concentration of NO was 20 ppm and could be 
increased to 80 ppm. The peak methaemoglobin concentration at any time was 2.4% (SD 1.8%) in the 
NO group. 
In the CINRGI study a predefined limit of methaemoglobin of 4% was set. This level was reached by 
only  two  patients  in  the  20-ppm  NO  group  and  none  of  the  controls.  The  peak  in  mean 
methaemoglobin concentrations occurred at 4 hours and was 1.3% (SD 0.8) in the NO group and 0.8 
(SD 0.6) in the control group. 
The  formation  of  methaemoglobin  in  plasma  depends  upon  the  concentration  of  inhaled  NO.  Many 
early studies used NO concentrations, which were not well defined, the delay between gas mixing and 
administration to the subject allowing oxidation of the NO in air to NO2. From the two key trials and 
other  more  recent  data,  the  incidence  of  methaemoglobin  from  NO  concentrations  of  20  ppm,  or 
below, appears small. Methaemoglobin is of particular importance in the indication requested as the 
aim is to reverse tissue hypoxia and methaemoglobin has the potential to decrease oxygen delivery to 
tissues.  Neonates  may  have  reduced  methaemoglobin  reductase  activity  and  are  therefore  at  greater 
risk  of  developing  methaemoglobinaemia.  Concentrations  over  5%  of  methaemoglobin  are  unusual 
with inhaled NO concentrations of 20 ppm or below, but can occur. For these reasons the monitoring 
of methaemoglobin as recommended in the SPC is advisable. 
Nitrogen dioxide - NO2 forms readily when NO is exposed to air or oxygen containing gases. Studies 
from  published  data  have  shown  that  NO2  can  promote  airway  inflammation  and  have  an  adverse 
effect on surfactant. Concentrations below 0.5 ppm have been reported to be associated with increased 
airway hyper-reactivity, the effect on the susceptibility to infection is not known. 
17/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In the NINOS study the peak mean NO2 concentration at any time was 0.8 ppm (SD 1.2) in the NO 
group.  In  the  CINRGI  study  the  peak  in  mean  NO2  concentrations  occurred  at  1  hour  and  was  0.19 
ppm (SD 0.43) in the NO group and 0.01 ppm (SD 0.3) in the control group. 
Advice on the monitoring formation of nitrogen dioxide is given in the SPC. 
Peroxynitrite and other oxides of nitrogen - These compounds can be formed as degradation products 
of NO. Peroxynitrite is of particular concern and it is a free radical that is also generated during the 
inflammatory  process.  There  is  insufficient  information  to  determine  if  peroxynitrite  contributes  to 
inhaled NO toxicity. 
Interactions with Haemostasis - In the main efficacy trials presented above, there was no significant 
increase in intracranial or pulmonary haemorrhage. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Toxicity  of  nitric  oxide  on  clinical  grounds  appears  essentially  related  to  the  formation  of 
methaemoglobin and NO2. Both are dose related. At concentrations of NO above 20 ppm the possible 
exposure to significant concentrations of NO2 and methaemoglobin becomes a significant risk.  
In  the  NlNOS  trial  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  of  the  NO  group  (n=114):control  group  (n=121) 
were: deaths 16:21; intracranial haemorrhage 18:19; periventricular leukomalacia 6:3; brain infarction 
7:7;  seizures  requiring  anti-convulsants  16:24;  pulmonary  haemorrhage  4:6;  gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage 1:1. In the CINRGI trial the incidence of adverse events for non-lung hypoplasia of the 
NO  group  (n=93):  control  group  (n=87)  were:  deaths  3:5;  cardiovascular  adverse  events  31:31, 
nervous system 20:27; respiratory system 32:34; suspected sepsis 59:54, positive blood cultures 10:9. 
Although the severity of illness of the neonates in the main efficacy studies makes safety assessment 
complex,  it  is  reassuring  that  NO  was  not  associated  with  an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  death, 
intracranial  haemorrhage  or  pulmonary  haemorrhage.  However,  hazards  as  potential  central  nervous 
system toxicity, pulmonary toxicity, late malignancies may not be ruled out. The administration of NO 
should therefore be limited to short period of time, as advised in the SPC. 
In addition, NO and NO2 do have detrimental effects on surfactant. The upper limit in the posology 
section  of  the  SPC  should  be  limited  to  20  ppm  NO.  The  upper  limits  of  exposure  to  NO2  and 
methaemoglobin  appear  to  be  too  high.  The  data  appear  to  justify  lower  limits  of  2.5%  for 
methaemoglobin and 0.5 ppm for NO2, which are reflected in the SPC. 
The higher concentrations also appear to increase the difficulty of weaning, even in non-responders. 
The  complexity  of  the  equipment  is  of  concern.  NO  must  correctly  mix  with  other  gases  in  the 
ventilator  circuit  (CE  approved  device).  The  concentrations  of  NO,  NO,  O2  must  be  recorded 
continuously  near  the  tip  of  the  endotracheal  tube  with  an  appropriate  CE  approved  device  and  the 
blood levels of methaemoglobin regularly checked (within 4 hours of treatment and every 12-24 hours 
thereafter) as advised in the SPC 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
The CPMP has raised a series of questions, which will be addressed post-approval. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic data provided adequate evidence that the effect of nitric oxide 
relevant to its intended use in hypoxic respiratory failure is centred upon NO's properties of causing 
vasodilatation of hypertensive pulmonary vasculature. 
Pharmacological  effects  not  related  to  mode  of  action  that  may  be  of  concern  were  over  central 
nervous system toxicity (one study that need confirmation or invalidation) and possible anticoagulant 
18/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effects. It is not known whether the CNS toxicity identified was attributable to NO itself or the oxides 
of  nitrogen.  Limited  reassurance  had  been  provided  by  only  one  clinical  study  with  patients  been 
exposed for a mean duration of 21 hours. The possible anticoagulant effects could not be confirmed in 
clinical  study  (ICR  study  no  013402).  The  NO  effect  on  the  immune  system  may  be  related  to 
uncontrolled NO2 levels. 
From  the  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view,  the  percentage  NO  absorption  decreased  with  increasing 
concentration  in  the  rat.  The  major  metabolic  pathway  of  NO  is  combination  with  haemoglobin  to 
form NOHb with subsequent formation of nitrites and nitrates and elimination. NOHb is also rapidly 
oxidised to form metHb, which is subsequently reduced to ferrous Hb. 
The toxicology programme revealed elevated levels of metHb that induce tissue hypoxia responsible 
for  the  reported  deaths  which  dominant  acute  and  chronic  toxicity.  Oxidative  damage  by  secondary 
generated  oxides  of  nitrogen  remains  a  poorly  controlled  variable  of  nitric  oxide  inhalation,  both  in 
animals and in infants: NO is a free radical that readily forms toxic oxides of nitrogen the presence of 
oxygen.  Modalities  of  administration  of  the  inhaled  NO  are  therefore  susceptible  to  modify  the 
toxicity profile of the drug to a very large extent. 
The concern remains over genotoxicity of nitric oxide itself and the potential genotoxicity of nitrogen 
dioxide. The use of a genotoxic agent in neonates must be considered on a risk/benefit assessment. 
Efficacy 
There  seems  no  doubt  that  inhaled  NO  can  increase  oxygenation  and  decrease  pulmonary  artery 
pressure in the group of patients defined in the indication of the SPC. Both pivotal studies showed a 
significant decreased incidence of the combined outcome death and/or ECMO or ECMO alone in the 
inhaled NO group compared to the control group. The main evidence comes from the use of a dose of 
20 ppm. 
There is no convincing evidence that inhaled NO improves survival nor that the treatment with inhaled 
NO lowers the incidence of pulmonary and neurological morbidity. The Applicant has committed to 
create a registry of all patients from the main efficacy studies and perform a follow-up examination at 
5 years of age. This visit will include an age-appropriate neuro-development examination. 
It is possible that lower doses could have an equal or better risk benefit ratio than the 20 ppm dose. 
Above  20  ppm  there  is  no  proven  added  benefit  and  the  risk  of  methaemoglobin,  NO2  toxicity  and 
difficulties  in  weaning  become  appreciable.  Efficacy  results  cannot  be  related  to  the  length  of 
exposure to NO and the optimal duration of treatment remains unknown. Minimal exposure to NO and 
rapid weaning are advised in the SPC. 
The  use  of  inhaled  NO  should  reduce  the  use  of  ECMO  and  therefore  reduce  the  incidence  of  side 
effects associated with this invasive procedure. In cases where inhaled NO therapy was not successful 
there could be a delay in the use of other treatments, such as ECMO. For this reason guidance is now 
included in the SPC on what action to take when inhaled NO therapy is not successful. 
Safety 
Safety measures provide reassurance that NO does not increase the incidence of chronic lung disease 
or  intra-cranial  haemorrhage.  However,  NO  and  NO2  do  have  detrimental  effects  on  surfactant. 
Weaning is a major problem, even in patients who have no initial response and is more common with 
higher concentrations. 
There is little in the clinical data to provide reassurance about the preclinical concern of genotoxicity 
and these patients are being exposed very early in life.  
A major clinical objection is that NO concentrations should not exceed 20 ppm. The incidence of NO2 
and methaemoglobinaemia related side effects increases steeply above this limit, with no evidence of 
added  benefit.  It  is  possible  that  lower  actual  concentrations  of  5  or  10  ppm  may  have  a  better 
risk/benefit  ratio.  A  lower  limit  of  tolerance  for  the  concentration  of  met-haemoglobin  and  nitrogen 
dioxide is recommended. 
The risk / benefit ratio of doses higher than 20 ppm has not been documented. Particularly, the impact 
of moderately elevated levels of NO2 on an already injured and still immature lung is unknown. 
19/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
With  reference  to  the  complexity  of  the  equipment,  the  trials  showed  benefit  in  highly  specialised 
centres with adequate investigator training and a dedicated investigator monitoring the NO supply and 
making the measurements of NO, NO2 and met-haemoglobin. Key points on training in the use of the 
device are given in the SPC. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is considered to be positive considering that: 
• 
• 
• 
Efficacy and safety with a lower dose - The applicant has altered the SPC to limit the upper dose 
to  20  ppm  and  limited  the  exposure  to  methaemoglobin  and  nitrogen  dioxide  as  requested.  
Recent publications suggest that efficacy may plateau in the approximate region of 2-20 ppm.  
If this is the case, then a concentration of 10 ppm may be as effective as a concentration of 20 
ppm.  Reducing the maximum dose to which the population is exposed should decrease the risk 
of  genotoxicity  and  may  be  associated  with  a  more  favourable  risk  benefit  ratio.  Halving  the 
loading dose to 10 ppm would improve the theoretic risk, but decrease total exposure by only 
10% over 96-hour treatment duration. Initiation of therapy at a maximum of 20 ppm, followed 
by a quick reduction of the dose to 5 ppm, as tolerated, starting as soon as possible and within 
4-24 hours has been proposed. 
Use, administration and monitoring- The administration and monitoring equipment is complex. 
Prescribers would be trained in the use, administration and monitoring of inhaled nitric oxide. 
Therapy  of  persisting  pulmonary  hypertension  and  positioning  of  NO  -  The  positioning  of 
inhaled  NO  in  the  therapy  of  persistent  pulmonary  hypertension  has  not  been  standardised 
because of the lack of data. Therapies that provide optimum lung inflation (e.g. surfactant, high 
frequency ventilation, and positive end expiratory pressure) should be applied before and while 
using NO. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  INOmax,  in  conjunction  with  ventilatory  support  and  other 
appropriate agents, for the treatment of newborns≥ 34 weeks gestation with hypoxic respiratory failure 
associated with clinical or echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension, in order to improve 
oxygenation  and  to  reduce  the  need  for  extracorporeal  membrane  oxygenation  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
20/20 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
