20 January 2011 
EMA/231748/2011  
Human Medicines Development and Evaluation 
Assessment report 
for 
INOmax 
International non-proprietary name: 
nitric oxide 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000337/II/0019 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Step 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Step date 
18 March 2010  
28 March 2010 
Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
21 May 2010 
Co-Rapporteur’s assessment report circulated on: 
25 May 2010 
Rapporteurs’ updated joint assessment report 
18 June 2010 
circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
24 June 2010 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
7 July 2010 
Rapporteur’s and Co-Rapporteur’s joint 
6 September 2010 
preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s and Co-Rapporteur’s joint updated 
23 September 2010 
assessment report on the MAH’s responses 
circulated on: 
Second request for supplementary information 
23 September 2010 
and extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP 
on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
18 October 2010 
Rapporteur’s and Co-Rapporteur’s joint 
9 November 2010 
preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
Third request for supplementary information and 
18 November 2010 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
17 December 2010 
Rapporteur’s and Co-Rapporteur’s joint 
12 January 2011 
preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s 
responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
20 January 2011 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
INOmax  (nitric  oxide,  iNO)  was  firstly  authorised  in  the  European  Union  (EU)  on  1  August  2001. 
INOmax,  in  conjunction  with  ventilatory  support  and  other  appropriate  agents,  is  indicated  for  the 
treatment of newborns ≥34 weeks gestation with hypoxic respiratory failure associated with clinical or 
echocardiographic evidence of pulmonary hypertension, in order to improve oxygenation and to reduce 
the  need  for  extracorporeal  membrane  oxygenation.  There  are  two  authorised  presentations  of 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 2/35
 
 
 
 
 
INOmax  approved  within  the  EU,  both  intended  for  endotracheopulmonary  use  and  with  strength  of 
400 ppm. 
This Type II application is being submitted to seek an extension of the current indication to include the 
use of inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) in adults and in children with pulmonary hypertension in conjunction 
with cardiac surgery. The initially applied for indication was: 
“INOmax,  in  conjunction  with  ventilatory  support  and  other  appropriate  agents,  is  indicated  for:  
- the treatment of pulmonary hypertension peri and post heart surgery in children and adults in order 
to  improve  right  ventricular  performance  and  oxygenation,  and  to  facilitate  weaning  from  bypass, 
ventilatory and inotropic support.” 
Posology  instructions  for  this  new  indication  including  attempts  for  weaning/to  wean  from  INOmax 
have  been  proposed  in  section  4.2.  Furthermore,  consequential  changes  have  been  proposed  for 
section 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 of the SmPC. The PIL would be modified accordingly. Moreover, Annex II was 
to be updated and an Annex 127a has been introduced. In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to 
include minor clarifications changes in IIIA (Labelling). 
To  support  the  application  for  this  indication,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH)  submitted 
literature  references  available  in  the  public  domain  as  well  as  results  from  two  company-sponsored 
clinical trials (INOT22 and INOT44). In addition, the MAH submitted a non-clinical overview based on 
literature  data,  a  detailed  description  of  the  pharmacovigilance  system,  a  risk  management  plan  and 
the results of a patient consultation on the package leaflet (PL). 
Severe  pulmonary  hypertension  adversely  affects  the  clinical  course  and  management  and  is  a 
significant  cause  of  morbidity  and  mortality  in  children  and  adults  after  cardiac  surgical  procedures. 
Increased pulmonary vascular resistance has a significant effect on post-operative recovery. Rapid and 
effective  control  of  pulmonary  artery  pressure,  reducing  the  workload  on  the  right  ventricle,  is  an 
important  clinical  objective.  The  overall  objective  is  to  reduce  pulmonary  hypertension  and  restore 
right ventricular function, thereby improving and restoring oxygenation/oxygen delivery.  
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension  of  the  therapeutic  indication  to  include  the  treatment  of  pulmonary  hypertension  peri-  and 
post  heart  surgery  in  children  and  adults  in  4.1  of  the  SmPC.  Posology  instructions  for  this  new 
indication  including  attempts  for  weaning/to  wean  from  INOmax  have  been  proposed  in  section  4.2. 
Furthermore, changes to the SmPC have been proposed for section 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1. The PIL has been 
modified accordingly. Finally, Annex II was updated and an Annex 127a is introduced. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  N°  1901/2006  as  amended,  the  application  included  an  EMA 
decision (P/256/09) on the granting of a product specific waiver for inhaled nitric oxide (INOmax). 
2.2.  Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The MAH submitted a non-clinical overview based on a literature search performed to identify articles 
which  further  support  the  current  non-clinical  documentation  for  iNO  and  also  information  supporting 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 3/35
 
  
 
 
 
 
this new indication. Eighteen literature references were considered of relevance by the MAH: 15 papers 
are  discussed  within  the  Pharmacology  section  and  three  papers  are  discussed  within  the  Toxicology 
section. 
2.2.1.  Pharmacology 
2.2.1.1.  Primary pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The  primary  mechanism  by  which  inhaled  NO  relaxes  constricted  pulmonary  vasculature  is  by 
stimulating  soluble  guanylate  cyclase  (sGC)  to  synthesize  cGMP  that  subsequently  activates  cGMP-
dependent protein kinase.  
Effects in therapeutic models (non-comparative and comparative studies) 
When subjected to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), a systemic inflammatory response is induced that is 
characterized  clinically  by  alterations  in  cardiovascular  and  pulmonary  function  (reviewed  in  Kozik  & 
Tweddell,  2006).  In  a  study  examining  the  cardiopulmonary  effects  of  iNO  (20  ppm)  given 
perioperative for a duration of 24 hours to an anaesthetized and mechanically ventilated pig model of 
extracorporeal  circulation,  improvements  were  observed  in  lung  haemodynamics,  inflammation  and 
oxygenation  (Troncy  et  al,  2006).  There  were,  however,  no  long-term  beneficial  effects  on  lung 
mechanics and surfactant homeostasis. 
Although PDE-5 inhibitors have been shown to worsen arterial oxygenation at dose levels that decrease 
pulmonary  artery  pressure  (PAP),  there  could  potentially  be  a  role  for  a  combination  treatment  with 
iNO if the dose of the PDE-5 inhibitor is held at a level that would not worsen arterial oxygenation. This 
was investigated in a rat model of acute lung injury, induced by E-coli endotoxin, and where the lungs 
were isolated, perfused and ventilated 16-18 hours post induction of lung injury (Klein et al, 2007). 
The  combined  treatment  of  sub-threshold  doses  of  zaprinast  or  sildenafil  with  inhaled  NO  (10  ppm) 
was  more  effective  than  inhaled  NO  alone  in  reducing  the  pulmonary  hypertension  induced  by  the 
thromboxane mimetic U46619.  
Effects in therapeutic models (combination studies) 
Another  study  examined  the  effectiveness  of  the  combination  of  10  ppm  iNO  with  either  aerosolized 
prostacyclin or  adrenomedullin  versus  iNO  alone  (10  ppm)  in  a  pig  model  of  pulmonary hypertension 
(Dani  et  al,  2007).  The  combination  treatments  were  more  effective  than  iNO  alone  in  lowering  PAP 
and  improving  oxygenation.  All  treatment  arms  increased  lung  compliance  and  tidal  volume  and 
decreased  airway  resistance.  There  were  no  effects  on  surfactant  surface  activity  and  lung  tissue 
oxidation  measured  as  total  hydroperoxide  and  oxidation  protein  adducts  in  bronchial  aspirate 
samples. 
The  impact  of  iNO  on  hypoxia-induced  pulmonary hypertension  in  rabbits  was  compared  to  that  of iv 
infused iloprost, a stable prostacyclin analogue and oral sildenafil, a PDE-5 inhibitor (Weissmann et al, 
2007).  The  study  demonstrated  that  the  vasoconstrictor  response  to  acute  hypoxia  (HPV)  was 
prevented  by  15  ppm  NO  but  not  by  the  other  treatments.  Iloprost  was  particularly  effective  in 
inhibiting  vascular  remodeling  whereas  sildenafil  was  effective  in  preventing  right  ventricular 
hypertrophy  (RVH).  In  this  model,  inhaled  NO  had  no  effect  on  the  vascular  remodeling  and  only  a 
minor effect on RVH. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 4/35
 
 
 
2.2.1.2.  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
There  has  been  a  concern  that  prolonged  exposure  to  inhaled  NO  may  impair  platelet  adhesion  and 
have  adverse  effects  on  haemostasis  and  increase  bleeding  time  (Hoehn  &  Krause  2001).  A  placebo-
controlled study in healthy volunteers that received 30 ppm NO for 30 min did not show, however, any 
effect on bleeding time, platelet activity or skin perfusion (Albert et al, 1999). In a recent study in pigs 
subjected  to  long  term  (30  hours)  exposure  to  40  ppm  NO,  no  effects  on  bleeding  time  or  platelet 
function were observed (Albert et al, 2007).  
2.2.1.3.  Safety pharmacology programme 
There have been no investigations published since the renewal of the marketing authorisation that can 
be classified as PK-related. 
2.2.2.  Toxicology 
There  have  been  no  investigations  conducted  by  the  MAH  or  relevant  published  literature  on  NO  that 
can be classified as single or repeat dose toxicity studies.  
2.2.2.1.  Genotoxicity 
There  have  been  no  studies  identified  in  the  recent  literature  that  contribute  to  the  assessment  of 
genotoxic risk beyond that already performed.  
2.2.2.2.  Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of inhaled NO has been investigated in a two years study in rats (N005243). 
The  results  of  this  have  been  previously  assessed  and  relevant  information  has  been  included  in 
section 5.3 of the SPC. 
2.2.2.3.  Reproduction Toxicity 
There  have  been  no  investigations  conducted  by  the  MAH  or  relevant  published  literature  on  NO  that 
can  be  classified  as  reproductive  and  development  toxicity  studies.  No  effects  were  seen  on  the 
reproductive  organs  after  life  long  treatment  in  rats  with  up  to  20  ppm  of  NO  demonstrating  the 
absence of a direct toxic effect on male and female reproductive organs of iNO.  
The  absence  of  standard  fertility  and  embryo-foetal  development  studies  is  considered  acceptable 
owing to the seriousness of the indication where the heart surgery procedure as such and associated 
medical treatments would incur a significant risk to for example a pregnant woman.  
2.2.3.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  MAH  provided  a  justification  for  the  absence  of  an  ERA  report  based  on  the  fact  that  NO  is  a 
natural,  endogenously  formed  signalling  substance  in  humans.  Moreover,  the  increase  in  NO  release 
linked  to  this  extension  of  indication  is  considered  negligible  as  compared  to  the  huge  amount  of  NO 
release from industrial and commercial sources.  
The  justification  for  ERA  absence  is  considered  to  be  appropriate  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the 
Guideline  on 
the  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products 
for  Human  Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00). 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 5/35
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical section 
The  MAH  provided  an  up  to  date  overview  based  on  published  data  on  iNO  (NO).  No  new  nonclinical 
data has been generated by the MAH for this particular application, which is considered acceptable. 
NO is a vasodilatating compound able to inhibit platelet aggregation. Its use in the context of cardiac 
surgery might be a source of concern. It has indeed been shown in animal models that NO inhalation 
prolongs  bleeding  time  and/or  affects  platelet  aggregation.  This  is  only  very  briefly  discussed  by  the 
MAH.  The  MAH  reports  a  recent  study  in  pigs  subjected  to  30  hours  exposure  to  40  ppm  NO,  and  in 
which  no  effects  on  bleeding  time  or  platelet  function  were  observed  (Albert  et  al,  2007).  The  SmPC 
indicates  a  common  treatment  duration  of  24  to  48  hours.  The  MAH  also  reports  a  study  in  healthy 
volunteers that received 30 ppm NO for 30 min and did not show any effect on bleeding time, platelet 
activity  or  skin  perfusion  (Albert  et  al,  1999).  However,  in  other  studies,  for  example  in  neonates 
(George et al, 1998) or in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (Samama et al, 1995), a 
doubling of bleeding time and inhibition of platelet aggregation were observed, respectively. Moreover, 
it is also unknown what would be the effect of inhaled NO in patients with coagulation anomalies. And 
again  the  treatment  duration  is  very  limited  and  haemorrhage  risks  remain  a  concern.  This  risk  is 
included in the in the Risk management plan (see also discussion of clinical aspects). Moreover, since 
the  risk  of  haemorrhage  cannot  be  excluded,  haemostasis  should  be  monitored  (4.2  of  the  SPC)  in 
treated patients and a warning is included in the section 4.4 of the SPC.  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
This  application  is  based  on  clinical  data  from  randomised  controlled  trials  (RCT)  from  published 
literature, as well as two company-sponsored clinical trials which are considered supportive: INOT41 in 
adult  patients  undergoing  Left  Ventricular  Assists  Device  (LVAD)  placement,  and  INOT22,  a 
pharmacodynamic study investigating vasoreactivity in children with pulmonary artery hypertension. It 
is recognized that due to the nature of the condition being studied RCTs are difficult to conduct. 
The  two  company-sponsored  studies  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the 
applicant. 
The literature search aimed to identify publications presenting relevant RCTs that evaluate the efficacy 
of iNO in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in conjunction with heart surgery. Thirteen RCTs in 
adult patients undergoing heart surgery (including heart transplant and insertion of LVAD) have been 
identified  and  evaluated  (Table  1  and  2).  In  the  paediatric  population,  seven  RCTs  in  children 
undergoing surgery (mostly for congenital heart disease) have been included (Table 3). The list of all 
the references submitted by the MAH is included in attachment 1.  
Table 1  Studies  in  adult  patients  undergoing  cardiac  surgery  (excluding  heart  transplant  and  LVAD 
insertion). 
Authors 
Study Design 
No. Pts 
Primary Outcome 
Fattouch 2005 
R, C, DB 
Fattouch 2006 
R, C, DB 
Gianetti 2004 
R, C 
Schmid 1999 
R, XO 
58 
58 
29 
14 
iNO was as effective in treating PAH as inhaled 
prostacycline. Both inhaled treatments superior to 
nitroprusside.  
iNO was as effective in treating PAH as inhaled 
prostacycline. Both inhaled treatments superior to 
nitroprusside. Inhaled treatments superior w regards to 
time to weaning, intubation time and ICU stay (p<0.05) 
Low concentration iNO can blunt release of markers of 
myocardial injury and antagonise LV dysfunction after 
CPB. 
iNO and prostacycline iv decreased PVR and increased 
cardiac index.  
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 6/35
 
 
 
 
Solina 2000 
Solina 2001 
Winterhalter 2008 
R, C 
R, C 
R, C 
45 
62 
46 
iNO lead to lower HR, higher RV ejection fraction and 
lower vasopressor requirement compared to milrinone. 
Doses of iNO >10p pm showed no difference in PVR 
response. 
iNO and iloprost both reduced PAP and PVR 
immediately after weaning from CPB. Iloprost gave 
larger reductions in PVR and mPAP and greater increase 
in CO.  
R= randomized; C=controlled; XO=cross-over; DB=double-blind 
Table 2.  Studies in adult patients undergoing heart transplant or Left Ventricular Assist Device 
(LVAD) insertion 
Authors 
Study Design 
No. Pts 
Primary Outcome 
Ardehali 2001 
Pr, Ch 
Argenziano 1998 
INOT41 2009 
R,C 
R,C 
Kieler-Jensen 1994 
Pr, C 
Radovancevic 2005 
Rajek 2000 
R, XO 
R, C 
16 
11 
150 
12 
19 i 
68 
Post transplant iNO significantly reduced RV stroke 
work and PVR.  
LVAD. iNO at 20 ppm induced significant reductions in 
mPAP and increases in LVAD. 
LVAD. iNO reduced the incidence of right ventricular 
dysfunction, but not significantly. Time on mechanical 
ventilation reduced for iNO (p=0.0077) 
iNO significantly reduced PCWP and PVR at a dose of 
20ppm.  
NO and PGE1 have comparable dilatory effects in PAH. 
iNO 4 ppm cause selective reduction in PAP iNO aided 
weaning from CPB more successfully than PGE 1.  
R= randomized; C=controlled; XO=cross-over; DB=double-blind 
Table 3  Studies in children undergoing cardiac surgery for congenital heart disease 
Authors 
Study Design 
No. Pts 
Primary Outcome 
Cai 2008 
R, C 
46 
Day 2000 
R, C 
Goldman 1995 
Miller 2000 
R,C, XO 
R, C, DB 
Morris 2000 
R, C, XO 
Russell 1998 
R, C, DB 
Stocker 2003 
R, XO, C 
40 
13 
124 
12 
40 
15 
Combined iNO and milrinone were more effective in 
lowering PVR, PAH compared to either drug alone. The 
combined group had significant shorter time on 
mechanical ventilation (p<0.043)  
No significant reduction in PHTC for iNO compared to 
conventional therapy.  
mPAP lower during iNO compared to prostacyclin. 
Routine iNO post cardiac surgery can reduce the risk of 
Pulmonary hypertensive crises with no adverse effects.  
iNO vs. hyperventilation. NO selective for pulmonary 
circulation and did not increase SVR.  
iNO selectively reduced mPAP in those who had 
evidence of postoperative PAH. 
Both drugs, iNO20 ppm and intravenous sildenafil 
lowered pulmonary vascular resistance index. Sildenafil 
also lowered systemic blood pressure.  
R= randomized; C=controlled; XO=cross-over; DB=double-blind 
2.3.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
Inhaled  nitric  oxide,  INOmax,  is  administered  in  ppm  doses  by  inhalation.  It  may  be  administered 
either during controlled mechanical ventilation or during spontaneous respiration. The uptake of nitric 
oxide  takes  place  in  the  aerated  alveoli.  Nitric  oxide  diffuses  across  the  alveolar  capillary  membrane 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 7/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  acts  upon  the  smooth  muscle  layers  of  the  vessel  wall.  Absorbed  nitric  oxide  reaching  the 
pulmonary capillary bed combines rapidly with haemoglobin that is 60-100% oxygen-saturated. At this 
level  of  oxygen  saturation, 
iNO  combines  predominantly  with  oxyhaemoglobin  to  produce 
methaemoglobin  and  nitrate.  At 
lower  oxygen  saturation 
levels, 
iNO  can  combine  with 
deoxyhaemoglobin  to  transiently  form  nitrosylhaemoglobin  which  converts  to  nitrogen  dioxide  and 
methaemoglobin  on  exposure  to  oxygen.  The  half-life  of  NO  in humans is  approximately  3-6  seconds 
and  it  is  this  short  duration  of  action  that  explains  the  selective  pulmonary  vascular  dilatation  that 
occurs following inhalation. 
Nitrate  is  cleared  from  plasma  by  the  kidney;  the  predominant  NO  metabolite  is  nitrate  which  is 
excreted in the urine and accounts for >70% of the iNO dose received. 
The  uptake  and  metabolism  of  iNO  is  not  affected  by  gender  or  genetics,  however,  there  is  some 
indication that diffusion of iNO decreases with age. When a specific concentration (e.g. 10 ppm) iNO is 
administered, the concentration of NO that reaches the lungs is the same irrespective of the size of the 
patient However, while the concentration is the same in neonates and adults, the minute ventilation is 
much  higher  in  neonates,  resulting  in  a  relatively  higher  dose  administered.  Dosing  is  therefore 
adjusted on the physiological effects seen so that the dose is reduced gradually if an improvement is 
seen in PAP or oxygenation, whichever parameter is being monitored. 
The current application concerns administration of iNO to children and adults in conjunction with heart 
surgery.  The  previously  approved  indication  concerned  newborns  of  gestation  age  >34  weeks.  The 
uptake,  metabolism  and  elimination  of  iNO  is  similar  in  newborns,  children  and  adults.  There  have 
been no investigations conducted by the MAH or relevant published literature on the pharmacokinetics 
of NO. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
2.3.2.1.  Mechanism of action 
Nitric  oxide  is  a  continually  produced  endogenous  vascular  dilator.  Nitric  oxide  is  the  signalling 
substance  previously  referred  to  as  endothelial-derived  relaxing  factor  EDRF.  Changing  the  natural 
regulation of nitric oxide production causes profound vascular effects. 
Administration  of  NO/NO  donor  compounds  is  known  to  cause  vasodilatation.  Sublingual  nitroglycerin 
has  an  established  therapeutic  role  and  is  regarded  as  the  gold-standard  treatment  for  reversing 
coronary arterial vasospasm induced acute angina. Intravenous administration of NO donor compounds 
such as nitro-glycerine and nitroprusside effects peripheral vasodilatation in arterioles and venules and 
are  often  administered  to  patients  who  are  experiencing  a  hypertensive  emergency.  Shortly  after  the 
pioneer studies showing that administration of low dose NO gas by inhalation reversed hypoxia induced 
pulmonary  hypertension,  a  paper  from  Girard  and  al.  suggested  that  40  ppm  inhaled  NO  caused  a 
rapid decrease in pulmonary artery pressure in patients exhibiting pulmonary hypertension post mitral 
valve surgery. 
Since  then,  further  publications  suggested  that  NO  in  doses  between  2  and  40  ppm  has  a  rapid  and 
selective vasodilatory effect in adult and paediatric patients with increased pulmonary artery pressure 
in  conjunction  to  cardiac  surgery.  Further  publications  suggested  that  iNO  could  rapidly  lower  the 
pulmonary artery pressure, reduce pulmonary vascular resistance and improve oxygenation in children 
having  undergone  corrective  surgery  for  congenital  heart  disease,  in  adults  having  had  open  heart 
surgery or heart transplantation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 8/35
 
 
 
The  effects  of  iNO  are  selective  for  the  pulmonary  circulation  and  restricted  to  patients  with  elevated 
pulmonary pressure; iNO has no effect on the pulmonary vascular pressures in patients with a normal 
pulmonary artery pressure. 
No formal dose response studies have been conducted. 
2.3.3.  Clinical efficacy 
The  MAH  evaluated  publications  available  in  the  public  domain  involving  the  use  of  NO  in  adults  and 
children  who  have  undergone  cardiac  surgery.  Thirteen,  mostly  investigator-initiated  randomised 
controlled trials (RCT) involving a total of 588 adult patients undergoing heart surgery, including heart 
transplant  and  insertion  of  LVAD  have  been  identified  through  the  literature  search  procedure.  In 
addition, two company sponsored clinical studies performed by the MAH have been provided (INOT22 
(children) and INOT41 (adults)) which were considered supportive. 
2.3.4.  Main studies 
2.3.4.1.  Adult population 
High pulmonary pressure interferes with clinical management of the patient and is a recognised marker 
for  poor  prognosis  and  increases  morbidity  and  mortality.  Therefore,  most  studies  focus  on 
haemodynamic  endpoints  such  as  the  rapid  and  selective  effects  on  pulmonary  vascular  resistance 
(PVR) and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and oxygenation saturation. A few studies evaluated 
clinical endpoints such as pulmonary hypertensive crises and time to extubation. The results of these 
key RCT are further supported by additional RCT with haemodynamic endpoints and open studies/case 
series  supporting  safety  and  efficacy  in  the  proposed  indication.  The  majority  of  the  studies  in  adult 
populations  have  compared  iNO  with  other  therapies  for  the  same  purpose,  i.e.  inhaled  prostacyclin 
(Fattouch, Winterhalter), intravenous prostacyclin (Rajek), and intravenous milrinone (Solina). 
Fattouch et al. (J Cardiovasc Med, 2006) 
The aim of this study, conducted in 58 patients, was to compare the haemodynamic effects of inhaled 
prostacyclin and NO and the administration of i.v. nitroprusside during cardiac surgery with a clinical, 
pharmacodynamicdose-response,  prospective,  randomized,  and  double-blind  study  (Group  A:  inhaled 
prostacyclin (PGI2); Group B: iNO; Group C: nitroprusside). 
Methods 
Fifty-eight  patients  with  mitral  valve  stenosis  and  elevated  PVR  (>200  dynes  sec/cm5)  after  mitral 
valve  surgery  were  studied.  Inhaled  prostacyclin  and  NO  were  administered  at  concentrations  of  10 
g/min and 20 ppm, respectively. Nitroprusside i.v. was administered at the dose of 5–15 g/min. 
Results 
Prostacyclin and NO produced a significant dose-related decrease of mean pulmonary arterial pressure, 
pulmonary  vascular  resistance,  and  transpulmonary  gradient.  A  significant  increase  in  cardiac  output 
was observed in both groups. In Group C, nitroprusside administration was interrupted in 62% patients 
due to occurrence of systemic hypotension. 
Cardiopulmonary bypass produced in each group an increase in PVR, mean pulmonary arterial pressure 
(MPAP) and Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Pressure (PCWP).  
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 9/35
 
 
 
 
 
Inhalation  of  PGI2  reduced  significantly  PVR  (−50%),  Transpulmonary  Pressure  Gradient  (TPG) 
(−64%),  and  MPAP  (−20%),  while  PCWP  did  not  change  significantly;  after  inhalation  of  PGI2  the 
Cardiac Output (CO) and Stroke Volume (SV) were increased.  
Inhalation of NO reduced significantly PVR (−45%), TPG (−62%), and MPAP (−19%), the CO and SV 
were not significantly modified.  
In  Group  C,  the  effects  of  administration  of  sodium  nitropruside  were  calculated  in  11/18  patients 
because  in  other  patients  treatment  was  interrupted.  The  sodium  nitropruside  reduced  significantly 
PVR (−45%), SVR (−51%), TPG (−44%), and MPAP (−21%). 
Inhaled prostacyclin and NO are effective in the treatment of postoperative pulmonary hypertension in 
patients with mitral valve stenosis undergoing mitral valve surgery. Both drugs improve cardiac output 
and  reduce  mean  pulmonary  arterial  pressure,  pulmonary  vascular  resistance,  and  transpulmonary 
gradient. They may be useful in patients with acute right ventricular failure following cardiac surgery. 
In comparison to NO, inhaled prostacyclin is free from toxic side effects and is easier to administer. 
The  inhaled  NO  level  was  continuously  monitorized  and  maintained  at  20  ppm.  The  administration 
started immediately after patient admission in intensive care unit. 
This  publication  concludes  that  the  inhalation  of  20  ppm  NO  in  adult  patients  who  have  undergone 
cardiac surgery will obtain similar benefits to inhaled prostacyclin. 
Solina et al. (J Cariothorac Vasc Anesth, 2000) 
Objective 
To  investigate  the  relative  effects  of  milrinone  and  NO  on  pulmonary  and  systemic  hemodynamic 
responses in cardiac surgery patients with a history of pulmonary hypertension. 
Methods 
Design: Prospective and randomized. 
Participants: Forty-five (45) adult cardiac surgery patients. 
Interventions:  Cardiac  surgery  patients  with  pulmonary  hypertension  were  randomly  assigned  to  one 
of  three  study  groups:  Group  1  patients  (n  =  15)  were  treated  with  intravenous  milrinone  on 
separation from cardiopulmonary bypass, group 2 patients (n = 15) with 20 ppm of iNO, and group 3 
patients  (n  =  15)  with  40  ppm  of  iNO.  Heart  rate,  right  ventricular  ejection  fraction,  and  pulmonary 
vascular resistance were measured throughout the perioperative period at specific data points. 
Results 
Please see Figure 1 for PVR values. There were no significant differences in demographics, anesthesia, 
surgery,  or  baseline  hemodynamics  among  the  groups.  The  group  receiving  40  ppm  NO  had  a 
significantly  higher  (p  <  0.05)  right  ventricular  ejection  fraction  on  arrival  in  the  intensive  care  unit 
(40%  vs  30%  for  the  milrinone  group  and  33%  for  the  NO  20  ppm  group).  The  milrinone  group 
required significantly more phenylephrine in the intensive care unit (p < 0.05). 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 10/35
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 – Pulmonary vascular resistance (Fattouch et al) 
This study establishes that the optimal dose of inhaled NO is 40 ppm. In this study, the higher dose of 
NO appears to be more efficacious to milrinone. 
Rajek et al. (Anesth Analg, 2000) 
Objective 
To  evaluate  the  ability  of  prostaglandin  E1  (PGE1)  and  iNO  to  reduce  pulmonary  vascular  resistance 
during heart transplantation. 
Design 
Parallel, open two arm randomised study 
Participants  
70 adult patients undergoing orthotopic heart transplantation 
Methods 
70 adult patients (59 men, 11 women) undergoing orthotopic heart transplantation were enrolled in a 
two  arm  randomised  study.  Patients  were  assigned  to  a  Prostaglandin  E1  (PGE1)  infusion  or  iNO. 
Patients assigned to the prostaglandin group (n= 35) were given an IV infusion starting 10 min before 
weaning  from  bypass,  at  an  initial  rate  of  8  ng/kg  /min.  The  dose  was  increased,  stepwise,  to 
16 ng/kg/min  and  then  to  24  ng/kg/min,  as  required,  to  limit  pulmonary  hypertension.  The  study 
protocol  specified  that  the  PGE1  dose  would  be  increased  as  required  to  maintain  mean  pulmonary 
artery  pressure  at  25  mm  Hg.  Patients  assigned  to the  NO  group  (n=  35)  were  given  NO in  nitrogen 
inhalation at a starting concentration of 4 ppm. The concentration was increased, stepwise, as required, 
to treat pulmonary hypertension, up to a maximal concentration of 24 ppm. Again, the study protocol 
specified  that  the  dose  would  be  increased  as  required  to  maintain  mean  pulmonary  artery  pressure 
25 mm Hg. Both treatments were discontinued 6 hours postoperatively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 11/35
 
 
 
 
 
Hemodynamic  values  were  recorded  after  the  induction  of  anaesthesia,  10  and  30  min  after  weaning 
from CPB, and 1 h and 6 h postoperatively. Mean arterial pressure, mean pulmonary arterial pressure, 
right atrial pressure and heart rate were recorded continuously. 
Pulmonary  vascular  resistance  (PVR)  and  systemic  vascular  resistance  were  calculated  by  using 
standard  formulas.  The  transpulmonary  gradient  was  considered  to  be  the  difference  between  mean 
pulmonary  artery  pressure  and  pulmonary  wedge  pressure.  The  relationship  between  pulmonary 
vascular resistance and systemic vascular resistance was calculated for all time points. 
Results 
Figure 2 describes the results for PVR. 
Figure 2 – PVR (Rajek et al.) 
Immediately  after  the  weaning  from  CPB,  mean  pulmonary  arterial  pressure  (PAP)  in  the  NO  group 
decreased  approximately  30%  (from  34.2  to  23.1  mm  Hg,  p=  0.0001);  pressure  then  remained 
essentially  unchanged  until  6  h  after  surgery.  In  contrast,  mean  pulmonary  arterial  pressure  in  the 
PGE1  group  decreased  only  approximately  16%,  from  32.2  to  26.1  mm  Hg  and  remained  near  that 
value for an hour. Six hours after surgery, though, pressures were nearly identical in the two groups. 
Figure 3 describes the results for PAP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 12/35
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 – PAP (Rajek et al.) 
2.3.4.2.  Key Studies in Children 
In total there are seven  RCT evaluating the effects of iNO in treatment of pulmonary hypertension in 
conjunction with heart surgery. In three of the studies clinical endpoints were evaluated in addition to 
haemodynamic  endpoints.  The  remaining  four  studies  were  short  exposure  studies  investigating 
haemodynamic effects. 
The  key  studies  to  evaluate  clinical  efficacy  in  children  are  the  studies  by  Miller,  Day  and  Cai  which 
focused on clinical endpoints. The primary endpoint in Miller and Day was the frequency of pulmonary 
hypertensive crises (PHT) and this was noted to be considerably higher in the Miller study than the Day 
study.  
Miller et al. (Lancet, 2000) 
This was a randomised double-blind study to investigate the role of routinely administered inhaled NO 
to prevent pulmonary hypertension in infants aged 1 to 6months at high risk.  
Methods 
124  infants  were  enrolled  (64  male,  60  female;  median  age  3  months  [IQR  1–5]),  76%  with  large 
ventricular  or  atrioventricular  septal  defects,  who  had  high  pulmonary  flow,  pressure,  or  both,  and 
were  undergoing  corrective  surgery  for  congenital  heart  disease.  They  were  randomly  assigned 
continuous low-dose iNO 10 parts per million (n=63) or placebo (n=61) from surgery until just before 
extubation. Figure 4 schematises the study design. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 13/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 – Study design (Miller et al., 2000) 
The  measures  were  Primary  Hypertensive  Crisis  (PHTC)  which  was  defined  as  episodes  in  which  the 
pulmonary/systemic artery pressure ratio rose to more than 0.75. Episodes were classified as major if 
there  was  a  fall  in  the  systemic  artery  pressure  of  at  least  20%,  a  fall  in  the  transcutaneous  oxygen 
saturation  to  <90%,  or  both,  and  minor  if  the  systemic  artery  pressure  and  transcutaneous  oxygen 
saturation  remained  stable.  Time  to  wean  off  study  gas  and  hours  spent  in  intensive  care  were  also 
recorded.  The  analysis  was  done  by  intention  to  treat.  The  maximum  duration  for  administration  of 
study gas was prospectively set at 7 days. 
Results 
The median number of PHTC (per patient) was 4 and 7 crises respectively in the two groups compared 
to  7  events  in  total  (4  in  placebo  group  and  3  in  NO  group)  in  Day.  Compared  with  placebo,  infants 
receiving  iNO  had  fewer  PHTC  (median  four  [IQR  0–12]  vs  seven  [1–19];  relative  risk,  unadjusted 
0·66, p<0·001, adjusted for dispersion 0·65, p=0·045). Figure 5 shows the median pulmonary vascular 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 14/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 - Median pulmonary vascular resistance by treatment. 
For other secondary clinical endpoints, such as shorter time until criteria for extubation, the outcome 
was favourable for the iNO patients (80 [38-121] vs. 122 h [63-164]). Time taken to wean infants off 
study gas was 35% longer in the NO group than in the placebo group (p=0·19). The shorter total time 
on  study  gas  was  30  h  shorter  for  the  NO  group  (87  [43-125]  vs.  117  h  [67-168],  p=0.023).  Other 
secondary  endpoints,  such  as  length  of  stay  in  Intensive  Care  Unit  (ICU)  were  in  favour  of  iNO 
treatment, but not statistically significant. 
In conclusion, the dose delivered for a maximum of 7 days in neonates (children average age 3months 
old) was NO 10 ppm. At this dose NO appears to have a beneficial effect as monotherapy in reducing 
pulmonary hypertension. 
Day et al. (Ann Thorac Surg, 2000) 
This  study  was  performed  to  determine  whether  iNO  decreases  the  incidence  of  pulmonary 
hypertensive crises after corrective procedures for congenital heart disease. 
Methods 
Patients  with  a  systolic  pulmonary  arterial  pressure  of  50%  or  more  of  the  systolic  systemic  arterial 
pressure  during  the  early  postoperative  period  were  randomized  to  receive  20  parts  per  million  iNO 
(n=  20)  or  conventional  therapy  alone  (n=  20).  The  median  age  was  6  months  (range:  1  day  to  3 
years) in control patients and 7 months (range: 1 day to 20 years) in patients who received iNO. Acute 
hemodynamic  and  blood  gas  measurements  were  performed  at  the  onset  of  therapy.  The  efficacy  of 
sustained  therapy  was  determined  by  comparing  the  number  of  patients  in  each  group  who 
experienced a pulmonary hypertensive crisis. NO was administered at a concentration of 20 ppm until 
care  providers  decided  to  wean  the  patient  from  assisted  ventilation.  Before  extubation,  NO  was 
gradually withdrawn by decreasing the dose during a period of 6 to 12 hours. 
Results 
In  comparison  to  controls,  there  were  no  significant  differences  in  the  baseline  and  1-hour 
measurements of patients who were treated with NO. Please refer to Figure 6. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 15/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 – Ratio of systolic pulmonary and systolic systemic arterial pressures 
In the study by Day, patients were randomised to either control (conventional therapy) or to treatment 
with iNO (20 ppm). Treatment was initiated when patients were stabilised in the ICU i.e. after weaning 
from  bypass  and  completion  of  surgery  and  in  contrast  to  the  study  by  Miller.  There  were  no 
differences between groups in acute haemodynamic and blood gas measurements at base-line. During 
sustained therapy, PHT crises occurred in 4 patients receiving conventional therapy (control) and in 3 
patients treated with iNO. All 4 patients in the control group that experienced pulmonary hypertensive 
crisis  responded  with  improvements  in  haemodynamics  or  oxygenation  following  institution  of  iNO.  A 
life-threatening episode of pulmonary hypertension occurred in 1 control patient; however, after being 
treated  with  iNO,  a  marked  improvement  in  haemodynamic  and  blood  gas  measurements  occurred. 
The patients in Day were studied in a later, more haemodynamically stable phase of the post-operative 
course and the studied patients population in Miller and Day are therefore not directly comparable. 
Given that no therapeutic benefit was seen when iNO therapy was delivered in this patient population, 
it is difficult to establish the usefulness of iNO alone. 
Cai et al. (Ann Thorac Surg, 2008) 
Early  morbidity  and  mortality  after  Fontan  operations  (heart  operation  used  to  treat  complex 
congenital heart defects) are related to the elevation of postoperative pulmonary vascular resistance. 
iNO  and  intravenous  milrinone  are  being  considered  to  reduce  the  pulmonary  vascular  resistance.  In 
this  article,  it  was  hypothesized  that  their  combined  use  could  maximally  stabilize  the  pulmonary 
circulation after Fontan operation. 
Methods 
Forty-six  patients  aged  5.5yr  on  average  with  high  pulmonary  vascular  resistance  (transpulmonary 
pressure gradient >10 mm Hg or central venous pressure >15 mm Hg) and impaired oxygenation after 
Fontan operation were prospectively randomized into three groups: group Mil (n= 15, milrinone at 0.5 
µg/kg/min),  group  iNO  (n=  15,  iNO  at  <20  ppm),  and  group  iNO  +  Mil  (n=  16,  iNO  plus  Mil). 
Pulmonary  hemodynamic  and  oxygenation  changes  were  compared  among  the  three  groups. 
Inhalation  of  NO  began  from  10  ppm  with  subsequent  adjustment  aimed  at  achieving  greater  than 
20% improvement in TPG or greater than 10% oxygen saturation (Sao2) with the lowest possible dose 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 16/35
 
 
 
 
 
of iNO (1 to 20 ppm) within 2 hours after initiation. Gradual weaning from iNO was attempted 24 hours 
after its use. 
Results 
Transpulmonary pressure gradient varied from 11.26 (s.d. 1.40) mm Hg at baseline to 7.93 (s.d. 0.90) 
mm Hg after 24-hour use in group iNO + Mil versus from 11.10 (s.d. 1.38) to 8.69 (s.d. 0.86) mm Hg; 
p=  0.048  in group  iNO  and  from  11.17  (s.d.  1.41)  mm  Hg  to  9.72  (s.d.  1.32)  mm  Hg;  p  <  0.001  in 
group Mil. Please see figure 7. 
Figure 7 - Transpulmonary pressure gradient (Cai et al.) 
The ratio of arterial oxygen partial pressure to inspired fraction of oxygen from 68.88 (s.d. 14.09) to 
131.25 (s.d. 15.92) in group iNO + Mil versus from 70.07 (s.d. 14.24) to 120.20 (s.d. 5.92); p= 0.047 
in group iNO and from 72.60 (s.d. 12.92) to 95.20 (s.d. 13.49); p < 0.001 in group Mil.  
The time on mechanical ventilation was shorter in the group iNO + Mil (p= 0.043). 
The results of the study by Cai supports the assertion that iNO is at least equally effective as milrinone 
in  selectively  lowering  pulmonary  vascular  resistance.  The  most  favourable  results  were  seen  with 
combination  milrinone  and  iNO  therapy;  this  group  of  patients  (n=16)  had  the  shortest  time  on 
mechanical ventilation (p=0.043) and the largest falls in transpulmonary pressure gradient (p=0.048). 
The  effectiveness  of  iNO  compared  to  standard  therapy  (i.e.  no  pharmacological  intervention)  is  not 
possible  to  evaluate  because  all  patients  in  the  study  received  active  therapy  for  pulmonary 
hypertension. 
In conclusion, this study establishes the usefulness of treating children in the 2 to 6 yr age group with 
doses  up  to  20  ppm  of  NO  in  association  with  milrenone.  The  maximal  dosing  period  appears  to  be 
24 hr with optimal effect at 4hr. 
2.3.4.3.  Supportive studies 
Other  studies  reviewed  in  this  application  (Solina,  Schmid,  Winterhalter,  Rajek)  have  used  other  off-
label treatments as controls, such as inhaled prostacyclines, intravenous prostacyclin and milrinone. In 
these studies iNO has proven to be as or more effective than the comparative treatments. In the study 
by Rajek in heart transplant patients, weaning from CPB was successful in all patients assigned to iNO 
but failed in 6 patients assigned to intravenous prostacyclin (p= 0.03).  
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 17/35
 
 
 
 
 
None  of  these  studies  mentioned  above  have  a  placebo  control  arm,  such  as  non-pharmacological 
treatments or nitroprusside. The absolute effect of iNO in these patients groups is therefore difficult to 
ascertain.  However,  in  all  these  studies  iNO  and  the  other  investigated  treatments  lowered  PVR  and 
pulmonary  arterial  pressure.  The  effects  of  iNO  were  more  selective  for  the  pulmonary  circulation 
compared to, e.g. milrinone or intravenous prostacyclin. 
INOT41 (adults) 
This  company-sponsored  trial  studied  the  Effects  of  iNO  during  Left  Ventricular  Assist  Device  (LVAD) 
implantation. The primary objective was to assess the utility of iNO for the management of acute right 
ventricular failure (RVF) during LVAD placement with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). 
This  was  a  prospective,  multicenter,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study.  Subjects  were  randomly 
assigned to receive either iNO at 40 ppm or placebo (nitrogen). After a maximum period of 48 hours of 
double-blind  treatment,  subjects  could  be  crossed  over  to  commercially  available,  open-label  iNO 
(INOmax) if necessary. 
Subjects were ≥18 years and scheduled to undergo their first LVAD implantation (or at least 6 months 
after  explantation  of  a  previous  LVAD)  with  CPB  were  eligible.  Subjects  had  to  have  a  pulmonary 
vascular  resistance  (PVR)  of  ≥  2.5  Wood  units  (200  dynes/sec)  in  the  30-day  period  prior  to  LVAD 
placement. The primary endpoint was the number of subjects who met failure criteria within 48 hours 
during  treatment  with  study  drug.  Meeting  failure  criteria  consisted  of  having  two  or  more  of  the 
following, sustained for 15 minutes after complete removal from CPB support: Left ventricular flow rate 
index  (LVFRI)  ≤  2.0  L/min/m2;  Administration  of  ≥  20  inotropic  equivalents  (IE);  Mean  arterial 
pressure  (MAP)  ≤  55  mm  Hg;  Central  venous  pressure  (CVP)  ≥  16  mm  Hg;  Percentage  of  mixed 
venous  oxygen  saturation  (SvO2)  of  ≤  55%  OR  failure  to  wean  from  CPB  at  least  once  due  to 
hemodynamic failure (not including re-initiation of CPB to correct bleeding or other technical issues) or 
death. 
150 subjects were enrolled (iNO n = 73, PBO n = 77) and 137 received study drug (iNO n = 69; PBO n 
= 68). All 150 were analyzed for efficacy outcomes. 137 were evaluable for safety. The total number of 
subjects who met failure criteria in this study (n = 19/150, 12.7%) was lower than had been predicted 
at the time of study initiation. Although fewer subjects in the iNO group met failure criteria within 48 
hours  (iNO  n  =  7/73  [9.6%];  PBO  12/77  [15.6%]),  the  intergroup  difference  was  not  statistically 
significant (p = 0.3301). 
In  conclusion,  in  study  INOT41  iNO  decreased  the  incidence  of  failures  in  the  arm  receiving  iNO. 
However, the overall occurrence of failures was much lower than expected and the difference did not 
reach  statistical  significance.  One  of  the  secondary  endpoints  -  time  on  mechanical  ventilation  – 
showed a clear trend in favour of shorter time on mechanical ventilation (median time 2.0 days vs. 3.0 
days). Furthermore no difference was seen in incidence or severity of adverse events.  
Study INOT41 shows that iNO used on its own at a concentration of 40 ppm has some effect but that it 
is  not  strong  enough  to  be  considered  beneficial.  This  would  support  the  use  of  iNO  in  addition  to 
milrinone and prostacyclin/PGE 1. 
INOT22 (children) 
This trial compared the supplemental oxygen and iNO plus oxygen in the evaluation of the reactivity of 
the  pulmonary  vasculature  during  acute  pulmonary  vasodilator  testing.  This  trial  followed  an  open, 
prospective, multicentre, randomized controlled design and compared the utility and side effects of O2, 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 18/35
 
 
 
 
 
NO,  and  the  combination  of  NO  and  O2  in  determining  pulmonary  reactivity.  Patients  were  male  or 
female from 4 weeks to 18 years of age (inclusive); Idiopathic Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAP) 
PAPm  >25  mm  Hg  at  rest,  PCWP  ≤15  mm  Hg,  and  Pulmonary  Vascular  Resistance  Index  (PVRI) 
>3 u.m2,  or  diagnosed  clinically  with  no  previous  catheterization),  or  Cardiomyopathy  with  PAPm 
>25 mmHg  at  rest,  and  PVRI  >3  u.m2  or  diagnosed  clinically  with  no  previous  catheterization; 
Congenital  heart  disease  with  PH  repaired  and  unrepaired  with  PAPm  >25  mm  Hg  at  rest,  PVRI 
>3Wu m2  ,  or  diagnosed  clinically  with  no  previous  catheterization,  or  Scheduled  to  undergo  right 
heart catheterization to assess pulmonary vasoreactivity by acute pulmonary vasodilation testing. 
The primary efficacy variable was the number of patients receiving a combination of NO and O2 versus 
the  number  of  patients  receiving  O2  alone  that  met  response  criteria  for  a  pulmonary  vasoreactivity 
response. The response criteria were as follows: Patients with IPAH or patients with CHD who did not 
have an unrestricted shunt at the level of the ventricle or ductus arteriosus: a decrease in PAPm ≥20% 
and  no  decrease  in  CI  (within  5%);  Patients  with  cardiomyopathy  or  CHD  who  had  an  unrestricted 
shunt at the level of the ventricle or ductus arteriosus: a decrease in PAPm ≥20% and no decrease in 
CI (within 5%) or a decrease in PVRI ≥25% and no decrease in CI (within 5%). 
One  hundred  thirty  six  patients  were  enrolled,  and  124  received  study  drug.  One  hundred  nine  were 
evaluable for the primary efficacy outcome. Mean age was 7.5yrs. 
The primary objective was to compare the number of patients with reversible pulmonary hypertension 
(vasoreactivity)  demonstrated  by  NO  for  inhalation  80  ppm  plus  O2  90%  as  compared  to  100%  O2 
alone.  Study  results  for  the  intent-to-treat  population  indicated  a  significantly  higher  response  rate 
(25.7%) for NO plus O2 versus O2 alone (14.7%) (p = 0.019). Similar trends were noted for response 
in the per-protocol population as in the ITT population. There was a higher response rate (22.2%) for 
NO  plus  O 2  versus  O2  alone  (11.5%).  The  magnitude  of  this  effect  appears  to  be  greater  than  that 
seen in the ITT population, but this difference did not achieve statistical significance (p = 0.071) due to 
the smaller sample size.  
2.3.4.4.  Discussion of clinical efficacy 
CHMP acknowledged that there are a substantial number of publications in the public domain regarding 
the  use  of  NO  in  the  applied  for  indication  (treatment  of  pulmonary  hypertension)/condition  which 
establish that off-label use in this condition occurs. 
Efficacy in adults 
In adults, the MAH has highlighted key articles that establish that there may be some place for the use 
of  NO  at  doses  of  20  to  40  ppm  in  the  treatment  adult  post  cardiac  surgery  in  the  treatment  of 
pulmonary hypertension. The benefits noted are associated with 20 to 40 ppm iNO. iNO at these doses, 
in particular 40 ppm, offer comparable reduction to post cardiac operative pulmonary hypertension to 
milrinone or prostaglandins. While these publications establish the potential benefits of these doses of 
iNO in this patient population, more detail was considered necessary to support the use of the product 
in the applied for indication. Hence, the MAH was asked to discuss the relevance of the haemodynamic 
and clinical benefits targeted in the adult population. 
In its response, the MAH has argued that in some of the key studies the effects of iNO on pulmonary 
hypertension have been clearly linked to benefits in the clinical outcome for patients. Since mortality is 
not  a  valid  outcome  in  these  studies,  the  most  common  clinical  outcomes  studied  are  pulmonary 
hypertensive crises (PHTC), time on mechanical ventilation and rate of successful weaning. 
As PAH has been shown to predict mortality in adult patients undergoing CABG (coronary artery bypass 
grafting),  whilst  the  pre-operative  ratio  of  mean  arterial  pressure:mean  pulmonary  arterial  pressure 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 19/35
 
 
 
has  been  shown  to  be  an  independent  predictor  of  haemodynamic  complications  in  adult  cardiac 
surgery  patients,  CHMP  concurred  that  the  value  of  haemodynamic  improvements  noted  in  published 
adult studies may be inferred. 
In addition, no data regarding the potential benefits associated with the use in association with other 
agents  used  to  control  post  cardiac  operation  pulmonary  hypertension  had  been  provided.  The 
applicant  was  asked  to  clarify  this  point  either  with  additional  publications  or  better  utilisation  of  the 
publications initially submitted. In response, the MAH has reviewed the key studies in more detail with 
a focus on concomitant medications to evaluate the safety and efficacy of iNO administration combined 
with  other  pharmacological  interventions  traditionally  used  in  conjunction  with  heart  surgery  (e.g. 
milrinone, nitrate containing treatment regimes, dobutamine, dopamine, epinephrine). As iNO was co-
administered  with  inotropic  and  vasoactive  drugs  in  the  majority  of  clinical  studies  submitted  to 
document  efficacy  and  safety,  the  MAH  argued  that  the  safety  and  efficacy  considerations  previously 
discussed for iNO are therefore valid when iNO is given as add-on therapy in addition to other standard 
treatment  regimes  used  in  the  perioperative  setting.  The  proposed  indication  has  been  reworded  to 
better reflect that iNO is one part of treatment given to handle pulmonary hypertension in conjunction 
to heart surgery. 
While  the  MAH’s  response  did  not  differentiate  trials  in  which  concomitant  administration  with  other 
drugs  appears  potentially  beneficial  versus  those  where  it  does  not  (e.g.  IV  prostacyclin  appeared  to 
partially  offset  the  beneficial  effects  of  NO  in  Goldman’s  study),  CHMP  acknowledged  that  given  the 
bibliographic  nature  of  most  of  the  company’s  dossier,  it  is  likely  not  feasible  to  derive  definitive 
recommendations in this regard. NO is accepted as a possible constituent of a physiologically-directed 
treatment armamentarium and the proposed indication wording was considered acceptable by CHMP. 
With regard to dose, 40 ppm of iNO appears to be optimal. However, the doses of NO in the evaluated 
studies varies between 24 ppm to 40 ppm with what appears to be a dose titration step. Therefore, the 
MAH was asked to further define the dose titration needed as well as the optimal time for therapy. The 
MAH clarified that in the clinical studies evaluated, iNO has either been administered as a fixed dose or 
titrated to achieve a pre-determined response. Some dose-response studies have been performed but 
dose-finding  data  are  not  complete.  It  was  argued  that  outside  the  clinical  trial  setting  iNO  is  always 
titrated  according  to  the  individual’s  response  and  that  the  effects  of  inhaled  nitric  oxide  should  be 
evaluated  by  monitoring  of  the  pulmonary  artery  pressure,  oxygen  saturation  and  cardiac  output. 
When  the  patient  is  haemodynamically  stable,  the  dose  should  be  adjusted  downwards  to  the  lowest 
effective dose; therefore, only starting doses are given. The posology section (section 4.2) of the SPC 
has  been  amended  to  better  describe  how  treatment  may  be  titrated  and  how  soon  a  decrease  in 
pulmonary  pressure  and  oxygenation  may  be  observed  after  initiation  after  treatment,  which  was 
acceptable to CHMP. 
Efficacy in paediatric population 
In  the  paediatric  population,  efficacy  had  not  been  established  in  the  initial  application  dossier.  The 
MAH  was  asked  to  further  discuss  the  relevance  of  the  haemodynamic  and  clinical  benefits  in  this 
population  and  the  evidence  of  efficacy  derived  from  favourable  effects  on  these  parameters.  In 
addition, the MAH had not established the dose in the key publications submitted of the use of inhaled 
nitric  oxide  in  patients  aged  6  months  to  2yrs,  6yrs  to  12yrs  and  12  to  17yrs,  which  was  of  major 
concern to the CHMP. 
In their response, the MAH stated that because high pulmonary pressure has been so clearly linked to 
increased morbidity and mortality in a range of studies (including a study by Lindberg et al. (2002) in 
1,349  children),  these  endpoints  are  generally  recognized  as  valid  surrogate  endpoints.  Due  to  the 
well-established  status  of  iNO  in  treatment  of  pulmonary  hypertension,  studies  with  mortality  as 
endpoint are considered  unethical. Furthermore, studies by Miller et al. (2000), Cai et al. (2008) and 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 20/35
 
 
 
Day et al. (2000) were cited as key studies evaluating the safety and efficacy of iNO in the paediatric 
population.  In  addition,  the  evidence  for  clinical  efficacy  in  children  is  supported  by  the  clinical 
documentation  for  adults,  showing  consistent  results  across  age  groups,  and  use  in  the  approved 
indication, Persistent Pulmonary Hypertension of the Newborn (PPHN), a condition which shares some 
of the underlying pathophysiology and provides safety data for a vulnerable patient population, similar 
in  age  to  neonates  undergoing  heart  surgery.  Finally,  reference  was  made  to  recent  expert  and 
European treatment guidelines as proof of the well-established nature of iNO use in the acute handling 
of perioperative severe pulmonary hypertension in conjunction to heart surgery. 
The CHMP recognised perioperative pulmonary hypertensive crisis (PHTC), the primary endpoint in the 
studies by Miller and Day, as an important clinical endpoint and acknowledged the use of NO-induced 
selective  pulmonary  vasodilatation  in  routine  clinical  practice.  However,  concerns  were  raised  with 
regard to the differences in outcome of the two main studies by Miller et al. and Day et al., with Miller’s 
trial being supportive and Day’s not showing a therapeutic benefit. However, given the larger number 
of patients of the Miller study and the fact that the findings regarding selective haemodynamic changes 
were generally consistent with other studies, the results of Miller et al. were regarded as plausible. In 
summary,  the  available  body  of  evidence  was  considered  sufficient  to  support  the  efficacy  of  iNO  in 
PHT in this population. 
2.3.5.  Clinical safety 
INOmax  (NO)  for  inhalation  was  granted  a  marketing  authorisation  in  the  US  on  23  December  1999 
and  in  the  EU  on  01  August  2001.  The  safety  profile  of  INOmax  inhalation  gas  is  well  known  and 
documented in the current SPC. 
This  submission  is  primarily  supported  with  key  publications.  The  adverse  event  reporting  in  these 
publications  is  incomplete,  making  an  evaluation  of  the  risk  difficult.  The  MAH  has  submitted  safety 
data  in  two  company-sponsored  studies  which  are  reviewed  in  this  report.  In  addition,  there  are 
substantial Post Marketing Surveillance data.  
2.3.5.1.  Patient exposure 
Clinical studies of iNO have been performed in a wide range of patient populations with regard to age 
distribution  and  surgical  procedures.  Further  data  has  been  also  collected  from  two  company 
sponsored  trials  (INOT22  and  INOT41),  and  two  pharmacodynamic  studies  (Lepore  and  Wessel).  An 
overview including a summary of the safety data for each study is given in Table 4. 
Table 4  
Literature  and  company  sponsored  studies  presented  according  to  age  group  and 
intervention 
AUTHORS 
Age 
n 
n iNO 
iNO Dose/Time 
SAFETY DATA 
CARDIAC SURGERY – ADULTS 
Fattouch 
63±9y iNO 
58 
22 
20ppm/0.5h 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
No significant changes in HR, MAP, CVP, 
PCWP, CO and SVR in iNO group 
One patient died during surgery due to 
right ventricular failure (randomized to iNO 
group but did not receive gas). 
One patient needed biventricular assist 
device because of right ventricular failure 
(group not stated) 
Two patients had massive bleeding 
requiring re-exploration (group not stated) 
Two patients died due to multi-organ 
Page 21/35
 
 
 
 
AUTHORS 
Age 
n 
n iNO 
iNO Dose/Time 
SAFETY DATA 
Fattouch 
65±9y iNO 
58 
21 
20ppm 
Gianett 
70±13y iNO 
Schmid 
32-76y 
29 
14 
14 
14 
20ppm/8h  
40ppm 
failure (group not stated) 
Two deaths occurred - One in the control 
group from uncontrolled bleeding and one 
in the iNO group died from right ventricular 
failure 
No adverse events documented in either 
group 
Median metHB levels significantly increased 
from 0.64% to 1.06% with iNO 
Maximal metHB was 1.55%. NO2 levels of 
2.4 ppm (95% CI: 1.8, 4.2) were detected 
In one patient the peak NO2 was 6.4 ppm 
No adverse effects due to iNO were 
observed. 
No adverse events, serious adverse events 
or deaths were noted 
Solina (2000)  
Solina (2001) 
73±11y iNO 20 
62±15y iNO 40 
68±6y  iNO 10 
70±12y  iNO 20 
73±10y  iNO 40 
69±12y  iNO 40 
45 
30 
20 and 40ppm/24h 
62 
47 
10,20,30,40 ppm/ 
No adverse events were noted 
Winterhalter 
68y±10  iNO20 
23 
46 
20ppm 
No major side effects observed 
CARDIAC SURGERY – CHILDREN 
Miller 
3m (1-5m)  iNO 
124 
63 
10ppm for up to 7 
days 
Cai 
(8)5.5±2.6y iNO 
46 
31 
1-20ppm/24h 
Goldman 
3d-12m 
13 
13 
20ppm/10min x2 
(ongoing treatment 
for 1-17 days) 
Morris 
0.2-17.7y 
12 
12 
5 & 40 ppm/15min 
each 
Russell 
3m-4yiNO PH 
36 
18 
80ppm/20min 
The metHB level remained less than 3.4% 
in all and the NO 2 level was below 2.1ppm 
for all cases 
Methaemoglobin < 2.5%  
Expiratory nitrite concentration (for an iNO 
dose of 20 ppm in 80% O2) was 0.9 ppm. 
No patient experienced clinical signs of 
toxicity. 
Four patients died. 
One died of acute pulmonary hypertension 
after iNO discontinuation and before iNO 
could be restarted. 
3 died of underlying lung disease, multi-
organ failure and left ventricular failure due 
to severe left ventricular hypoplasia 
respectively. 
No NO related toxicity was noted during 
iNO therapy except in 1 patient where 
metHB levels rose transiently to 8%. 
NO 2 concentrations ≤1.2 ppm. 
Methaemoglobin remained below 2 % in all 
patients. 
No rebound pulmonary hypertension was 
seen on discontinuation of iNO 
No adverse events related to iNO therapy 
noted. 
Inhalation of iNO compared with placebo 
did not significantly alter systemic 
haemodynamics (mSAP, heart rate, atrial 
pressure 
The median methaemoglobin level was 
1.6% + 0.4% in the patient group that 
received inhaled NO Adverse events were 
not noted and there were no deaths 
Stocker 
Wessel 
97-171d 
1d-11y  iNO 80 
16 
43 
15 
9 
20ppm/40 min 
No adverse events were noted 
80ppm/15min 
15 minutes following nitric oxide inhalation, 
methaemoglobin levels were all within 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 22/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUTHORS 
Age 
n 
n iNO 
iNO Dose/Time 
SAFETY DATA 
40 
20 
20ppm 
Day 
1d-20y  iNO (7m 
mean. 1 patient 
over 18 yrs of 
age) 
CARDIAC TRANSPLANTATION 
Ardehali 
47.6±16.4y 
16 
16 
20ppm/12-76h 
Rajek 
54±11y iNO 
70 
34 
4→24ppm prn/ 
6→48h 
CARDIAC ASSESSMENT – ADULTS 
Kieler-Jensen 
19-61y 
12 
12 
20,40,80 ppm/ 
10min each 
Lepore 
34-73y 
9 
9 
80ppm/5 min x2 
normal range (0.8±0.3%). 
Adverse events were not noted 
Maximum Methaemoglobin values were 
slightly increased in iNO group (1.4% + 
0.1% versus 1.1% + 0.1%, p=0.023). 
No known complications or adverse events 
were associated with iNO 
No methaemoglobinemia. 
NO2< 0.5 ppm in all pts. 
RV dysfunction in 1iNO vs. 6 controls. 
Cardiac output, heart rate, mean arterial 
pressure, right atrial pressure, and 
pulmonary wedge pressure did not differ 
between the groups. 
No side effects/adverse events detailed 
Methaemoglobin levels were not elevated 
NO 2 concentration never > 0.5 ppm. 
7 patients required protracted weaning 
from iNO over 48h 
Two patients from the nitric oxide group 
(and one patient from the PGE1 group) 
developed systemic infections and died 
within the first month. 
Inhalation of nitric oxide did not 
significantly change systemic or pulmonary 
arterial pressure, cardiac output, right 
ventricular function, or systemic vascular 
resistance. 
Arterial and pulmonary arterials levels of 
nitrate increased during inhalation of NO 
and this increase was paralleled by an 
increase in methaemoglobin levels 
corresponding to about 2%. 
No Adverse events 
No deaths 
Radovancevic 
20-63y (mean of 
53 ±12y) 
19 
19 
40, 60 & 80 ppm 
No mention of adverse events 
No significant decrease in cardiac index 
LEFT VENTRICULAR ASSIST DEVICE – ADULTS  
Argenziano 
55y±3y 
11 
6 
20→2ppm/ 
12h-6d (med=24h) 
No systemic hypotension, hypoxia or other 
adverse consequences. 
All patients successfully weaned from iNO 
within one week. 
Ventilator failure precipitated abrupt iNO 
cessation in 1 pt. 
→ reversible hemodynamic collapse and VF. 
COMPANY SPONSORED CLINICAL STUDIES 
INOT22 
0.1-18.7 y 
Mean 7.4y 
124 
124 
80 ppm/10 min x2 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Seven patients experienced AEs of which 
four were related to the study drug. Three 
of the AEs were fatal and four nonfatal. 
The overall numbers of SAEs and fatal 
SAEs (7/124 or 5.6%) were within the 
range expected for patients with this 
degree of cardiopulmonary disease. 
However the study does seem to support 
earlier reports of acute left ventricular 
Page 23/35
 
 
 
 
 
AUTHORS 
Age 
n 
n iNO 
iNO Dose/Time 
SAFETY DATA 
INOT41 
18-77y 
54y PBO 
57.6y iNO 
150 
68 
40ppm/ 48h or 14d 
(OL) 
decompensation in adult patients with pre 
existing LV dysfunction whilst receiving 
inhaled NO 
This study incorporated both randomised 
and open label phases of treatment. The 
open label phase of the study makes 
comparison between treatment arms 
difficult. A fuller analysis is presented in 
later sections however no major safety 
issues were identified 
2.3.5.2.  Adverse events 
It  is  important  to  note  that  the  quality  (both  in  terms  of  detail  and  robustness)  of  adverse  event 
reporting  differs  significantly  between  the  MAH-sponsored  studies  (INOT22  and  41)  and  studies 
published in peer reviewed journals. Although a number of the published studies include adverse event 
data, this does not constitute full reporting of adverse events in accordance with GCP standards. 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  (AEs)  are  hypotension,  hypoxia,  haemorrhage,  left 
ventricular failure and organ failure. The data is based on reported AEs; however the AE reporting was 
incomplete or absent in many studies. Also for many reports no investigator assessment was provided. 
However,  all  reported  AEs  were  in  the  range  of  expected  events  for  the  target  population  and  no 
indication for safety concern had emerged. 
The known adverse effects and risks that need to be considered and evaluated for iNO are:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
formation of methaemoglobin at high dosage levels,  
possible risk of affecting coagulation,  
formation of oxides of nitrogen.  
risk of rebound effects at withdrawal of iNO  
risk of cardiac failure in patients with complex congenital cardiac defects 
Effects on Platelets 
NO  activates  the  cyclic  GMP  and  thus  iNO  may,  when  reaching  the  blood,  have  an  effect  on  the 
platelets. However, it is rapidly taken up by haemoglobin forming methaemoglobin. The effect of iNO 
on  platelet  function  has  been  studied  both  in  animal  experiments,  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  in  healthy 
volunteers and in the clinical setting in patients undergoing heart surgery. Animal models have shown 
that NO may interact with haemostasis. Recommendations for monitoring of haemostasis are included 
in 4.2 of the SPC. 
INOT41 
Treatment  was  divided  into  randomised  double-blind  and  open-label  treatment  phases.  During  the 
open-label  INO  treatment,  the  rates  of  overall  AEs,  severe  AEs,  related  AEs,  and  serious  AEs  were 
slightly higher than those observed in the double-blind iNO group. 
Double-blind Phase 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  the  two  treatment  groups  was  also  comparable,  except  that  a  higher 
percentage  of  subjects  in  the  iNO  group  had  an  AE  that  was  suspected  to  be  drug  related  compared 
with  the  placebo  group:  9/69  (13.0%)  in  the  iNO  group  vs.  5/68  (7.4%)  in  the  placebo  group.  It 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 24/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should  be  noted  however  that  this  category  included  adverse  events  not  only  categorized  as  being 
probable  or  highly  probable  but  also  those  regarded  as  remote  and  possible  as  well.  The  most 
frequently reported drug-related AEs, occurring in 2 or more subjects in one of the treatment groups, 
were;  Right  Ventricular  Failure  (RVF)  in  5  subjects  -  3  (4.3%)  with  iNO  and  2  (2.9%))  with  placebo, 
Post-procedural  haemorrhage  in  4  subjects  –  3  (4.3%)  with  iNO  and  1(1.5%)  with  Placebo 
Haemorrhage  in  2  subjects  both  in  the  placebo  group  (2.9%);  Thrombocytopenia  in  1  subject  in  the 
placebo group (1.5%). 
Open Label Phase 
The most frequently reported AEs were RVF and haemorrhage: RVF was a seen in 8 subjects (iNO DB n 
=  2/69  [2.9%],  OL  1/34  [2.9%];  PBO  n  =  5/68  [7.4%]),  and  led  to  treatment  discontinuation  in  6 
subjects (iNO DB n = 2/69 [2.9%]; PBO 4/68 [5.9%]). The complication was serious but nonfatal in 5 
subjects (iNO DB n = 2/69 [2.9%], OL 1/34 [2.9%]; PBO 2/68 [2.9%]) and fatal for 2 subjects (iNO 
DB n = 1/69 [1.4%]; PBO 1/68 [1.5%]). 
Haemorrhage (all types combined, total n = 9: iNO DB n = 3 [4.3%], OL 3 [8.8%]; PBO 3 [4.4%]) and 
post-procedural haemorrhage (total n = 10: iNO n = 3 [4.3%], OL 2 [5.9%]; PBO 5 [7.4%]) were not 
fatal  nor  led  to  treatment  discontinuation  although  they  led  to  dose  modification  in  2/34  subjects 
(5.9%) during OL iNO treatment.  
Post-procedural  haemorrhage  was  rated  as  severe  in  5  subjects  (iNO  DB  n  =  2/69  [2.9%],  OL 
1/34[2.9%]; PBO 2/68 [2.9%]) and haemorrhage was rated as severe in 3/68 subjects (4.4%), all in 
the placebo group. Ten subjects had a serious hemorrhagic event (iNO DB n = 3/69 [4.3%], OL 1/34 
[2.9%];  PBO  6/68  [8.8%]).  One  subject  in  the  iNO  group  had  4  episodes  of  post-procedural 
haemorrhage and required 2 thoracotomies for post-surgical haemorrhage. 
There were no treatment differences in the mean volume of chest tube drainage (iNO 1678.5 ml; PBO 
1802.8  ml)  or  mean  volume  of  blood  products  used  (iNO  4477  ml;  PBO  5531  ml).  These  results 
indicate that haemorrhage was most likely a complication of the LVAD surgery and not related to study 
drug. 
Methaemoglobin levels remained low and were similar between the 2 treatment groups at all measured 
time points. 
INOT22 
Seven patients experienced AEs during the study of which four were related to the study drug. These 
events  included  bradycardia,  low  output  syndrome,  ST  segment  elevation  on  the  ECG,  low  O2 
saturation, pulmonary hypertension, and hypotension.  
Both INO with O2 and O 2 alone slightly increased systemic arterial pressure SAP in both the intent-to-
treat and per-protocol populations. The increase for NO plus O2 was statistically significant in the per-
protocol population (2.9 mm Hg, p=0.028). Treatment with NO slightly increased SAP in the intent-to 
treat population and decreased it in the per-protocol population. 
2.3.5.3.  Serious adverse events and deaths 
INOT41 
A  total  of  4  SAEs  with  lethal  outcome  occurred  during  the  treatment  period  (double  blind  and  open 
label  period  on  iNO),  and  they  were  equally  distributed  (one  in  each  arm)  during  the  double  blind 
period.  The  causes  of  death  were  right  ventricular  failure  and  multi-organ  failure.  Only  one  of  the 
events  of  death  was  remotely  assessed  as  possibly  related.  Further  12  events  with  outcome  death 
occurred by Day 28 post treatment; none of them were related or remotely related to study drug. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 25/35
 
 
 
INOT22 
Three AEs led to a fatal outcome (low CO output and hypertension in one subject and  bradycardia in 
another)  whilst  four  were  nonfatal;  one  of  these  led  to  study  discontinuation.  Two  of  the  three  fatal 
SAEs were considered related to therapy, as were all of the four non-fatal SAEs. 
The  overall  numbers  of  SAEs  and  fatal  SAEs  (7/124  and  5.6%)  were  within  the  range  expected  for 
patients  with  this  degree  of  cardiopulmonary  disease  and  overall  rate  of  SAEs  appears  to  have  been 
more  closely  related  to  the  underlying  severity  of  illness  rather  than  to  the  treatments  given  during 
this  study.  The  numbers  of  patients  and  events  were  too  small  to  determine  whether  risk  for  death 
differed by treatment, diagnosis, age, gender, or race. 
2.3.5.4.  Laboratory findings 
Methamoglobin and NO2 levels were commented on in the following literature studies. None had shown 
individual values which were significantly elevated or would have resulted in patient injury except one 
patient  in  Schmid  and  al  who  had  a  maximum  NO2  value  of  6.44%  and  a  single  patient  in  Goldman 
and al whose metHB levels rose to 8%. Please refer to table 5. 
Table 5  Methaemoglobin  and  NO2  levels  compared  with  controls  across  all  literature 
studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 26/35
 
 
 
 
The  results  for  Kieler-Jensen  et  al  presented  data  visually  but  did  not  explicitly  state  NO2  and 
methaemoglobin values. 
No clinical laboratory evaluations were carried out as part of the INOT22 study. 
In  study  INOT41,  the  biochemical  markers  of  kidney  (creatinine  and  BUN)  and  liver  (AST  and  ALT) 
function  would  be  expected  to  improve  following  LVAD  placement,  as  normal  circulation  is  restored. 
This, combined with the need to cross over to open-label INO, makes interpretation of the laboratory 
data  very  difficult.  Mean  values  for  the  measured  laboratory  analyses  remained  fairly  constant 
throughout  double-blind  treatment  except  for  ALT  and  AST,  which  tended  to  decrease  in  the  48-hour 
treatment period. For both analytes, the placebo group had lower baseline values, and the changes in 
these two analytes were similar between the two treatment groups. These results indicate that iNO did 
not appear to have an adverse effect on renal or liver function during open-label INO treatment. Most 
laboratory values remained fairly constant with the exception of AST and, to a lesser extent, ALT, both 
of which fluctuated. No analyses were performed by individual subject. 
The majority of subjects had AST and ALT values that were within normal limits. However, 14 subjects 
receiving iNO and 12 subjects receiving placebo had AST or ALT values that were at least 10 times the 
upper  limit  of  normal  at  baseline  or  at  sporadic  post-baseline  time  points.  These  outliers  caused  the 
difference  in  intergroup  means  to  be  skewed.  One  subject,  3P12,  who  was  receiving  double-blind 
placebo, had moderate thrombocytopenia that was deemed to be serious. No action was taken and the 
event resolved. The investigator considered the event to be not related to study drug. No subjects had 
an abnormal laboratory value that led to treatment discontinuation. 
2.3.5.5.  Safety in special populations 
There are no studies about the effects of iNO therapy in preterm neonates undergoing heart surgery, 
thus no firm assessment of the perioperative use of iNO can be done. 
2.3.5.6.  Post marketing experience 
The  cumulative  number  of  exposed  patients  across  all  PSUR  reports  dating  from  December  2001  is 
estimated from cylinder usage to be 297,682 ± 2977 (this does not include patients in blinded clinical 
trials).  
Based  upon  the  same  current  best  algorithm  calculation  used  to  calculate  patient  exposure  in  the 
marketplace,  the  MAH  estimates  there  were  149,846  ±1498  total  patients  exposed  (via 
commercialised  use)  to  INO  over  the  period  covered  by  the  last  PSUR  24/12/05-23/12/08.  The 
estimate  of  patient  exposure  in  a  number  of  countries/geographic  territories  during  the  coverage 
period is as follows: US – 129,500  patients; Canada – 6923  patients; South America – 188 patients; 
EU – 13,235 patients. 
Due  to  the  highly  individualised  nature  of  both  therapy  and  response,  it  is  not  possible  to  estimate 
aggregate  dosage  values  for  the  entire  treated  population.  Whilst  there  is  currently  one  approved 
indication,  it  is  acknowledged  that  off-label  use  of  iNO  is  common.  Consequently  obtaining  reliable 
estimations of use in different indications is extremely difficult. 
A search for serious events, including events from spontaneous reporting, literature and clinical studies 
was  done  for  the  time  period  23  December  1999  (the  international  birth  date  of  the  drug)  until  31 
December 2009. The data base was searched for all serious adverse events in the time period. 
A large number of adverse events are reported from studies. These studies were to a large extent done 
in very unwell premature/near full term newborn infants often suffering from a range of co-morbidities 
(many  of  which  were  enrolment  criteria  in  of  themselves).  There  is  thus,  an  increased  incidence  of 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 27/35
 
 
 
intraventricular haemorrhage, periventricular leukomalacia, pulmonary haemorrhage and patent ductus 
arteriosus. This is however to be expected given the demographic profile of the treatment population. 
All  these  events  are  associated  with  increased  morbidity  in  the  mentioned  groups,  and  have  been 
discussed in the previous PSURs. 
2.3.5.7.  Discussion of clinical safety 
The  safety  summary  provided  in  this  application  has  not  highlighted  major  specific  adverse  events 
which  could  be  associated  exclusively  with  the  use  of  iNO  in  paediatric  and  adult  patients  who  have 
undergone post cardiac surgery. Of course, the usual precautions of use of iNO would apply in addition 
to the issues of weaning which are specified in the SPC. These patients are associated with high risk; 
hence, the adverse event reporting will be higher with higher co-morbidities and mortalities. While the 
key  publications  on  investigator-initiated  studies  provided  in  the  submission  do  not  adequately  cover 
the  reporting  of  adverse  events,  appropriate  information  has  been  derived  from  the  two  MAH 
sponsored studies (INOT22 and 41). 
In  INOT41,  the  overall  safety  profile  of  the  two  treatment  groups  was  similar,  with  the  possible 
exception  that  a  higher  percentage  of  subjects  in  the  iNO  group  had  an  AE  suspected  to  be  drug 
related compared with the placebo group (13.0% versus 7.4%). 
Given  that  the  proposed  indication  is  in  patients  undergoing  heart  surgery,  the  effect  of  iNO  on  the 
coagulation is of major importance. Hence, the MAH was asked to clarify whether bleeding increased in 
patients  on  INO  undergoing  heart  surgery  and  whether  the  duration  of  treatment  had  any  impact  on 
this.  During  the  procedure,  the  MAH  has  provided  further  information  on  the  risk  of  impaired 
haemostasis  and  potential  increase  in  the  bleeding  in  these  patients.  Based  on  literature  review  of 
experimental ex vivo studies and studies in healthy volunteers as well as on results from the company-
sponsored INOT41 trial, the MAH concluded that randomised studies have not shown any difference in 
perioperative bleeding or bleeding complications. This view was endorsed by CHMP. 
In study INOT22, the dose was significantly higher than the doses used in the key published data and 
covered a patient population not described in those studies. Safety considerations of such high doses in 
higher risk patients as those described in this study need to be further explained as the usefulness of 
this study in pulmonary hypertension in post cardiac operation patients is not clear. 
The bibliography and two studies submitted do not allow estimation of a maximum tolerated dose. The 
SPC  therefore  includes  caution  statements  detailing  the  risk  of  NO  in  patients  with  complex  heart 
defects where high pulmonary pressures are important for maintaining circulation, as well as the risk 
of  NO  in  patients  with  compromised  left  ventricular  function  who  may  be  at  increased  risk  of 
developing cardiac failure further to volume overload. These statements are considered appropriate to 
address the potential risks of NO. 
The potential risk of bleedings and haemostasis disorders are identified as important potential risks in 
the EU-RMP and covered by additional risk minimizing measures (included in educational material). 
The  safety  of  iNO  when  co-administered  with  standard  critical  care  inotropes/vasopressors,  e.g., 
dopamine or adrenaline, appears to have been demonstrated, most convincingly in Miller et al’s study. 
In  contrast,  the  safety  of  iNO  in  conjunction  with  other  potential  (pulmonary)  vasodilators,  e.g., 
(inhaled)  prostacyclin,  endothelin  receptor  antagonists  and  PDE-5  inhibitors  (e.g.  sildenafil)  has  not 
been evaluated. Given the potential safety concern associated with the use of iNO in combination with 
other  medications,  particularly  the  potentially  additive  or  synergistic  pharmacodynamic  effects  with 
other vasodilators, an appropriate warning regarding the lack of extensive data for these combinations 
has been added in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 28/35
 
 
 
As  this  variation  introduces  a  new  indication,  CHMP  requested  an  amendment  of  the  PSUR 
cycle  for  INOmax;  the  reporting  frequency  shall  be  increased  to  6-monthly  intervals 
following the approval of the new indication. 
2.3.6.  Pharmacovigilance aspects 
2.3.6.1.  Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
2.3.6.2.  Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required. 
Summary of the EU Risk Management Plan 
Safety concern  
Methaemoglobinemia  
(identified risk) 
Proposed  
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
(routine and additional) 
Monitoring the levels described in SPC section 4.2: 
Neonates and infants are known to have diminished 
MetHb reductase activity compared to adults. 
Methaemoglobin level should be measured within one 
hour after initiation of INOmax therapy, using an 
analyser which can reliably distinguish between foetal 
haemoglobin and methaemoglobin. If it is > 2.5%, 
the INOmax dose should be decreased and the 
administration of reducing agents such as methylene 
blue may be considered. Although it is unusual for 
the methaemoglobin level to increase significantly if 
the first level is low, it is prudent to repeat 
methaemoglobin measurements every one to two 
days. 
In adults undergoing heart surgery, methaemoglobin 
level should be measured within one hour of the 
initiation of INOmax therapy. If the fraction of 
Methaemoglobin rises to a level that potentially 
compromises adequate oxygen delivery, the INOmax 
dose should be decreased and the administration of 
reducing agents such as methylene blue may be 
considered. 
Educational material. 
Formation of 
nitrogen oxides 
(identified risk) 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Monitoring the levels described in SPC section 4.2: 
-Immediately prior to each patient initiation, proper 
procedure must be applied to purge the system of 
Page 29/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern  
Proposed  
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
(routine and additional) 
Rebound effect 
(identified risk) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
NO2. The NO2 concentration should be maintained as 
low as possible and always < 0.5 ppm. If the NO2 is 
> 0.5 ppm, the delivery system should be assessed 
for malfunction, the NO2 analyser should be 
recalibrated, and the INOmax and/or FiO2 should be 
reduced if possible. If there is an unexpected change 
in INOmax concentration, the delivery system should 
be assessed for malfunction and the analyser should 
be recalibrated. 
Educational material 
Weaning described in SPC, section 4.2:. Attempts to 
wean INOmax should be commenced as soon as the 
haemodynamics have stabilised in conjunction to 
weaning from ventilator and inotropic support. The 
withdrawal of inhaled nitric oxide therapy should be 
performed in a stepwise manner. The dose should be 
incrementally reduced to 1 ppm for 30 minutes with 
close observation of systemic and central pressure, 
and then turned off.  
Weaning should be attempted at least every 12 hours 
when the patient is stable on a low dose iNO. 
Too rapid weaning from inhaled nitric oxide therapy 
carries the risk of a re-bound increase in pulmonary 
artery pressure with subsequent circulatory 
instability. 
And section 4.4: 
Discontinuation of Therapy: The INOmax dose should 
not be discontinued abruptly as it may result in an 
increase in pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) and/or 
worsening of blood oxygenation (PaO2). Deterioration 
in oxygenation and elevation in PAP may also occur in 
neonates with no apparent response to INOmax. 
Weaning from inhaled nitric oxide should be 
performed with caution. For patients transported to 
other facilities for additional treatment, who need to 
continue with inhaled nitric oxide, arrangements 
should be made to ensure the continuous supply of 
inhaled nitric oxide during transportation. The 
physician should have access at the bedside to a 
reserve nitric oxide delivery system. 
Educational material  
Risk of acute cardiac 
failure with different 
degrees in defined 
populations 
(identified risk) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Contraindication in SPC section 4.3: Neonates known 
to be dependent on right-to-left, or significant left-to-
right, shunting of blood.  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or any of the 
excipient.  
Warning in SPC , section 4.4:  
Treatment with inhaled nitric oxide might aggravate 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 30/35
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern  
Proposed  
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
(routine and additional) 
cardiac insufficiency in a situation with left-to-right 
shunting. This is due to unwanted pulmonary 
vasodilation caused by inhaled nitric oxide, resulting 
in a further increase of already existing pulmonary 
hyperperfusion thus potentially giving raise to 
forward or backward failure. It, therefore, is 
recommended that prior to the administration of 
nitric oxide, pulmonary artery catheterisation or 
echocardiographic examination of central 
haemodynamics be performed. Inhaled nitric oxide 
should be used with caution in patients with complex 
heart defect, where high pressure in the pulmonary 
artery is of importance for maintaining circulation. 
Inhaled nitric oxide should also be used with caution 
in patients with compromised left ventricular function 
and elevated baseline pulmonary capillary pressure 
(PCWP) as they may be at an increased risk of 
developing cardiac failure (e.g. pulmonary oedema). 
Described in the SPC sections 4.2.  
The INOmax gas cylinder pressure must be displayed 
to allow timely gas cylinder replacement without 
inadvertent loss of therapy and backup gas cylinders 
must be available to provide timely replacement. 
INOmax therapy must be available for manual 
ventilation such as suctioning, patient transport, and 
resuscitation. 
In the event of a system failure or a wall-outlet 
power failure, a backup battery power supply and 
reserve nitric oxide delivery system should be 
available. The power supply for the monitoring 
equipment should be independent of the delivery 
device function.  
Educational material. 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Risk of abrupt 
discontinuation of 
INOmax in the event 
of critical failure of 
the delivery system 
(identified risk) 
Potential risk of 
bleedings and 
haemostasis 
disorders 
(potential risk) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
Described in SPC, section 4.4: 
Effects on platelets 
Animal models have shown that nitric oxide may 
interact with haemostasis, resulting in an increased 
bleeding time. Data in adult humans are conflicting, 
and there has been no increase in bleeding 
complications in randomised controlled trials in term 
and near-term neonates with hypoxic respiratory 
failure. Regular monitoring of hemostasis and 
measurement of bleeding time is recommended 
during the administration of INOmax for more than 
24 hours to patients with functional or quantitative 
platelet anomalies, a low coagulation factor or 
receiving anticoagulation treatment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 31/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed  
pharmacovigilance 
activities  
(routine) 
Routine 
Pharmacovigilance 
Safety concern  
The potential risk of 
combined use with 
other vasodilators 
(e.g. sildenafil) 
(potential risk) 
Routine 
Pharmacovigilance  
Inconclusive results 
of studies on the 
effects of inhaled 
nitric oxide in 
hypoxic pre-term 
neonates and no 
available information 
about its effects in 
conjunction to heart 
surgery in preterm 
neonates 
(missing 
information) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities  
(routine and additional) 
Educational material 
Warning in section 4.5 of the SPC:  
The combined used with other vasodilators (e.g. 
Sildenafil) is not extensively studied. Available data 
suggest additive effects on central circulation, 
pulmonary artery pressure and right ventricular 
performance. Inhaled nitric oxide combination with 
other vasodilators acting by the cGMP or cAMP 
systems should be done with caution. 
Educational material 
Warning in section 4.2 of the SPC:  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of INOmax in premature 
infants less than 34 weeks of gestation has not yet 
been established. Currently available data are 
described in section 5.1. but no recommendation or 
posology can be made. 
2.4.  Conclusions and Benefit / Risk Assessment 
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
The  MAH  has  presented  a  brief  summary  of  the  biology  of  Nitric  Oxide  (NO)  as  an  endogenous 
signaling  molecule  playing  essential  roles  in  a  variety  of  biological  systems,  and  particularly  in  the 
control  of  vascular  tone.  Nitric  oxide  was  identified  as  the  “endothelial  derived  relaxing  factor”  in  the 
years  1980.  The  first  therapeutic  application  of  NO,  by  inhalation,  was  reported  in  1991  to  decrease 
pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. Inhaled NO has 
been used in the intensive care unit (ICU) setting to decrease PVR in patients with severe lung injury. 
This  intervention  was  accompanied  by  variable  improvements  in  arterial  oxygenation,  which  was 
explained  by  improved  ventilation-perfusion  relationships  due  to  preferential  decrease  in  PVR  in  the 
best aerated lung regions.  
Pulmonary hypertensive crisis during or in the postoperative course of cardiac surgery is an interesting 
indication of inhaled NO. The condition is life-threatening. Extensive off-label experience of inhaled NO 
in  the  ICU’s  has  established  its  efficacy  and  its  safety  in  this  indication.  As  such,  the  treatment  is 
included in the recommendations of European and North American expert consensus documents on the 
treatment  of  pulmonary  hypertension.  The  rationale  behind  these  recommendations  has  been 
adequately  summarised  in  the  application.  Thus  doses  from  10-40  ppm  of  inhaled  NO  have  been 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 32/35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shown to be safe and effective. The strategy of adjustment to the lowest dose allowing for the desired 
hemodynamic effects is well established.  
There  have  been  a  total  of  20  randomised  controlled  trials  of  inhaled  NO  in  acute  pulmonary 
hypertension  on  cardiac  surgery:  13  in  588  adult  patients,  7  in  299  pediatric  patients.These 
publications  help  to  understand  the  usefulness  of  nitric  oxide  gas  in  controlling  a  life  threatening 
condition namely pulmonary hypertension adults and children following cardiac surgery. The Applicant 
has  identified  key  publications  which  establish  dose  and  efficacy  of  monotherapy  with  NO  versus 
standard  therapies  milrinone  and  prostacyclin  and  PGE1  in  adults.  In  children  key  publications  have 
established usefulness in younger children of inhaled NO as a monotherapy (children aged on average 
3months) and in combination with milrenone (children aged on average 5.5yrs). 
Data showing haemodynamic efficacy in severe pulmonary hypertension have been presented in detail 
by the MAH in a fair and balanced manner, with appropriate interpretation. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Each  of  the  reported  studies  is  relatively  small,  and  there  has  been  variability  in  end  points.  This  is 
understandable as mortality studies are extremely difficult in these patients, placebo controls could be 
unethical, and there is no consensus on a single endpoint as the most adequate surrogate measure of 
the  disease.  Also,  in  the  acute  unstable  situation  of  the  pulmonary  hypertensive  crisis,  physicians  in 
care  have  to  react  quickly  with  decision  making  essentially  guided  by  pathophysiological  reasoning.  
Nevertheless,  the  available  controlled  and  uncontrolled  evidence  is  largely  in  favour  of  efficacy  with 
minimal and manageable toxicity of inhaled NO in pulmonary hypertensive crisis on cardiac surgery. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
Approximately  300,000  patients  have  been  exposed  until  now  to  various  durations  of  inhaled  NO. 
There  has  been  no  signal  that  the  treatment  (including  its  formulation,  and  administration  device)  is 
associated with significant safety problems. 
Alternative  therapies  are  much  more  difficult  to  handle  than  inhaled  NO  because  of  a  variety  of  side 
effects,  of  which  the  most  significant  are  systemic  hypotension  and  alteration  of  pulmonary  gas 
exchange.  None  of  these  alternative  therapies  show  greater  efficacy  than  inhaled  NO  in  controlling 
acute severe pulmonary hypertension. 
The  summary  of  safety  data  has  not  highlighted  major  specific  adverse  events  which  could  be 
associated  exclusively  with  the  use  of  NO  in  post  cardiac  surgery  patients,  be  they  either  children  or 
adults.  It  is  evident  that  the  customary  precautions  of  use  of  inhaled  NO  apply  with  in  addition  the 
issues  of  weaning  which  have  been  specified  in  the  SPC.  It  must  be  remembered  that  these  patients 
are  associated  with  high  risk  so  adverse  event  reporting  will  be  higher  with  higher  co-morbities  and 
mortalities.  While  the  key  publications  used  in  the  submission  do  not  adequately  cover  this,  some  is 
covered by the two company sponsored studies. Numbers reported will be small because of the smaller 
number so of patients who undergo cardiac surgery. 
The SPC includes information on the prevention and management of side effects reportedly associated 
with  inhaled  NO,  that  is  methaemoglobinaemia,  generation  of  nitrogen  dioxide,  rebound  pulmonary 
hypertension,  left  heart  failure  with  increased  pulmonary  capillary  pressure,  and  platelet  dysfunction 
with increased bleeding time. Warnings about pregnancy and lactation (unknown effects of inhaled NO) 
are also included. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 33/35
 
 
 
 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects. 
A Risk Management Plan has been provided in conjunction with this variation to extend the indication 
for INOmax. The RMP addresses the following identified risks: 
-  Methaemoglobinaemia 
-  Formation of nitrogen oxides 
-  Rebound effect 
-  Risk of acute cardiac failure (contraindication or warning in different patient populations) 
-  Risk of critical failure of the delivery system 
In addition, the RMP for INOmax also focuses on the potential risks of NO treatment, about which there 
is some uncertainty: 
-  Risk of bleedings and haemostasis disorder 
-  Risk  of  additive  effects  from  the  combined  use  with  other  vasodilators  acting  on  the  cGMP  or 
cAMP pathway 
NO  has  been  used  in  approximately  300,000  patients  to  date,  and  the  identified  risks  are  well 
characterised.  The  uncertainty  surrounding  the  risks  of  bleeding  and  combination  use  with  other 
vasodilators,  along  with  the  better  characterised  identified  risks  are  managed  via  information  in  the 
SmPC  (warnings  and  precautions,  and  recommendations  for  monitoring);  training  of  healthcare 
personnel  who  will  administer  NO;  and  information  provided  in  a  pocket  guideline  for  all  relevant 
healthcare professionals.  
The  above  described  risks  and  the  complete  overall  safety  profile  of  INOmax  will  be  monitored  in 
Periodic Safety Update Reports, which will initially be submitted at 6 monthly intervals. The PSURs will 
include information on adverse reaction reports (including reports of device failure), clinical trials and 
the  published  literature,  and  are  anticipated  to  further  increase  our  knowledge  of  the  unfavourable 
effects of NO. 
Benefit-Risk Balance 
The  benefit-risk  balance  for  the  use  of  inhaled  NO  in  pulmonary  hypertension  peri-  and  post  heart 
surgery,  although  based  primarily  on  publications,  is  considered  positive  in  adults  since  no  major 
safety  or  efficacy  considerations  have  been  identified  and  the  use  presents  itself  as  an  extension  to 
currently  well  established  use  for  pulmonary  hypertension  in  Intensive  Care.  In  the  case  of  the 
paediatric  population  the  supporting  data  does  not  appear  as  robust  making  a  positive  benefit  risk 
balance  difficult.  However,  in  the  absence  of  robust  information  we  are  left  with  the  choice  of  non-
approval of a paediatric indication for a potentially life-saving drug due to lack of data in age groups in 
which  the  drug  is  less  frequently  used,  or  a  more  pragmatic  approach.  Overall  the  latter  appears 
preferable as: 
 
The  proposed  posology  in  children  (initiation  at  10  ppm,  titration  between  5-20  ppm  based  upon 
response)  is  generally  based  on  the  available  data.  Although  the  lower  dose  (5  ppm)  does  not 
appear to have been employed in the key paediatric studies it is in the effective range on the basis 
of available physiological data and is a ”non-toxic” dose. 
  Cardiac  surgery  in  children  is  principally  performed  in  younger  children  for  whom  the  proposed 
posology is well supported by Miller’s and Cai’s studies  
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 34/35
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians administering NO are likely to be conversant with the principle of titration to effect and 
the  risks  of  NO  therapy  particularly  circulatory  compromise  secondary  to  lowered  pulmonary 
vascular resistance and methaemoglobinaemia both of which are detailed in the SPC  
 
The SPC statement regarding the limited clinical data in 12-17 year olds should alert physicians to 
the possibility that the proposed posology may be ineffective in this age group 
Taking  the  above  into  account,  the  risk  benefit  balance  for  INOmax,  in  conjunction  with  ventilatory 
support and other appropriate agents as part of the treatment of peri- and post-operative pulmonary 
hypertension  in  adults  and  children  in  conjunction  to  heart  surgery,  in  order  to  selectively  decrease 
pulmonary  arterial  pressure  and  improve  right  ventricular  function  and  oxygenation,  is  considered 
positive. 
The  following  indication  wording  is  therefore  agreed  for  section  4.1  of  the  SmPC  (additions 
highlighted): 
INOmax,  in  conjunction  with  ventilatory  support  and  other  appropriate  active  substances,  is 
indicated: 
-  for  the  treatment  of  newborn  infants  ≥  34  weeks  gestation  with  hypoxic  respiratory  failure 
associated  with  clinical  or  echocardiographic  evidence  of  pulmonary  hypertension,  in  order  to 
improve oxygenation and to reduce the need for extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. 
-  as  part  of  the  treatment  of  peri-  and  post-operative  pulmonary  hypertension  in  adults  and 
newborn infants, infants and toddlers, children and adolescents, ages 0-17 years in conjunction 
to heart surgery, in order to selectively decrease pulmonary arterial pressure and improve right 
ventricular function and oxygenation. 
3.  Conclusion 
On  20  January  2011  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II  and  Package 
Leaflet and the introduction of an Annex 127a. 
The PSUR reporting cycle for INOmax shall be increased to 6-monthly intervals. 
Assessment report  
EMA/231748/2011  
Page 35/35
 
 
 
 
 
