EMA/857520/2011  
EMEA/H/C/000660 
Inovelon (rufinamide) 
An overview of Inovelon and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Inovelon and what is it used for? 
Inovelon is an epilepsy medicine used to treat patients aged one year or older who have Lennox-
Gastaut syndrome, a rare type of epilepsy that usually affects children but which can continue into 
adulthood. Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is one of the most severe forms of epilepsy in children. Its 
symptoms include multiple types of seizure (fits), abnormal electrical activity in the brain, learning 
disability and behavioural problems. Inovelon is used as an add-on to other anti-epileptic medicines. 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome is rare, and Inovelon was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used 
in rare diseases) on 20 October 2004. Further information on the orphan designation can be found 
here: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
Inovelon contains the active substance rufinamide. 
How is Inovelon used? 
Inovelon can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a paediatrician 
(a doctor specialised in treating children) or a neurologist (a doctor who treats brain disorders) 
experienced in the treatment of epilepsy. 
The dose of Inovelon depends on the patient’s age and weight and whether the patient is also taking 
valproate (another anti-epileptic medicine). Treatment in children less than 4 years of age generally 
starts with a daily dose of 10 mg per kilogram body weight. In older patients, treatment usually starts 
with a dose of 200 or 400 mg daily. The dose is then adjusted every other day according to the 
patient’s response to treatment.  
Inovelon should be taken with water and food. The daily dose is divided into two halves, taken morning 
and evening about 12 hours apart. 
The medicine should not be used in patients who have severe problems with their liver. For more 
information about using Inovelon, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Inovelon work? 
The active substance in Inovelon, rufinamide, acts by attaching to special channels (sodium channels) 
on brain cells that control their electrical activity. By attaching to the channels, rufinamide prevents 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
them switching from an inactive state to an active state. This dampens down the activity of the brain 
cells and prevents abnormal electrical activity from spreading through the brain. This reduces the 
likelihood of a seizure occurring. 
What benefits of Inovelon have been shown in studies? 
In a main study involving 139 patients aged between 4 and 30 years (three quarters of them below 17 
years old) Inovelon caused a reduction in the number and severity of seizures. All of the patients had 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome that was not controlled despite continuous treatment for at least four weeks 
with up to three other anti-epileptic medicines. The study compared the effects of adding Inovelon 
tablets or adding placebo (a dummy treatment) to the other medicines the patients were taking. The 
main measures of effectiveness were the change in the number of seizures in the four weeks after 
Inovelon or placebo was added, compared with the four weeks before it was added, as well as the 
change in severity of seizures assessed on a 7-point scale by the patient’s parent or guardian. 
Patients taking Inovelon had a 35.8% reduction in the total number of seizures, falling from an 
average of 290 seizures in the four-week period before Inovelon was started. There was a 1.6% 
reduction in the patients who added placebo to their existing treatment. 
Patients adding Inovelon also had a 42.5% reduction in the number of ‘tonic-atonic’ seizures (a 
common type of fit in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome that often involves the patient dropping 
to the floor), compared with a 1.9% increase in those adding placebo. 
An improvement in the severity of seizures was reported for about half of the patients adding Inovelon, 
compared with a third of those adding placebo. 
A study involving 37 children aged 1 to 4 years was inconclusive because of its small size and because 
it was not designed to show benefit. However, other analyses showed that doses based on body weight 
in children aged 1 to 4 years produced similar levels of the medicine in the body to those seen with 
standard doses in older patients. Given that the disease behaves the same way in both age groups, 
Inovelon could therefore be expected to act similarly in children aged 1 to 4 years.  
The company also presented the results of a study showing that the oral suspension produced the 
same levels of the active substance in the blood as the tablets. 
What are the risks associated with Inovelon? 
The most common side effects with Inovelon (seen in more than 1 in 10 patients) are sleepiness, 
headache, dizziness, vomiting, and tiredness. For the full list of side effects of Inovelon, see the 
package leaflet. 
Inovelon must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to rufinamide, triazole 
derivatives (such as some medicines used to treat fungal infections) or any of the other ingredients. 
Why is Inovelon authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Inovelon’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
Inovelon (rufinamide)  
EMA/478642/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Inovelon? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Inovelon have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Inovelon are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Inovelon are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Inovelon 
Inovelon received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 January 2007. 
Further information on Inovelon can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Inovelon (rufinamide)  
EMA/478642/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
