SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
Introduction 
The Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) is a rare and one of the most severe forms of childhood epilepsy 
syndrome. The syndrome usually affects children between the ages of 1 and 8 years (typically between 
3 and 5 years), but occasionally has its onset in children who are more than 8 years old. LGS begins in 
childhood but continues to manifest into adulthood in a large number of patients and has a significant 
morbidity and mortality. The hallmarks of the disease include the following triad: 
(cid:131)  The  presence  of  multiple  seizure  types:  the  most  characteristic  are  tonic-atonic  seizures  and 
atypical absences, but tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and partial seizures are also frequently present. 
Tonic-atonic seizures often provoke sudden falls (commonly called drop attacks) and result in 
injuries. 
(cid:131)  The  presence  of  generalized  discharges  with  slow  spike-and-wave  complexes  in  the 
electroencephalogram (EEG). 
(cid:131)  The presence of mental retardation or a learning disability. In general, this is represented by a 
static encephalopathy, although the mental status may worsen in the course of the disease due 
to  multiple  causes,  such  as  very  frequent  occurrence  of  seizures,  sometimes  subclinical, 
frequent  head  trauma  from  the  falls  associated  with  seizures  (drop  attacks),  and  undesirable 
cognitive  effects  of  the  high  doses  of  antiepileptic  drugs  (AEDs)  used  to  treat  this  very 
refractory type of epilepsy. 
The aetiology of LGS remains unidentified in about half of the cases (cryptogenic LGS), whereas in 
others,  the  syndrome  results  from  obvious  brain  injury  (symptomatic  LGS).  The  most  common 
identifiable  factor  is  a  history  of  infantile  spasms,  occurring  in  up  to  one-third  of  the  cases.  Other 
causes  include  perinatal  central  nervous  system  trauma,  meningitis  and  encephalitis,  tumour,  and 
severe head trauma. However, the electroclinical features are identical in cryptogenic and symptomatic 
LGS. 
LGS accounts for approximately 1% of all new cases of epilepsy, although it may account for as many 
as 10% of the cases of severe epilepsy. Within European populations, the prevalence of LGS is 0.9 per 
10,000 population across all age groups, and 0.7, 1 and 2 per 10,000 population in age groups between 
0  and  19  years  (EMEA/COMP  Summary  Report  on  an  application  for  Orphan  Medicinal  Product 
Designation, COMP/390/03, 2004). 
The long-term prognosis of LGS is frequently poor, with deteriorating mental function and persistently 
high  rates  of  seizures.  It  is  considered  as  an  epileptic  encephalopathy  since  epileptic  phenomenon 
contributes to worsen the children condition. Seizure-free recovery is rare; fewer than 10% of patients 
became seizure-free in most reported series. Remission with preserved mentation occurs in very few 
patients;  rather,  IQ  tends  to  deteriorate  with  age,  and  tonic  seizures  persist,  but  the  slow  spike-and-
wave pattern does tend to resolve. Psychomotor delay and neuropsychiatric symptoms occur in 90% of 
LGS  patients.  Prolonged  reaction  time  and  information  processing  are  the  most  impaired  cognitive 
functions,  which  explains  why  these  patients  have  a  slow  behaviour  and  are  often  rejected  from 
school,  even  if  intellectual  capacity  remains.  Behavioural  abnormalities  occur  in  half  the  cases, 
instability,  aggressiveness,  destructive 
including  hyperactivity  (most  commonly),  emotional 
behaviour,  autism,  and  antisocial  personality.  Such  abnormalities  and  the  arrest  of  educational 
progress  are  more  prominent  in  older  children  and  adolescents  than  in  younger  children.  Chronic 
psychosis with episodes of acute exacerbation may also occur. 
The mortality rate is difficult to assess: about 3% in the series of Gastaut, with a mean follow-up of 8 
years and 7 months, and 7% in that of Loubier with a mean follow-up of 9 years and 9 months. 
Current  management  of  LGS  is  not  satisfactory  because  the  seizures  associated  with  LGS  are 
frequently  unresponsive  to  standard  anticonvulsants,  in  particular  carbamazepine,  phenytoin,  and 
barbiturates.  Valproate,  often  used  as  the  drug  of  first  choice,  may  help  in  controlling  some  seizure 
types,  particularly  atypical  absence  and  myoclonic  seizures.  However,  no  controlled  trials 
demonstrating its efficacy in LGS have been published. Benzodiazepines (clonazepam, clobazam, and 
1/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
nitrazepam)  are  also  frequently  used  as  adjuvant  intermittent  treatment  for  LGS  patients  who  have 
clusters  of  seizures.  Nevertheless,  no  formal  studies  with  these  drugs  have  been  reported.    Newer 
AEDs,  i.e.,  lamotrigine,  felbamate  and  topiramate  may  be  of  benefit  in  patients  with  LGS.  In  one 
randomised clinical trial dedicated to LGS (adults and children mixed) for each of these compounds, 
the  percentage  change  in  tonic-atonic  seizures  or  drop  attacks  with  these  AEDs  has  reportedly  been 
about  25%  greater  than  that  seen  with  placebo  A  small  number  of  patients  became  seizure  free.  In 
addition  to  their  moderate  efficacy,  they  are  associated  with  potentially  severe  adverse  reactions 
(aplasia and hepatitis with felbamate, skin rash with lamotrigine, cognitive disorders with topiramate). 
Typically, either a benzodiazepine or one of the newer AEDs (lamotrigine, topiramate or felbamate) is 
used  as  add-on  treatment,  generally  with  valproate.  Treatment  with  benzodiazepines,  however,  has 
sometimes  been  reported  to  worsen  LGS  and  even  to  induce  status  epilepticus.  The  treatment  of 
patients with LGS often involves polytherapy due to the lack of full response to any single AED. Even 
when a drug is initially effective, this may not persist long term. Nonetheless, patients usually benefit 
only minor improvements in seizure frequency and severity, as treatment success is uncommon in this 
condition. 
Evaluation for a surgical approach (corpus callosotomy) is warranted in patients who are refractory to 
all  these  drug  therapies.  Surgery  is  purely  palliative,  however,  and  seldom  produces  total  control  of 
seizures. 
Non-drug  treatments  for  LGS,  including  ketogenic  diet,  vagal  nerve  stimulation  for  intractable  drop 
attacks are used occasionally. 
Rufinamide  is  a  triazole  derivative  used  as  an  antiepileptic  drug  (AED),  structurally  unrelated  to 
currently marketed AEDs.  
The  primary  in  vitro  pharmacodynamic  data  indicate  that  interacts  with  the  inactivated  state  of  the 
sodium  channel  and  slows  conversion  to  the  active  state  thereby  reducing  the  frequency  of  sodium-
dependent  action  potentials  in  rat  neurons,  an  effect  that  could  contribute  to  blocking  the  spread  of 
seizure activity from an epileptogenic focus.  
Evidence from in vivo studies using animal seizure models showed that rufinamide is active in a broad 
range of animal models of epilepsy. No tolerance was observed in animals after repeated dosing. 
Ciba-Geigy  in  Europe  initiated  the  earliest  clinical  studies  with  rufinamide  in  1987.  Novartis, 
(merging of Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz), continued the development until 2001. Eisai Company, Limited. 
acquired the worldwide development rights to rufinamide from Novartis on 6 February 2004 for the 
submitted indication and further development work since this date has been carried out by Eisai. 
Rufinamide  was  designated  as  Orphan  in  this  indication  by  the  Committee  on  Orphan  Medicinal 
Products (COMP) (EMEA/OD/047/04) on 9th September 2004, adopted by the European Commission 
on  20th  October  2004  (EU/3/04/240).  It  was  designated  as  an  Orphan  on  the  basis  that  although 
satisfactory methods of treatment of LGS have been authorized in the Community, justifications have 
been  provided  to  the  COMP  that  rufinamide  may  be  of  significant  benefit  to  those  affected  by  the 
condition. 
No protocol assistance in this indication was requested by the applicant. 
2 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Inovelon is presented as film-coated tablets containing 100, 200 or 400 mg rufinamide. The tablets are 
pink,  ‘ovaloid’  in  shape,  slightly  convex,  scored  on  both  sides.  Each  strength  is  identified  by  an 
embossed marking “Є 261”, “Є 262” and “Є 263” only on one side of the tablet, for the 100, 200, and 
400 mg strength, respectively.   
Inovelon tablets are packaged in push-through PA/AL/PVC blister pack, also referred to as  Alu/Alu 
blister pack in pack sizes of 10, 30, 50, 60 100 film-coated tablets for all strengths, whereas for the 
400 mg strength only, an additional pack size of 200 tablets also exists.   
2/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
Rufinamide,  a  triazole  derivative,  is  the  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  1-(2,  6-difluoro-phenyl) 
methyl-1H-1,  2,  3-triazole-4-carboxamide.  The  molecular  formula  is  C10H8F2N4O  and  the  Relative 
Molecular  Mass  238.2.  It  appears  as  a  fine,  white,  odourless  and  slightly  bitter,  not  hygroscopic 
powder of needle shaped crystals with aggregates. It is practically insoluble in water, slightly soluble 
in methanol and very slightly soluble in ethanol. Due to the needle shaped crystals, the drug substance 
has  a  low  bulk  density,  poor  flow  properties  and  strong  tendency  to  agglomerate.  The  partition 
coefficient, log Po/w is 0.65, and the melting range is between 233°C and 238°C. There are four known 
polymorphic forms, A, Α΄ , B and C; A being the thermodynamically stable form. 
•  Manufacture 
The  synthesis  of  the  rufinamide  drug  substance  is  a  7-stage  process.  For  an  individual  step,  several 
batches may be combined for workup. If a batch of an intermediate or the drug substance fails to meet 
specifications,  the  material  may  be  reworked  according  to  the  procedure  described  in  the  synthetic 
description, starting at an appropriate stage. The product is isolated and purified by several steps of re-
crystallisation initially with 2-propanol and later with methanol.  
The manufacturing process of rufinamide is adequately controlled by the testing of the intermediates.  
Rufinamide  manufactured  by  the  current  process  is  exclusively  modification  A,  which  is  the 
thermodynamically  stable  form.  All  batches  of  drug  substance  used  for  technical,  toxicological  and 
clinical  investigations  show  modification  A.  There  is  no  evidence  of  hydrate  formation  from 
differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) or from the stoichiometry of the molecule. 
Batch analysis data from nine batches were presented and the consistency of the results confirm that 
the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly as all results are well within limits. 
•  Specification 
The specification for control of the drug substance includes tests for appearance, bulk density (USP), 
crystal modification (X-ray diffraction), identification (IR, HPLC), clarity (Ph. Eur.) and absorbance 
(UV)  of  0.1  %  MeOH  solution,  heavy  metals,  sulphated  ash  (Ph.  Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  related 
substances  (HPLC)  and  residual  solvents  (GC).  In  addition  to  this  control  imposed  by  the 
manufacturer,  Eisai performs a test for particle size distribution and bulk density, keeping in mind the 
very low solubility and poor flowability of rufinamide. 
Additional  tests  for  residual  solvents  (GC,  CE)  and  loss  on  drying  (Ph.  Eur.)  are  included  in  the 
specification for rufinamide batches that are reworked. 
Batches  analysis  provided,  including  batches  used  in  pre-clinical  and  clinical  studies,  confirm  the 
suitability of the specifications.  
•  Stability 
Since  the  original  development  was  dane  by  Ciba/Geigy/Novartis,  stability  studies  have  been 
performed by both Novartis and Eisai.  
Novartis  has  performed  long-term,  accelerated  and  photo  stability  tests,  stress  testing  and  forced 
decomposition studies under different conditions. Results from these Novartis studies were presented 
for  three  batches  as  primary  data.  This  data  package  contains  results  from  long  term  testing,  at 
25°C/60  %RH  and  30°C/70  %RH  for  up  to  3  years.  For  accelerated  testing,  40°C/75  %RH,  results 
were  presented  for  up  to  6  months.  The  drug  substance  has  additionally  been  subjected  to 
photostability  testing  in  accordance  with  ICH  Q1B  Guideline  and  has  been  found  not  to  be 
photolabile. The drug substance was subjected to extremes of temperature (50°C to 100°C) and found 
to be stable.  
Eisai  has  also  performed  stability  studies  on  four  commercial  size  batches  of  rufinamide.  These 
batches  have  been  put  in  on-going  stability  and  results  for  up  to  6  months  were  presented, 
demonstrating no significant change in any tested parameter after storage at 25°C/60 %RH, 30°C/70 
%RH or 40°C/75 %RH. 
3/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, the results from the stability studies performed so far demonstrate that rufinamide is a 
stable  and  non-hygroscopic  substance.  Therefore,  the  applicant’s  re-test  period  proposal  is  justified 
when the bulk drug substance stored in the proposed packaging material and conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
At  the  very  early  stages  of  development,  uncoated  tablets  of  1  and  10  mg  were  produced  by  direct 
compression. However, as the dose had to be increased, direct compression was impossible due to the 
poor  flow  characteristics  of  rufinamide.  Higher  strength  (50  and  100  mg)  uncoated  tablets  were 
developed using the dry “roller” compaction method, but flowability problems were observed during 
the  dry  compaction  process.  As  a  further  increase  of  the  dosage  strength  to  400  mg  was  necessary, 
further  changes  in  the  composition  and  in  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  product  were  made  in 
order to achieve an acceptable weight  and size of the 400 mg tablets and to  overcome the technical 
problems  observed  in  the  roller  compaction  process.  A  wet  granulation  method  was  introduced 
together with formulation modifications pertaining to partial replacement of water insoluble excipients 
with water-soluble ones, as well as the employment of stronger disintegrant.  In order to improve the 
wettability  and  to  decrease  the  broad  variability  of  the  bulk  density  of  the  drug  substance,  a  pre-
densification  step  was  introduced  before  granulation:  the  voluminous  drug  mass  is  wetted  by  a 
solution of sodium laurilsulfate in a high shear mixer. The active substance bulk density specification 
was set based on results from a bioequivalence study, comparing tablets manufactured with rufinamide 
of different bulk density. In addition, a particle size specification is proposed to control the quality of 
the  active  substance.  Other  bioequivalence  studies  were  performed  between  the  “roller  compaction” 
formulation  and  the  final  formulation  (wet  granulation  with  predensification).  The  final  formulation 
gave  20%  higher  AUC  in  bioavailability  compared  with  the  “roller  compaction”  tablets  under  fed 
conditions. However, there is no concern from this difference because only the final formulation has 
been used in the pivotal clinical study.  
Apart from the processability problem, another difficulty has been the very low aqueous solubility of 
the active substance. Therefore, a flow through method was developed to control the dissolution rate 
of  the  tablets.  Although dissolution  times  are  long  this  does  not  present  a  problem  since  there  is  no 
permeability barrier. 
A  maximum  storage  period  for  the  granules  was  determined  to  two  months.  It  was  further 
demonstrated that no change of polymorphism occurs during the manufacturing process. 
Finally, a hypromellose film coat was introduced to mask the bitter taste of the drug substance. The 
tablet shape was also changed from round and flat to oblong cores and provision of scores as break-
marks.  
The tabletting mixture used for the 100, 200 and 400 mg formulations is the same and the different 
strengths  are  obtained  by  increasing  proportionally  the  core  weights  to  avoid  different  drug  release 
characteristics and to facilitate production. 
The excipients are commonly used in pharmaceutical products and were tested for compatibility. All 
the  excipients  meet  the  specifications  defined  in  the  current  Ph.Eur.  monographs  or  acceptable  in-
house  standards.  Purified  water  is  the  only  solvent  used  for  formulation  processes  including 
granulation and coating. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The  magnesium  stearate  used  in  the  production  has  been  confirmed  by  the  applicant  and  by  the 
manufacturer to be of vegetable origin and is therefore not considered as a risk regarding BSE. 
A  certificate  from  the  supplier  of  the  lactose  has  been  provided  stating  that  “the  lactose  is 
manufactured  from  food  grade  cow’s  milk,  sourced  from  healthy  animals  in  the  same  conditions  as 
milk  collected  for  human  consumption”  fulfilling  the  NfG  CPMP/BWP/1230/98  rev  1,  which  is 
satisfactory. 
4/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Inovelon  100,  200  and  400  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  manufactured  by  standard  wet  granulation, 
tabletting  and  film-coating  processes.  A  common  granulate  is  used  for  all  the  three  strengths. 
Granulation  and  pre-densification  are  performed  on  two  equal  sub-batches.  The  external  phase 
excipients  is  added  to  the  combined  two  sub-batches  of  granulates,  then  the  mixture  is  sieved  and 
lubrication is performed in a diffusion mixer. 
The  manufacturing  process  involves  the  following  steps:  pre-densification,  mixing/kneading,  wet 
granulation, drying, sieving/lubrication, compression and film-coating. 
Following manufacture, the tablets are packed in bulk into an aluminium laminate bag for transport to 
the site of packaging into commercial packs. 
•  Product Specification 
The specification for Inovelon film-coated tablets includes tests for appearance (visual), identification 
(TLC, HPLC), dissolution (Ph.Eur. -Apparatus 4/ HPLC), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), 
and content uniformity (Ph.Eur.). Additionally, microbiological tests (Ph. Eur) are performed on one 
batch per year. 
The  tests  and  limits  of  the  specifications  Inovelon  film-coated  tablets  are  appropriate  to  control  the 
quality of the finished product for the intended purpose. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Eisai has performed stability studies on eight batches of tablets into commercial packaging for twelve 
months. Results from supporting stability studies performed on drug product stored in HDPE bottles 
were also presented. Additional stability studies have also been performed on Inovelon tablets in bulk 
pack. The applicant has committed that the on-going stability studies will continue for three years. The 
analytical methods used during the stability studies were the same as those applied for control of the 
drug product. 
Stability studies results from twelve batches of all three strengths of Inovelon tablets manufactured by 
Novartis  were  presented  as  supportive  data.  Eight  of  those  batches  were  packaged  in  the  intended 
market packaging material for up to 36 months. Additional stability studies have also been performed 
on Inovelon tablets packed in HDPE bottles for up to 36 months and in bulk pack for up to 18 months. 
Photostability studies have also been carried out on nine batches of tablets of all strengths.  
The analytical methods used during the stability studies were the same as those applied for control of 
the  drug  product.  Additional  tests  in  the  shelf-life  specification  were  loss  on  drying,  hardness  and 
disintegration.  All  results  from  stressed,  accelerated  and  long-term  conditions  were  well  within  the 
specifications limits. 
Based upon the on-going stability data from Eisai and stability data from Novartis, the proposed shelf 
life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of Inovelon film-coated tablets is adequately established. In general, sufficient chemical 
and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug 
substance  and  drug  product  has  been  presented.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from  EU  and  ICH 
requirements.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product 
should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
5/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
Non-clinical aspects 
The pivotal safety pharmacology studies investigating central nervous system (CNS), cardiovascular 
system (CVS) (including hERG assay), respiratory and renal function were performed in accordance 
with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations. 
Most  studies  and  all  pivotal  studies  have  been  conducted  in  accordance  with  GLP,  including 
toxicokinetic analysis.  
Pharmacology 
The  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  (NfG)  on  treatment  of  epileptic  disorders  (CPMP/EWP/566/98  rev1) 
addresses  also  non-clinical  aspects  for  a  medicinal  product  to  be  used  for  treatment  of  seizure 
disorders.  “The  neurobiological  mode  of  action  may  be  important  since  it  may  indicate  in  which 
seizure types and epileptic syndrome the drug may by efficacious.” Further, “the study of the efficacy 
profile should be done in several experimental models, including models of generalised epilepsies with 
absences. It is important to know if the drug in development displays anti-seizure activity only or if it 
has a potential for antiepileptogenesis as well.”  
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro studies 
Rufinamide  in  vitro  (at  1  µM  ≈100µmol/L  or  higher)  prolonged  the  recovery  from  sustained 
inactivation  of  Na+  channels  in  cultured  cortical  neurons  investigated  with  patch  clamp  technique 
indicating  that  rufinamide  interacts  mainly  with  the  inactivated  state  of  sodium  channels  and  slows 
conversion  to  the  active  state,  thereby  reducing  the  frequency  of  action  potentials.  No  significant 
inhibition at voltage-gated Na+, K+ or Ca+ channels was observed. 
In another experiment, rufinamide dose-dependently decreased the sustained repetitive firing with an 
IC50  of  3.8  µmol/l.  The  duration  of  action  potential  firing  also  decreased  indicating  an  effect  of 
rufinamide  on  firing  of  sodium-dependent  action  potentials  that  could  contribute  to  blocking  the 
spread  of  seizure  activity  from  an  epileptogenic  focus.  No  extrapolation  between  in  vitro 
concentrations  of  rufinamide  and  the  in  vivo  situation  in  human  will  be  performed  since  it  is 
considered of limited value.  
Rufinamide  did  not  significantly  interact  with  a  number  of  neurotransmitter  systems,  including 
GABA,  benzodiazepine,  monoaminergic  and  cholinergic  binding  sites,  N-methyl-D-aspartate 
(NMDA)  and  other  excitatory  amino  acid  binding  sites.  A  weak  interaction  at  β-adrenergic  receptor 
sites was noted at a fairly high concentration. 
In vivo studies 
The  anticonvulsant  activity  of  rufinamide  was  investigated  in  a  large  number  of  relevant  animal 
models of seizure disorders, mimicking generalised tonic-clonic, simple and complex partial seizures. 
No specific animal model exists for the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. 
In test of generalised tonic-clonic seizures such as the maximal electroshock test (MES test; mice/rats) 
or on seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol (mice), rufinamide dose-dependently suppressed seizures. 
In mice an ED50 of 19.2 mg/kg was determined using the MES test, and in rats the corresponding ED50 
is 4-11 mg/kg following oral administration. When extrapolated to pharmacokinetic/toxicokinetic data, 
these effects were observed at or slightly below clinical exposure. No adverse effects were noted up to 
45 mg/kg.  
Rufinamide was active also in chemically induced seizures (pentylenetrazole and picrotoxin) in mice 
at higher ED50´s compared to the MES test, but was without effect in picrotoxin induced seizures. The 
pharmacological profile is expected to be similar to carbamazepine rather than sodium valproate. The 
efficacy  of  rufinamide  in  the  MES  test  was  investigated  after  different  pre-treatment  times,  varying 
between 1 and 8 hours. The largest effect was seen after short pre-treatment times, which correlates 
with  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rufinamide.  When  comparing  protective  indexes  for  several 
antiepileptic  drugs,  rufinamide  was  equally  effective  or  more  effective 
than  conventional 
antiepileptics.  
6/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In animal models of epileptogenesis for partial seizures in cats using penicillin as a focal epileptogen, 
an  inhibition  of  hippocampal  and  cortical  after-discharges  was  observed  after  treatment  with 
rufinamide  300  mg/kg.  A  reduction  of  seizures  was  also  observed  in  chronically  epileptic  rhesus 
monkeys  with  recurring  partial  seizures  after  treatment  with  rufinamide  30-50  mg/kg  daily  for  15 
days. 
Evidence from in vivo studies using animal seizure models suggests that rufinamide is a long-acting 
drug.  
To  assess  the  effects  of  rufinamide  on  learning  and  memory,  the  electroshock-induced  amnesia  test 
and  the  step-down  passive  avoidance  test  were  performed  in  mice.  A  reduction  in  electroshock-
induced amnesia and an improvement in learning were observed in each test, respectively.  
The  analgesic  potential  of  rufinamide  was  weakly  effective  in  rat  and  guinea  pig  models  of 
neuropathic pain (NP). In these models, its overall profile was equal to that of carbamazepine (CBZ), 
whereas lamotrigine (LTG) was somewhat more efficacious. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics and Safety pharmacology programme 
Rufinamide did not produce any unexpected or toxic effects in the safety pharmacology studies, which 
were conducted in accordance with ICH S7A (CPMP/ICH/539/00). 
The main CNS-related effects of rufinamide are slight CNS depressant action in both mice (100-300 
mg/kg  p.o.)  and  monkeys  (200  mg/kg  p.o.)  in  behavioural  tests.  In  accordance  with  the  proposed 
mechanism of action the CNS depressant effect is expected.  
No  effect  on  motor  coordination,  body  temperature  or  hexobarbiton  induced  sleeping  time  was 
observed.  Further,  data  on  behaviour  are  also  available  from  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies 
indicating few adverse effects except ataxia at high doses. In animal models of learning performance, 
improved  learning  was  noted  in  mice  at  doses  of  0.3-30  mg/kg  p.o.  The  clinical  relevance  of  this 
finding is unclear. 
Rufinamide induced no or very slight cardiovascular effects in dogs (up to 10 mg/kg i.v.). No effect on 
blood  pressure,  blood  flow,  P-wave  amplitude,  P-Q  interval,  QRS  interval  and  Q-T  interval  was 
observed.  A  slight  decrease  in  heart  rate  was  noted  at  the  low  and  high  dose  level.  Confirmation  of 
lack  of  cardiovascular  and  ECG  effects  comes  from  long-term  studies  in  dogs  and  Cynomolgus 
monkeys,  at  exposure  level  in  the  clinical  range.  Rufinamide  had  no  effect  on  hERG  current  when 
investigated in human embryonic kidney cells at concentrations up to 1µM.  
Only slight effects on respiratory system, renal system and blood glucose were observed, considered to 
be of low clinical relevance. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  ability  of  rufinamide  to  interact  pharmacodynamically  with  other  antiepileptic  drugs  was 
investigated using the MES test. The anticonvulsant effect of rufinamide was additive to that of other 
antiepileptic  drugs.  No  pharmacodynamic  interactions  could  be  observed.  Five  days  repeated 
treatment  with  rufinamide  induced  no  tolerance  in  the  MES  test,  while  tolerance  developed  for 
diazepam and carbamazepine. 
No  anticonvulsant  activity  was  observed  with  any  of  the  rufinamide  metabolites  CGP  47291,  CGP 
47292 CGP 47293, CGP 47294 extracted from rat urine.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The analytical method to determine rufinamide in human plasma was shown to be applicable to dog, 
rabbit, rat and monkey plasma. Although validation and assays of the toxicology studies samples do 
not fit to the modern criteria, they were in accordance to the best practice at the time where the studies 
have been done. 
7/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
Rufinamide  was  slowly  absorbed  in  all  investigated  species  (mouse,  rat,  dog,  Cynomolgus  monkey 
and  baboon),  in  addition,  relatively  slow  clearance,  and  little  or  no  first  pass  metabolism  were 
observed.  Non-linear  absorption  was  observed  at  high  doses  with  decreasing  absorption  with 
increasing dose, most markedly in dogs and Cynomolgus monkeys. The low absorption in dogs and 
baboons  could  have  been  caused  by  the  solid  dosage  form  used  (crystalline  substance  in  gelatine 
capsule)  whereas  for  mice,  rats  and  Cynomolgus  monkeys,  in  which  absorption  was  good,  a  liquid 
suspension was administered. There were no pronounced gender differences in systemic exposure. 
The  absorption  of  rufinamide  was  characterized  by  a  low  rate,  with  variable  extent  of  absorption 
which  was  species-dependant.  The  absorption  capacity  for  rufinamide  was  assessed  in  Caco-2  cells, 
and the predicted oral absorption was in the order of 80-90%. 
Distribution 
The distribution was similar in mice and in rats. The highest levels of radioactivity were found in liver 
(mouse, rat), adrenals (rat) and aorta (mouse). No specific affinity/uptake to organs/tissue was detected 
and no notable accumulation was observed after repeated dosing. Rufinamide  rapidly and reversibly 
crosses  the  blood-brain  barrier.  Rufinamide  also  crosses  the  placenta  and  passes  into  fetal  tissues  in 
rats and rabbits, and was detected also in mammary glands. The serum protein binding was low (23-
29%) in rat, dog, baboon and marmoset and comparable to that in man (34%). 
Serum  protein  binding  of  rufinamide  in  species  was  low  (23~35%).  Radioactivity  from  labelled 
rufinamide  was  distributed  throughout  the  body  in  rats,  and  there  was  no  evidence  of  a  peculiar  or 
persistent affinity to specific organs and tissues. A marked and reversible transfer of rufinamide and/or 
metabolites  to  the  embryo/fetal  compartment  was  observed  in  rats  and  rabbits.  Radiolabel  was 
distinctly  taken  up  into  the  mammary  glands  indicating  the  compound  and/or  metabolites  could  be 
excreted with the milk.  
Metabolism 
Biotransformation has been examined in rodents, dogs and primates and the metabolic pathways found 
include  those  present  in  humans.  Systemic  exposure  to  metabolites  was  low.  Judging  from  urinary 
excretion data, the compound was cleared mainly by metabolism in all species tested and excretion of 
the  products  was  divided  between  urine  and  faeces.  Very  little  unchanged  rufinamide  was  excreted 
into  urine.  The  main  metabolite  was  the  carboxylic  acid,  designated  CGP  47  292,  formed  by 
hydrolysis  of  the  carboxylamide  group,  catalysed  by  carboxyesterase(s).  Oxidative  metabolism 
yielding CGP 47 291 was minor and apparently more pronounced in rodents than in dogs or primates. 
Rufinamide  weakly  induced  drug-metabolizing  enzymes  in  rat  and  mouse  liver  in  a  qualitatively 
similar  manner  to  carbamazepine  or  phenobarbital.  Rufinamide  showed  no  significant  capacity  to 
inhibit the activity of the human P450 enzymes of relevance to drug metabolism. It can be concluded 
that  the  species  used  in  the  toxicity  studies  form  the  main  metabolites  in  humans  (CGP  47 292  and 
traces of CGP 47 291), and hence, have been exposed to these metabolites.  
The choleliths (consisting of metabolite IV) seen in Cynomolgus monkey gall bladder in the repeated-
dose  studies  and  the  fluoride-linked  osteomas  in  mice  observed  in  the  carcinogenicity  study,  raised 
questions from the CHMP about their relevance to humans. ,  
An  additional  metabolic  pathway  (to  the  metabolism  by  carboxylesterases)  was  proposed  by  the 
Applicant  for  the  mouse  and  monkey,  where  rufinamide  is  metabolised  through  oxidation  of  the 
difluorophenyl ring, followed by fluoride substitution by glutathione and glutathione degradation via 
the mercapturic pathway, with subsequent formation of metabolite IV. Thorough investigations by the 
applicant  have  shown  that  glutathione-derived  metabolites  (including  metabolite  IV)  could  not  be 
detected  in  humans.  However,  it  cannot  be  completely  excluded  that  small  amounts  of  glutathione 
conjugates  may  be  formed  in  humans.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  agreed  that  the  effects  seen  after 
rufinamide exposure in mouse (osteomas and degeneration of submandibular glands) and Cynomolgus 
monkey (choleliths in gall bladder consisting of metabolite IV) can be considered as species specific.  
8/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
Excretion 
Excretion  of  rufinamide  was  rapid  and  complete  in  mice,  rats,  dogs,  monkeys  and  baboons.  Renal 
excretion  was  the  predominant  route  of  excretion  in  all  species,  except  the  baboon  in  which  biliary 
excretion appeared to be significant. 
Toxicology 
All pivotal studies were conducted according to GLP standards. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Rufinamide is of low  acute toxicity with approximate lethal oral  doses of  more than 5000 mg/kg in 
mice, 5000 mg/kg in rat and more than 2000 mg/kg in dogs. With intraperitoneal injection in rats the 
lethal dose was 1000 mg/kg. The clinical observations were mainly CNS related. No toxicokinetic data 
were  available  from  the  single  toxicity  studies.  When  comparing  allometrically  corrected  non-lethal 
doses, the multiple to human maximum dose (48 mg/kg) was approximately 10 in the mouse and rat, 
and 20 in the dog.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Rufinamide was administered orally to mouse (3 months and 600 mg/kg/day), rat (up to 26/52 weeks 
and 600 mg/kg/day), Beagle dog (up to 26/52 weeks and 600 mg/kg/day), Cynomolgus monkey (12 
months and 300 mg/kg/day) and wild-caught baboon (1 month and 300 mg/kg/day). The main target 
organ of toxicity was the liver in all species tested, and in rodents, the kidney.  
In  mice,  up  to  3  times  increases  in  AST/ALT  and  ALP  and  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  (minimal  to 
mild in males and minimal in females), single cell necrosis and/or hepatic pigment accumulation (in 
periportal areas, in Kupffer´s cells  and hepatocytes) accompanied by increased relative  and  absolute 
liver weights at 200 and 600 mg/kg were seen. These effects occurred at an exposure level similar to 
the  maximum  clinical  exposure  (AUC).  Although  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  and  increased  liver 
weights  are  indicators  of  metabolic  induction.  rufinamide  was  only  a  weak  inducer  of  drug-
metabolising  enzymes  in  male  mice.  The  accumulation  of  unidentified  pigment  and  increased 
ALT/AST and ALP is indicative of hepatic injury. Liver was also a target organ in the repeated-dose 
toxicity  studies  in  rat  and  in  the  carcinogenicity  studies  in  rat  and  mouse.  The  mechanism  of  these 
findings is not fully explained and the relevance for humans is uncertain. However, no significant liver 
toxicity were observed during the clinical trials. 
Atrophy  of  the  acinar  epithelium  of  the  submandibular  salivary  glands  was  characterised  by  a 
decreased  number  of  secretory  granules  and  increased  amounts  of  pale,  basophilic  cytoplasm, 
occasionally vacuolated. These changes were of minimal severity, with the exception of one high dose 
female, which showed gland degeneration. The metabolic pathway in the mouse liberates fluoride ions 
(see pharmacokinetics) and a correlation between fluoride and the development of the submandibular 
glands  has  been  discussed  in  the  literature.  As  the  fluoride  liberating  pathway  is  not  relevant  to 
humans,  (see  above  section  metabolism),  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  effects  on  the  submandibular 
glands are not considered to be an issue for human safety. 
In rats, mostly in male and to a much less extent in females, administration of rufinamide for 1 month 
and  up  to  52  weeks  caused  centrilobular  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  and  cytoplasmic  vacuolation  of 
cells of the anterior pituitary. These findings are related to increased T4 UDP-GT activity, seen after 8 
days  with  a  dose  of  600  mg/kg.  T4  UDP-GT  enhances  the  clearance  of  thyroid  hormones,  which 
results in a reduction of negative feedback, activating TSH in the pituitary, and, in turn, activating the 
thyroid  to  produce  thyroid  hormones.  Liver  enzyme  induction  leading  to  disruption  of  the  pituitary-
thyroid  axis  is  well  known  and  species  specific  for  the  rat,  and  thus  lacks  relevance  to  human  risk 
assessment.  Hepatocyte  enlargement  and  pigment  accumulation  in  macrophages  and  Kupffer´s  cells 
were seen at mid and high dose, even after 4 weeks recovery 
In  Beagle  dogs,  two  moribund  females  were  seen  at  mid  and  high  doses  in  the  13-week  study  (87-
6091)  (another  female  at  high  dose  had  the  same  symptoms,  but  developed  them  later  and  could 
continue  the  study).  The  severe  signs,  clinical  collapse,  severe  haematology  and  bone  marrow 
changes, could be attributed, according to the applicant, to an auto-immune reaction. 
9/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further,  at  doses  of  600 mg/kg,  hepatic  effects  included  periacinar,  intracanalicular  or  centrilobular 
intrahepatocellular  bile  accumulation,  bile  plugs  and  pigment  deposits  within  hepatocytes  or  in  bile 
canaliculi  and  focal  perivascular  inflammation  with  increased  ALP,  AST  and  ALT.  Only  partial 
reversibility was seen after 4 weeks in the 26/52 week study. The AUC for the 600 mg/kg dose was 
(mean  female  and  male)  4430  µmol*hr/L,  giving  an  exposure  multiple  to  the  maximum  clinical 
exposure of approximately 2. Clinically, a 5 time increase of the above upper limit of normal was seen 
for bilirubin, AST and ALT in a few patients. Since the metabolic pathways in dogs and humans are 
similar,  and  metabolite  CGF  47292  being  a  common  major  metabolite,  the  CHMP  requested 
discussion  on  this  finding.  Investigations  on  the  bile  physiology  in  bile-duct  cannulated  dog  that 
repeat-doses  of  rufinamide  induced  a  change  in  bile  composition  and  viscosity  as  well  as  an 
hypercholeresis. Although the mechanism of the cholestasis is not understood, the clinical experience 
overrules the question of the relevance to humans of these findings. In the dog, the NOAEL is set to 5 
mg/kg (13-week study), where leukocytic infiltrates in the liver was seen in female dogs.  
In non-human primates (Cynomolgus and baboon monkeys), the major findings were reversible liver 
weight  increases,  minimal  transaminase  increases,  reversible  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  and 
formation  of  choleliths  in  the  gallbladder  lumen.  These  choleliths  were  seen  at  necropsy  in  the  13-
week study in both male and female monkeys in more than half of the mid-dose and in all monkeys in 
the high-dose, and in the 52-week toxicity study in 2 out of 7 monkeys at termination. In the 13-week 
study, these crystals were even seen in one high dose female after 4 weeks of recovery. No choleliths 
were  found  in  the  1-month  exploratory  study  in  baboons.  Analysis  by  HPLC  with  UV  diode  array 
detection, LC-MS and 1H-NMR spectroscopy, revealed that the choleliths consisted of Metabolite IV, 
the  insoluble  3-hydroxy-6-fluoro-2-S-cysteinyl  conjugate  of  rufinamide.  Metabolite  IV  is  formed  by 
fluoride  substitution  by  glutathione  and  subsequent  glutathione  degradation  via  the  mercapturic 
pathway. In the 52-week toxicity study, metabolite IV was present in urine and bile after 26 weeks of 
exposure to rufinamide, and at all dose levels, but absent after 4 weeks recovery. Metabolite IV has 
also been detected in rat and in dog bile. As explained above, as metabolite IV is not found in humans 
these findings are considered not to represent a risk for humans. 
In the Cynomolgus monkeys, the NOAEL was set to 20 mg/kg, and in the baboon, the NOAEL was 
set to 30 mg/kg in the 1 month study. These exposures corresponds to approximately half the human 
exposure. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Rufinamide  has  been  studied  with  respect  to  gene  mutations  in  bacteria  and  mammalian  cells  and 
chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  Additional  tests  of  nucleus  anomality  and  sister 
chromatid  exchange  have  been  conducted  in  vivo  in  Chinese  hamsters.  In  all  three  in  vivo  tests,  a 
maximum dose of 5000  mg/kg by oral gavage was  used, and the animals are  considered adequately 
exposed.  No  genotoxic  potential  was  evident  at  concentrations  up  to  the  limit  of  toxicity  or  where 
signs of toxicity were observed. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
104-week dietary carcinogenicity studies have been performed I the mouse and rat.  
In mice, rufinamide was administered in the diet at doses of 0, 40, 120, or 400 mg/kg. Body weight 
gain reductions were-17% in males and -18% in females at 400 mg/kg. At 200 and 600 mg/kg, effects 
of rufinamide treatment were seen in the liver, bone and urinary system.  
In  the  bone,  hyperostosis  was  recorded,  which  is  known  to  result  from  chronic,  increased  fluoride 
exposure. Treatment-related myelofibrosis was seen at mid and high dose in both females and males, 
even though no dose-response was seen for the females. The number of mice affected was 0, 1, 4, 10 
and 3, 4, 10, 6 at 0, 40, 120 and 400 mg/kg, for males and females, respectively.  
In  the  bone,  osteomas  were  seen.  Osteomas  are  benign  and  slowly  growing  neoplasms  and  most  of 
them  originate  from  the  osteoblastic  layer  of  the  periosteum.  Spontaneous  osteomas  appear  at  low 
frequency  in  most  strains  of  mice,  but  these  tumours  can  also  be  induced  by  mouse-specific 
polyomavirus  and  retrovirus.  They  are  usually  located  to  skull  and  larger  bones  of  the  limbs.  In  the 
cancer study in mouse, 0, 2, 3 and 9 mice with osteomas with periosteal origin were seen at 0, 40, 120 
and 400 mg/kg, respectively. Multiple osteomas were observed in 7/14 osteoma-bearing mice and the 
most common locations of the osteomas were skull and pelvis. Thus, the osteomas displayed typical 
10/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
characteristics  of  virus-induced  osteomas.  Additional  electron  microscopic  analyses  (included  in  the 
cancer  study,  but  not  conducted  according  to  GLP)  were  performed  on  bone  specimens  from  the 
mouse cancer study. Out of 11 examined samples, 5 did show occasional particles of appropriate size, 
but  no  evidence  of  budding  or viral  substructure. The  remaining  samples  did  show  intracytoplasmic 
particles  with  c-type  retroviral  morphology,  size  and  budding  in  association  with  osteoblasts, 
osteocytes and endothelial cells. The low incidence of osteomas in controls of contemporary studies, 
and no osteomas in the controls of the rufinamide cancer study makes it likely that the osteomas seen 
have  mixed  mechanistical  origin,  where  both  the  presence  of  mouse-specific  retroviruses  and  high 
levels of fluoride contribute to the development of osteomas. Neither of these contributors are relevant 
to human risk assessment, considering that no fluoride substitution takes place in the human metabolic 
pathway  for  rufinamide  (see  above).  In  the  toxicokinetic  study,  the  AUC  is  estimated  to  be 
2400 µmol.hr/L at 400 mg/kg. 
The changes in the urinary system consisted of minimal hydronephrosis, focal fibrosis in the kidney, 
dilation of the ureters and bladder affected mainly males in the high dose, likely due to high age. 
In  the  liver,  the  same  effects  as  in  the  pivotal  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  were  seen;  increases  in 
AST/ALT and ALP, liver hypertrophy and pigment accumulation in the macrophages (see above). 
In addition, treatment-related increases in the incidences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas 
were observed in both sexes at 400 mg/kg. The mouse liver is known to be sensitive to tumourigenisis 
from agents causing microsomal enzyme induction, however, rufinamide was only a weak inducer of 
drug-metabolising  enzymes  in  male  mice.  Comparison  with  historical  controls  for  this  strain  shows 
that the incidence of liver tumour is within the range of the biological variability of the CD-1 strain of 
mice.  No  liver  neoplasms  were  seen  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study.  Therefore  this  finding  is  not 
considered to be a concern for humans. 
In rats, rufinamide was administered in the diet at doses of 0, 20, 60, or 200 mg/kg.  Polyuria in both 
sexes  at  the  high  dose,  and  reduced  body  weight  and  food  consumption  were  observed  at  all  dose 
levels, with reductions in body weight gain of -30% in females and -13% in males at the high dose at 
termination.  Plasma  concentrations  of  rufinamide  were  detected  in  6  out  of  89  control  samples,  at 
approximately 4 times LoQ (0.05 µg/ml). This is not considered to invalidate the study.  
In  the  liver  at  60  and  200 mg/kg,  centrilobular  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  and  megalocytosis  was 
seen. It is agreed that centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy is related to enzymatic induction seen 
in  rats.  Megalocytosis  might  also  be  correlated  with  hepatocellular  hypertrophy.  However, 
megalocytosis occurred primarily in the females with 9/60 rats affected in the high dose, while 14/60 
rats had centrilobular hypertrophy. In the males no cases of megalocytosis was seen in any dose group, 
but  16/60  and  36/60  rats  were  diagnosed  with  centrilobular  hypertrophy  in  the  mid  and  high  dose, 
respectively. In addition, accumulation of pigmented hepatic macrophages and apoptosis, seen only in 
high  dose  females  with  4/60  rats  affected,  were  observed.  As  mention  earlier  (see  repeat-dose 
toxicity),  although  the  mechanism  of  liver  findings  is  not  fully  understood,  no  significant  signals  of 
hepatoxicity have been identified in the clinical trials. 
In the kidney, pelvic epithelial hyperplasia and pelvic mineralization was observed in both sexes at 60 
and 200 mg/kg. Toxicity to the kidney (tubular dilation in the renal medulla and mineralization) at 60 
mg/kg was seen in the dose-range finding study in juvenile rats (dosed up to day 35 post partum), and 
in  the  repeated-dose  toxicity  study  92-100.  As  kidney  lesions  were  not  found  in  longer  repeat-dose 
toxicity studies and as these findings could be attributed in the carcinogenicity study to spontaneous 
lesions in aged rats (chronic progressive nephropathy), it was concluded that they were not considered 
of toxicological significance. 
In  addition,  decreased  bone  marrow  cellularity  in  males  at  60  and  200  mg/kg,  thymic  atrophy  in 
females at all doses and ovarian stromal hyperplasia at 60 and 200 mg/kg was seen. Ovarian stromal 
hyperplasia is likely related to old age. Since no effect was seen on the ovary in other toxicity studies, 
this is not considered to be a concern. 
11/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding  the  immunotoxic  potential,  the  review  of  the  findings  indicate  that  these  changes  do  not 
appear to be inn favour of a direct effect of rufinamide, although this cannot be exclude. Therefore, 
this  potential  will  be  monitored  in  the  post-authorisation  phase  as  describe  in  the  risk  management 
plan 
Treatment-related increases in the incidences of benign thyroid follicular adenomas were observed in 
males  at  60  and  200  mg/kg.  This  tumour  is  caused  by  the  effect  on  the  pituitary-thyroid  axis,  also 
observed  in  the  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies.  The  disruption  of  the  pituitary-thyroid  axis  is  a  well 
known rat specific phenomenon and thus lacks clinical relevance.  
In the toxicokinetic study only plasma concentrations from the cancer study in rats are given, no AUC-
values are calculated. At 200 mg/kg, the AUC is estimated to be approximately 3600 µmol.hr/L. The 
AUC-levels give a margin to maximum clinical exposure of approximately 2. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
In the male rat no adverse effects on fertility parameters were seen at up to 150 mg/kg. Testis weight 
was unaffected by treatment, however, no histopathology on testis were performed. Histopathology on 
male genital organs, including testis, was performed in the rat carcinogenicity study and in the 26/52 
week repeated-dose toxicity study, and no adverse effects were recorded. In female rats, no effects on 
fertility  parameters  were  seen  at  up  to  150  mg/kg.  An  increase  in  post-implantation  losses  and  still 
births  was  seen  at  the  high  dose,  together  with  signs  of  maternal  toxicity.  For  males  in  the  F0 
generation NOAEL was 50 mg/kg, for females no NOAEL was established, for F1 pups, the NOAEL 
was 15 mg/kg. 
Embryo-fetal development 
In  rats,  there  was  no  evidence  of  teratogenic  potential  after  300  mg/kg.  The  skeletal  anomalies  and 
variants  seen  in  F1  generation  are  considered  due  to  a  retardation  of  ossification  along  with  the 
decrease of fetal body weight. These findings were seen at doses with signs of maternal toxicity in all 
dose groups. The NOAEL for F0 dams was not established, in pups NOAEL was 20 mg/kg. 
In rabbits, no evidence of teratogenic potential was seen. The skeletal variations and decreased fetal 
weights  occurred  at  dose  levels  where  dams  showed  reduced  food  consumption  and  decreased  net 
body weight gain, thus the effects are considered due to maternal toxicity. NOAEL for dams and pups 
was  30  mg/kg.  In  rabbits,  no  AUC-levels  were  submitted.  In  toxicokinetic  study  76/1987,  plasma 
concentration  after  repeated-dosing  with  200  mg/kg  was  115  µmol/L,  which  gives  an  exposure 
approximately the same as maximum clinical exposure (Cmax).  
Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function 
In mice, administered up to 500 mg/kg from gestation day 15 to lactation day 20, no adverse effects on 
any of the maternal or pup parameters evaluated were seen. The NOAELs for maternal toxicity and for 
the offspring were both 500 mg/kg. The margin to maximum human exposure is approximately 1.5 
In  rat,  three  peri-postnatal  studies  were  conducted.  In  two  cross-fostering  studies  rufinamide  was 
administered  at  a  dose  of  150 mg/kg  from  gestation  day  15  to  day  21  of  gestation  or  day  14  of 
lactation Treated dams displayed decreased food consumption and body weight parameters. A slight 
decrease in pup weight and pup survival at birth and on lactation day 0-4 was seen mainly in in utero 
treated pups and not cross-fostered, and in in utero treated pups and cross-fostered to untreated dams.  
In study 997078, rats were dosed with up to 150 mg/kg from gestation day 6 to day 20 of lactation.   
At 150 mg/kg, CNS related symptoms and affected body weight parameters were seen in the dams. At 
the same dose, an increase of pup mortality and pup weight per litter was observed on day 1 to 21 of 
lactation. There were no treatment-related effects on the other parameters studied, including postnatal 
development. The NOAEL in this study was 30 mg/kg for the F0 females and for the F1 offspring. 
In  conclusion,  the  effects  seen  on  fetal  weights  and  survival  are  considered  related  to  maternal 
toxicity, affecting the fetuses in utero. 
12/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution studies in pregnant rats and rabbits  
Distribution studies indicated that the embryo/fetus was exposed to rufinamide throughout the period 
of  organogenesis  in  the  embryo-fetal  development  studies.  In  both  rats  and  rabbits  distribution  was 
also seen to the mammary glands suggesting that rufinamide and/or its metabolites would be excreted 
with the milk. Therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended as stated in the SPC section 4.6. 
Studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated  
In rats (dose-range finding study), pups were dosed from days 7 to 21 post partum or to day 35 post 
partum.  Tubular  dilatation  in  the  renal  medulla,  associated  with  mineralization,  of  one  animal  at 
60 mg/kg and in several animals at 200 and 600 mg/kg was seen. 
In  the  pivotal  study,  where  the  animals  were  dosed  at  maximum  150  mg/kg  for  up  to  10  weeks, 
decreased  activity  and  pup  weights,  increased  relative  liver  weights,  centrilobular  hepatocellular 
hypertrophy and pituitary cytoplasmic vacuolation was seen. All other parameters were unaffected by 
treatment.  The  NOAEL  was  15 mg/kg.  It  can  be  concluded  that,  in  studies  with  juvenile  rats,  no 
additional  toxicity  was  seen  than  was  already  known  from  repeated-dose  studies  performed  in  adult 
animals. The adverse effects in the kidney seen in the dose-range finding study, was also seen in the 
carcinogenicity study and in repeated-dose toxicity study 92-100 in rat.  
In Beagle dogs, two studies using juvenile animals were conducted. In the pivotal study, where dogs 
were dosed at maximum 200 mg/kg for 13 weeks, soft faeces, hepatic pigment accumulation was seen. 
The  NOAEL  was  considered  to  be  5 mg/kg,  in  view  of  the  treatment-related  increase  in  ALT  and 
histopathological findings in the liver at 200 mg/kg. Systemic exposure in young and mature dogs was 
similar  for  the  same  mg/kg  dose.  There  was  no  margin  to  the  maximum  clinical  exposure;  at  the 
NOAEL  set  in  the  juvenile  studies,  5  mg/kg,  the  exposure  is  0.03  and  0.05  for  males  and  females, 
respectively, of maximum clinical exposure. 
In  conclusion,  regarding  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies,  no  indications  of  rufinamide  being 
teratogenic was seen. Reproductive toxicity (postimplantation losses and stillbirths) was seen at doses 
where  maternal  toxicity  was  observed.  In  juvenile  rats  and  dogs  the  target  organs  were  liver  and 
kidney,  as  seen  in  adult  animals.  Rufinamide  did  not  cause  any  adverse  effects  on  postnatal 
development. The NOAELs reached in all the reproductive toxicity studies, do not leave any margins 
to  human  maximum  exposure.  Thus,  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies  are  considered  insufficient  to 
establish the safe use of rufinamide in humans during pregnancy. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
An overview of the toxicokinetic data and the exposure ratio in comparison to children human 
exposures is given in the table below: 
13/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
•  Local tolerance  
A local tolerance test was conducted in rabbit. No skin irritating effect was seen after up to 72 hours. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity/contact hypersensitivity studies  
An antigenicity/contact hypersensitivity test was performed in guinea pigs. No reactions were 
observed and the sensitization rate was 0%. 
Dependence studies 
Two  dependence  studies  were  conducted  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys.  No  withdrawal  signs  were  seen 
after 200 or 400 mg/kg administered over a 28-days period and no monkeys self-administered using 
intragastric self-injection at doses of 5-20 mg/kg. From the tests performed it can be concluded that 
rufinamide did not show dependence liability. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment has been performed by the Applicant. Considering the 
extensive human metabolism, low water-solubility, and otherwise low ecotoxic potency of rufinamide 
the CHMP supports the conclusion that the environmental risk is negligible. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In  vitro,  rufinamide  is  involved  in  modulation  of  sodium  channels  probably  by  prolonging  their 
inactive state and has demonstrated efficacy in relevant in vivo models of seizure disorders. 
The  behavioural  and  safety  pharmacology  studies  carried  out  show  that  rufinamide  is  without 
unwanted pharmacological effects at doses exceeding those which confer anti-convulsant protection.  
Rufinamide  shows  a  low  acute  toxicity.  In  the  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies,  the  main  target  organ 
was  the  liver.  Rufinamide  did  not  show  genotoxic  potential.  There  is  no  evidence  of  teratogenic 
potential in either rat or rabbit, but showed reproductive toxicity at doses where maternal toxicity was 
seen.  
The  juvenile  toxicity  data  for  rat  and  dog  indicate  that  the  juvenile  is  not  more  sensitive  than  the 
mature animal to the toxicity of rufinamide. In addition, the rat study showed no effects on behavioral 
and physical development.  
Regarding  the  immunotoxic  potential,  decreased  bone  marrow  cellularity  (dogs/rats),  lymph  nodes 
(dogs/baboons)  and  spleen  (baboon)  were  observed  inconsistently  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  and 
carcinogenicity  studies.  No  relevant  findings  have  been  detected  in  the  clinical  trials.  However, 
clinical  hematological  adverse  events  will  be  monitored  in  post-authorisation  as  part  of  the 
pharmacovigilance risk management plan. 
Concerning  the  carcinogenicity  aspects,  in  the  mouse,  increases  in  hepatocellular  adenomas  and 
carcinomas  and  in  incidence  of  osteomas  in  both  sexes  at  the  high  dose  were  observed.  Treatment-
related myelofibrosis was also seen at mid and high dose in both females and males in mice.  
The mechanism of this myelofibrosis remains unknown. Nevertheless, this is regarded as part of fibro-
osseous  lesions  (FOL),  which  is  thought  to  be  age  dependent.  In  this  particular  case,  regarding  the 
hyperostosis  and  osteomas,  the  increased  exposure  to  fluoride  and  mouse-specific  retro-virus  are 
contributing factors. Therefore it is probably not predictive of development of myelofibrosis in human. 
In any case, the risk of myelofibrosis will be monitored in the risk management plan 
Rufinamide shows no physical or overt psychological dependence liability in cynomolgus monkey. 
Rufinamide showed no skin irritation, corrosive or sensitization potential in the skin irritation study in 
rabbit and in the contact hypersensitivity study performed in guinea pigs. 
There are no safety-related concerns with respect to impurities, degradation products and excipients.  
The environmental exposure resulting from the limited use of the product will be low. 
14/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacokinetics  studies  have  been  completed  to  acceptable,  contemporary  standards,  and  in 
accordance with GCP. 
Clinical studies initiated prior to the effective date of GCP regulations were conducted in accordance 
with the relevant standards at the time.  
According to the report the sponsor claimed all clinical studies initiated after 1995 were conducted in 
accordance with the principles of GCP and Since January 1997, all studies have been in compliance 
with ICH guidelines on GCP (CPMP/ICH/135/95). 
As  only  one  pivotal  study  was  performed  to  support  this  Marketing  Application,  an  inspection  was 
requested  and  performed  in  two  sites,  one  in  US  and  one  in  Europe.  The  conclusion  was  that  the 
recorded and reported data of the inspected sites seem to be trustworthy and reliable to the inspectors.  
All  clinical  studies  initiated  after  1995  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  GCP. 
Since  January  1997,  all  studies  have  been  in  compliance  with  ICH  guidelines  on  GCP 
(CPMP/ICH/135/95).  Studies  initiated  prior  to  the  effective  date  of  GCP  regulations  were 
conducted in accordance with the relevant standards at the time. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The overall clinical pharmacology program of rufinamide consists of 23 studies, including 353 healthy 
subjects and 25 patients, treated either with rufinamide or placebo or both.  Twenty-two (22) studies 
were conducted with healthy subjects, one study including also patients with renal impairment.  One 
study  was  conducted  in  paediatric  patients  with  epilepsy  Additionally,  pharmacokinetic  information 
from 
population 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PKPD) analysis. The PK population included 1072 patients and 
PD population 1725 patients. 
studies  were 
included 
efficacy 
clinical 
safety 
and 
in 
a 
•  Analytical methods 
Rufinamide  concentrations  were  measured  in  plasma  and  in  urine  collected  from  healthy  subjects 
during  the  bioavailability,  bioequivalence  and  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  Rufinamide  was  also 
measured  in  plasma  following  rufinamide  administration  in  all  the  pivotal  clinical  trials,  i.e.  in  10 
clinical studies conducted between 1991 and 2004.  
Different analytical methods for the measurement in biological samples of rufinamide were developed 
and  validated  throughout  the  human  clinical  development  of  rufinamide  either  in  Europe  or  in  the 
United  States  and  cross-validated  between  the  two  sites.  Eight  bioanalytical  methods  have  been 
validated for the assay of rufinamide (and its main metabolite CGP47292) in different human matrices 
(plasma and urine).  
Until 2004, all methods consisted in HPLC with UV detection. Initially, the methods involved manual 
extraction. Later, automated extraction was developed using robotic systems. The analysis range were 
approximately  25-2000  ng/ml  for  0.5ml  plasma  and  125-1000  ng/ml  for  0.1ml  urine  (FR)  or  50-
4000ng/ml (USA). Accuracy and precision were generally satisfactory. 
In 2004, a LC/MS/MS method was developed. The calibration range was 20 to 20000ng/ml. The bias 
was  less  than  2%  and  the  precision  had  CV<5.3%  in  samples.  The  extraction  used  protein 
precipitation; the HPLC was reverse phase liquid chromatography. The method was used for analysis 
of samples in the most recent study in healthy subjects (E2080-A001-001) over a dose range of 800 to 
7200 mg per day multiple doses.  
•  Absorption 
Rufinamide is chemically stable and neutral in solution. The solubility in water as well as in gastric 
and  intestinal  fluid  is  low.  Rufinamide  has  a  slow  absorption  with  a  Tmax  of  about  4-7  hours.  In  a 
population PK analysis of the data from study E2080-A001-001 (using a one-compartment first-order 
absorption and elimination), the absorption constant (Ka) was estimated to 0.21 h-1 and the absorption 
half-life to 3.4 hours. The absorption would then still endure for 12 hours and thus affect the “model-
15/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
independent”  estimations  of  the  terminal  half-life.  This  is  roughly  in  line  with  a  Wagner  Nelson 
analysis performed which showed that the dose is absorbed in 9 hours.  
Active apical to basolateral transport of rufinamide has been observed in Caco-2 cells. The metabolite 
CGP47292 has been found to be actively secreted from the basolateral to apical side of the membrane 
(ie  out  to  the  intestinal  lumen).  Rufinamide  was  not  metabolised  to  CPG47292  during  its  transport 
from the apical to basolateral compartment. Data indicate that rufinamide is not a substrate for P-gp, 
but  but  the  role  of  other  transporters  such  as  OATP-B,  implicated  in  the  uptake  of  some  (mainly 
acidic) drugs from the intestinal lumen, cannot be excluded. 
Bioavailability  
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  rufinamide  has  not  been  determined  in  man  due  to  the  low  aqueous 
solubility  of  the  drug.  The  mean  fraction  of  the  dose  recovered  in  urine,  mainly  as  metabolite 
CPG47292, was 82% indicating that at least this part of the dose is absorbed in some form.  
The  bioavailability  is  less  than  dose-proportional  with  increasing  dose  (see  section  “dose 
proportionality”).  
Comparison of trial formulations with finished product 
During  clinical  development,  several  oral  formulations  were  evaluated  in  healthy  subjects  and  in 
patients.  Tablets  in  strengths  of  50,  100  and  200  mg  were  produced  using  a  roller  dry  compaction 
method  (RC)  and  are  referred  to  as  the  Clinical  Service  Form  (CSF).  These  tablets  were  used  in 
approximately half of the clinical studies in healthy subjects and in three efficacy and safety studies in 
patients, at doses of up to 3200 mg per day.  
Later, when a higher tablet strength was needed (400 mg), the process was changed to wet granulation 
(W)  and  to  wet  granulation  with  a  pre-densification  step  (WP).  These  tablets  are  referred  to  as  the 
Final Market Image (FMI). The FMI tablet had a different composition than the CSF tablet and is the 
formulation to be marketed. The FMI tablet is film coated to mask the slightly bitter taste. FMI tablet 
strengths of 100, 200 and 400 mg have been used in all the remaining clinical pharmacology studies 
and in 5 clinical and efficacy studies in patients with epilepsy, including the pivotal clinical study 022. 
An  oral  suspension  formulation  was  developed  and  evaluated  in  healthy  subjects.  However,  no 
suspension is available for market use in young children. The applicant committed to develop such a 
formulation for children in the post-authorization phase (see follow-up measures) 
Two  200  mg  CSF  tablets,  were  compared  with  one  400  mg  FMI  film-coated  tablet  under  fed  and 
fasting  conditions.  The  results  (Table  below)  indicate  that  concomitant  food  intake  improved  the 
bioavailability  of  the  400  mg  tablets  significantly.  The  FMI  400  mg  and  CSF  200  mg  formulations 
were  not  bioequivalent  as  the  FMI  tablets  gave  higher  AUC  and  Cmax  of  rufinamide.  In  a 
bioequivalence  study,  the  FMI  formulation,  gave  20%  higher  AUC  the  CSF  formulation  under  fed 
conditions.  In  the  large  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis,  the  FMI  table  was  estimated  to  give  a 
86% higher AUC than the CSF tablet (see further section population PK). 
Pharmacokinetics  of  rufinamide  after  administration  of  the  400  mg  FMI  and  200  mg  CSF 
formulation (mean±SD and median for Tmax) Study 037 
CSF fed 2*200mg  FMI 
fed 
400mg 
FMI  fasted  400 
mg 
90%CI  of  mean 
ratio: FMI/CSF 
AUC0-∞ (ug*h/ml) 
69.85±13.55 
84.33±13.84 
63.25±14.61 
1.16-1.26 
AUC0-last (ug*h/ml) 
68.63±13.16 
83.10±13.33 
61.78±14.34 
1.16-1.27 
Cmax (ug/ml) 
3.30±0.37 
4.42±0.57 
2.85±0.52 
1.27-1.41 
Tmax (h) median 
6.00 
4.00 
6.00 
Influence of food 
Food increases the bioavailability (AUC) of rufinamide by approximately 34% and the peak plasma 
concentration  by  56%  when  administered  as  the  FMI  formulation,  which  was  used  in  the  pivotal 
clinical study. Therefore, it is preferable to administer rufinamide with food as reflected in the SPC. 
16/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
Rufinamide  is  30%  bound  to  plasma  proteins.  The  apparent  volume  of  distribution  is  about  75  L 
(population estimate) and increases with increasing body surface area and is larger in adolescents. 
•  Elimination 
Metabolism 
Rufinamide has a terminal half-life of about 10 hours and is eliminated by metabolism.  
After  a  radiolabelled  dose,  the  radioactivity  observed  in  plasma  almost  completely  consists  of 
rufinamide  and  the  metabolite  CPG  47292.  The  main  part  (82%)  of  the  AUC  of  radiolabelled 
compounds  consisted  of  rufinamide.  CPG  47292  contributed  to  approximately  13%  of  the  AUC  of 
radiolabelled  compounds.  The  half-lives  of  radioactivity,  rufinamide  and  CPG  47292  were  very 
similar (9 vs. 8 hours). 
The  main  metabolic  pathway  is  catalyzation  by  carboxylesterase(s)  (CES)  which  hydrolyzes  the 
carboxyl  amide  group  leading  to  the  formation  of  CGF  47292,  an  acidic  and  pharmacologically 
inactive derivative. CES enzymes are present in the liver but also in other tissues including the brain. 
Minor metabolites were formed by glucuronidation of CGP47292. 
Cytochrome  P450-mediated  metabolism  is  very  minor.  In-vitro  studies  showed  that  rufinamide  had 
little or no significant inhibitory capacity for the following human P450 enzymes: CYP1A2, CYP2A6, 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5 or CYP4A9/11-2.   
In  cynomolgous  monkeys  and  mice,  a  glutathione  conjugate  is  being  formed.  During  its  formation 
fluoride  ions  are  released.  This  pathway  has  been  associated  with  cholelithis  and  osteomas  in 
preclinical studies. It cannot be completely excluded that glutathione conjugates are formed in human 
but if so, the amounts are small. This is reflected in the SPC. 
Excretion 
CGP47292 is an anion at physiological pH and is excreted largely in urine. The mean fraction of the 
dose recovered in urine, mainly as metabolite CPG47292, was 82%. Only 2% of the dose was found in 
urine in unchanged form the first 48 hours after dosing. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Rufinamide shows dose-dependent pharmacokinetics with less than proportional increased in exposure 
with  dose.  The  dose-dependency  is  present  for  all  studied  formulations.  The  pharmaceutical 
documentation  indicates  that  this  is  related  to  the  poor  water  solubility.  The  rate  of  dissolution  was 
lower when the dose to be dissolved increased. 
It  may  also  be  related  to  the  active  in-transport  of  rufinamide  in  the  intestine  indicated  by  in  vitro 
assays. The dose-dependency is present within the therapeutic dose range. 
The pharmacokinetics of rufinamide was studied after a 400 mg single-dose and after administration 
of  400  mg  b.i.d  under  fed  conditions  for  4.5  days  to  young  and  elderly  healthy  volunteers.  A  slight 
decrease in exposure/increase in oral clearance was seen also in this study (see following table) 
Table:Single and multiple dose pharmacokinetics of rufinamide (400 mg vs 400 mg b.i.d.) 
Cmax 
(ug/ml) 
4.6±1.1 
4.2±0.7 
Single dose 
Tmax (h)  AUC0-∞ 
(ug*h/ml) 
84.5±23.5 
81.0±18.8 
6.0±2.1 
6.6±1.9 
Cmax 
(ug/ml) 
7.6±1.5 
7.5±1.1 
Multiple dose 
Tmax (h)  AUC0-12h 
(ug*h/ml) 
66.2±10.3 
72.3±1.5 
3.9±2.4 
46.1.5 
T1/2 (h) 
8.3±1.1 
10.2±2.4 
Elderly 
Young 
The pharmacokinetics of rufinamide does not appear to be markedly time-dependent. Non or a small 
increase in oral clearance was seen under multiple-dose conditions. 
17/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Target population 
Children 
The target patient population mainly includes children. However, there are few full pharmacokinetic 
profiles  in  paediatric  patients.  Instead,  the  applicant  has  performed  a  population  pharmacokinetic 
analysis  including  both  adult  and  paediatric  patients.  Simulations  have  been  submitted  showing 
predictions  of  the  exposures  resulting  from  the  recommended  doses  in  different  bodyweight  ranges. 
The median systemic exposure is predicted to be 33% higher in patients with a bodyweight <30 kg as 
compared  to  the  remaining  patients.  The  variability  was  also  higher  resulting  in  95%  percentile 
exposure more than double as high as in the other patient groups. The main clinical efficacy and safety 
data has probably been collected in patients weighing more than 30 kg.  
At the request of CHMP, the applicant further discussed which dose is the most suitable in the patients 
weighing  under  30  kg  using  simulation  model  evaluation  plots  and  further  population  PK  analysis 
plotting the frequency distribution of ages and weights in the population (See Population PK analysis). 
Special populations 
Liver and renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of rufinamide was not altered in patients with impaired renal function. Dialysis, 
resulted  in  a  12%  decrease  in  exposure  and  therefore  do  not  require  dose  adaptation.  No  study  has 
been performed in patients with liver disease. Severe hepatic impairment is contraindicated.  
Other populations 
No  clinically  relevant  differences  related  to  sex,  race  or  the  elderly  were  noted  in  population  PK 
analyses. 
There  were  some  outliers  (4  in  the  studied  population)  with  many-fold  higher  rufinamide  exposures 
than the remaining patients. No reason for this has been identified and the applicant is encouraged to 
further investigate this post-marketing (e.g. genetic polymorphism of carboxylesterases) 
•  Population PK analysis 
The  dose  of  rufinamide  is  titrated  after  clinical  response.  The  effect  of  several  variables  will  be 
compensated  for  by  the  titration  if  performed  sufficiently  slowly.  However,  the  effect  of  external 
factors  such  as  concomitantly  used  drugs,  as  well  as  changing  organ  function  may  need  dose-
adjustments during treatment and is of importance. Also, the dose-titration method was investigated to 
be suitable for patients over the large age and weight range intended for treatment.  
The results show that the median systemic exposure is predicted to be 33% higher in patients with a 
bodyweight <30 kg as compared to the remaining patients. The variability was also higher resulting in 
95% percentile exposure more than double as high as in the other patient groups. 
Also, in the absence of valproate, dosing children <30 kg with different BMI up to 800 mg results in 
similar  exposure,  showing  that  the  effect  of  body  size  is  very  limited.  Therefore,  a  dose  regimen  in 
adpted in the SPC according to these parameters (body weight, concomitant use of valproate) 
However, the effect due to valproate cannot be assessed fully due to the way the covariate effect was 
modelled.  A  new  analysis  has  been  requested  by  CHMP  as  a  post-marketing  commitment  and 
depending on the results a new study PK study may need to be performed in order to investigate the 
effect of valproate on rufinamide pharmacokinetics in paediatric patients (up to 12 years). At present, 
the proposed new maximum dose of 400 mg/day is considered satisfactory. 
Finally, in the SPC, the recommended dose range is 200 mg to 1000 mg/day in patients weighing less 
than 30 kg. In patient receiving valproate, the maximum recommended dose is 400 mg/day (see above 
and PK interactions). The proposed recommended dose range is 400-1800, 400-2400 and 400 – 3200 
mg/day in children and adults weighing 30-50, >50-70 and >70 kg, respectively.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Rufinamide  did  not  inhibit  the  main  cytochrome  P450  enzymes  in  vitro.  The  drug  is  a  mild  to 
moderate inducer of CYP3A4. Treatment with rufinamide 400 mg b.i.d. resulted in a 55% increase in 
triazolam  clearance.  The  effect  may  be  more  pronounced  at  higher  rufinamide  doses..  It  cannot  be 
18/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
excluded that rufinamide may also decrease the exposure of drugs metabolized by other enzymes, or 
transported by transport proteins such as P-glycoprotein. 
In the present treatment of LGS, usually valproate is combined with a benzodiazepine and one of the 
never AEDs (lamotrigine and topiramate). Thus, rufinamide is likely to be combined with these drugs. 
Rufinamide  moderately  reduces  the  plasma  concentrations  of  phenobarbital  but  give  a  moderate 
increase in the plasma concentrations of lamotrigine and carbamazepine. These  moderate effects are 
considered to be non-clinically relevant. Not effect on the clearance of topiramate (P-gp substrate) was 
noted  after  repeat  dosing  of  rufinamide.  However,  since  rufinamide  may  significantly  decrease 
phenytoin  clearance  and  increase  average  steady  state  plasma  concentrations  of  co-administered 
phenytoin (by 0-50% in children, less pronounced in adolescents and adults), consideration should be 
given to reducing the dose of phenytoin. This is reflected in the SPC. 
Valproate  increases  the  exposure  of  rufinamide.  The  most  pronounced  increases  were  observed  in 
smaller  patients  of  low  bodyweight  (<30 kg).  The  need  for  adjustment  of  rufinamide  dosages  is 
mentioned in the SPC (see above discussion inPopulation PK section). 
The plasma concentrations of rufinamide are decreased by phenytoin and other barbiturates, such as 
carbamazepine and primidone. This is mentioned in the SPC. The active in-transport of rufinamide is 
inhibited  by  both  phenytoin  and  valproate  in  vitro.  The  mechanism  of  interaction  is  presently 
unknown. Possible explanations include CES inhibition or efflux transporter inhibition.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
The  primary  in  vitro  pharmacodynamic  data  indicate  that  rufinamide  interacts  with  the  inactivated 
state of the sodium channel and slows conversion to the active state thereby reducing the frequency of 
action  potentials  in  rat  neurons,  an  effect  that  could  contribute  to  blocking  the  spread  of  seizure 
activity from an epileptogenic focus. However, the exact mechanism of action is not clear. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In  vitro  studies  have  revealed  that  rufinamide  limits  the  frequency  of  firing  of  sodium-dependent 
action potentials in rat neurons, which could contribute to blocking the spread of seizure activity from 
an  epileptogenic  focus.  Rufinamide  was  effective  in  a  broad  range  of  animal  models  of  generalized 
tonic-clonic  seizures  and  models  of  partial  seizures  (see  non-clinical  part).  The  relevance  of  animal 
models to human epilepsy is unknown.  
Other pharmacological effects of rufinamide include an analgesic effect in models of neuropathic pain. 
Rufinamide  has  been  investigated  for  its  effects  on  hyperventilation  related  EEG.  The  drug  did  not 
affect EEG frequency and had no effect on hyperventilation related negative EEG-shift. 
Concentration-response analyses in healthy subjects has demonstrated that rufinamide causes a small 
increase in heart rate, proportional to rufinamide concentration, e.g. heart rate is predicted to increase 
by 2.7 bpm at an average steady state concentration of rufinamide of 15 µg/ml. Rufinamide causes a 
small  decrease  in  corrected  QT,  proportional  to  rufinamide  concentration,  of  0.50  ms  per  1  µg/ml, 
which equates to a decrease of 7.5 ms at a typical 15 µg/ml rufinamide concentration in patients. 
A  single  dose  of  800  mg  rufinamide  administered  to  young  subjects  neither  delayed  nor  reduced 
event-related  potentials  such  as  the  N100  and  the  contingency  negative  variation  (CNV),  but  rather 
increased  the  amplitude  of  the  N100  (p<0.05).    Reaction  time  was  not  increased.    The  drug  did  not 
affect EEG frequency and had no effect on hyperventilation related negative EEG-shift. 
Nevertheless, the results do not allow concluding that rufinamide has less cognition impairing effects 
than  other  known  AEDs.  The  possible  impact  on  learning,  intelligence,  and  also  growth,  endocrine 
functions, puberty and childbearing potential will be  monitored in post-authorisation as described in 
the Risk Management Plan. 
19/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Nonlinear mixed effects modelling using NONMEM was applied to explore the relationship between 
the total seizure frequency and the rufinamide exposure. From the final model it was concluded that 
the  seizure  frequency  decreases  proportionally  to  the  exposure  of  rufinamide,  expressed  as  average 
concentrations at steady state. The decrease in number of seizures was neither affected by the type of 
epilepsy  nor  treatment  with  other  antiepileptic  drugs.  The  PD  simulation  results  show  that  the  main 
reduction of total seizure frequency occurs during the first week of treatment. 
Clinical efficacy  
Nine  double-blind  (8  completed),  controlled  studies  are  included  in  this  application  to  evaluate  the 
safety and efficacy of rufinamide in epilepsy-related indications.  
The  pivotal  study  demonstrating  the  efficacy  of  rufinamide  in  the  target  population  (as  adjunctive 
therapy  in  children  and  adults  with  LGS)  was  Study  022,  a  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
randomized, parallel group study. 
This pivotal clinical study (study 022) has been planned and performed according to current standards 
and recommendations from guidelines for the treatment of epilepsy and in accordance with published 
study designs of other antiepileptic drugs in this indication. Nevertheless, the maintenance phase (10 
weeks)  is  shorter  than  the  recommended  one  (12  weeks)  from  the  Note  of  Guidance  on  Clinical 
Investigation of Medicinal products in the Treatment of Epileptic Disorders (CPMP/EWP/566/98). 
The other clinical studies performed between 1991 and 2001 provide supportive clinical information. 
The supporting studies are : 
•  Studies  AE/PT2,  AE/ET1  and  021A  :  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  adults  with  refractory  partial 
seizures, 
•  Study 021P : as adjunctive therapy in children with refractory partial seizures,  
•  Study 018 : as adjunctive therapy in adults and children with primary generalized tonic clonic 
(PGTC) seizures and,  
•  Studies 016 and 038: as substitution monotherapy or monotherapy for partial seizures in adults 
and adolescents. 
A  total  of  1240 subjects  received  rufinamide  and  635 subjects  received  placebo  over  a  treatment 
period of up to 12 weeks. 
Efficacy  data  from  3  open-label  extension  (OLE)  studies  are  also  provided:  1  in  patients  with  LGS 
(Study  022E)  and  2  in  adults  with  partial  seizures  (Studies  AE/ET1E  and  021AE).  A  total  of  758 
subjects received rufinamide in these studies. 
In addition several other uncontrolled studies were performed. 
•  Dose response study 
Study AE/ET1 evaluated the efficacy of different rufinamide doses (200, 400, 800, and 1,600 mg/day) 
in patients with partial seizures on up to three concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AED). 
•  Methods 
This  was  a  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomized,  placebo-controlled,  5-arm  parallel  trial.  The  core 
trial  consisted  of  a  3-month  prospective  Baseline  Phase  followed  by  randomization  to  a  3-month 
double-blind  treatment  phase.  Were  included  in  or  out-patients,  age  15-65  with  inadequately 
controlled  partial  seizures  with  or  without  secondarily  generalized  seizures  (i.e.  4  seizures/month 
during the 6 months prior to the Baseline Phase who were being treated with 1-3 concomitants AEDs 
at a constant dose for at least 4 weeks before the Baseline Phase. Additional criteria for randomization 
were  compliant  patients  with  at  least  9  seizures  during  the  Baseline  Phase  and  no  change  in 
concomitant AED dose. 
20/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On  entry  to  the  double-blind  treatment  phase,  patients  were  randomized  equally  to  one  of  five 
treatments  groups  (200,  400,  800,  and  1,600  mg/day  or  placebo).  There  were  no  dose  titration. 
Treatment was administered orally in a twice-daily regimen.  
The primary variable was the total seizure frequency per 28 days in the double-blind Treatment Phase. 
A  total  of  647  patients  met  the  inclusion/exclusion  criteria,  completed  the  3-month  prospective 
Baseline  Phase,  and  were  randomized  to  treatment.  All  647  patients  received  study  drug  and  were 
included in the intent-to-treat population. The median duration of therapy was 84 days (12 weeks) in 
each of the 5 treatment groups.  
It  should  be  noted  that  the  included  patients  were  adults  with  partial  seizures  which  were  not 
adequately controlled with standard AEDs. The type of epilepsy and the age of the patients are thus 
not  representative  for  the  applied  indication,  the  Lennox-Gastaut  syndrome,  which  occurs  mainly  in 
children.  
•  Results  
Primary efficacy variable: total seizure frequency per 28 days 
Total seizure frequency per 28 days during the baseline and double-blind phases is summarized 
by treatment in the following table: 
Table: Summary of total seizure frequency per 28 days (Study AE/ET1, ITT) 
In conclusion, the minimum effective dose in adolescents and adults (15-65 years) in inadequately 
controlled partial seizures with or without secondarily generalized seizures appears to be 400 mg/d, 
administered as equally divided doses every 12 hours. The three doses 400, 800 and 1600 mg/day 
appear to be similarly effective in this study. 
•  Main study  
The primary efficacy study in the development program is Study 022, a double-blind placebo-
controlled adjunctive therapy study in the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, with an open-label extension 
METHODS 
Study 022 was a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group study. 
Study Participants  
Patients included in the pivotal study must have between 4 and 30 years, been on a fixed dose of one 
to three AEDs during the 28-day Baseline Phase, had a diagnosis of inadequately controlled seizures 
associated  with  LGS  which  included  both  atypical  absence  seizures  and  drop  attacks  (or  other 
21/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nomenclature  that  defines  identical  seizure  type  such  tonic-atonic  or  astatic  seizures).  Other  seizure 
types  may  have  included  tonic,  tonic-clonic  or  myoclonic.  The  diagnosis  of  LGS  was  based  on  the 
International  League  Against  Epilepsy  (ILAE)  and  confirmed  with  direct  6-  to  24-hour  video-EEG 
recordings,  had  at  least  90  seizures  in  the  month  prior  to  the  28-day  Baseline  phase,  had  an  EEG 
within  6  months  prior  to  the  baseline  demonstrating  a  slow  spike-and-wave  pattern  and  a  computed 
tomography  (CT)  scan  or  a  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  study,  confirming  the  absence  of  a 
progressive lesion.  
Patients  with  a  treatable  aetiology  of  seizures  (active  infection,  neoplasm,  metabolic  disturbance),  a 
history  of  generalized  tonic-clonic  status  epilepticus  within  the  30  days  prior  to  baseline  while 
complying  with  appropriate  AED  therapy  or  an  intermittent  benzodiazepine  use  of  more  than  four 
single administrations per month prior to baseline, a history (within the 6 months prior to baseline) of 
a  psychiatric/mood  disorder  (DSM  IV),  not  consistent  with  LGS,  which  required  medical  and/or 
electroconvulsive therapy were excluded. 
Treatments 
Patients  must have been treated for at least 28 consecutive days immediately prior to randomization 
(Visit 1) with a fixed dose of one to three concomitant AEDs). All additional AEDs must have been 
discontinued at least 30 days prior to the 28-day baseline phase. 
Following a baseline phase consisted of a 28 consecutive days (4 weeks) subjects were randomised to 
receive rufinamide or placebo. Randomization occurred on Day 0 and treatment began on the morning 
of  Day  1.  Rufinamide  or  matching  placebo  was  administered  orally  with  breakfast  (approximately 
7:00 - 8:00 a.m.) and again with supper or an evening snack (approximately 7:00 - 8:00 p.m.). 
During the Titration Period, doses were increased based on weight. If tolerability problems arose, the 
dose may have been titrated more slowly at the investigator’s discretion. However, the dose at the end 
of  the  Titration  Period  was  to  be  the  dose  the  patient  remained  on  during  the  entire  Maintenance 
Period. In case of poor tolerability during the Maintenance Period, dosage reductions were permitted. 
Objectives 
The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of rufinamide relative to placebo as 
adjunctive therapy in patients with inadequately controlled seizures associated with LGS. 
Seizure  frequency  was  expressed  as  the  rate  per  28  days  in  both  the  Baseline  and  Double-Blind 
Phases.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
Rufinamide  would  be  considered  effective  if  condition  1  and  2  were  fulfilled  (primary  efficacy 
variables) : 
1.  The percent reduction in total seizure frequency per 28 days in the double-blind phase relative 
to  the  baseline  phase  was  significantly  greater  (p  <  0.025;  two-sided)  for  rufinamide  than 
placebo. 
2.  Both of the following end point were met: 
•  The  percent  reduction  in  tonic-atonic  seizure  frequency  per  28  days  in  the  double-blind  phase 
relative to the baseline phase was significantly greater (p < 0.025, two-sided) for rufinamide than 
placebo. 
•  The  seizure  severity  rating  from  the  Global  Evaluation  of  the  patient’s  condition  was 
significantly greater (p < 0.025, two-sided) for rufinamide than placebo. 
Percent change in seizure frequency (PCH) was defined as PCH = 100*(T-B)/B, where T and B are 
the  seizure  frequency  per  28  days  in  the  double-blind  phase  and  baseline  phase,  respectively.  A 
negative PCH indicated a reduction in seizure frequency.  
The seizure severity rating was a 7-point assessment performed by the parent/guardian at the end of 
the  double-blind  phase.  A  score  of  +3  indicated  that  the  patient’s  seizure  severity  was  very  much 
improved,  a  score  of  0  that  the  seizure  severity  was  unchanged,  and  a  score  of  –3  that  the  seizure 
severity was very much worse from baseline. 
22/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The secondary efficacy variables were:  
1)  response to treatment (i.e., experiencing at least a 50% reduction in tonic-atonic seizure 
frequency during the double-blind phase relative to the baseline phase); 
2)  percent  change  in  the  frequency  per  28  days  for  seizure  subtypes  other  than  tonic-atonic; 
and  
3)  the composite score for the Global Evaluation of the patient’s condition. 
Sample size 
Approximately  128  patients  were  necessary  to  perform  efficacy  analyses  in  this  study.  This  sample 
size was calculated based on the percent change in seizure frequency in the double-blind phase relative 
to the baseline phase. 
No information was available on the performance of rufinamide in this population. It was assumed that 
rufinamide could deliver a percent reduction in seizure frequency 22.5% greater than that of placebo. 
Results from a similar trial with felbamate suggested a population standard deviation of no more than 
σ = 35.  
Conditional  on  these  assumptions  and  assuming  a  normal  distribution,  a  two-sided  t-test  with  a 
significance  level  of  0.025  has  a  statistical  power  of  91.3%  to  reject  the  null  hypothesis  of  no 
treatment  difference  with  approximately  64  randomized  patients  per  treatment  group.  However,  to 
guard against departures from normality, Wilcoxon rank-sum tests were used for this and the other two 
joint analyses of the primary efficacy variables. 
Randomisation 
Randomization  was  performed  by  the  applicant  using  a  validated  system  that  automates  the  random 
assignment of treatment groups to randomisation numbers. Randomisation was in block of four at the 
country/centre level. The randomisation scheme was reviewed by the Company’s trial statistician and 
was locked after approval. 
Blinding (masking) 
Study  drugs  were  supplied  as  100,  200,  and  400  mg  tablets  with  corresponding  matching  placebo 
tablets. The investigator, study site personnel and the Company’s personnel involved in the monitoring 
or  conduct  of  the  study  were  blinded  to  the  study  drug  codes.    The  codes  were  not  available  to  the 
above personnel until the core study was completed and the final data review and database lock were 
performed, except in the case of an emergency. 
Statistical methods 
The data set used in all efficacy analyses was the intent-to-treat patient population, which consisted of 
all randomized patients who received double-blind study drug and provided seizure diary data during 
the double-blind phase. The data set used for all other analyses was the all-treated-patients population, 
which consisted of all patients who received at least one dose of study drug. 
All tests performed by the Applicant to show statistical significance on the primary efficacy variables 
were  two-tailed  with  a  probability  level  of  0.025;  a  probability  level  of  0.05  was  used  to  show 
statistical significance for the secondary efficacy variables.  
A  pooling  scheme  of  countries  was  used  for  analyses  that  examined  country effect  due  to  the  small 
enrolment at many centres and within countries, and the expected large variability in seizure frequency 
between patients. As a result, a factor “Region” consisting of three levels (USA, Brazil, Europe) was 
fitted in the analysis of response to treatment and in the exploratory analyses.  
A data listing of the study-drug dosage administered to each patient during the Double-blind 
Phase  was  provided  by  treatment  group.  The  number  and  percent  of  patients  exposed  to  study  drug 
over distinct time intervals were calculated, and descriptive statistics were provided to summarize the 
duration of exposure to study drug by treatment group. In addition, descriptive statistics of  the dose 
administered during the Maintenance Period (Visits 4 through 6) were provided. No interim analyses 
were planned. 
23/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The participant flow was the following: 
Recruitment 
A  total  of  43  centres  in  the  following  countries  participated  in  the  study:  Belgium  (2),  Brazil  (3), 
Germany (9), Hungary (3), Italy (3), Norway (1), Poland (2), Spain (2), and United States (18). 
Patients were enrolled in 36 of the centres. 
Conduct of the study 
Number of patients randomized 
Number of patients treated 
Number of patients in intent-to-treat 
Number for efficacy analysis 
primary variable 1 
primary variable 2 
primary variable 3 
Number completed 
Number discontinued 
- total 
- death 
- for adverse events 
- othera 
Patient disposition for each treatment group 
Rufinamide 
Placebo 
% 
100.0 
98.7 
98.7 
n 
64 
64 
64 
n 
75 
74 
74 
% 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 
All treatments 
% 
n 
100.0 
139 
99.3 
138 
99.3 
138 
74 
73 
73 
64 
11b 
0 
6 
5b 
98.7 
97.3 
97.3 
85.3 
14.7 
0.0 
8.0 
6.7 
64 
60 
62 
59 
5 
0 
0 
5 
100.0 
93.8 
96.9 
92.2 
7.8 
0.0 
0.0 
7.8 
138 
133 
135 
123 
16 
0 
6 
10 
99.3 
95.7 
97.1 
88.5 
11.5 
0.0 
4.3 
7.2 
Primary variable 1 - percent reduction in total seizure frequency 
Primary variable 2 - percent reduction in tonic-atonic seizure frequency 
Primary variable 3 - seizure severity rating from the Global Evaluation of patient's condition 
aDiscontinued due to protocol violation, unsatisfactory therapeutic effect, withdrawal of consent, 
administrative problems 
bIncludes Patient USA/3054/2101 who was randomized but did not receive study drug. 
24/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no particular problems with the conduct of the study.  
One  randomized  patient  did  not  receive  double-blind  study  drug due  to  an  administrative  error.  The 
remaining  138  treated  patients  were  included  in  the  intent-to-treat  population  for  percent  change  in 
total seizure frequency per 28 days (primary variable 1). One patient in the rufinamide group and four 
patients in the placebo group did not have any tonic-atonic seizures during the Baseline Phase and thus 
were excluded from the analyses for primary variable 2. One patient in the rufinamide group and two 
patients  in  the  placebo  group  did  not  have  an  end-of-study  seizure  severity  rating  from  the  Global 
Evaluation of  patient's condition  and were thus excluded from the analyses for primary variable 3. 
No patients were prematurely withdrawn from the study due to non-compliance. 
Safety analyses were based on data from all 138 treated patients, including those who were excluded 
from the intent-to-treat populations for primary variables 2 and 3. 
The study blind was not broken during the study for any treated patient. Thus, for all patients treated in 
this study, study blinding was preserved until all patients had completed the study, patient validity was 
determined, and the database was locked. 
Baseline data 
Demographic and baseline characteristics by treatment (All treated patients) 
Characteristic 
Sex 
Male 
Female 
Race 
White/Caucasian 
Black 
Other 
Age (years) 
Mean (Range) 
  4 - <12 
  12 - <17 
  ≥17 
Weight (kgs) 
Mean (Range) 
18 – 29.0 
29.1 – 50.0 
50.1 – 70.0 
  ≥70.1 
Placebo (N=64) 
All treatments (N=138) 
Rufinamide (N=74) 
% 
n 
46 
28 
62 
6 
6 
62.2 
37.8 
83.8 
8.1 
8.1 
n 
40 
24 
53 
4 
7 
% 
62.5 
37.5 
82.8 
6.3 
10.9 
14.5 (4, 35) 
31 
19 
24 
41.9 
25.7 
32.4 
13.6 (4, 37) 
33 
17 
14 
51.6 
26.6 
21.9 
n 
86 
52 
115 
10 
13 
64 
36 
38 
% 
62.3 
37.7 
83.3 
7.2 
9.4 
14.1 (4, 37) 
46.4 
26.1 
27.5 
44.1 (15.5, 138.5) 
40.2 (16.2, 86.0) 
24 
25 
13 
12 
32.4 
33.8 
17.6 
16.2 
24 
20 
14 
6 
37.5 
31.3 
21.9 
9.4 
42.3 (15.5, 138.5) 
48 
45 
27 
18 
34.8 
32.6 
19.6 
13.0 
There  were  no  notable  differences  between  the  two  treatment  groups  with  respect  to  sex,  race,  age, 
body weight.  
Summary statistics of seizures in baseline phase (All treated patients) 
All types of seizures 
Tonic-atonic seizuresa 
Atypical absence seizures 
Tonic seizures 
Atonic seizures 
Myoclonic seizures 
Tonic-clonic seizure 
Unclassified 
Partial seizures 
Absence seizures 
Clonic seizures 
Rufinamide (N=74) 
Range 
48, 53760 
5, 14304 
1, 2171 
1, 14304 
1, 4037 
1, 38928 
1, 336 
1, 202 
1, 4195 
1, 192 
1, 6021 
Median 
290.0 
92.0 
76.0 
66.3 
56.0 
80.0 
18.0 
17.5 
49.0 
31.0 
36.0 
n 
74 
73 
59 
52 
45 
37 
37 
12 
11 
8 
7 
Placebo (N=64) 
n 
64 
60 
55 
43 
33 
31 
27 
13 
9 
5 
1 
Median 
205.0 
92.5 
52.0 
49.0 
49.0 
50.8 
15.0 
16.0 
41.0 
22.0 
51.0 
Range 
21, 109714 
1, 13122 
1, 4009 
1, 1066 
2, 13122 
1, 92583 
1, 788 
1, 72 
3, 723 
3, 84 
25/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median number of seizures of any type that occurred during the baseline phase was higher in the 
rufinamide  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  due  to  median  number  for  atypical  absence,  tonic, 
myoclonic, partial, and absence seizures higher in the rufinamide group. The median numbers of other 
types of seizures that occurred during the baseline phase were comparable in both groups.  
The mean duration of LGS, defined as the time between diagnosis and baseline of the study, was 9.9 
years for the rufinamide group and 9.6 years for the placebo group. 
Summary of treatment exposure (All treated patients) 
Cumulative exposure 
(units) 
Rufinamide 
Placebo 
n 
74 
74 
74 
72 
71 
65 
  1 day 
  1 week 
  2 weeks 
  4 weeks 
  8 weeks 
  12 weeks 
Summary Statistics (in days) 
Mean 
Median 
Range 
% 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 
97.3 
95.9 
87.8 
n 
64 
64 
64 
62 
61 
58 
% 
100.0 
100.0 
100.0 
96.9 
95.3 
90.6 
79.2 
84.0 
(13, 112) 
81.0 
84.0 
(13, 103) 
The  target  dosage  was  approximately  45  mg/kg/day  of  rufinamide  (or  placebo  equivalent)  or  the 
maximum recommended daily dose in milligrams for the patient’s weight, whichever was less. 
In both treatment groups, more than 87% of patients received at least 12 weeks of treatment with the 
study  drug.  The  median  duration  of  exposure  to  study  drug  (84  days  in  both  treatment  groups)  was 
consistent with the planned duration of the double-blind phase (84 days). 
Summary of total number of concomitant AEDs used by patients in either treatment group 
(All treated patients) 
Total Number of 
Concomitant AEDs 
One 
Two 
Three 
Rufinamide (N=74) 
% 
10.8 
51.4 
37.8 
n 
8 
38 
28 
n 
8 
35 
21 
Placebo (N=64) 
% 
12.5 
54.7 
32.8 
Valproate,  lamotrigine,  and  topiramate  were  the  most  frequently  used  concomitant  AEDs  for  both 
rufinamide- and placebo-treated patients during the study.  
Summary of concomitant AEDs used by at least 10% of the patients in either treatment group during 
the double-blind phase (All treated patients) 
Concomitant AED 
Valproate 
Lamotrigine 
Topiramate 
Clonazepam 
Carbamazepine 
Clobazam 
Phenytoin 
Phenobarbital 
Rufinamide (N=74) 
% 
59.5 
40.5 
27.0 
18.9 
16.2 
13.5 
13.5 
8.1 
n 
44 
30 
20 
14 
12 
10 
10 
6 
Placebo (N=64) 
n 
35 
19 
17 
7 
12 
8 
12 
9 
% 
54.7 
29.7 
26.6 
10.9 
18.8 
12.5 
18.8 
14.1 
The types of concomitant AEDs used were generally comparable for the two treatment groups. 
26/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy results 
The primary efficacy analysis showed statistically significant results in favour of rufinamide for all 3 
primary variables (p≤ 0.0041), as shown below.  
Primary efficacy variable 1: percentage change in total seizure frequency per 28 days  
Primary efficacy variable 1 showed a significant difference between the 2 treatment groups in favour 
of  rufinamide  (p=0.0015).  Rufinamide-treated  patients  had  a  32.7%  median  reduction  and  placebo-
treated  patients  had  an  11.7%  median  reduction  in  total  seizure  frequency,  as  shown  in  the  table 
below. 
 Summary of percent change in total seizure frequency per 28 days relative to baseline (ITT) 
No  significant  treatment-by-region  interaction  was  observed  (p=0.7373).  Rufinamide  remained 
significantly superior to placebo after adjusting for the number of AEDs used at baseline (p=0.0021).  
Primary efficacy variable 2: percentage change in tonic-atonic seizure frequency per 28 days  
Primary efficacy variable 2 showed a significant difference between the 2 treatment groups in favour 
of  rufinamide  (p<0.0001).  Rufinamide-treated  patients  had  a  42.5%  median  reduction  and  placebo-
treated patients had a 1.4% median increase in tonic-atonic seizure frequency per 28 days, as shown in 
the following table: 
Summary  of  percent  change  in  tonic-atonic  seizure  frequency  per  28  days  relative  to  baseline  (ITT 
patients) 
Primary efficacy variable 3: seizure severity subscale of Global Evaluation of patient’s condition  
Primary efficacy variable 3 showed a significant difference between the 2 treatment groups in favour 
of rufinamide (p=0.0041). An improvement in seizure severity was observed in 39 (53.4%) of the 73 
rufinamide-treated patients compared to 19 (30.6%) of the 62 placebo-treated patients, as shown in the 
table below: 
27/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary  of  seizure  severity  rating  of  the  Global  evaluation  of  the  patients’  condition  (ITT 
population) 
Secondary efficacy results 
Response to treatment 
The percent of patients who experienced at least a 50% reduction in tonic-atonic seizure frequency per 
28  days,  relative  to  baseline,  was  significantly  higher  in  the  rufinamide  group  (42.5%)  than  in  the 
placebo group (16.7%) (p = 0.0020).  
Summary statistics of patients who responded to treatment with at least a 50% reduction in 
tonic-atonic seizure frequency relative to baseline (Intent-to-treat patients) 
                        Rufinamide                             Placebo 
                      31/73       42.5                         10/60            16.7 
Responder Rate                   n          %                               n               % 
50% 
aThe odds of a rufinamide-treated patient experiencing at least a 50% reduction in tonic-atonic seizure frequency per 
28 days relative to the odds of a placebo-treated patient experiencing at least a 50% reduction in tonic-atonic seizure 
frequency per 28 days. 
b p-value based on logistic regression model with treatment, region, sex, and age as explanatory variables. 
Nevertheless,  the  percentage  of  seizure  (tonic-atonic)  free  patients  is  low  and  not  different  in  both 
arms  (4.1%  versus  3.3%).  The  median  reduction  in  different  isolated  seizure  type  frequency  is 
significant only for absences and atonic seizures. 
Odds Ratioa 
3.81 
P-valueb 
0.0020 
In the composite score for the Global Evaluation of the patient's condition, the difference between the 
groups was not statistically significant (p = 0.3492). 
Ancillary analyses 
The applicant has performed additional exploratory analyses which do not indicate any association of 
age  with  the  results  of  the  primary  efficacy  analyses.  Children,  adolescents,  and  adult  populations 
showed  similar  treatment  effects.  There  was  no  association  of  age  or  weight  at  baseline  with  the 
results of the primary efficacy analyses. The number or type of concomitant AEDs a patient received 
was not associated with the results of the primary efficacy analyses. The efficacy of rufinamide could 
be  observed  when  it  was  given  in  combination  with  commonly  used  AEDs  in  LGS,  including 
valproate,  lamotrigine,  and  topiramate.  No  evidence  was  found  that  rufinamide  treatment  caused  an 
increase in the total seizure frequency, or that there was any development of short-term tolerance. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The  patients  within  each  age  subgroup  who  received  rufinamide  had  larger  median  decreases  in 
seizure frequency than did the patients who received placebo. The only exceptions to this were noted 
in subgroups with very low numbers of patients. 
28/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  for  total  seizure  frequency,  revealed  that  the  median  decreases  became  larger  over  the 
course of treatment and the persistence of the response in the rufinamide group but not in the placebo 
group. The large difference between rufinamide and placebo could be seen as early as Week 2. 
In  all  cohorts,  reduction  in  seizure  frequency  did  not  diminish  over  time,  suggesting  that  at  least  a 
subpopulation  of  treated  patients  had  seizure  control  maintained  during  long-term  therapy.  There 
appeared to be no development of tolerance to the anticonvulsant effect of rufinamide when cohorts 
with different lengths of drug exposure were analyzed. 
In Study 022, the proportions of patients with increases in seizure frequency of 25% or less and with 
increases of more than 25% but less than 100% were lower in the rufinamide group than in the placebo 
group. The proportion of patients with 100% or greater increases in seizure frequency was small and 
no  different between  the  2  groups.  In patients  with  primary  generalized  tonic-clonic  seizures  (Study 
018),  the  proportion  of  patients  with  increases  in  seizure  frequency  was  not  different  in  the 
rufinamide-treated group compared to the placebo-treated group. 
•  Supportive studies 
All the supportive placebo-controlled studies provide efficacy of rufinamide in patients with different 
types of epilepsy and of various age ranges. 
1. Double-blind placebo-controlled adjunctive therapy studies in adults with partial 
seizures 
Study AE/PT2 
A multi-centre double-blind placebo-controlled randomized parallel group study.  
The study was a ‘proof of concept’ study performed in a limited number of patients for duration of 4 
weeks. The study included patients with primary generalised as well partial seizures. For the primary 
efficacy variable, seizure frequency ratio, and for response rate, there were trends for an improvement 
with  rufinamide  vs.  placebo  but  no  statistically  significant  differences.  There  was  an  unexpected 
worsening of seizure frequency in the placebo group for the (i) population.  
The data used in the efficacy analyses are summarised below: 
Median seizure frequency per 28 days in the Baseline and double-blind phases (All analysis 
populations in Study AE/PT2) 
29/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 021A 
A multi-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group study. 
In  this  study,  which  included  patients  with  inadequately  controlled  partial  seizures  that  were  being 
treated  with  1  or  2  concomitant  fixed-dose  AEDs,  the  percentage  reduction  in  total  seizure 
frequency/28  days  (primary  variable)  was  significantly  higher  in  the  active  group.  However,  no 
statistically  significant  difference  was  observed  between  the  placebo  and  rufinamide  groups  with 
regard  to  partial  seizure  frequency  per  28  days.  The  responder  analysis  demonstrated  a  significant 
difference  for  50  and  25  %  responder  criteria  in  favour  of  rufinamide.  Among  patients  who 
experienced  secondarily  generalized  seizures  during  the  baseline  phase,  there  was  no  difference 
between the treatment groups in the percentage change in the frequency of this type of seizure during 
the double-blind phase. 
The results of the primary efficacy variable: percentage change in total seizure frequency per 28 days 
are summarised in the table below: 
Table 42. Summary of percentage change in partial seizure frequency per 28 days relative to baseline 
(ITT, Study 021A). 
Study 039 
This  was  a  multi-centre,  double-blind  randomised  placebo-controlled  parallel  group  monotherapy 
study  in  untreated  patients  12  years  of  age  or  older  with  recent  onset  partial  seizures.  The  study 
consisted  of  three  phases:  a  56-day  baseline  phase,  a  56-day  double-blind  phase  and  an  extension 
phase. Approximately 18 patients were planned but only 29 patients were randomised into the study, 
14 to rufinamide and 15 to placebo. The study was terminated early due to the lack of enrolment. The 
number  of  enrolled  patients  was  inadequate  to  obtain  interpretable  efficacy  information,  and  no 
efficacy analysis was performed.  
2. Double-blind, controlled studies of monotherapy and monotherapy substitution 
in patients with partial seizures 
Study 038 
Design: This was a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group study of 
rufinamide as monotherapy in patients with refractory partial seizures who had completed an inpatient 
presurgical  diagnostic  examination.  The  study  consisted  of  a  48-hour  baseline  phase  and  a  10-day 
double-blind treatment phase during which patients were randomized to receive either rufinamide or 
placebo. Patients who completed the study were allowed to enter an open-label Extension Phase. 
Results: The median time to exit criteria (primary efficacy variable) was twice as along for rufinamide 
as for placebo, which was statistically significant. The results provide evidence for short-tem efficacy 
in  monotherapy  when  the  drug  is  tested  in  an  extremely  refractory  population.  However,  the  results 
may not be relevant for longer term clinical use. 
The data are summarised in the table below:  
30/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 43. Summary statistic for time to seizure (ITT, Study 0389) 
Study 016 
A multicenter, double-blind, controlled, and randomized, parallel-group study.  
The study compared the efficacy of treatment with rufinamide in monotherapy at a therapeutic dose 
with  a  subtherapeutic  dose  of  rufinamide  after  gradual  down  titration  of  the  baseline  AED.  No 
difference  was  observed  for  the  primary  efficacy  variable  percentage  of  patients  meeting  one  of  the 
exit  criteria.  For  the  secondary  efficacy  parameter  median  time  to  meeting  one  of  the  exit  criteria, 
there  was  a  trend  for  a  better  result  with  rufinamide  3200  mg/day  but  the  difference  was  not 
statistically significant. 
3. Double-blind placebo-controlled adjunctive therapy study in primary 
generalised epilepsy 
Study 018 
A multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group study. 
In  this  study  of  primary  generalised  tonic-clonic  seizures,  there  was  a  numerical  trend  for  seizure 
reduction  with  rufinamide,  but  no  statistically  significant  differences.    This  is  consistent  with  the 
results  in  the  pivotal  study  where  no  statistically  significant  effects  were  observed  on  primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures. 
The primary efficacy variable data (percentage change in PGTC seizure frequency per 28 days during 
the Double-blind Phase relative to the Baseline Phase) are shown in the table below: 
Responder rates for Study 018. 
4. Adjunctive therapy study in children with partial seizures 
Study 021P 
Design: A multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, parallel-group study. 
31/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results:  This  study  failed  to  demonstrate  any  significant  difference  for  the  primary  variable  with 
rufinamide  versus  placebo  in  children  and  adolescents  aged  4-16  years  with  inadequately  controlled 
partial seizures. as shown in the table below. 
Summary of percentage change in partial seizure frequency per 28 days relative to baseline (ITT, 
Study 021P) 
For 50 % responders, however, there was a strong trend for superiority with rufinamide. The target 
dose of rufinamide was the same as used in the pivotal study in LGS, 45 mg/kg and day. 
A summary of these results is presented in the following table. 
Response to treatment in Study 021P 
4. Open-label extension studies 
Efficacy data were obtained during the open label extension phases of Studies 022, AE/ET1 and 021 
A.  
Study 022E 
Design: a multicentre, open-label extension of study 022.  
Inclusion  criteria:  Patients  who  had  completed  the  84-  day  Double-blind  Phase  of  Study  022  were 
eligible  to  participate  in  the  extension  phase  if  the  investigators  thought  they  might  benefit  from 
treatment with rufinamide.  
Treatment: The extension phase consisted of 2 periods: a double-blind conversion period and an open-
label period. During the double-blind conversion period, patients who had received placebo in Study 
022  began  receiving  rufinamide  at  a  dose  of  approximately  10  mg/kg/day.  The  dose  was  titrated  to 
approximately 45 mg/kg/day over a period of 14 days. Patients who had received rufinamide during 
Study 022 continued to receive the same dose of rufinamide during the double-blind conversion phase. 
The daily dose at the end of the conversion phase  was used as the initial dose for open-label phase. 
During open-label treatment, the rufinamide dose could range from 10-45 mg/kg/day in 2 or 3 divided 
doses at the investigator's discretion. The newer FMI formulation of rufinamide was used in this study. 
The extension phase continued in a participating country until rufinamide was registered and launched 
in that country or until its development was terminated in that country. 
32/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary and secondary efficacy variables: The protocol did not define any efficacy variables for the 
extension  phase,  although  the  patients  were  required  to  record  the  occurrence  of  seizures  in  diaries. 
The following efficacy variables were identified by the Company after the study was completed: 
• Variable 1 - The percentage change in seizure frequency (total and tonic-atonic) per 28 days relative 
to baseline. This was determined for 2 cohorts: patients who had received rufinamide during both the 
double-blind  phase  (Study  022)  and  the  extension  phase  (022E),  and  patients  who  had  received 
placebo during the double-blind phase and rufinamide during the extension phase. 
•  Variable  2  -  Response  to  treatment,  defined  as  experiencing  at  least  a  50%  or  75%  reduction  in 
seizure frequency for the overall study period, the last 6 months, or the last 12 months of the study. 
This variable was determined for total seizure frequency and for tonic-atonic seizure frequency. 
Tolerance to effectiveness was also evaluated using those 2 efficacy variables. If there were an initial 
percentage reduction in seizure frequency, followed by a lessening of the reduction or an increase in 
frequency, this would have suggested that patients were developing tolerance to the antiepileptic effect 
of rufinamide.  
The disposition of the 124 patients treated in this study is illustrated in Figure 11. 
Fig. 11. The disposition of the 124 patients treated in the extension study 022E  
Exposure to study drug in Study 022E 
One patient was randomized to receive double-blind treatment in Study 022 but did not receive any 
study drug due to an administrative error. He was allowed to enter the Extension Phase directly. Of the 
remaining 123 patients, 63 had received rufinamide during the double-blind 
Phase  of  Study  022  and  60  had  received  placebo.  The  median  cumulative  duration  of  exposure  to 
rufinamide  for  patients  who  entered  the  Extension  Phase  was  432  days,  with  a  range  of  10  to  1149 
days.  Eighty-three  (66.9%)  of  124  patients  received  rufinamide  for  1  year  or  more,  74  (59.7%) 
received rufinamide for 18 months or more, and 51 (41.1%) received rufinamide for 2 years or more. 
The median dose of rufinamide was approximately 1800 mg/day in the Open-label Period. 
Results  
Efficacy variable 1: Percentage change in seizure frequency per 28 days 
Total seizures 
Figure 12 illustrates the median percentage reduction from baseline in total seizure frequency for the 
rufinamide and placebo groups during the double-blind and extension phases.  
33/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 12. Median percentage reduction from baseline in total seizure frequency 
(Patients in Study 022E) 
Patients  who  received  rufinamide  in  both  phases  demonstrated  preserved  reduction  in  total  seizure 
frequency as the group continued from the double-blind phase into the extension phase. Patients who 
received placebo during the double-blind phase and then switched to rufinamide in the extension phase 
had  a  reduction  in  seizure  frequency  once  they  started  receiving  rufinamide.  However,  it  should  be 
noted that only 42 patients completed the study whereas 82 patients withdrew. As much as 51 patients 
withdrew due to insufficient therapeutic effect. It is therefore not possible to conclude whether there 
was tolerance development during the extension phase.   
Efficacy variable 2: Response to treatment 
Total seizures 
The responder rates based on total seizure frequency are summarized in Table 47. 
Table 47. Response to treatment based on total seizure frequency (Patients in 
Study 022E) 
34/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Forty-five percent (45%) of the patients had at least a 50% reduction in total seizure frequency during 
the  last  6  months  of  treatment.  The  percentage  of  patients  with  a  50%  response  during  the  last  12 
months  was  41.0%.  The  50%  response  rate  for  total  seizure  was  36.9%  overall.  For  at  least  a  75% 
reduction  in  total  seizures,  the  response  rates  were  lower  but  the  pattern  was  similar.  Two  of  122 
patients (1.6%) were seizure-free for the last 6 months of treatment. 
In summary, the patients who switched from double-blind placebo to open-label rufinamide responded 
to  treatment  with  decreases  in  seizure  frequency.  However,  only  42  of  124  patients  completed  the 
study, whereas 82 withdrew and of these, 51 patients withdrew due to insufficient therapeutic effect. It 
is possible that a proportion of these 51 patients withdrew due to tolerance development with reduced 
efficacy.  The  results  from  the  extension  study  do  not  answer  the  question  whether  there  is 
development of tolerance to the anticonvulsant effect of rufinamide during long-term treatment. 
Studies AE/ET1 E and 021AE 
Efficacy date were obtained during the open-label phase of Studies AE/ET1 and 021A. Patients who 
had completed the double-blind phase of the studies were eligible to participate in the Extension Phase 
(395 patients were treated in study AE/ET1E and 240 in study 021AE). 
The  Extension  Phase  consisted  of  2  periods:  an  open-label  Conversion  Period  and  an  Open-label 
Period. During the Conversion Period, all patients received rufinamide according to a recommended 
titration schedule based on the dose of study drug (rufinamide or placebo) they had received during the 
double-blind  phase.  After  completion  of  the  Conversion  Period,  each  patient  entered  the  Open-label 
Period. 
The following efficacy variables were identified after the study was completed: 
• Variable 1 - The percentage change in partial seizure frequency per 28 days relative to the baseline 
phase.  This  was  determined  for  2  cohorts:  patients  who  had  received  rufinamide  during  both  the 
double-blind  phase  (Study  021A)  and  the  Extension  Phase  (021AE),  and  patients  who  had  received 
placebo during the double-blind phase and rufinamide during the Extension Phase. 
•  Variable  2  -  Response  to  treatment,  defined  as  experiencing  at  least  a  50%  or  75%  reduction  in 
seizure frequency for the overall study period, the last 6 months, or the last 12 months of the study. 
This variable was determined for total seizure frequency and for tonic-atonic seizure frequency. 
The results were similar in the 2 extensions, so only study 021AE is presented. 
Efficacy variable 1: Percentage change in seizure frequency per 28 days 
Patients  who  received  placebo  during  the  core  study  and  then  switched  to  open-label  rufinamide 
showed  decreases  in  seizure  frequency,  which,  over  time,  became  similar  to  those  experienced  by 
patients who received both double-blind and open-label rufinamide. 
35/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy variable 2: Response to treatment 
Approximately  22%  of  the  patients  maintained  at  least  a  50%  reduction  in  total  seizure  frequency 
during treatment with rufinamide. The rate was approximately 29% for those who had at least a 50% 
reduction during the last 6 or 12 months of treatment. For at least a 75% reduction in total seizures, the 
response rates were lower but the pattern was similar. Five (2.1%) patients were seizure-free for the 
last 6 months of treatment. 
Response to treatment based on partial seizure frequency 
Responder Rate 
Period 
50% 
75% 
Overall 
Last 12 months 
Last 6 months 
Overall 
Last 12 months 
Last 6 months 
100% (Seizure free) Overall 
Last 12 months 
Last 6 months 
Responded/ 
Treated 
53/238 
69/238 
70/238 
18/238 
35/238 
42/238 
2/238 
4/238 
5/238 
% 
Response 
22.3 
29.0 
29.4 
7.6 
14.7 
17.6 
0.8 
1.7 
2.1 
In  summary,  approximately  half  of  the  635  patients  who  participated  in  these  studies  received 
rufinamide  for  a  cumulative  duration  of  at  least  2  years.  The  group  of  patients  who  had  received 
rufinamide in the double-blind phase and entered the Extension Phase continued to show reductions in 
seizure  frequency.  The  group  of  patients  who  switched  from  double-blind  placebo  to  open-label 
rufinamide quickly responded with improvement in seizure frequency, which eventually matched that 
attained  by  rufinamide-treated  patients.  The  median  reduction  in  seizure  frequency  did  not  diminish 
over  time  in  the  open-label  Extension  Phase  in  patients  who  had  received  rufinamide  or  placebo 
during the double-blind phase. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
There  is  a  single  pivotal  clinical  trial  conducted  in  Lennox-Gastaut  syndrome  (study  022  and  its 
extension  022E).  Study  022  is  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel 
study  comparing  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  rufinamide  as  adjunctive  therapy  relative  to  placebo  in 
patients with inadequately controlled Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. The study design was in accordance 
with  current  standards  to  determine  efficacy  of  antiepileptic  drug  and  design  is  comparable  to 
published  study  design  supporting  the  approval  of  felbamate,  topiramate  and  lamotrigine  in  this 
indication. 
36/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The diagnosis of LGS was based on the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) and confirmed 
with direct 6- to 24-hour video-EEG recordings.  
The patient population, as chosen on the basis of the inclusion/exclusion criteria, was appropriate and 
representative  of  patients  with  LGS,  due  to  the  substantial  proportion  of  children  included  in  the 
present trial (more than 2/3).  
The percent change in total seizure frequency per 28 days during the double-blind phase relative to the 
baseline  phase  (Primary  efficacy  variable  1),  showed  a  significant  difference  between  the  two 
treatment  groups  in  favour  of  rufinamide  (p  =  0.0015).  Rufinamide-treated  patients  had  a  32.7% 
median  reduction  and  placebo-treated  patients  had  an  11.7%  median  reduction  in  total  seizure 
frequency.  
The  percent  change  in  tonic-atonic  seizure  frequency  per  28  days  during  the  double-blind  phase 
relative  to  the  baseline  phase,  showed  a  significant  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in 
favour  of  rufinamide  (p  <  0.0001).  Rufinamide-treated  patients  had  a  42.5%  median  reduction  and 
placebo-treated patients had a 1.4% median increase in tonic-atonic seizure frequency per 28 days.  
The  seizure  severity  rating  at  the  end  of  the  double-blind  phase,  showed  a  significant  difference 
between the two treatment groups in favour of rufinamide (p = 0.0041). An improvement in seizure 
severity was observed in 39 (53.4%) of the 73 rufinamide-treated patients compared to 19 (30.6%) of 
the 62 placebo-treated patients. 
Nevertheless, there was a systematic strong baseline imbalance with respect to one of the two primary 
endpoints:  i.e.  the  total  seizure  frequency  at  baseline.  This  strong  imbalance  also  occurred  for  some 
seizure  subtypes.  The  baseline  total  seizure  frequency  median  was  290  in  patients  treated  with 
rufinamide and only 205 in patients treated with placebo. Hence, patients treated with placebo were 
less  severe  at  baseline  than  those  treated  with  rufinamide.  The  medians  estimated  over  the  double-
blind  period  were  similar  between  the  two  treatments:  i.e.  204.1and  205.4  in  the  rufinamide  and 
placebo groups respectively. Thus, it cannot be excluded that the treatment effect might be explained 
entirely from this strong baseline imbalance.  
At the request of the CHMP further analysis have been performed by the applicant. 
Hodges-Lehmann estimators and 95% confidence intervals of the treatment effect for all seizure types 
using percent change from baseline in seizure frequency, change from baseline in seizure frequency, 
and  post-baseline  seizure  frequency  (including  baseline  seizure  frequency  as  covariate)  were 
performed. Unfortunately, as baseline unadjusted analysis are missing, it is not possible to exclude that 
results of primary efficacy variable 1 (the percent change in total seizure frequency per 28 days during 
the  double-blind  phase  relative  to  the  baseline  phase)  might  be  explained  entirely  from  this  strong 
baseline imbalance.  
Nevertheless, primary efficacy variable 2 (the percent change in tonic/atonic seizure frequency per 28 
days  during  the  double-blind  phase  relative  to  the  baseline  phase)  (where  there  was  no  imbalance 
observed  at  baseline)  and  primary  efficacy  variable  3  (the  seizure  severity  rating  at  the  end  of  the 
double-blind  phase),  showed  a  highly  significant  difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in 
favour of rufinamide on quantitative and responder analysis.  
These results are consistent and robust as confirmed by the results obtained in the sensitivity analysis. 
The PK-PD analysis showed that reduction in total seizure frequency, reduction in tonic-atonic seizure 
frequency,  and  improvement  in  seizure  severity  were  related  to  the  rufinamide  serum  concentration, 
i.e., higher exposure to rufinamide was related to seizure improvement.  
Children, adolescents, and adult patients of either sex showed similar treatment effects. 
The open-label study (study 022E) showed that the group of patients who switched from double-blind 
rufinamide  to  open-label  rufinamide  continued  to  respond  to  treatment  with  decreases  in  seizure 
frequency that were as large as, or larger, than the responses during double-blind treatment. The group 
of  patients  who  switched  from  double-blind  placebo  to  open-label  rufinamide  quickly  responded  to 
treatment  with  marked  decreases  in  seizure  frequency.  As  open-label  treatment  continued,  these 
patients eventually attained levels of seizure reduction that were comparable to those in patients who 
had received both double-blind and open-label rufinamide.  
37/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
A satisfactory maintenance of effect was seen at  more than 18 months, without any obvious sign of 
tolerance.  However  long-term  efficacy  and  absence  of  tolerance  have  not  been  demonstrated 
convincingly. A statement has been included in the SPC. 
Rufinamide  showed  a  moderate  efficacy  on  partial  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  as  adjunctive 
therapy  (studies  AE/PT2,  AE/ET1  and  021A)  and  as  monotherapy  of  substitution  in  adults  and 
adolescents (studies 016 and 038), but not in children with refractory partial seizures (study 021P). In 
addition,  there  was  no  significant  efficacy  found  on  partial  seizures  in  adults  as  monotherapy 
comparing  high  versus  low  doses,  as  well  as  in  primary  generalized  epilepsy  in  adults  and  children 
over 4 years (study 018), and the effect on associated seizure types, absence and myoclonic seizures, 
was inferior to  placebo. It is true that this population included was very small for these seizure types, 
and subject to high individual variations. Thus, study 018 failed to bring supportive notion of efficacy 
in generalized syndromes. No antiepileptic mechanism is known for rufinamide that could explain a 
better  effect  of  rufinamide  in  LGS  than  in  the  major  types  of  epilepsy.  This  was  a  concern  for  the 
external validity of efficacy.  
Therefore, further information was requested by the CHMP including data about titration, maintenance 
dose, dose- response relationship, pharmacokinetics and short term safety in these supportive studies.  
In  the  response  by  the  applicant,  overall  the  efficacy  of  rufinamide  as  an  antiepileptic  drug  is 
supported  by  three  positive  trials  in  adults  with  partial  seizures  in  which  significant  differences  in 
seizure  frequency  were  seen  versus  placebo. The  trial  in  paediatric  patients  with  partial  seizures  did 
not  meet  the  primary  efficacy  endpoints.  However,  the  responder  rate  approached  significance 
(p=0.0596). 
In  patients  with  primary  generalized  seizures  rufinamide  efficacy  has  not  been  demonstrated. 
Nevertheless, relatively low rufinamide dose (800 mg/day) have been used. Thus these data give some 
reassurance for the external validity of the results. 
Clinical safety 
The  population  of  all  patients  with  epilepsy  who  have  received  at  least  1  dose  of  rufinamide  in  a 
controlled or open-label clinical study or in an open-label extension includes a total of 1,978 patients. 
In addition to safety documentation for all patients with epilepsy, the applicant has submitted analyses 
of  different  subpopulations  of  patients  who  have  been  exposed  to  rufinamide.  The  different 
subpopulations for which safety data have been provided are listed below:   
•  Double-blind,  adjunctive  therapy  study  in  LGS:  This  population  includes  all  patients  who 
received at least 1 dose of rufinamide or placebo in the pivotal study, Study 022 (N=74 
rufinamide-treated patients and N=64 placebo-treated patients). 
•  Double-blind,  adjunctive  therapy  study  in  LGS  (with  open-label extension):  This  population 
includes all patients who 1) received double-blind rufinamide in the pivotal study, Study 022, 
and did not enter the Extension Phase (Study 022E), 2) received  double-blind rufinamide in 
Study 022, entered the Extension Phase, and received at least 1 dose of open-label rufinamide; 
and 3) received double-blind placebo in Study 022, entered the Extension phase, and received 
at  least  1  dose  of  open-label  rufinamide  (N=135  rufinamide-treated  patients).  Data  obtained 
only while patients were receiving rufinamide are included in this pool.  
•  Double-blind studies in paediatric patients: This population includes all patients who received 
at least 1 dose of rufinamide or placebo and either were enrolled in double-blind 
Study 021P (paediatric patients only) or were ≤16 years old and enrolled in another   double-blind 
study  in  epilepsy,  including  the  LGS  study  (N=212  rufinamide-treated  patients  and  N=197 
placebo-treated patients).¨ 
•  Double-blind, adjunctive therapy study in paediatric patients (with open-label extension): 
This  population  includes  all  patients  in  the  preceding  population  who  1)  received  double-blind 
rufinamide only, 2) received double-blind rufinamide, entered an Extension Phase, and received at 
least 1 dose of open-label rufinamide; and 3) received double-blind placebo, entered an Extension 
38/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase, and received at least 1 dose of open-label rufinamide (N=391 rufinamide-treated patients). 
Data obtained only while patients were receiving rufinamide are included in this pool. 
•  All treated patients with epilepsy (double-blind studies): This population includes all patients 
with  epilepsy  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  drug  in  a  double-blind  clinical  study 
(N=1,240 rufinamide-treated patients and N=635 placebo-treated patients). 
•  All  treated  patients  with  epilepsy:  This  population  includes  all  patients  with  epilepsy  who 
received  at  least  1  dose  of  rufinamide  in  a  controlled  or  open-label  clinical  study  or  in  an 
open-label extension (N=1,978 rufinamide-treated patients). Data obtained only while patients 
were receiving rufinamide are included in this pool.  
The number of patients in each analysis population, by study is summarised in the table below. The 
largest  population,  “All  treated  patients  with  epilepsy”,  included  a  total  of  1,978  patients.  In  this 
assessment  report,  focus  is  on  the  two  largest  safety populations, “All  treated  patients  with  epilepsy 
(double-blind studies)” [n=1875] and “All treated patients with epilepsy” [n=1978]. 
Table. Number of patients in each analysis population, by study 
39/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the demographic characteristics of all treated patients with epilepsy. 
Approximately half of the 1,978 patients exposed to rufinamide were males. The mean age was 31.3 
years, and 77.6% of the patients were between the ages of 17 and 64 years. The mean weight was 66.8 
kg, and 78.4% of the patients weighed more than 50 kg. 
Table. Patient demographics for all treated patients with epilepsy (n=1,978). 
•  Patient exposure 
The extent of exposure to study drug for all rufinamide-treated patients with epilepsy is summarized 
by  median  daily  dose  in  Table  50.  Median  doses  were  less  than  1,600  mg/day  for  939  (47.5%) 
patients,  1,600  to  less  than  2,400  mg/day  for  381  (19.3%)  patients,  2,400  to  3,200  mg/day  for  598 
(30.2%)  patients,  and  more  than  3,200  mg/day  for  60  (3.0%)  patients.  The  duration  of  exposure  to 
these median daily doses ranged from less than 1 month to 4 years or more. More than half of the 939 
patients with median doses of less than 1,600 mg/day were treated for at least 6 months. More than 
half  of  the  1,039  patients  with  median  doses  of  1,600  mg/day  or  more  were  treated  for  at  least  12 
months. 
Table. Duration of exposure to rufinamide by median daily dose in mg/day 
(All treated patients with epilepsy) 
40/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events  
Events that were expected due to the trial indication (such as seizures in patients with epilepsy) were 
not  treated  as  adverse  events  or  serious  adverse  events,  unless  the  event  represented  a  significant 
worsening of the symptom (e.g., new  seizure type,  clinically significant increase in seizure severity, 
status epilepticus or hospitalization, etc.). The investigators were instructed to record adverse events 
using standard medical terminology. For the CSRs, the specific terms that the investigators recorded 
were  coded  to  Preferred  Terms  using  the  Medical  Dictionary  for  Regulatory  Activities  (MedDRA), 
Version 6.0.  To maintain consistency in terminology for this safety summary, all investigator terms 
from all studies were recoded using MedDRA. 
Adverse events data were pooled using the analysis populations defined in Section IV.1 
An  overview  of  all  adverse  events,  deaths,  serious  adverse  events,  and  adverse  events  leading  to 
discontinuation of therapy is presented in the next table. 
Table. Overview of adverse events, deaths, non-fatal serious adverse events, and adverse events 
leading to discontinuation of therapy 
All treated patients with epilepsy (double-blind studies) 
41/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The adverse events which occurred in more than 10 % of the patients are displayed by severity in the 
table below. The most common adverse events were headache (22.9 % for rufinamide vs. 18.9 % for 
placebo), dizziness (15.5 % vs. 9.4 %), fatigue (13.6 % vs. 9.0 %), somnolence (11.8 % vs. 9.1 %) and 
nausea (11.4 % vs. 7.6 %).  
Table. Number (%) of patients with adverse events by preferred term (10 % of greater for either 
treatment group) by severity. All treated patients with epilepsy, double-blind studies) 
The analysis of incidence of adverse events that occurred in 10 % or more of the rufinamide-treated 
patients shows a general tendency for an increased incidence with increasing dose. 
A safety review of eye disorders shows that such events were reported in 18, 7% of all patients who 
received  at  least  1  dose  of  rufinamide.  The  most  commonly  occurring  eye  disorders    were 
diplopia(8,9%), vision blurred(6%) and visual disturbance among all treated patients The rate of eye 
disorder  based  on  patient  –years    of  exposure  to  rufinamide  was  higher  in  adults  than  in  paediatric 
patients or patients with LGS. As there was a higher incidence of diplopia and blurred vision in the 
rufinamide group compared to placebo in controlled clinical studies and as the occurrence of diplopia 
and other eye disorders are common with AEDs, these findings are mentioned in the SPC (section 4.8) 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Double-blind, adjunctive therapy study in LGS (Study 022)[n=138] 
In the pivotal study in LGS, three (4.1%) rufinamide-treated patients experienced a total of 5 serious 
adverse events, and 2 (3.1%) placebo-treated patients experienced a total of 2 serious adverse events. 
Serious  adverse  events  led  to  discontinuation  of  treatment  in  1  patient,  who  was  in  the  rufinamide 
group and had serious adverse events of vomiting, fatigue, and rash. 
No patient in either treatment group died during or within 30 days of discontinuing treatment in the 
double-blind LGS study (Study 022). 
All treated patients with epilepsy (double-blind studies)[n=1875] 
42/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seventy-eight (6.3%) rufinamide-treated patients experienced a total of 98 serious adverse events, and 
25  (3.9%)  placebo-treated  patients  experienced  a  total  of  28  serious  adverse  events.  The  most 
frequently  reported  serious  events  in  the  rufinamide  group  were  related  to  general  disorders,  eye 
disorders and epilepsy. Fatigue was reported for 6 patients (0.5 %) in the rufinamide groups versus 0 
in the placebo group. Convulsion was reported for 7 patients (0.6 %) in the active groups vs. 4 (0.6 %) 
in  the  placebo  group.  Status  epilepticus  was  reported  for  4  (0.3  %)  in  the  active  group  vs.  0  in  the 
placebo group. 
Twenty-three serious adverse events in the rufinamide group and 7 serious adverse events in the 
placebo group led to discontinuation of treatment. 
All treated patients with epilepsy [n=1978] 
Two  hundred  sixty-one  (13.2%)  patients  experienced  a  total  of  327  serious  adverse  events.  The 
estimated  exposure  to  rufinamide  in  this  population  was  2,552.96  patient-years.  The  rate  of  serious 
adverse events was therefore 10.22 per 100 patient-years. The most frequently reported serious events 
with  rufinamide  were  related  to  epilepsy:  convulsion  (43  patients),  status  epilepticus  (19  patients), 
grand  mal  convulsion  (11  patients),  partial  seizures  with  secondary  generalization  (8  patients), 
complex partial seizures (4 patients), epilepsy (4 patients), and partial seizures (1 patient). The most 
frequently occurring non-epilepsy related serious adverse events with rufinamide were pneumonia (15 
patients)  and  vomiting  (11  patients).  Fifty-three  serious  adverse  events  led  to  discontinuation  of 
treatment. 
Deaths 
Twenty-two patients (18 who received rufinamide and 4 who received placebo) died during one of the 
clinical studies or within 30 days after receiving the last dose of study drug in one of the studies. Six 
patients  (2  who  received  rufinamide  and  4  who  received  placebo)  died  during  double-blind  studies, 
and 16 died while taking rufinamide during open-label studies or open label extension studies. For all 
treated  patients  with  epilepsy,  the  rate  of  deaths  was  0.71  per  100  patient-years  of  exposure  to 
rufinamide.  The  rates  were  0.69  per  100  patient-years  of  exposure  to  rufinamide  and  2.67  per  100 
patient-years of exposure to placebo for all patients with epilepsy who received study drug in double-
blind studies. 
Only 1 death was suspected by the investigators of being related to study drug: cardiac arrest in 
Patients 0001-03008 (Study AE/ET1) who received placebo. 
Sudden unexplained death in epilepsy (SUDEP) 
The applicant has reviewed all available information concerning each of the deaths to determine which 
represented sudden deaths, i.e., deaths without any obvious cause (except for seizures), regardless of 
the investigators’ terms for cause of death. Eight deaths among rufinamide-treated patients, all during 
open-label  treatment,  and  the  four  deaths  among  placebo  treated  patients  were  considered  sudden 
deaths. All deaths in the rufinamide-treated patients were considered not related to rufinamide. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the double-blind studies, discontinuations due to adverse events occurred in higher percentages of 
rufinamide-  patients  (approximately  7%  to  8%)  than  placebo-treated  patients  (0%  to  4.3%).  
Discontinuations  were  more  frequent  (approximately  13%)  with  longer  duration  of  rufinamide 
43/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure  as  in  the  open-label  extensions.  Of  the  1,978  patients  with  received  at  least  1  dose  of 
rufinamide,  13.1%  discontinued  treatment  because  of  adverse  events  with  the  most  common  events 
being fatigue, headache, nausea, and dizziness. The reasons for discontinuations due to adverse events 
are reviewed below for the pivotal study 022, all double-blind studies, and for all treated patients with 
epilepsy. 
Double-blind, adjunctive therapy study in LGS, Pivotal study 022 
Six (8.1%) rufinamide-treated patients and no placebo-treated patients discontinued study drug during 
the double-blind study in LGS due to adverse events. The events leading to discontinuation of more 
than  1  patient  were  vomiting  (3  patients),  somnolence  (2  patients),  and  rash  (2  patients).  No  patient 
had laboratory abnormalities as a primary reason for discontinuation. 
No patient discontinued in the placebo group. 
All treated patients with epilepsy (double-blind studies) 
In the population of all patients with epilepsy who received study drug in double-blind studies, 
100  (8.1%)  of  1,240  rufinamide-treated  patients  and  27  (4.3%)  of  635  placebo-treated  patients 
discontinued  treatment  due  to  adverse  events.  No  adverse  event  was  cited  as  a  reason  for 
discontinuation  of  more  than  1.8%  of  the  patients.  The  events  most  frequently  leading  to 
discontinuation  of  rufinamide  were  dizziness  (22  patients),  fatigue  (20  patients),  headache  (14 
patients), nausea (13 patients), and diplopia (12 patients). Rash was the cause of discontinuation for 6 
(0.5%) rufinamide-treated patients and 1 (0.2%) placebo-treated patient.  
The following table displays the adverse events leading to the discontinuation of more than 1 patient in 
either treatment group: 
Table. Adverse events leading to discontinuation of more than 1 patient per treatment group (All 
treated patients with epilepsy, double-blind studies) 
44/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
All treated patients with epilepsy (n=1,978) 
In  the  population  of  all  treated  patients  with  epilepsy,  259  (13.1%)  of  1,978  patients  treated  with 
rufinamide  discontinued  study  drug  due  to  adverse  events.  The  events  most  often  leading  to 
discontinuation of rufinamide were fatigue (38 patients), headache (32 patients), nausea (31 patients), 
dizziness (31 patients), rash (17 patients), convulsion (24), diplopia (19), somnolence (18), vomiting 
(13).  
•  Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory data were summarized using descriptive statistics for values obtained at 
baseline and at the last post-baseline visit, and for the difference between those two evaluations. 
Hepatic laboratory parameters 
In  the  double-blind  studies,  increases  in  hepatobiliary  parameters  occurred  in  ≤  3.4  %  of  the 
rufinamide-treated  patients  and  in  ≤  6.0  %  of  the  placebo-treated  patients.    For  most  individual 
parameters, the percentages of patients with upward of downward shifts were similar for rufinamide 
and  placebo.  A  total  of  22  cases  reporting  of  increased  liver  enzymes  with  a  value  over  3N  were 
45/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
analysed.  Although  the  causal  role  of  rufinamide  is  difficult  to  establish  due  to  confounding  factors 
this  adverse  reaction  will  be  mention  inn  the  SPC.  There  were  no  serious  adverse  events  related  to 
hepatobiliary laboratory tests or the hepatobiliary system in either treatment group. One rufinamide-
treated  patient  (in  Study  022)  discontinued  due  to  hepatic  enzymes  increased.  In  other  studies,  one 
patient had a serious adverse event related to the hepatobiliary system (cholecystitis, Study 0101) and 
another patient in Study 021PE discontinued due to suspicion of hepatitis toxic, the origin of which 
was not confirmed later on. 
Renal laboratory parameters 
Mean  changes  between  baseline  and  the  last  post-baseline  evaluation  were  small  for  all  renal 
parameters, and were comparable in the rufinamide and placebo groups in the double-blind studies. 
Adverse  events  related  to  renal  laboratory  tests  or  renal  disorders  occurred  in  less  than  1%  of  all 
rufinamide-treated  patients.  One  patient  had  a  serious  adverse  event  of  renal  failure  acute  after  a 
prolonged  seizure,  which  resulted  in  rhabdomyolysis  and  dehydration.  Renal  experts  at  the  hospital 
attributed  the  event  to  the  prolonged  seizure,  which  resulted  in  dehydration.  The  patient  was 
subsequently restarted on rufinamide. 
Haematology laboratory parameters 
Mean changes between baseline and the last post-baseline evaluation were small for every parameter, 
and were comparable in the rufinamide and placebo groups for every population that compared results 
from the double-blind studies.  
Thyroid laboratory parameters 
Rufinamide does not appear to have a clinically or statistically significant effect on thyroid although 
there were individual cases of changes of T3 or TSH and individual cases of hypothyroidism. 
•  Other adverse effects of interest 
Status epilepticus 
Status epilepticus did not occur in any patient who received placebo in any of the double-blind studies 
in  the  rufinamide  clinical  development  program.  As  shown  in  the  following  table,  status  epilepticus 
was  an  adverse  event  in  1.4%  of  all  patients  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  rufinamide,  a  serious 
adverse event in 1.0%, and an event that led to discontinuation of treatment in 0.3%. The incidence of 
status  epilepticus  as  an  adverse  event  was  higher  in  patients  with  LGS  (3.7%)  and  in  paediatric 
patients  (2.6%)  than  in  adult  patients  (1.1%).  Serious  status  epilepticus  occurred  in  ≤2.0%  of  the 
patients in any subgroup, and this event led to the discontinuation of <1.0% of those in any subgroup. 
No patient had a status epilepticus that lead to death. 
Table 7.  Overview of Occurrence of Status Epilepticus in Rufinamide Clinical Studies 
Double-blind plus open-label 
All  patients 
with epilepsy 
(N=1978) 
27 (1.4%) 
6 (0.3%) 
Patients  with 
LGS 
(N=135) 
5 (3.7%) 
1 (0.7%) 
Paediatric 
patients 
(N=391) 
10 (2.6%) 
2 (0.5%) 
Adults  
patients 
(N=1561) 
17 (1.1%) 
4 (0.3%) 
Incidence of status epilepticus 
Discontinuation  due  to  status 
epilepticus 
Status  epilepticus  as  non-fatal 
serious adverse event 
Note: he population “all patients with epilepsy” includes all patients who received at least 1 dose of rufinamide in any Phase II or III 
double-blind study, open-label extension of a double-blind study, or open-label study. The remaining 3 populations shown in 
this table include all patients who received at least 1 dose of rufinamide in a Phase II or III double-blind study or its open-label 
extension  (patients  enrolled  only  in  Phase  II  or  III  open-label  studies  are  not  included).  Patients  included  in  the  population 
“patients with LGS” are also included in the populations “paediatric patients” and “adult patients” depending on whether their 
age at baseline was ≤16 years (paediatric patients) or >16 years (adult patients). 
Cross reference: Appendix 3, Tables 2.2.2, 2.2.4, 2.2.6, 3.1.2, 3.2.4, 3.2.6, 5.1.1, 22.2.1, 22.4.1, 22.6.1  
19 (1.0%) 
11 (0.7%) 
2 (1.5%) 
8 (2.0%) 
46/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the literature, status epilepticus is a relatively frequent occurrence in paediatric patients 
with epilepsy. A review of the occurrence of status epilepticus in 4 epidemiologic cohorts in presented 
in the table below: 
Incidence of Status Epilepticus in Different Epidemiologic Cohorts 
Rufinamide clinical trials 
Rochester 
Finland 
Bronx 
New Haven 
Incidence of status epilepticus 
1.4% 
(27/1978) 
9% 
(7/74) 
9% 
(5/53) 
11% 
(18/171) 
6% 
(9/136) 
References 
Hauser 1993 
Hesdorffer 1998 
Sillanpaa, Jalava, Kaleva 1998 
Sillanpaa, 
Jalava,  Shinnar 
1998 
Shinnar 1996 
Berg 1992 
Berg 1996 
Berg 1997 
A review in the literature showed that status epilepticus develops in more than 60% of patients with 
LGS [Shorvon 1994]. 
As rufinamide was studied as an adjuvant therapy, the majority of exposed patients were on multiple 
other anti-epileptic medications. However, analysis of data shows that there is no association of any 
particular concomitant AED with the  occurrence of status  epilepticus. Except when the  concomitant 
antiepileptic is stopped or had a dose modification, the concurrent AED could not be considered as a 
confounding  factor  in  patients  without  a  previous  medical  history  of  status  epilepticus.  In  this 
particular population, rufinamide causal role in status epilepticus onset could not neither be excluded 
nor established. Furthermore, status epilepticus was not notified in the placebo group.  
Consequently, status epilepticus is mentioned in the SPC of rufinamide, section 4.4. In addition, the 
applicant  committed  to  perform  a  post-approval  safety  study  (registry)  which  would  include  a 
sufficient number of patients to allow the estimation of adverse effects including this one. 
Rash/hypersensitivity 
Rash  occurred  in  similar  percentages  of  rufinamide-treated  patients  (3.1%)  and  placebo-treated 
patients  (3.3%),  even  when  the  incidence  was  not  corrected  for  duration  of  exposure.  Rash  was  a 
serious adverse event in 3 (0.2%) and 1 (0.2%) patients, respectively. Rash led to discontinuation of 
treatment in 10 (0.8%) and 1 (0.2%) patients, respectively.  Consequently, and as the majority of anti-
epileptic medications are associated with rash, the mention of “Rash” in the SPC (in sections 4.4 and 
4.8) and as an identified potential risk of the Pharmacovigilance plan have been included.  
In all treated patients with epilepsy, rash was a serious adverse event in 5 (0.3%) patients and led to 
the  discontinuation  of  treatment  in  24  (1.2%)  patients.  None  of  the  1,978  patients  experienced 
erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, or toxic epidermal necrolysis. 
In  the  pivotal  study  022  in  the  Lennox-Gastatut  syndrome,  rash  occurred  more  frequently  in  the 
rufinamide group than in the placebo group (6.8% for rufinamide, and 1.6% for placebo). One report 
of rash was classified as serious, and rash caused discontinuation of treatment in 2 patients. 
In addition, a photosensitivity rash has been reported in 2 cases. These cases do not provide sufficient 
data to establish relationship between rufinamide therapy and the onset of photosensitivity. However, 
photosensitivity skin reaction could be suspected for all antiepileptic drugs.  
Consequently, a warning has been included in the SPC, section 4.4 “all patients who develop a rash 
while taking rufinamide must be closely supervised”.  
Antiepileptic drug hypersensitivity syndrome  
Upon  review  of  patient  narratives,  the  applicant  suspects  that  a  total  of  5  patients  (2  with  serious 
adverse events coded as hypersensitivity and 3 others with serous adverse events coded as pyrexia or 
rash) might have suffered an antiepileptic drug hypersensitivity syndrome characterised by fever, rash, 
47/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and evidence of internal organ involvement. In all cases, the reaction occurred during the first 4 weeks 
of treatment. All patients were children. None of them had mucosal involvement or blistering of the 
skin.  All  patients  recovered  after  discontinuation  of  rufinamide.  After  thorough  analysis,  the 
relationship with rufinamide therapy has been suspected for two of them (≈2/2000 exposed patients), 
which  is  higher  than  reported  in  the  literature  (≈1  per  3000  exposures).  Consequently,  a  warning  is 
included in the SPC in section 4.8 and a cumulative review of hypersensitivity reports will be carried 
out  in  the  PSUR.  The  incidence  of  hypersensitivity  will  be  also  monitored  during  a  post  marketing 
safety study and included in the Pharmacovigilance plan. 
Effects on weight 
Rufinamide seems to induce notable weight decrease ( more than 7%) in a limited number of patients 
under the age of 12 years. The mean weight in adult patients has not been significantly modified under 
rufinamide. This is mentioned as an undesirable effect in SPC and is part of the safety parameters to 
be monitored in the risk management plan. 
The adverse event”eating disorder” which has been observed in the LGS group, is also mentioned in 
the SPC. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Age 
There were some differences noted between age groups. Headache, dizziness, and nausea occurred at 
lower rates in the youngest #group, and at comparable rates in the older groups. This was trued in both 
the rufinamide and placebo groups for headache and nausea, but not dizziness. Somnolence occurred 
at the highest rate in the youngest group of rufinamide-treated patients; rates were comparable by age 
in placebo-treated patients. 
Gender 
The incidence of common adverse events was similar for the two groups, except for nausea, which 
was more common in females. 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
A study in patients with severe renal impairment indicated that no dose adjustments are required for 
these patients.  
Use in patients with hepatic impairment has not been studied. Therefore, use in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment is not recommended. Caution should be exercised in treating patients with mild to 
moderate hepatic impairment. 
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The majority of adverse events reported with rufinamide and assessed as possibly related to treatment 
were neurological disorders (with headache, somnolence, dizziness and fatigue) and gastro intestinal 
disorders,  with  vomiting  and  nausea.  No  relationship  with  dose  has  been  identified.  CNS-related 
adverse events and gastrointestinal disorders were a common cause for treatment discontinuation. 
There  were  no  indications  of  ECG  abnormalities  or  QTc  prolongation  associated  with  rufinamide 
exposure.  
The occurrence of serious status epilepticus in the whole population of rufinamide treated patients as 
no  case  has  been  reported  in  placebo  treated  patients  is considered  a  particular  safety  issue.  Even  if 
Status  epilepticus  is  very  frequent  in  patients  with  LGS  and  that  12  of  the  27  patients  with  status 
epilepticus had potential triggering factors, the other cases had no obvious explanation. 
This  risk  will  be  monitored  in  post-authorisation  on  long-term  therapy  and  on  a  more  important 
number  of  patients  under  rufinamide.  This  issue  is  included  in  the  SPC  and  the  pharmacovigilance 
plan. 
48/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome was reported in 5 patients and for 2 cases the relationship 
with  rufinamide  is  suspected.  A  warning  was  introduced  in  the  SPC.  This  point  will  be  followed 
within each PSUR and assessed in the registry study. 
At  this  stage,  there  is  no  strong  argument  for  a  safety  issue  in  human  regarding  the  risk  of 
myelofibrosis, but we consider that this should be monitored and that a specific section in PSUR on all 
haematological disorders reported is deemed necessary.  
Both, myelofibrosis and immunotoxic potential risks are included in the pharmacovigilance plan.  
According to the CHMP guidance document concerning development of AEDs in children, short term 
and long-term studies should be designed to detect possible impact on learning, intelligence, growth, 
endocrine  function  and  puberty.  This  safety  aspect  will  be  monitored  as  described  in  the  risk 
management plan. 
Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The  MAA  submitted  a  risk  management  plan  that  was  assessed  and  was  considered  satisfactory 
provided  that  revisions  are  submitted  to  the  rapporteur  in  the  post-opinion  phase  (see  follow-up 
measures) 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities (routine and additional)  
Status Epilepticus 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
(cid:131) 
Status epilepticus will be 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
described in all product labelling. 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131) 
In the proposed SPC status 
(cid:131)  Reported Spontaneous Serious 
Adverse Events of seizure, or 
associated terms, will be followed up 
epilepticus will be described in the 
warning section (4.4)1:  “Status 
epilepticus cases have been observed 
to exclude additional cases of status 
during clinical development studies, 
epilepticus. 
(cid:131)  The registry study will evaluate the 
occurrence, severity and character of 
seizures during the use of rufinamide, 
and contrast these with seizures seen 
with other anti-epileptic drugs in 
patients with LGS.   
(cid:131)  Seizures experienced in the registry 
study that are considered medically 
significant (require urgent change in 
medication, medical intervention, or 
hospitalization) will be reported as a 
serious adverse event.  Therefore the 
diagnosis of ‘status epilepticus’ can 
be made on both historical and 
under rufinamide whereas no such 
cases have been observed under 
placebo. These events led to 
rufinamide discontinuation in 20 % 
of the cases. If patients develop new 
seizure types and/or experience an 
increased frequency of status 
epilepticus that is different from the 
patient’s baseline condition, then the 
benefit risk ratio of the therapy 
should be reassessed”. 
(cid:131) 
Status epilepticus will be 
1 As changed in SPC version 07, 8 Nov 2006 
49/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
modern criteria.  Information of these 
events, and the full impact on the 
patient, will be collected through 
structured questions. 
(cid:131)  Status epilepticus will be reviewed 
on a cumulative basis, and discussed 
in the PSUR. 
included as an adverse event in 
Section 4.8 as a common adverse 
event 
Hypersensitivity 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
(cid:131) 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131)  Spontaneous reported events of 
hypersensitivity, or associated terms, 
will be followed up to exclude 
additional cases of the 
Anticonvulsant Hypersensitivity 
Syndrome. 
(cid:131)  The incidence and character of 
hypersensitivity reactions will be 
monitored during the registry study 
where symptoms of hypersensitivity 
will explicitly captured using a 
structured questionnaire. 
(cid:131)  Assessment of the character of 
hypersensitivity should allow for a 
more accurate incidence of the 
‘Anticonvulsant Hypersensitivity 
Syndrome’ during the use of 
rufinamide being determined. 
(cid:131)  Reports of hypersensitivity reactions 
(cid:131) 
Decreased Appetite 
and Weight Loss 
will be reviewed on a cumulative 
basis within the PSUR. 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131)  Weight  changes  (when  provided), 
to  baseline,  will  be 
compared 
monitored  during  rufinamide  use.  
Unexpected changes in weight due to 
confounding factors will be identified 
as 
during 
or 
concomitant 
concurrent infections. 
study, 
medications, 
such 
this 
Coordination 
Abnormal 
Somnolence 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports 
• 
• 
• 
has 
will 
occurred 
fever  and 
Hypersensitivity 
be 
described  in  the  safety  information.  
In  the  SPC  this  will  be  in  the 
warning  section  (4.4)  as:  “Serious 
antiepileptic  drug  hypersensitivity 
syndrome 
in 
association with rufinamide therapy. 
Signs and symptoms of this disorder 
were  diverse;  however,  patients 
typically,  although  not  exclusively, 
presented  with 
rash 
associated  with  other  organ  system 
associated 
involvement.  Other 
included 
manifestations 
lymphadenopathy, 
function 
tests  abnormalities,  and  haematuria. 
Because  the  disorder  is  variable  in 
its  expression,  other  organ  system 
signs  and  symptoms  not  noted  here 
may  occur.  This  syndrome  occurred 
in  close  temporal  association  to  the 
initiation  of  rufinamide  therapy  and 
in  the  paediatric  population.  If  this 
is  suspected,  rufinamide 
reaction 
should 
and 
discontinued 
be 
alternative  treatment  started.    All 
patients  who  develop  a  rash  while 
taking  rufinamide  must  be  closely 
monitored”. 
liver 
The event of hypersensitivity 
will be included as an uncommon 
adverse event in Section 4.8. 
Decreased  appetite  and  weight 
decreased  are  included  in  Section 
4.8  of  the  SPC  as  common  adverse 
events. 
Coordination 
is 
included Section 4.8 of the SPC as a 
common adverse event. 
abnormal 
Somnolence is included in 
Section 4.8 of the SPC as a very 
common adverse event. 
50/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
Dizziness and 
vertigo 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131) 
Dizziness is included in Section 
4.8 of the SPC as a very common 
adverse event.  Vertigo is included 
in Section 4.8 of the SPC as a 
common adverse event. 
Diplopia and 
blurred vision 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
(cid:131) 
Diplopia and vertigo are 
included in Section 4.8 of the SPC 
as common adverse events.   
Vomiting 
The risk of birth 
defects during 
pregnancy 
adverse events reports 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131) 
Vomiting is included in Section 
4.8 of the SPC as a very common 
adverse event.   
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  A pregnancy registry will be 
(cid:131) 
maintained by EURAP (European 
and International Registry of Anti-
epileptic drugs in Pregnancy).  
(cid:131)  Pregnancies will be reported in the 
appropriate section of the PSUR. 
is 
included 
A  warning 
in 
Section  4.6  of  the  SPC.    The  text 
includes the following:  “Women of 
childbearing  potential  must  use 
during 
contraceptive  measures 
treatment  with  Inovelon.  Physicians 
should try to ensure that appropriate 
contraception  is  used,  and  should 
judgement  when 
use 
oral 
whether 
assessing 
contraceptives,  or  the  doses  of  the 
oral  contraceptive  components,  are 
adequate  based  on  the  individual 
(see 
patients 
Section 4.5). 
situation 
clinical 
clinical 
(cid:131) 
If  women 
treated  with 
rufinamide plan to become pregnant, 
the indication of this product should 
be 
carefully  weighed.  During 
pregnancy,  an  effective  antiepileptic 
rufinamide  treatment  must  not  be 
interrupted, since the aggravation of 
the illness is detrimental to both the 
mother and the foetus”. 
(cid:131) 
Pre-clinical findings are 
discussed in Section 5.3 of the SPC:  
“Adverse effects not observed in 
clinical studies, but seen in animals 
at exposure levels similar to clinical 
exposure levels and with possible 
relevance to human use was 
myelofibrosis of the bone marrow in 
the mouse carcinogenicity study”. 
Potential for 
haematological 
blood dyscrasias 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131)  Review of provided laboratory values 
provided during the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Haematological adverse events will 
be addressed in the PSUR.2 
2 As requested by the CHMP 
51/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
                                                      
Potential for 
immuno-toxicity 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
(cid:131) 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131)  Review of provided laboratory values 
provided during the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Immune disorders and associated 
haematological adverse events will 
be addressed in the PSUR. 
(cid:131) 
findings 
Pre-clinical 
are 
discussed in Section 5.3 of the SPC:  
immunotoxic 
the 
“Regarding 
potential,  small  thymus  and  thymic 
involution were  observed  in dogs  in 
a  13  week  study  with  significant 
response at the high dose in male. In 
the  13  week  study,  female  bone 
marrow  and  lymphoid  changes  are 
reported  at  the  high  dose  with  a 
weak  incidence.  In  rats  decreased 
cellularity  of  the  bone  marrow  and 
thymic  atrophy  were  observed  only 
in the carcinogenicity study”. 
Infections 
frequently 
experienced  during  the  LGS  study 
are included in the SPC as common 
in  Section  4.8 
adverse  events 
influenza, 
(Pneumonia, 
infection, 
nasopharyngitis, 
sinusitis and rhinitis) 
ear 
Potential for the 
developmental and 
maturation 
impairment in 
children and 
adolescents 
Potential for 
adverse effect on 
cognition 
(cid:131)  Review of basic growth 
measurements, when provided, 
during the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance practices 
for spontaneous and clinical study 
adverse events reports. 
(cid:131)  Soliciting of adverse events through 
the registry study. 
(cid:131)  Analysis of discontinuations form the 
registry study for events associated 
with cognitive impairment. 
(cid:131) 
Somnolence and dizziness are 
included as very common adverse 
events in Section 4.8 of the SPC.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Additionally, further safety information will be collected in a post-marketing safety study (registry) of 
anti-epileptic drugs in LGS. 
5 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In  vitro,  rufinamide  is  involved  in  modulation  of  sodium  channels  probably  by  prolonging  their 
inactive state and has demonstrated efficacy in relevant in vivo models of seizure disorders. 
The  behavioural  and  safety  pharmacology  studies  carried  out  show  that  rufinamide  is  without 
unwanted pharmacological effects at doses exceeding those which confer anti-convulsant protection.  
52/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rufinamide  shows  a  low  acute  toxicity.  In  the  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies,  the  main  target  organ 
was  the  liver.  Rufinamide  did  not  show  genotoxic  potential.  There  is  no  evidence  of  teratogenic 
potential in either rat or rabbit, but showed reproductive toxicity at doses where maternal toxicity was 
seen.  
The  juvenile  toxicity  data  for  rat  and  dog  indicate  that  the  juvenile  is  not  more  sensitive  than  the 
mature animal to the toxicity of rufinamide. In addition, the rat study showed no effects on behavioral 
and physical development.  
Regarding  the  immunotoxic  potential,  decreased  bone  marrow  cellularity  (dogs/rats),  lymph  nodes 
(dogs/baboons)  and  spleen  (baboon)  were  observed  inconsistently  in  repeat-dose  toxicity  and 
carcinogenicity  studies.  No  relevant  findings  have  been  detected  in  the  clinical  trials.  However, 
clinical  hematological  adverse  events  will  be  monitored  in  post-authorisation  as  part  of  the 
pharmacovigilance risk management plan. 
Concerning  the  carcinogenicity  aspects,  in  the  mouse,  increases  in  hepatocellular  adenomas  and 
carcinomas  and  in  incidence  of  osteomas  in  both  sexes  at  the  high  dose  were  observed.  Treatment-
related myelofibrosis was also seen at mid and high dose in both females and males in mice.  
The mechanism of this myelofibrosis remains unknown. Nevertheless, this is regarded as part of fibro-
osseous  lesions  (FOL),  which  is  thought  to  be  age  dependent.  In  this  particular  case,  regarding  the 
hyperostosis  and  osteomas,  the  increased  exposure  to  fluoride  and  mouse-specific  retro-virus  are 
contributing factors. Therefore it is probably not predictive of development of myelofibrosis in human. 
In any case, the potential risk of myelofibrosis will be monitored in the risk management plan 
Rufinamide shows no physical or overt psychological dependence liability in cynomolgus monkey. 
Rufinamide showed no skin irritation, corrosive or sensitization potential in the skin irritation study in 
rabbit and in the contact hypersensitivity study performed in guinea pigs. 
There are no safety-related concerns with respect to impurities, degradation products and excipients.  
The environmental exposure resulting from the limited use of the product will be low. 
Efficacy 
For efficacy, the results of the single pivotal study to assess the safety and efficacy of rufinamide as 
adjunctive  therapy  relative  to  placebo  in  patients  with  inadequately  controlled  Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome showed positive results in LGS as compared to placebo.  
The patient population, as chosen on the basis of the inclusion/exclusion criteria, was appropriate and 
representative of patients with LGS, in particular due to the substantial proportion of children included 
in the present trial (more than 2/3).  
Patients who received rufinamide in this trial showed: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a significant median reduction in total seizure and tonic-atonic seizure frequency compared to 
placebo; 
a significant improvement in the severity of the seizures compared to placebo; 
significantly greater (50% and 75%) responder rates for tonic-atonic seizure frequency per 28 
days versus placebo; 
greater reductions in all seizure types associated with LGS (absence, tonic-clonic, myoclonic, 
tonic, atonic, partial) compared to placebo. 
The sensitivity analysis performed confirmed the robustness of the results.  
Nevertheless,  the  assessment  of  the  impact  of  the  baseline  imbalance  on  the  total  seizure  frequency 
could not be totally excluded. 
Uncontrolled open-label studies suggest sustained long-term efficacy, although no controlled study has 
been conducted for longer than three months. 
Supportive studies with rufinamide permitted to collect data about titration, maintenance dose, dose- 
response relationship, pharmacokinetics and short term safety. 
53/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
The majority of adverse events reported with rufinamide and assessed as possibly related to treatment 
were  neurological  disorders  (headache,  somnolence,  dizziness  and  fatigue)  and  gastro  intestinal 
disorders (vomiting and nausea). No relationship with dose has been identified.  
Status  epilepticus  and  anticonvulsant  hypersensitivity  syndrome  will  be  followed  up  in  the 
pharmacovigilance plan.  
At this stage, there is no strong argument for a safety issue in human regarding the potential risk of 
myelofibrosis,  the  CHMP  considers  that  this  should  be  monitored  and  a  specific  section  on  all 
haematological disorders will be reported in the PSUR.  
Immunotoxic potential risk is included in the pharmacovigilance plan. (see follow-up measures) 
Having considered the safety concerns listed in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that 
the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The  results  of  the  user  testing  were  assessed  and  a  number  of  insufficiencies  were  noted. 
Consequently, the applicant proposed to implement several improvements to the package leaflet. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
For efficacy, the results of the single pivotal study to assess the safety and efficacy of rufinamide as 
adjunctive  therapy  relative  to  placebo  in  patients  with  inadequately  controlled  Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome showed positive results in LGS as compared to placebo.  
Supportive studies with rufinamide permitted to collect data about titration, maintenance dose, dose- 
response relationship, pharmacokinetics and short term safety. 
The sensitivity analysis performed confirmed the robustness of the results.  
Nevertheless,  the  assessment  of  the  impact  of  the  baseline  imbalance  on  the  total  seizure  frequency 
could not be totally excluded. 
Uncontrolled open-label studies suggest sustained long-term efficacy, although no controlled study has 
been conducted for longer than three months. 
On  the  safety  aspects,  the  majority  of  adverse  events  reported  with  rufinamide  and  assessed  as 
possibly  related  to  treatment  were  neurological  disorders  (headache,  somnolence,  dizziness  and 
fatigue)  and  gastro  intestinal  disorders  (vomiting  and  nausea).  No  relationship  with  dose  has  been 
identified. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns  
Since  effects  on  skeletal,  behavioural,  sexual,  immune  maturation  and  development  in  the 
population of young patients suffering Lennox Gastaut syndrome could induce more consequences 
on their general vulnerable state and that rufinamide will be used as add-on drug, monitoring of 
body  weight,  height  ,  general  growth  including  puberty,  cognitive  state  before  and  after  drug 
initiation  will be addressed as outlined in the planned post-approval study that is integrated in the 
risk management plan.  
The following safety issues will be specifically monitored:  
o  Status epilepticus 
o  Hypersensitivity 
o  Decreased appetite and weight loss 
54/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Coordination abnormal 
o  Somnolence 
o  Dizziness and vertigo 
o  Diplopia and blurred vision 
o  Vomiting 
o  The risk of birth defects with anti-epileptic drugs 
o  Potential for haematological blood dyscrasias 
o  Potential for immuno-toxicity 
o  Potential for developmental and maturation impairment in children and adolescents 
o  Potential for adverse effect on cognition 
o  The risk of suicide with anti-epileptic drugs 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Inovelon, in the treatment of “seizures associated with 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome as adjunctive therapy in patients 4 years and older”, was favourable and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
55/55 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
