EMA/820313/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Inovelon 
rufinamide 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/000660/X/0017 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Fa(cid:31)simile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
............................................. 4 
.................................................................................. 4 
...................................................... 4 
Scientific discussion
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.2.1 
2.2.2 
2.2.3 
2.2.4 
2.2.5 
2.2.6 
2.3 
2.3.1 
2.3.2 
2.3.3 
2.4 
2.4.1 
2.4.2 
2.4.3 
2.5 
2.5.1 
2.5.2 
2.6 
2.6.1 
2.7 
2.8 
Non-clinical aspects
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
Recommendation for future quality development
Introduction
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment
Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects
Introduction
Quality aspects
Introduction
Active Substance
Finished Medicinal Product
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects
............................................................................... 5 
..................................................................................................... 5 
................................................................................................. 6 
.................................................................................................. 6 
........................................................................................... 6 
............................................................................... 7 
............................. 9 
.................... 10 
.............................................. 10 
......................................................................................... 10 
................................................................................................ 10 
...................................................... 10 
............................................................. 12 
............................................................................................... 12 
................................................................................................ 12 
......................................................................................... 12 
......................................................... 16 
............................................................................................... 16 
.................................... 16 
....................................................................... 16 
................................................................................................. 17 
......................................................................... 17 
..................................................................................... 17 
..................................................................... 20 
Clinical aspects
Introduction
Pharmacokinetics
Conclusions on clinical pharmacokinetics
Study E2080-A001-301 Summary of main study results
Conclusions on clinical efficacy
Risk Management Plan
Update of the Product information
Conclusions on clinical safety
Clinical efficacy
Clinical safety
3 
4 
Benefit-Risk Assessment
...................................................................... 20 
Recommendations
................................................................................ 22 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 2/22
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AEDs 
AUC 
CGP 
CHMP 
Cmax 
CPPs 
EC 
ECG 
EEG 
EMA 
ERA 
EU 
EURAP 
EU-RMP 
GCP 
HPLC 
PDA 
ITT 
LGS 
OECD 
PARs 
PEC 
PET 
pH 
Ph Eur 
PIBA 
PIP 
PKs 
PP 
PSURs 
RH 
RMP 
SmPC 
TEAEs 
TLC 
Anti Epileptic drugs 
Area Under the Curve 
Good Clinical Practice 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Concentration maximum 
Critical process parameters  
European Commission 
Electrocardiogram 
Electroencephalogram 
European Medicines  Agency 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
European Union 
European and International Registry of Anti-epileptic 
drugs in Pregnancy 
EU Risk Management Plan 
Good Clinical Practice 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
Photodiode Array 
Intent To Treat 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome 
Organization of Economic Co-operation and 
Development 
Proven acceptable ranges 
Predicted-environmental-concentration 
Polyethylene Terephthalate 
Measure of acidity 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Press-in bottle adapter  
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Pharmacokinetics 
Per-protocol  
Periodic Safety Update Report 
Relative Humidity 
Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event 
Thin Layer Chromatography 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 3/22
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Eisai  Ltd  submitted  on  23  September  2010  an  application  for  an  extension  of  the 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Inovelon, pursuant to Article 19 
of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Annex I.  
Inovelon was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/04/240 on 20 October 2004. Inovelon 
was  designated  as  an  orphan  medicinal  product  in  the  following  indication:  treatment  of  Lennox-
Gastaut Syndrome. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/153/2010 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
At  the  time  of  submission  of  the  application,  the  PIP  was  not  yet  completed  as  some  measures  were 
deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice/Protocol Assistance 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice or Protocol Assistance at the CHMP. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Pierre Demolis. 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 23 September 2010. 
The procedure started on 20 October 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 January 2011 
(Annex 1). 
  During the meeting on 17 February 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 17 
February 2011 (Annex 2). 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  27  April 
2011. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 4/22
 
 
 
 
 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 17 June 2011 (Annex 3). 
  During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 June 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant (Annex 4). 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 22 August 2011. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  list  of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 14 September 2011 (Annex 5). 
  During the meeting on 19-22 September 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  the  extension  of 
Marketing Authorisation to Inovelon on 22 September 2011. 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) is rare and is one of the most severe forms of childhood epilepsy. The 
syndrome usually affects children between the ages of 1 and 8 years (typically between 3 and 5 years), 
but occasionally has its onset in children who are more than 8 years old. LGS begins in childhood but 
continues to manifest into adulthood in a large number of patients and has a significant morbidity and 
mortality. The hallmarks of the disease include the following triad: 
 
The  presence  of  multiple  seizure  types:  the  most  characteristic  are  tonic-atonic  seizures  and 
atypical  absences,  but  tonic-clonic,  myoclonic,  and  partial  seizures  are  also  frequently  present. 
Tonic-atonic  seizures  often  provoke  sudden  falls  (commonly  called  drop  attacks)  and  result  in 
injuries. 
 
 
The presence of generalized discharges with slow spike-and-wave complexes in the EEG. 
The  presence  of  mental  retardation  or  a  learning  disability.  In  general,  this  is  represented  by  a 
static encephalopathy, although the mental status may worsen in the course of the disease due to 
multiple  causes,  such  as  very  frequent  occurrence  of  seizures,  sometimes  subclinical,  frequent 
head  trauma  from  the  falls  associated  with  seizures  (drop  attacks),  and  undesirable  cognitive 
effects  of  the  high  doses  of  antiepileptic  drugs  (AEDs)  used  to  treat  this  very  refractory  type  of 
epilepsy. 
Patients with LGS often receive polytherapy due to the lack of full response to any single AED. 
Inovelon  (rufinamide)  tablets  were  authorised  in  the  EU  on  16  January  2007  for  use  as  “adjunctive 
treatment  of  seizures  associated  with  Lennox-Gastaut  syndrome  in  children  4  years  of  age  and  older 
and adults.” 
The dose of Inovelon depends on the patient’s age and weight and whether the patient is also taking 
valproate.  Treatment  generally  starts  with  a  daily  dose  of  200  or  400  mg  and  may  be  increased  as 
frequently  as  every  other  day  (up  to  the  maximum  recommended  dose)  according  to  the  patient’s 
response to treatment. 
As a post-approval commitment Eisai agreed to develop a “child-friendly” formulation. 
Eisai  Limited  submitted  an  application  for  Inovelon  40  mg/mL,  oral  suspension  as  a  line  extension  to 
the already marketed Inovelon 100, 200 and 400 mg, film-coated tablets. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 5/22
 
 
 
Inovelon  oral  suspension  is  intended  to  be  used  for  treatment  in  the  same  indication  and  the  same 
dose range to the film-coated tablets, but affords a more convenient presentation for administration to 
young children and for those who cannot swallow tablets. 
Aspects on the product and its development 
Rufinamide  modulates  the  activity  of  sodium  channels,  prolonging  their  inactive  state.  Rufinamide  is 
active in a range of animal models of epilepsy. 
In the European Union, Rufinamide is currently available as tablets, with three strengths being on the 
market:  100  mg,  200  mg  and  400  mg.  For  this  new  pharmaceutical  form  under  review,  a  marketing 
authorization is sought for a unique strength (40 mg/mL). Since the oral suspension is intended for use 
at  the  same  dose  amounts  as  already approved  for  tablets,  no specific  characterization of  rufinamide 
PKs  is  needed  except  the  demonstration  of  bioequivalence  of  the  currently  used  tablets  and  the 
proposed oral suspension. 
The  proposed  dose  range  is  similar  to  the  film-coated  tablets  given  daily  in  two  divided  doses.  This 
dosage  form  affords  compliance  and  flexibility  of  dosing  from  100  mg  (2.5  mL)  administered  by  a 
graduated oral syringe to 2000 mg (50mL) (5 ml of suspension is equivalent to one 200 mg tablet). 
No new non-clinical data were submitted. 
The RMP has been revised in conformity with the EU-RMP template, to include both forms (tablets and 
oral suspension). 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
The drug substance rufinamide, is a triazole derivative used as an antiepileptic drug (AED), structurally 
unrelated to currently marketed AEDs. 
This is an extension to include an additional dosage form developed for children and for those who are 
unable  or  prefer  not  to  swallow  a  tablet.  The  product  is  formulated  as  a  preserved,  non-sterile 
multidose orange flavoured liquid suspension formulation containing rufinamide 40 mg/mL. 
The product is presented as a 460 mL fill into a 500 mL o-PET bottle with a child-resistant PP closure 
together  with  an  oral  dosing  syringe  with  a  press-in  bottle  adaptor  (PIBA)  to  deliver  200  mg  of 
rufinamide as a 5 mL dose (or increments thereof). 
For a full list of excipients refer to the SmPC. 
2.2.2  Active Substance 
The  drug  substance,  rufinamide,  used  to  manufacture  the  oral  suspension  is  identical  in  all  respects 
(synthesis,  manufacturer,  specification  including  bulk  density  etc)  to  that  used  in  the  manufacture  of 
the  currently  registered  Inovelon  film-coated  tablets  100  mg,  200  mg  and  400  mg.  A  new  reference 
standard has been established and this is the only additional information provided. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 6/22
 
 
 
 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  active  substance  is  chemically  stable  and  neutral  -  rufinamide  does  not  act  as  a  base  or  acid  in 
aqueous solution (not dissociating). It is insoluble in aqueous solvent with low solubility in water and in 
gastric  and  intestinal  fluid.  Because  of  the  low  solubility  of  rufinamide,  a  suspension  formulation  was 
selected as the candidate formulation. 
Rufinamide is not hygroscopic and does not absorb water up to 95% relative humidity (at 25°C). There 
are four known polymorphic forms. The same thermodynamically stable form is used in all batches for 
process  development  studies  and  clinical  investigations.  The  presence  of  rufinamide  does  not 
significantly impact the pH of the suspension formulation. 
No  compatibility  issues  with  the  excipients  have  been  found.  The  choice  of  excipients  is  based  on 
pharmaceutical  technological  experience  gained  from  development  of  similar  products.  The  excipients 
selected  are  of  pharmacopoeial  grade  except  for  the  orange  flavour  which  is  supplied  by  a  global 
vendor.  All  excipients  are  well  accepted  for  use  in  pharmaceuticals  and  are  standard  ingredients  in 
suspension formulations. 
The  preservative  system  comprises  methylparaben,  propylparaben  and  potassium  sorbate  and  was 
designed  to  secure  an  in-use  shelf  life  of  90  days  after  first  opening  of  the  bottle.  The  preservative 
system  has  been  developed  taking  into  account  the  anti  microbial  and  physicochemical  properties  as 
well as manufacturing aspects. Although the exact quantities used were not fully justified, the mixture 
of  the  preservatives  is  commonly  used  to  achieve  preservative  efficacy  and  the  preservative 
effectiveness  has  been  shown.  An  expert  statement  on  the  safety  of  parabens  species  in  oral 
formulations  was  provided.  However  propylparaben  is  no  longer  permitted  in  the  EU  for  use  in  food 
products. Therefore, the applicant has committed to develop a paraben free formulation post-approval. 
It  is  considered  that  the  requested  reformulation  could  be  done  post-approval  without  compromising 
the  safety  of  the  product  or  otherwise  affecting  the  benefit  /  risk  balance.  A  change  management 
protocol has been submitted and an agreeable time frame was proposed. 
Inovelon  oral  suspension  contains  propylene  glycol  as  a  solvent  for  parabens  since  parabens  are 
relatively difficult to dissolve in water. An expert statement on the safety of propylene glycol was also 
presented. 
Anhydrous  citric  acid  is  added  to  the  formulation  to  maintain  the  pH  at  approximately  4.0  where  the 
performance of these preservatives is optimal. 
It  was  demonstrated  that  the  oral  suspension  has  satisfactory  performance  of  preservative  efficacy 
according to Ph Eur acceptance criteria. 
The  artificial  orange  flavour  is  added  in  consideration  of  palatability  in  younger  children.  Samples  of 
different flavours were evaluated and orange was finally selected. An expert statement on the safety of 
the  orange  flavour  was  provided.  The  orange  flavour  consists  of  limonene, maize  maltodextrin,  alpha 
tocopherol and benzyl alcohol. 
Non-crystallizing sorbitol solution, 70% is added as a sweetening agent in consideration of palatability 
in younger children. Sorbitol is commonly used in paediatric formulations as a sweetener. The safety of 
sorbitol in paediatric formulations was properly discussed. 
The  container  closure  system  intended  for  marketing  was  evaluated  using  both  development  and 
commercial  bottles  and  it  was  shown  that  the  bottle  provided  adequate  protection  against  moisture 
and  light.  The  compatibility  of  the  container  closure  system  and  press-in  bottle  adapter  (PIBA)  was 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 7/22
 
 
 
demonstrated  showing  adequate  protection  without  any  potential  contamination  from  extractables  or 
leachables. Inovelon oral suspension compatibility with the oral syringe and with a measuring cup for 
up to 6 hours at ambient conditions has also been shown. 
A  critical  aspect  in  product  manufacture  is  product  homogeneity  throughout the  whole  manufacturing 
process  and  for  administration  (dose  uniformity)  of  the  dosage  form.  A  relative  bioavailability  study 
confirmed  bioequivalence  between  400  mg  tablets  and  10  mL  of  suspensions  with  different  particle 
sizes and dissolution rates. These results indicated that particle size and dissolution rate is not critical 
to  the  bioavailability.  The  dissolution  method  has  been  optimised  and  shown  to  be  discriminatory. 
Further,  a  correlation  between  particle  size  and  dissolution  has  been  established  and  only  dissolution 
testing will be used as a finished product control method. Particle size will be checked at the end of the 
drug substance homogenization process by laser diffraction as an in-process test. 
Specific  gravity  is  also  employed  as  another  in-process  test.  The  specific  gravity  data  are  used  to 
adjust  the  filling  operation.  The  criteria  for  the  specific  gravity  was  determined  based  on  the  results 
from the process development batches. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients are derived from animal and/or human sources. 
Manufacture of the product 
Inovelon  oral  suspension  is  manufactured  using  a  conventional  process  for  oral  suspension  products 
comprising four main steps. 
A risk assessment was performed for the manufacturing process. Risk levels were assigned by process 
development  studies.  Proven  acceptable  ranges  (PARs)  and  proposed  operating  conditions  for  the 
homogenization  process,  final  mixing,  filtration  process  and  mixing  before  filling  were  evaluated  and 
established. The risk levels were mitigated by setting PARs for each critical process parameters (CPPs) 
or  by  setting  the  CPPs  to  constant  values  based  on  the  process  development  studies.  Results  of  the 
comparative  bioavailability  study  with  the  tablets  also  contributed  to  mitigate  the  risk  level  by  a 
decrease of the severity level of particle size and dissolution rate. Bulk holding time was determined by 
an appropriate study. 
Process  validation  has  been  performed  on  three  consecutive  commercial  scale  batches  manufactured 
by the proposed manufacturer using the proposed manufacturing conditions. 
In  addition  to  in-process  controls,  additional  tests  were  conducted  to  compliment  the  information  on 
the reproducibility and robustness of the manufacturing process. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  satisfactorily  described  and  the  proposed  in-process  controls  are 
adequate. The results demonstrate that the manufacturing process established throughout the process 
development studies is able to consistently yield product with desirable quality. 
Product specification 
The  release  and  shelf  life  specifications  for  Inovelon  oral  suspension  include  tests  and  limits  for 
appearance  (visual),  identification  (TLC,  HPLC-PDA),  pH  (Ph.  Eur.),  dissolution  (Ph.  Eur.),  related 
substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), assay for preservatives (HPLC), viscosity (viscometer) and microbial 
limits (Ph. Eur.). 
Batch analysis data are provided from seven batches of Inovelon oral suspension manufactured by the 
proposed  manufacturer  and  three  batches  manufactured  by  another  manufacturer.  The  batches  were 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 8/22
 
 
 
tested  according  to  the  specification  with  an  additional  test  for  particle  size.  All  batches  met  the 
requirement for each acceptance criteria and demonstrated good batch-to-batch consistency. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been performed on six full scale batches, and three supportive stability batches. 
Studies on development batches include those studied under long-term conditions (30°C / 65% RH) for 
up to 12 months and accelerated conditions (40°C / 75% RH) for six months stored in the upright and 
inverted position. There was no significant change in any of the analytical test results except the assay 
for  potassium  sorbate.  Potassium  sorbate  was  found  to  decrease,  but  complies  with  the  shelf  life 
specification. There was no difference between the stability results of the samples stored in the upright 
orientation and the inverted orientation. It was found that the cap with liner did not affect the stability. 
Photostability studies were conducted on samples in the upright position in bottles without a cover or 
covered  with  aluminium  foil  (dark  control).  No  changes  were  observed  and  all  results  met  the 
acceptance  criteria.  Photostability  testing  results  showed  that  light  had  no  influence  on  the  quality; 
hence no special storage precautions are required in relation to light. 
In-use stability was conducted on samples in the upright position. No significant change was observed 
during storage for 90 days at 30°C / 65% RH except for a decreasing trend for potassium sorbate. The 
decrease of potassium sorbate did not affect the preservative efficacy. 
The supportive stability studies were preformed under long-term conditions (30°C / 65% RH) for up to 
36  months  and  accelerated  conditions  (40°C  /  75%  RH)  for  six  months,  stored  in  the  upright  and 
inverted position. There was no significant change in any of the analytical test results except the assay 
for potassium sorbate, but microbial limits and preservatives efficacy results remained unchanged. 
Photostability studies were conducted in the upright position, performed using 1.2 million lux hours on 
bottles without a cover. No changes were observed in the suspension exposed to light. 
In-use  stability  was  conducted  on  samples  stored  in  the  upright  position.  No  significant  change  was 
observed during storage for 90 days. There was no difference between using PIBA and not using PIBA. 
Freeze-thaw and temperature cycling studies have been conducted. These conditions had no impact on 
the  quality  of  the  drug  product.  In  addition,  an  18  month  refrigerated  stability  study  has  been 
conducted. 
Based on the results from all of the stability studies, the proposed shelf life and in-use shelf life when 
stored in the original container under the proposed storage conditions is accepted. 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 9/22
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.2.6  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the applicant to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
The applicant has committed to develop a paraben free formulation post-approval. It is considered that 
the  requested  reformulation  could  be  done  post-approval.  A  change  management  protocol  has  been 
submitted and an agreeable time frame was proposed. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1  Introduction 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted in the application, which was considered acceptable by 
the CHMP. 
2.3.2  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant has provided an ERA including a Phase I with calculation of a PECsurfacewater based on 
a refined Fpen. Moreover the ERA includes parts of a Phase II assessment. 
The  Fpen  refinement  and  the  resulting  PEC  calculation  provided  by  the  applicant  is  based  on 
prevalence  data  of  the  disease  (number  of  patients)  and  on  additional  data  (number  of  average 
treatment  days  per  year  per  patient,  Eisai  product  market  share).  Taking  into  consideration  all  these 
data  together,  the  refined  PECsurfacewater  results  in  a  value  below  the  action  limit  of  0.01µg/l. 
However,  this  approach  was  not  considered  acceptable.  According  to  the  Guideline  on  the 
environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for  human  use  EMEA/CHMP/4447/00,  only 
prevalence data of the disease are acceptable for a PEC refinement in Phase I. If only the prevalence 
data are taken into consideration the refined PECsurfacewater will exceed the action limit for a Phase II 
assessment. 
In the context of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP recommends that the applicant completes 
the Phase II assessment as described below. 
The currently provided sludge respiration test, the modified Sturm test and the fresh water algal test 
are  acceptable  for  risk  assessment.  The  tests  were  already  assessed  during  the  authorisation 
procedure for Inovelon tablets. Nevertheless, because the active substance rufinamide was not readily 
biodegradable in the provided modified Sturm test (OECD 301 B) a test on Transformation in aquatic 
sediment systems (OECD 308) is necessary. Thus, the applicant should update the ERA by completing 
a  Phase  II  assessment  according  to  the  requirements  of  the  guideline  EMEA/CHMP/4447/00,  by  a 
Daphnia reproduction test (OECD 211) and a Fish early life stage test (OECD 210). 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 10/22
 
 
 
Table 1 Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): rufinamide (INOVELON) 
CAS-number (if available): 
PBT screening 
Result 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
OECD 107 
0.65 
K ow 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
Bioaccumulation 
Result 
relevant 
for conclusion 
log K ow  
BCF 
0.65 
not available 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT  
N 
Conclusion 
not B 
Persistence 
DT50  or 
ready 
7-9%  at  Day  29 
in 
P 
biodegradability 
Modified Sturm Test 
PBT-statement : 
The compound is not considered as PBT nor vPvB 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC 
refined 
surfacewater  ,  default  or 
prevalence, 
(e.g. 
literature) 
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class) 
Value 
Default 
(Refined 
Unit 
g/L 
Fpen 
approach  used  in  the 
ERA was not accepted) 
Conclusion 
>  0.01  threshold 
Y 
N 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Test protocol 
Results 
Remarks 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
OECD 301B 
7-9% at Day 29  
Modified 
Sturm 
Test 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type  
Test 
protocol 
Endpoint 
value 
Unit  Remarks 
Algae,  Growth 
Inhibition 
OECD 201 
NOEC 
>33 000 
µg/L  Species 
Test/Species  
Daphnia sp. (“static test”) 
OECD 202 
Selenastrum 
capricornutum 
NOEC 
immobilisation 
>100 000 
µg/L  Conducted 
at 
max 
solubility 
in water 
Activated  Sludge,  Respiration 
OECD 209 
EC 
µg/L  No  toxicity  to 
Inhibition Test  
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
wastewater 
bacteria 
at 
concentration 
of 100 000 µg/L 
Page 11/22
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted in the application, which was considered acceptable by 
the CHMP. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  revised  ERA  including  a  Phase  I  with  calculation  of  a  PECsurfacewater 
Despite the request from the CHMP to conduct additional studies to complete the Phase II assessment, 
it  was  considered  that  Inovelon  oral  suspension  will  be  interchangeable  with  the  currently  marketed 
form, but will not lead to an increased consumption of this orphan drug. 
In the context of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP recommends that the applicant completes 
the Phase II assessment. 
The  results  from  the  additional  studies  were  not  considered  required  by  the  Committee  before  the 
adoption of the positive CHMP opinion and it is confirmed that this application complies with Article 6 of 
Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  having  regard  to  the  requirements  of  Article  8(3)  (ca)  of  Directive 
2001/83. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1  Introduction 
The  marketing  approval  for  Inovelon  oral  suspension  is  being  sought  on  the  basis  of  bioequivalence 
with the current marketed tablets. The primary data to support bioequivalence comes from the single 
clinical study, E2080-E044-003, as the final market image suspension was tested in this study. 
A second study (study CRUF331-0102) was also submitted. In this latter study performed in 1999 by 
NOVARTIS  (the  former  owner  of  the  rufinamide  patent)  a  prototype  of  an  oral  suspension  earlier 
developed for the US market had been tested versus a comparator also developed for the US market. 
This study could not be considered relevant for the application under review. 
To support the safety package the applicant submitted also a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-
group  study  of  the  rufinamide  tablet  (E2080-A001-301;  referred  to  as  Study  301)  in  subjects  with 
partial onset seizures currently inadequately treated with a maximum of three AEDs. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  the  studies  conducted  in  support  of  this 
application  were  carried  out  inside  the  European  Union  in  accordance  with  the  ethical  standards  of 
Directive 2001/20/EC. 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics 
The Pharmacokinetics of the product are described below, as reflected in the Product Information: 
Absorption 
Maximum  plasma  levels  are  reached  approximately  6  hours  after  administration.  Peak  concentration 
(Cmax) and plasma AUC of rufinamide increase less than proportionally with doses in both fasted and 
fed  healthy  subjects  and  in  patients,  probably  due  to  dose-limited  absorption  behaviour.  After  single 
doses,  food  increases  the  bioavailability  (AUC)  of  rufinamide  by  approximately  34%  and  the  peak 
plasma concentration by 56%. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 12/22
 
 
 
Distribution 
In in-vitro studies, only a small fraction of rufinamide (34%) was bound to human serum proteins with 
albumin  accounting  for  approximately  80%  of  this  binding.  This  indicates  minimal  risk  of  drug-drug 
interactions  by  displacement  from  binding  sites  during  concomitant  administration  of  other  drugs. 
rufinamide was evenly distributed between erythrocytes and plasma. 
Biotransformation 
Rufinamide  is  almost  exclusively  eliminated  by  metabolism.  The  main  pathway  of  metabolism  is 
hydrolysis of the carboxylamide group to the pharmacologically inactive acid derivative CGP 47292. 
Cytochrome P450-mediated metabolism is very minor. The formation of small amounts of glutathione 
conjugates cannot be completely excluded. 
Rufinamide  has  demonstrated  little  or  no  significant  capacity  in-vitro  to  act  as  a  competitive  or 
mechanism-based  inhibitor  of  the  following  human  P450  enzymes:  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C9, 
CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4/5 or CYP4A9/11-2. 
Elimination 
The  plasma  elimination  half-life  is  approximately  6-10  hours  in  healthy  subjects  and  patients  with 
epilepsy. When given twice daily at 12-hourly intervals, rufinamide accumulates to the extent predicted 
by its terminal half-life, indicating that the pharmacokinetics of rufinamide are time independent (i.e. 
no auto induction of metabolism). 
In  a  radiotracer  study  in  three  healthy  volunteers,  the  parent  compound  (rufinamide)  was  the  main 
radioactive component in plasma, representing about 80% of the total radioactivity, and the metabolite 
CGP 47292 constituting only about 15%. Renal excretion was the predominant route of elimination for 
drug related material, accounting for 84.7% of the dose. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
The bioavailability of rufinamide is dependent on dose. As dose increases, the bioavailability decreases. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Sex 
Population  pharmacokinetic  modelling  has  been  used  to  evaluate  the  influence  of  sex  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  rufinamide.  Such  evaluations 
indicate 
that  sex  does  not  affect 
the 
pharmacokinetics of rufinamide to a clinically relevant extent. 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of a single 400 mg dose of rufinamide were not altered in subjects with chronic 
and  severe  renal  failure  compared  to  healthy  volunteers.  However,  plasma  levels  were  reduced  by 
approximately  30%  when  haemodialysis  was  applied  after  administration  of  rufinamide,  suggesting 
that this may be a useful procedure in case of overdose. 
Hepatic impairment 
No studies have been performed in patients with hepatic impairment and therefore Inovelon should not 
be administered to patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 13/22
 
 
 
Children (2-12 years) 
Children  generally  have  lower  clearance  of  rufinamide  than  adults,  and  this  difference  is  related  to 
body  size.  Studies  in  new-born  infants  or  infants  and  toddlers  under  2  years  of  age  have  not  been 
conducted. 
Elderly 
A  pharmacokinetic  study  in  elderly  healthy  volunteers  did  not  show  a  significant  difference  in 
pharmacokinetic parameters compared with younger adults. 
Overview of the bioequivalence studies 
Two  bioequivalence  studies  are  provided  by  the  applicant:  Study  E2080-E044-003  and 
CRUF331-0102. 
Study E2080-E044-003 is a randomized, open-label, 4-period crossover trial to compare the 
bioavailability  of  single  400  mg  doses  of  rufinamide  administered  as  the  marketed  tablet 
with  3  suspension  formulations  manufactured  using  different  homogeneity  speeds.  Results 
are shown in Table 2. 
From this study it could be concluded that each suspension is bioequivalent to the 400 mg 
tablet  when  administered  under  fed  conditions. Therefore,  the  particles  size  appears  not  to 
be  critical  for  the  bioavailability  of  the  oral  suspension.  The  applicant  reassured  the 
Committee that rufinamide pharmacokinetics is still linear within the therapeutic range 100 
to  400  mg  and  the  non  linearity  linked  to  the  low  solubility  of  the  drug  would  occur  for 
higher doses. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 14/22
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Statistical Analysis of PK Parameters from Study E2080-E044-003 
The  second  Study  CRUF331-0102  evaluated  the  relative  bioavailability  of  a  single  400  mg  dose  of 
rufinamide tablet under fed conditions, a single 400 mg dose of rufinamide oral suspension under fed 
conditions, or a single dose of 400 mg rufinamide oral suspension under fasted conditions. This study 
showed  that  the  rufinamide  oral  suspension  administered  with  food  was  bioequivalent  to  the 
rufinamide  tablet  administered  with  food.  Food  significantly  increases  the  systemic  exposure  of 
rufinamide suspension by 31%. 
However,  in  this  study  102,  performed  in  1999  by  the  former  owner  of  the  rufinamide  patent 
(Novartis),  the  Test  product  was  an  oral  suspension  prototype  developed  for  the  US  market  and  the 
comparator was a tablet manufactured by wet granulation and a pre-densification step also formulated 
for the US market. Therefore, this study could not be considered relevant for the current application in 
the EU. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 15/22
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3  Conclusions on clinical pharmacokinetics 
Given  that  rufinamide  delivered  as  10  mL  of  a  40  mg/mL  oral  suspension  formulation  has  been 
demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the 400 mg oral tablet formulation, the dosing recommendations 
for the oral suspension are the same as those approved for the marketed tablet. 
2.5    Clinical efficacy 
Efficacy  of  rufinamide  was  established  in  the  original  marketing  authorisation  application.  There  is  no 
new  pertinent  efficacy  information  in  the  authorised  indication,  which  is  the  use  of  rufinamide  oral 
suspension as adjunctive therapy in subjects with LGS. 
The applicant submitted a report from a clinical study E2080-A001-301 (referred to as Study 301). In 
this clinical trial, rufinamide has been evaluated for the treatment of refractory partial-onset seizures in 
a population of adolescents and adults. The formulation used in this study is however a tablet and the 
assessment of this data does not affect the assessment of the oral suspension nor is a new indication 
opted for, however the study is described below. 
2.5.1  Study E2080-A001-301 Summary of main study results 
Study  301  was  a  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group  study  of  rufinamide  given  as 
adjunctive  therapy  in  adolescent  and  adult  patients  (12  to  80  years  inclusive)  with  refractory  partial 
seizures. 
Three  hundred  and  fifty-seven  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  rufinamide  (N=176)  or 
placebo  (N=181).  Three  hundred  and  fifty-six  subjects  (176  in  the  rufinamide  group  and  180  in  the 
placebo  group)  received  at  least  1  dose  of  double-blind  medication  and  were  included  in  the  safety 
population. Three hundred and thirty-five subjects (160 in the rufinamide group and 175 in the placebo 
group) were included in the Intent-to-Treat (ITT) population. 
For  the  ITT  population,  the  median  percentage  change  in  total  partial  seizure  frequency  per  28  days 
during the Maintenance Phase relative to the Baseline Phase (the primary efficacy variable) was -23.25 
in  the  rufinamide  group  and  -9.80  in  the  placebo  group  (p=0.007).  For  the  per-protocol  (PP) 
population,  the  median  percentage  change  was  -25.35  for  the  rufinamide  group  and  -10.45  for  the 
placebo group (p=0.005). Thus, the magnitude and direction of the results were consistent for the ITT 
and  PP  populations.  The  results  for  subgroups  of  the  subjects  based  on  age,  sex,  race,  and  dose 
achieved at the end of the Titration Phase were consistent with those for the ITT population. 
The results for the secondary efficacy variables supported the results for the primary variable. A higher 
percentage of subjects in the rufinamide group (32.5%) than the placebo group (14.3%) experienced 
at  least  a  50%  reduction  in  partial  seizure  frequency  per  28  days  during  the  Maintenance  Phase 
relative to the Baseline Phase (odds ratio: 2.889; p<0.001). 
2.5.2  Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy  of  rufinamide  was  established  in  the  original  marketing  authorisation  application.  There  is  no 
new pertinent efficacy information in the authorised indication. 
The usefulness of the efficacy evaluation of this study for the current application is however limited as 
the formulation used in this study is a tablet and is conducted in a different indication. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 16/22
 
 
 
2.6  Clinical safety 
The clinical safety data package to support this application came from: 
 
a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of the rufinamide tablet (E2080-A001-
301;  referred  to  as  Study  301)  in  subjects  with  partial  onset  seizures  currently  inadequately 
treated with a maximum of three AEDs. 
 
a  primary  randomized,  open-label,  4-period  crossover  trial  to  compare  bioavailability  of  the 
rufinamide  oral  suspension  (E2080-E044-003;  hereafter  referred  to  as  Study  003),  and  PK  of 
rufinamide  administered  as  a  tablet  formulation  with  three  suspension  formulations 
manufactured under different conditions of homogenization speeds). 
 
and  a  supporting  randomized,  open-label,  3-way,  crossover  trial  to  compare  the  relative 
bioavailability  of  the  rufinamide  oral  suspension  single  400  mg  doses  of  rufinamide  oral 
suspension and single 400 mg doses of rufinamide tablet under fed conditions, and to evaluate 
the  effect  of  food  on  the  bioavailability  of  the  rufinamide  oral  suspension  (CRUF331  0102; 
hereafter referred to as Study 102). 
Safety  results  in  Study  301  were  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  rufinamide  tablets. 
Nevertheless, the absolute lymphocyte count decreased in 15 subjects (9.3%) in the rufinamide group, 
compared  to  4  subjects  (2.3%)  in  the  placebo  group.  The  applicant  reassured  the  Committee 
performing  an  additional  search  of  the  safety  database  (excluding  study  -301)  that  reported  no 
incidences  of  lymphocytopenia  and  there  have  been  no  lymphocytopenia  related  safety  signals in  the 
post-marketing reports after marketing of rufinamide for 4 years in the EU and for 2 years in the US. 
The  applicant  was  however  requested  to  closely  monitor  lymphocytopenia  and  discuss  any  possible 
event in future PSURs. 
For Study 003, TEAEs and treatment-related TEAEs were frequent (54.2% of all subjects and 37.5% of 
all  subjects,  respectively),  mild  to  moderate  in  severity,  and  manageable  or  reversible  with 
concomitant  medication.  Only  two  subjects  experienced  TEAEs  that  led  to  withdrawal;  both  were 
urinary  tract  infections  and  were  considered  not  related  to  treatment.  TEAEs  and  treatment-related 
TEAEs did not appear more frequent with a particular treatment and therefore, there appears to be no 
effect  of  homogeneity  on  safety.  As  exposure  is  the  same  for  the  three  suspension  formulations  and 
the 400 mg tablet, there was no impact of the manufacturing conditions on safety. 
No  new  safety  information  emerged  from  the  adverse  events  reported  in  study  102  in  the  healthy 
volunteers who received one dose of 400 mg rufinamide (tablet or oral suspension) under fasted or fed 
conditions. Adverse events reported with the oral suspension and with the tablet were comparable. 
2.6.1  Conclusions on clinical safety 
In summary, rufinamide was safe and well tolerated when administered as an oral suspension in both 
Study  003  and  Study  102.  However,  those  two  studies  were  bioequivalent  studies,  open  label  and 
performed  with  single  doses  in  low  number  of  healthy  volunteers.  The  data  in  Study  301  were 
consistent with those previously reported for rufinamide tablets. 
2.7  Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted an updated risk management plan. 
Summary of the risk management plan  
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 17/22
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimization Activities 
pharmacovigilance 
(routine and additional) 
activities (routine 
and additional) 
Identified Risk: 
Routine 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC that serious 
Rash and Hypersensitivity 
pharmacovigilance 
antiepileptic drug hypersensitivity syndrome 
Registry Study 
has occurred in association with rufinamide 
therapy. Signs and symptoms of this disorder 
were diverse; however, patients typically, 
although not exclusively, presented with fever 
and rash associated with other organ system 
involvement. Other associated manifestations 
included lymphadenopathy, liver function tests 
abnormalities, and haematuria. Because the 
disorder is variable in its expression, other 
organ system signs and symptoms not noted 
here may occur. This syndrome occurred in 
close temporal association to the initiation of 
rufinamide therapy and in the paediatric 
population. If this reaction is suspected, 
rufinamide should be discontinued and 
alternative treatment started. All patients who 
develop a rash while taking rufinamide must be 
closely monitored. 
Information on incidence also in Undesirable 
effects in section 4.8 of SmPC.  
Identified Risk: 
Routine 
Information on incidence in Undesirable effects 
Decreased Appetite and 
pharmacovigilance  
in section 4.8 of SmPC 
Weight Loss 
Identified Risk: 
Routine 
Information on incidence in Undesirable effects 
Vomiting 
pharmacovigilance 
in section 4.8 of SmPC 
Registry Study 
Potential Risk: 
Routine 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC that women 
Pregnancy and Associated 
pharmacovigilance 
of childbearing potential must use contraceptive 
Birth Defects 
Pregnancy Registry 
measures during treatment with Inovelon. 
Physicians should try to ensure that appropriate 
contraception is used, and should use clinical 
judgment when assessing whether oral 
contraceptives, or the doses of the oral 
contraceptive components, are adequate based 
on the individual patient’s clinical situation (see 
Section 4.5). 
Warning to avoid rufinamide in pregnancy 
unless benefit outweighs the risks in section 4.6 
of the SmPC. 
Potential Risk:  
Routine 
Changes will be made to the SmPC if 
Developmental and 
pharmacovigilance 
warranted. 
Maturation Impairment in 
Registry Study 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 18/22
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
Proposed risk minimization Activities 
pharmacovigilance 
(routine and additional) 
activities (routine 
and additional) 
Children and Adolescents 
Potential Risk:  
Routine 
Changes will be made to the SmPC if 
Adverse Effects on 
pharmacovigilance 
warranted. 
Cognition 
Registry Study 
Potential Risk:  
Routine 
Warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC that in a 
Shortened QT interval on 
pharmacovigilance 
thorough QT study, rufinamide produced a 
ECG  
decrease in QTc interval proportional to 
concentration. Although the underlying 
mechanism and safety relevance of this finding 
is not known, clinicians should use clinical 
judgment when assessing whether to prescribe 
rufinamide to patients at risk from further 
shortening their QTc duration (e.g. Congenital 
Short QT Syndrome or patients with a family 
history of such a syndrome).  
Potential Risk: 
Routine 
Changes will be made to the SmPC if 
Suicide 
pharmacovigilance 
warranted. 
Registry Study 
Medication Errors 
Routine 
Changes will be made to the SmPC if 
pharmacovigilance 
warranted. 
Registry Study 
Missing Information: 
Routine 
Since the pharmacokinetics of rufinamide are 
Elderly population 
pharmacovigilance 
not altered in the elderly, dosage adjustment is 
not required in patients over 65 years of age. 
(Section 4.2 and Section 5.2 in SmPC). 
Missing Information: 
Routine 
Warning in section 4.5 of the SmPC about 
Concomitant Medications 
pharmacovigilance 
interactions. 
Registry Study 
Missing Information: 
Routine 
Warning in section 4.4 and section 4.5 of the 
Pregnancy 
pharmacovigilance 
SmPC that women of childbearing potential 
Pregnancy registry 
must use contraceptive measures  
Missing Information: 
Routine 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC notes that use in 
Hepatic Impairment 
pharmacovigilance 
patients with hepatic impairment has not been 
studied. Caution and careful dose titration is 
recommended when treating patients with mild 
to moderate hepatic impairment. Therefore, use 
in patients with severe hepatic impairment is 
not recommended. 
Also noted in section 5.2 of SmPC.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted for the new pharmaceutical form, was of the opinion 
that  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  Pharmacovigilance,  agreed  for 
the  currently  marketed  formulation  were  to  be  maintained  to  investigate  further  some  of  the  safety 
concerns:  
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 19/22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Registry Study: European Registry of Anti-Epileptic Drug Use in Patients with LGS (E2080-
E044-401). Ongoing study. Planned Date for S u b m i s s i o n   o f   Final Data: December 2013. 
  Pregnancy registry: A pregnancy registry is being maintained by EURAP (European and 
International Registry of Anti-epileptic drugs in Pregnancy). Eisai provide financial support to 
EURAP in return for details of pregnancy cases collected and the reported outcomes. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information in relation to the new formulation. 
In addition, the MAH is requested to submit an updated version of the RMP in order to discuss and 
reflect the potential risk of the propylparaben contained in Inovelon on the reproductive system.  
PSUR cycle 
The CHMP considered that the PSUR cycle should be amended based on the data submitted in the 
application and requested an additional yearly PSUR. 
The next PSUR will cover the period from 16 January 2011 to 15 January 2012 and should be 
submitted no later than 15 March 2012. 
2.8  Update of the Product information 
Inovelon  oral  suspension  is  intended  to  be  used  for  treatment  in  the  same  indication  and  the  same 
dose range to the film-coated tablets, which has been reflected in the new presentations incorporated 
in the product information. 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3   Benefit-Risk Assessment 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Inovelon  oral  suspension  is  intended  to  be  used  for  treatment  in  the  same  indication  and  the  same 
dose range to the film-coated tablets, but affords a more convenient presentation for administration to 
young  children  and  for  those  with  difficulties  in  swallowing  and  increases  the  treatment  options  for 
patients who prefer to not swallow a solid oral dosage form. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Rufinamide was safe and well tolerated in the 3 studies submitted to support the safety profile of the 
product  and  the  results  of  the  findings  were  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  Rufinamide 
tablets. However, Study 301 has been performed with rufinamide tablets, and not oral suspension; and 
in patients with partial onset seizures, whereas rufinamide is currently authorized in the treatment of 
seizures  associated  with  Lennox-Gastaut  syndrome.  In  addition, safety  data  coming  from  the  other  2 
bioequivalence  studies  003  and  102  have  a  limited  significance,  since  these  were  bioequivalence 
studies, open label and performed in a low number of healthy volunteers. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 20/22
 
 
 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Based on the favourable outcome of the Bioequivalence study comparing the new oral solution with the 
established tablet formulation, the same safety profile as the tablet presentation is expected. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Although  at  present  many  medicinal  products  contain  propylparabens,  propylparaben  is  no  longer 
permitted in the EU for use in food products. It has been shown to exhibit an oestrogenic potential in 
vitro and effects on male fertility parameters have been observed in rat studies. Thus, considering that 
the  product  is  intended  for  the  paediatric  population,  the  use  of  propylparaben  represents  a  concern, 
which needs to be further elucidated.  
While  a  consortium  of  companies  is  working  with  the  AFSSAPS  to  assess  the  potential  risk  of 
propylparaben  on  the  reproductive  system  of  the  neonatal  rat,  the  MAH  has  committed  to  develop  a 
paraben free formulation post-approval, which was acceptable, in the light of the clinical need for the 
product in the small target population. 
Benefit-risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The benefit-risk balance is considered positive. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) is rare and is one of the most severe forms of childhood epilepsy and 
patients with LGS often receive polytherapy due to the lack of full response to any single AED. 
Inovelon  oral  suspension  provides  additional  treatment  options  for  patients  who  have  not  sufficiently 
responded  to  other  AEDs,  and  rufinamide  has  shown  to  be  efficacious  as  adjunctive  treatment  of 
seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in children 4 years of age and older and adults. 
The  development  of  a  suitable  oral  suspension  formulation  of  rufinamide  increases  the  treatment 
options for patients, particularly young children, with LGS. The oral suspension would also address the 
needs  of  older  patients  who  are  unable  to  or  prefer  not  to  swallow  a  solid  oral  dosage  form.  Patient 
compliance would also be expected to improve, especially in young children. 
Inovelon oral suspension has been shown to be bioequivalent to the marketed 400 mg tablet. Based on 
these results, rufinamide oral suspension confers all the benefits of the tablets with respect to seizure 
control  but  offers  an  alternative  oral  formulation  for  ease  of  use  in  young  children  and  a  potential 
increase in patient compliance. 
As  there  are  potential  risks  associated  to  the  use  of  the  preservative  propylparaben  that  cannot  be 
excluded,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  develop  a  paraben  free  formulation  after  adoption  of  the 
positive CHMP opinion, which was acceptable in the light of the clinical need for the product. 
Overall, having considered the benefits of the new formulation and its comparable safety profile to the 
marketed  tablets  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  benefit-risk  balance  of  rufinamide  oral  solution  was 
favourable. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 21/22
 
 
 
4  Recommendations 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Inovelon oral suspension as adjunctive treatment of seizures associated 
with  Lennox-Gastaut  syndrome  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
extension of the Marketing Authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation 
Risk Management System 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan  of  the 
Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  marketing  authorisation  and  any 
subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached 
  at the request of the EMA 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow a yearly cycle until otherwise agreed by the CHMP. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Inovelon Oral Solution 
Assessment report 
Page 22/22
 
 
 
