ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Inrebic 100 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each hard capsule contains fedratinib dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 100 mg fedratinib. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule. 
Reddish-brown opaque capsules, 21.4 - 22.0 mm (size 0), printed with “FEDR” on the cap and 
“100 mg” on the body in white ink. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Inrebic is indicated for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients 
with primary myelofibrosis, post polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post essential 
thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis who are Janus Associated Kinase (JAK) inhibitor naïve or have been 
treated with ruxolitinib. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Inrebic should be initiated and monitored under the supervision of physicians 
experienced in the use of anti-cancer medicinal products. 
Posology 
Patients who are on treatment with ruxolitinib, prior to starting treatment with Inrebic, must taper and 
discontinue ruxolitinib according to the ruxolitinib prescribing information. 
Baseline testing of thiamine (vitamin B1) levels, complete blood count, hepatic panel, amylase/lipase, 
blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine should be obtained prior to starting treatment with Inrebic, 
periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated. Inrebic treatment should not be started in 
patients with thiamine deficiency, until thiamine levels have been corrected (see section 4.4). Initiating 
treatment with Inrebic is not recommended in patients with a baseline platelet count below 50 x 109/L 
and ANC < 1.0 x 109/L. 
It is recommended that prophylactic anti-emetics be used according to local practice for the first 
8 weeks of treatment and continued thereafter as clinically indicated (see section 4.4). Administration 
of Inrebic with a high fat meal may reduce the incidence of nausea and vomiting. 
The recommended dose of Inrebic is 400 mg once daily. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment may be continued for as long as patients derive clinical benefit. Dose modifications should 
be considered for haematologic and non-haematologic toxicities (Table 1). Inrebic should be 
discontinued in patients who are unable to tolerate a dose of 200 mg daily. 
If a dose is missed, the next scheduled dose should be taken the following day. Extra capsules should 
not be taken to make up for the missed dose. 
Dose modifications 
Dose modifications for haematologic toxicities, non-haematologic toxicities and management of 
Wernicke’s encephalopathy (WE) are shown in Table 1. 
Dose management of thiamine levels 
Before treatment initiation and during treatment, thiamine levels should be replenished if they are low. 
During treatment, thiamine levels should be assessed periodically (e.g. monthly for the first 3 months 
and every 3 months thereafter) and as clinically indicated (see section 4.4). 
Dose modifications with concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors 
If concomitant strong CYP3A4 inhibitors cannot be avoided, the dose of Inrebic should be reduced to 
200 mg. Patients should be carefully monitored (e.g. at least weekly) for safety (see section 4.4 
and 4.5). 
In cases where co-administration with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued, the Inrebic dose 
should be increased to 300 mg once daily during the first two weeks after discontinuation of the 
CYP3A4 inhibitor and then 400 mg once daily thereafter as tolerated. Additional dose adjustments 
should be made as needed, based upon monitoring of Inrebic-related safety and efficacy. 
Dose re-escalation 
If the adverse reaction due to Inrebic that resulted in a dose reduction is controlled with effective 
management and the toxicity is resolved for at least 28 days, the dose level may be re-escalated to one 
dose level higher per month up to the original dose level. Dose re-escalation is not recommended if the 
dose reduction was due to a Grade 4 non-haematologic toxicity, ≥ Grade 3 alanine aminotransferase 
(ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), or total bilirubin elevation, or reoccurrence of a Grade 4 
haematologic toxicity. 
Table 1: 
Dose reductions for haematologic, non-haematologic treatment emergent 
toxicities and management of Wernicke’s encephalopathy 
Haematologic toxicity 
Dose reduction 
Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with active bleeding 
(platelet count < 50 x 109/L) or Grade 4 
thrombocytopenia (platelet count < 25 x 109/L) 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to ≤ Grade 2 
(platelet count < 75 x 109/L) or baseline. Restart 
dose at 100 mg daily below the last given dose. 
Grade 4 neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count 
[ANC] < 0.5 x 109/L) 
Grade 3 and higher anaemia, transfusion 
indicated (haemoglobin level < 8.0 g/dL) 
Recurrence of a Grade 4 haematologic toxicity 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to ≤ Grade 2 
(ANC < 1.5 x 109/L) or baseline. Restart dose at 
100 mg daily below the last given dose. 
Granulocyte growth factors may be used at the 
physician’s discretion (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to ≤ Grade 2 
(haemoglobin level < 10.0 g/dL) or baseline. 
Restart dose at 100 mg daily below the last given 
dose. 
Inrebic discontinuation as per physician’s 
discretion. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-haematologic toxicity 
Dose reduction 
≥ Grade 3 nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea not 
responding to supportive measures within 
48 hours 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to ≤ Grade 1 
or baseline. Restart dose at 100 mg daily below 
the last given dose. 
≥ Grade 3 ALT/AST (> 5.0 to 20.0 x upper limit 
of normal [ULN]) or bilirubin (> 3.0 to 
10.0 ULN) 
≥ Grade 3 amylase/lipase (> 2.0 to 5.0 x ULN) 
≥ Grade 3 other non-haematologic toxicities 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to ≤ Grade 1 
(AST/ALT (> ULN - 3.0 x ULN) or bilirubin 
(> ULN - 1.5 x ULN)) or baseline. Restart dose 
at 100 mg daily below the last given dose. 
Monitor ALT, AST and bilirubin (total and 
direct) every 2 weeks for at least 3 months 
following the dose reduction. If re-occurrence of 
a Grade 3 or higher elevation, discontinue 
treatment with Inrebic. 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to Grade 1 
(> ULN - 1.5 x ULN) or baseline. Restart dose at 
100 mg daily below the last given dose. 
Monitor amylase/lipase every 2 weeks for at 
least 3 months following the dose reduction. If 
re-occurrence of a Grade 3 or higher elevation, 
discontinue treatment with Inrebic. 
Interrupt Inrebic dose until resolved to ≤ Grade 1 
or baseline. Restart dose at 100 mg daily below 
the last given dose.  
Management of thiamine levels and 
Wernicke’s encephalopathy 
Dose reduction 
For thiamine levels < normal range (74 to 
222 nmol/L)* but ≥ 30 nmol/L without signs or 
symptoms of WE 
For thiamine levels < 30 nmol/L without signs or 
symptoms of WE 
For signs or symptoms of WE regardless of 
thiamine levels 
Interrupt Inrebic treatment. Dose with daily 
100 mg oral thiamine until thiamine levels are 
restored to normal range*. Consider re-starting 
Inrebic treatment when thiamine levels are 
within normal range*. 
Interrupt Inrebic treatment. Initiate treatment 
with parenteral thiamine at therapeutic dosages 
until thiamine levels are restored to normal 
range*. Consider re-starting Inrebic treatment 
when thiamine levels are within normal range*. 
Discontinue Inrebic treatment and immediately 
administer parenteral thiamine at therapeutic 
dosages. 
*the normal thiamine range may differ depending on the methods used by the laboratory. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
For patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance [CLcr] 15 mL/min to 29 mL/min by 
Cockcroft-Gault [C-G]), the dose should be reduced to 200 mg. No modification of the starting dose is 
recommended for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (CLcr 30 mL/min to 89 mL/min 
by C-G). Due to potential increase of exposure, patients with pre-existing moderate renal impairment 
may require at least weekly safety monitoring and if necessary, dose modifications based on adverse 
reactions. 
Hepatic impairment 
Inrebic pharmacokinetics have not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Use of 
Inrebic in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C or total bilirubin > 3 times 
4 
 
 
ULN and any AST increase) should be avoided. No modification of the starting dose is required for 
patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment. 
Elderly 
No additional dose adjustments are required in elderly patients (> 65 years of age). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Inrebic in children and adolescents aged up to 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Inrebic is for oral use. 
The capsules should not be opened, broken or chewed. They should be swallowed whole, preferably 
with water, and may be taken with or without food. Administration with a high fat meal may reduce 
the incidence of nausea and vomiting, therefore it is recommended to be taken with food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Encephalopathy, including Wernicke’s encephalopathy 
Cases of serious and fatal encephalopathy, including Wernicke’s, were reported in patients taking 
Inrebic. Wernicke’s encephalopathy is a neurologic emergency resulting from thiamine (vitamin B1) 
deficiency. Signs and symptoms of Wernicke’s encephalopathy may include ataxia, mental status 
changes and ophthalmoplegia (e.g. nystagmus, diplopia). Any change in mental status, confusion or 
memory impairment should raise concern for potential encephalopathy, including Wernicke’s and 
prompt a full evaluation including a neurologic examination, assessment of thiamine levels and 
imaging (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Thiamine levels and nutritional status in patients should be assessed before starting treatment with 
Inrebic, periodically during treatment (e.g. monthly for the first 3 months and every 3 months 
thereafter) and as clinically indicated. Inrebic treatment should not be started in patients with thiamine 
deficiency. Before treatment initiation and during treatment, thiamine levels should be replenished if 
they are low. If encephalopathy is suspected, Inrebic treatment should be discontinued immediately 
and parenteral thiamine treatment should be initiated while evaluating for all possible causes. Patients 
should be monitored until symptoms have resolved or improved and thiamine levels have normalised 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Anaemia, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia 
Treatment with Inrebic may cause anaemia, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia. Complete blood 
counts should be obtained at baseline, periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.8). Inrebic has not been studied in patients with a baseline platelet 
count < 50 x 109/L and ANC < 1.0 x 109/L. 
Anaemia 
Anaemia generally occurs within the first 3 months of treatment. Patients with a haemoglobin level 
below 10.0 g/dL at the start of therapy are more likely to develop anaemia of Grade 3 or above during 
treatment and should be carefully monitored (e.g. once weekly for the first month until haemoglobin 
levels improve). Patients developing anaemia may require blood transfusions. Consider dose reduction 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for patients developing anaemia particularly for those who become red blood cell transfusion 
dependent (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia generally occurs within the first 3 months of treatment. Patients with low platelet 
counts (< 100 x 109/L) at the start of therapy are more likely to develop thrombocytopenia of Grade 3 
or above during treatment and should be carefully monitored (e.g. once weekly for the first month 
until platelet count improves) (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). Thrombocytopenia is generally reversible and 
is usually managed by supportive treatment such as dose interruptions, dose reduction and/or platelet 
transfusions if necessary. Patients should be made aware of the increased risk of bleeding associated 
with thrombocytopenia. 
Neutropenia 
Neutropenia was generally reversible and was managed by temporarily withholding Inrebic (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Gastrointestinal events 
Nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea are among the most frequent adverse reactions in Inrebic-treated 
patients. Most of the adverse reactions are Grade 1 or 2 and typically occur within the first 2 weeks of 
treatment. Consider providing appropriate prophylactic anti-emetic therapy (e.g. 5-HT3 receptor 
antagonists) during Inrebic treatment. Treat diarrhoea with anti-diarrheal medicinal products promptly 
at the first onset of symptoms. For cases of Grade 3 or higher nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea that are 
not responsive to supportive measures within 48 hours, the dose of Inrebic should be interrupted until 
resolved to Grade 1 or less/baseline. The dose should be restarted at 100 mg daily below the last given 
dose. Thiamine levels should be monitored and replenished as needed (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Hepatic toxicity 
Elevations of ALT and AST have been reported with Inrebic treatment and one case of hepatic failure 
was reported. Patients should have their hepatic function monitored at baseline, at least monthly for 
the first 3 months, periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated. After observed toxicity, 
patients should be monitored at least every 2 weeks until resolution. ALT and AST elevations were 
generally reversible with dose modifications or permanent treatment discontinuation (see sections 4.2 
and 4.8). 
Elevated amylase/lipase 
Elevations of amylase and/or lipase have been reported with Inrebic treatment and one case of 
pancreatitis was reported. Patients should have their amylase and lipase monitored at baseline, at least 
monthly for the first 3 months, periodically during treatment and as clinically indicated. After 
observed toxicity, patients should be monitored at least every 2 weeks until resolution. For Grade 3 or 
higher amylase and/or lipase, dose modifications are recommended (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
Elevated creatinine 
Elevations of creatinine have been reported with Inrebic treatment (see section 4.8). Patients should 
have their creatinine levels monitored at baseline, at least monthly for the first 3 months, periodically 
during treatment and as clinically indicated. For severe renal impairment (CLcr 15 mL/min 
to 29 mL/min by C-G), dose modifications are recommended (see section 4.2). 
Interactions 
Concomitant administration of Inrebic with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increases Inrebic exposure. 
Increased exposure of Inrebic may increase the risk of adverse reactions. In place of strong CYP3A4 
inhibitors, consider alternative therapies that do not strongly inhibit CYP3A4 activity. If strong 
CYP3A4 inhibitors cannot be replaced, the dose of Inrebic should be reduced when administering with 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, (e.g. ketoconazole, ritonavir). Patients should be carefully monitored (e.g. 
at least weekly) for safety. Prolonged co-administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor may require 
close safety monitoring and if necessary, dose modifications based on adverse reactions (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Agents that simultaneously inhibit CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 (e.g. fluconazole, fluvoxamine) or the 
combination of inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may increase Inrebic exposure. Therefore, 
patients taking concomitant dual inhibitors of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may require more intensive 
safety monitoring and if necessary, dose modifications of Inrebic based on adverse reactions (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Agents that strongly or moderately induce CYP3A4 (e.g. phenytoin, rifampicin, efavirenz) may 
decrease Inrebic exposure and should be avoided in patients receiving Inrebic (see section 4.5). 
If Inrebic is to be co-administered with substrate of CYP3A4 (e.g. midazolam, simvastatin), CYP2C19 
(e.g. omeprazole, S-mephenytoin) or CYP2D6 (e.g. metoprolol, dextromethorphan), dose 
modifications of co-administered medicines should be made as needed with close monitoring of safety 
and efficacy (see section 4.5). 
If Inrebic is to be co-administered with agents that are renally excreted via organic cation transporter 
(OCT)2 and multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE)1/2-K (e.g. metformin), caution should be 
exercised and dose modifications should be made as needed (see section 4.5). 
The concomitant use of haematopoietic growth factors with Inrebic has not been studied. The safety 
and efficacy of these co-administrations are not known (see section 4.5 and 4.2). 
Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) 
In a large randomised active-controlled study of tofacitinib (another JAK inhibitor) in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients 50 years and older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a higher rate 
of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), defined as cardiovascular death, non-fatal 
myocardial infarction (MI) and non-fatal stroke, was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF 
inhibitors. 
Events of MACE have been reported in patients receiving Inrebic. Prior to initiating or continuing 
therapy with Inrebic, the benefits and risks for the individual patient should be considered particularly 
in patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients 
with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors. 
Thrombosis 
In a large randomised active-controlled study of tofacitinib (another JAK inhibitor) in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients 50 years and older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose 
dependent higher rate of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) including deep venous thrombosis 
(DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. 
Events of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) have been reported in 
patients receiving Inrebic. Prior to initiating or continuing therapy with Inrebic, the benefits and risks 
for the individual patient should be considered particularly in patients with cardiovascular factors (see 
also section 4.4 “Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE)”). 
In patients with known VTE risk factors other than cardiovascular or malignancy risk factors, Inrebic 
should be used with caution. VTE risk factors other than cardiovascular or malignancy risk factors 
include previous VTE, patients undergoing major surgery, immobilisation, use of combined hormonal 
contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy, and inherited coagulation disorder. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should be re-evaluated periodically during Inrebic treatment to assess for changes in VTE 
risk. 
Promptly evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of VTE and discontinue Inrebic in patients with 
suspected VTE, regardless of dose. 
Secondary malignancies 
In a large randomised active-controlled study of tofacitinib (another JAK inhibitor) in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients 50 years and older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a higher rate 
of malignancies, particularly lung cancer, lymphoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) was 
observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. 
Lymphoma and other malignancies have been reported in patients receiving JAK inhibitors, including 
Inrebic. Prior to initiating or continuing therapy with Inrebic, the benefits and risks for the individual 
patient should be considered particularly in patients 65 years of age and older and patients who are 
current or past long-time smokers. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
The experience in the age group 75 years and older is limited. In clinical studies, 13.8% (28/203) of 
patients treated with Inrebic were 75 years and older and serious adverse reactions and adverse 
reactions leading to treatment discontinuation occurred more frequently. 
Excipients 
Inrebic capsules contain less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium 
free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effect of other medicinal products on fedratinib 
Fedratinib is metabolised by multiple CYPs in vitro with the predominant contribution from CYP3A4 
and with a lesser contribution from CYP2C19, and flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs). 
Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Co-administration of ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor: 200 mg twice daily) with a single dose 
of fedratinib (300 mg) increased the fedratinib area under the plasma concentration time curve from 
time zero to infinity (AUCinf) by approximately 3-fold. (see section 4.2). 
Based on physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations, co-administration of moderate 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, erythromycin (500 mg three times daily) or diltiazem (120 mg twice daily), with 
fedratinib 400 mg once daily is predicted to increase fedratinib AUC at steady state by 1.1-fold. 
Adverse reactions following prolonged co-administration of a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor cannot be 
excluded. 
Simultaneous inhibition of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 
Co-administration of fluconazole (dual inhibitor of CYP3A4 and CYP2C19, 200 mg once daily) with 
a single dose of fedratinib (100 mg) increased AUCinf of fedratinib by 1.7-fold. 
Based on PBPK simulations, co-administration of fluconazole (200 mg once daily) with fedratinib 
400 mg once daily is predicted to increase fedratinib AUC at steady state by 1.5-fold. 
Due to potential increase in exposure of fedratinib, patients taking concomitant dual inhibitors of 
CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 may require more intensive safety monitoring and if necessary, dose 
modifications of Inrebic based on adverse reactions (see section 4.2). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strong and moderate CYP3A4 inducers 
Co-administration of rifampicin (strong CYP3A4 inducer: 600 mg once daily) or efavirenz (moderate 
CYP3A4 inducer: 600 mg once daily) with a single dose of fedratinib (500 mg) decreased AUCinf of 
fedratinib by approximately 80% or 50%, respectively. 
Proton pump inhibitors 
Co-administration of pantoprazole (proton pump inhibitor: 40 mg daily) with a single dose of 
fedratinib (500 mg) increased fedratinib AUCinf to a clinically insignificant extent (by 1.15-fold). 
Therefore, an increase in gastric pH is not expected to have clinically meaningful impact on fedratinib 
exposure and no dose adjustment is needed for concomitant administration of fedratinib with agents 
that increase gastric pH. 
Effect of fedratinib on other medicinal products 
Effects on enzymes: CYP3A4, CYP2C19 or CYP2D6 substrates 
Concomitant administration of fedratinib with the CYP3A4 substrate, midazolam (2 mg), the 
CYP2C19 substrate, omeprazole (20 mg), and the CYP2D6 substrate, metoprolol (100 mg), increases 
midazolam, omeprazole, and metoprolol AUCinf by 3.8-, 2.8-, 1.8- fold and peak concentrations (Cmax) 
by 1.8-, 1.1- and 1.6-fold, respectively. Therefore, dose modifications of medicinal products that are 
CYP3A4, CYP2C19, or CYP2D6 substrates should be made as needed with close monitoring of safety 
and efficacy. 
Effects on transporters 
In in vitro studies, fedratinib inhibits P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), 
MATE1, MATE2-K, organic anion transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1, OATP1B3 and OCT2. 
Co-administration of a single dose of fedratinib (600 mg) with a single dose of digoxin (P-gp 
substrate: 0.25 mg), rosuvastatin (OATP1B1/1B3 and BCRP substrate: 10 mg), and metformin (OCT2 
and MATE1/2-K substrate: 1000 mg) had no clinically meaningful effect on the AUCinf of digoxin, 
rosuvastatin, and metformin. Renal clearance of metformin was decreased by 36% in the presence of 
fedratinib. The glucose-lowering pharmacodynamic effect of metformin in the presence of fedratinib 
appears reduced, with the glucose AUC0-3h being 17% higher. Caution should be exercised and dose 
modifications should be made as needed for agents that are renally excreted via OCT2 and 
MATE1/2-K. 
Haematopoietic growth factors 
The concurrent use of haematopoietic growth factors and fedratinib has not been studied. It is not 
known whether the JAK inhibition by fedratinib reduces the efficacy of haematopoietic growth factors 
or whether the haematopoietic growth factors affect the efficacy of fedratinib (see sections 4.2 and 
4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception 
Females of reproductive potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant whilst receiving 
Inrebic and should use effective contraception during treatment with Inrebic and for at least 1 month 
after the last dose. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of Inrebic in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3); exposure in these studies was lower than human exposure at the 
recommended dose. Based on its mechanism of action, Inrebic may cause foetal harm. Inrebic belongs 
to a class of drugs, JAK inhibitors, that has been shown in pregnant rats and rabbits to cause 
embryo-foetal mortality and teratogenicity at clinically-relevant exposures. Inrebic is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3). Women of childbearing potential have to use effective 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contraception during treatment and for at least 1 month after the last dose. If Inrebic is used during 
pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this medicinal product, the patient should 
be advised of the potential hazard to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether fedratinib/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the breast-fed child 
cannot be excluded. 
Women should not breastfeed during treatment with Inrebic and for at least 1 month after the last dose 
of Inrebic. 
Fertility 
There are no human data on the effect of fedratinib on fertility. There are no data on effects on fertility 
in animals at clinically-relevant exposure levels (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Inrebic has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients who experience 
dizziness after taking Inrebic should refrain from driving or using machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The overall safety information of Inrebic was assessed in 608 patients who received continuous doses 
of Inrebic in Phase 1, 2 and 3 clinical studies. 
Primary or secondary myelofibrosis (JAKARTA, JAKARTA2, ARD11936) 
In clinical studies of patients with primary myelofibrosis (MF), post polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis 
(post-PV MF), or post essential thrombocythemia myelofibrosis (post-ET MF), treated with Inrebic 
400 mg (N = 203), including patients previously exposed to ruxolitinib (N = 97; JAKARTA2), the 
median exposure was 35.6 weeks (range 0.7 to 114.6 weeks) and the median number of cycles 
(1 cycle = 28 days) initiated was 9 cycles. Sixty-three percent of 203 patients were exposed for 
6 months or longer and 38% were exposed for 12 months or longer. 
Among the 203 patients with MF treated with a 400 mg dose of Inrebic in the clinical studies, the most 
frequent non-haematologic adverse reactions were diarrhoea (67.5%), nausea (61.6%), and vomiting 
(44.8%). The most frequent haematologic adverse reactions were anaemia (99.0%) and 
thrombocytopenia (68.5%) based on laboratory values (Table 2). The most frequent serious adverse 
reactions in MF patients treated with 400 mg were anaemia (2.5% based on reported adverse events 
and not laboratory values) and diarrhoea (1.5%). Permanent discontinuation due to adverse event 
regardless of causality occurred in 24% of patients receiving 400 mg of Inrebic. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions from clinical studies for entire treatment duration (Table 2) are listed by MedDRA 
system organ class. Within each system organ class, the adverse reactions are ranked by frequency, 
with the most frequent reactions first. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare 
(< 1/10,000); and not known (cannot be estimated from available data). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: 
All adverse reactions by system organ class and preferred term 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Urinary tract infection 
Anaemiaa 
Thrombocytopeniaa 
Neutropeniaa 
Bleedingb 
Lipase increaseda 
Amylase increaseda 
Nervous system disorders  Headache 
Wernicke's encephalopathy 
Dizziness 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Constipation 
Dyspepsia 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increaseda 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increaseda 
Bone pain 
Muscle spasms 
Pain in extremity 
Blood creatinine increaseda 
Dysuria 
Fatigue/ 
Asthenia 
All grades 
frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Weight increased 
Investigations 
MedDRA = Medical dictionary of regulatory activities 
SMQ = Standardized MedDRA Query (a grouping of several MedDRA preferred terms to capture a medical concept). 
a Frequency is based on laboratory value. 
b Bleeding includes any type associated with thrombocytopenia requiring clinical intervention. Bleeding is evaluated using the MedDRA 
SMQ haemorrhage terms (broad scope). 
Common 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Encephalopathy, including Wernicke’s 
Serious cases of encephalopathy, including 1 established case of Wernicke’s, were reported in 1.3% 
(8/608) of patients treated with Inrebic in clinical studies; 7 patients were taking Inrebic at 500 mg 
daily prior to the onset of neurologic findings and had predisposing factors such as malnutrition, 
gastrointestinal adverse events, and other risk factors that could lead to thiamine deficiency. One 
patient treated with Inrebic at 400 mg was determined to have hepatic encephalopathy. Most events 
11 
 
 
 
resolved with some residual neurological symptoms including memory loss, cognitive impairment and 
dizziness, except for one fatal case (1/608; 0.16%). This was a patient with head and neck cancer, 
brain metastasis, difficulty eating, and weight loss who received fedratinib 500 mg in a study for 
another indication (see sections 4.2 and 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance and section 4.9). 
Gastrointestinal toxicity 
Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea are among the most frequent adverse reactions in Inrebic-treated 
patients. In MF patients treated with 400 mg of Inrebic, diarrhoea occurred in 68% of patients, nausea 
in 62% of patients, and vomiting in 45% of patients. Grade 3 diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting occurred 
in 5%, 0.5% and 2% of patients, respectively. The median time to onset of any grade nausea, 
vomiting, and diarrhoea was 2 days, with 75% of cases occurring within 3 weeks of starting treatment. 
Dose interruptions and reductions due to gastrointestinal toxicity were reported in 11% and 9% of 
patients, respectively. Permanent discontinuation of 400 mg Inrebic occurred due to gastrointestinal 
toxicity in 4% of patients (see sections 4.2 and 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance). 
Anaemia 
In patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis treated with 400 mg of Inrebic, 52% of patients 
developed Grade 3 anaemia. The median time to first onset of Grade 3 anaemia event was 
approximately 60 days with 75% of cases occurring within 4 months of starting treatment. Red blood 
cell transfusions were received by 58% of 400 mg Inrebic-treated patients and permanent 
discontinuation of 400 mg Inrebic occurred due to anaemia in 1.5% of patients (see sections 4.2 and 
4.4 for monitoring and management guidance). 
Thrombocytopenia 
In patients with primary or secondary myelofibrosis treated with 400 mg of Inrebic, 14% and 9% of 
patients developed Grade 3 and Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, respectively. The median time to first 
onset of Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia was approximately 70 days with 75% of cases occurring 
within 7 months of starting treatment. Platelet transfusions were received by 9% of 400 mg 
Inrebic-treated patients. Bleeding (associated with thrombocytopenia), that required clinical 
intervention occurred in 11% of patients. Permanent discontinuation of treatment due to 
thrombocytopenia occurred in 3% of patients (see sections 4.2 and 4.4 for monitoring and 
management guidance). 
Neutropenia 
Grade 4 neutropenia occurred in 3.5% of patients and dose interruption due to neutropenia were 
reported in 0.5% of patients (see sections 4.2 and 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance). 
Hepatic toxicity 
Elevations of ALT and AST (all Grades) occurred in 52% and 59%, respectively, with Grade 3 or 4 in 
3% and 2%, respectively, of 400 mg Inrebic-treated patients. The median time to onset of any Grade 
transaminase elevation was approximately 1 month, with 75% of cases occurring within 3 months of 
starting treatment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance). 
Elevated amylase/lipase 
Elevations of amylase and/or lipase (all Grades) occurred in 24% and 40%, respectively, of 
Inrebic-treated MF patients. Most of these events were Grade 1 or 2, with Grade 3/4 in 2.5% and 12%, 
respectively (see section 4.2). The median time to onset of any Grade amylase or lipase elevation was 
16 days, with 75% of cases occurring within 3 months of starting treatment. Permanent 
discontinuation of treatment due to elevated amylase and/or lipase occurred in 1.0% of patients 
receiving 400 mg of Inrebic (see sections 4.2 and 4.4 for monitoring and management guidance). 
Elevated creatinine 
Elevations of creatinine (all Grades), occurred in 74% of MF patients taking 400 mg of Inrebic. These 
elevations were generally asymptomatic Grade 1 or 2 events, with Grade 3 elevations observed in 3% 
of patients. The median time to onset of any Grade creatinine elevation was 27 days, with 75% of 
cases occurring within 3 months of starting treatment. Dose interruptions and reductions due to 
elevated creatinine were reported in 1% and 0.5% of patients, respectively. Permanent discontinuation 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of treatment due to elevated creatinine occurred in 1.5% of 400 mg Inrebic-treated patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Experience with overdose of Inrebic is limited. During clinical studies of Inrebic in myelofibrosis 
patients, doses were escalated up to 600 mg per day including 1 accidental overdose at 800 mg. At 
doses above 400 mg, gastrointestinal toxicity, fatigue and dizziness aswell as anaemia and 
thrombocytopenia tended to occur more commonly. In pooled clinical studies data encephalopathy 
including Wernicke’s encephalopathy was associated with doses of 500 mg. In the event of an 
overdose, no further Inrebic should be administered; the individual should be monitored clinically and 
supportive measures should be undertaken as clinically indicated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01EJ02 
Mechanism of action 
Fedratinib is a kinase inhibitor with activity against wild type and mutationally activated Janus 
Associated Kinase 2 (JAK2) and FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3). Fedratinib is a JAK2-selective 
inhibitor with higher inhibitory activity for JAK2 over family members JAK1, JAK3 and TYK2. 
Fedratinib reduced JAK2-mediated phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 
(STAT3/5) proteins, inhibited malignant cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Fedratinib inhibits cytokine induced signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)3 
phosphorylation in whole blood from myelofibrosis patients. A single dose administration of 300, 400, 
or 500 mg of fedratinib resulted in maximal inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation approximately 
2 hours after dosing, with values returning to near baseline at 24 hours. Similar levels of inhibition 
were achieved at steady state PK on cycle 1 day 15, after administration of 300, 400 or 500 mg of 
fedratinib per day. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Two key clinical studies (JAKARTA and JAKARTA2) were conducted in patients with myelofibrosis. 
JAKARTA was a randomised placebo-controlled Phase 3 study in patients who are JAK inhibitor 
naïve. JAKARTA2 was a single-arm study in patients who have been treated with ruxolitinib. 
JAKARTA: Myelofibrosis patients who are JAK inhibitor naive 
JAKARTA was a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study in patients with 
intermediate-2 or high-risk myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential 
thrombocythemia myelofibrosis with splenomegaly and platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/L. A total of 
289 patients were randomised to receive either Inrebic 500 mg (N = 97), 400 mg (n = 96) or placebo 
(n = 96) once daily for at least 24 weeks (6 x 28 day cycles). Placebo patients could cross-over after 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24 weeks to active treatment. The 400 mg dose appeared to be better tolerated than the 500 mg dose 
with fewer patients in the 400 mg arm reporting Grade 3 or 4 treatment emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs), TEAEs leading to dose reduction or dose interruption, and TEAEs leading to permanent 
treatment discontinuation. Fifty-nine percent (59%) of patients were male and the median age was 
65 years (range 27 to 86 years), with 40% of patients between 65 and 74 years and 11% of patients 
at least 75 years. Sixty-four percent (64%) of patients had primary MF, 26% had 
post-polycythaemia vera MF, and 10% had post-essential thrombocythemia MF. Fifty-two percent 
(52%) of patients had intermediate-2 risk, and 48% had high-risk disease. The median haemoglobin 
count at baseline was 10.2 g/dL (range 4.5 to 17.4 g/dL). The median platelet count was 
213.5 x 109/L (range 23.0 to 1155.0 x 109/L); 16.3% of patients had a platelet count < 100 x 109/L 
and 83.7% of patients had a platelet count ≥ 100 x 109/L. Patients had a median palpable spleen 
length of 15 cm (range 4 to 40 cm) at baseline and a median spleen volume as measured by 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) of 2568.0 mL (range of 316 to 
8244 mL) at baseline. (The median normal spleen volume is approximately 215 mL). 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving ≥ 35% reduction from 
baseline in spleen volume at week 24 (end of cycle 6) as measured by MRI or CT confirmed 
4 weeks later. 
The key secondary endpoint was the proportion of patients with a ≥ 50% reduction in Total 
Symptom Score (TSS) from baseline to the end of cycle 6 as measured by the modified 
Myelofibrosis Symptoms Assessment Form (MFSAF) v2.0 diary. 
Analyses of reduction in spleen volume are presented in Table 3. 
Table 3: 
Percentage of patients achieving spleen volume reduction from baseline to the 
end of cycle 6 in the Phase 3 study, JAKARTA (intent-to-treat (ITT) Population) 
Spleen volume and spleen size at the end of 
cycle 6 
Spleen volume 
Number (%) of patients with spleen volume 
reduction by 35% or more at the end of 
cycle 6 
95% confidence interval 
p-value 
Number (%) of patients with spleen volume 
reduction by 35% or more at the end of 
cycle 6 (with a follow-up scan 4 weeks later) 
95% confidence interval 
p-value 
Inrebic 400 mg 
N = 96 
n (%) 
45 (46.9) 
36.9, 56.9 
35 (36.5) 
p < 0.0001 
Placebo 
N = 96 
n (%) 
1 (1.0) 
0.0, 3.1 
1 (1.0) 
26.8, 46.1 
0.0, 3.1 
p < 0.0001 
A higher proportion of patients in Inrebic 400 mg group achieved a ≥ 35% reduction from baseline in 
spleen volume regardless of the presence or absence of the JAKV617F mutation. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates, the median duration of spleen response was 18.2 months for the 
Inrebic 400 mg group. 
The modified MFSAF included 6 key MF associated symptoms: night sweats, itching, abdominal 
discomfort, early satiety, pain under ribs on left side, and bone or muscle pain. The symptoms were 
measured on a scale from 0 (absent) to 10 (worst imaginable). 
The percentage of patients (95% confidence interval) with a ≥ 50% reduction in TSS at the end of 
cycle 6 was 40.4% (36/89, 95% CI:30.3%, 50.6%) in the Inrebic 400 mg arm and 8.6% (7/81, 95% CI: 
2.5%, 14.8%) in the placebo arm. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JAKARTA2: Myelofibrosis patients who have been treated with ruxolitinib 
JAKARTA2, was a multicentre, open-label, single-arm study in patients previously exposed to 
ruxolitinib with a diagnosis of intermediate-1 with symptoms, intermediate-2 or high-risk primary 
myelofibrosis, post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis or post-essential thrombocythemia 
myelofibrosis with splenomegaly and platelet count ≥ 50 x 109/L. A total of 97 patients who were 
heavily pre-treated (79% of patients had received ≥ 2 prior therapies and 13% had received ≥ 4 prior 
therapies) were enrolled and started treatment with Inrebic 400 mg once daily with dose escalation up 
to 600 mg permitted. Fifty-five percent (55%) of patients were male and the median age was 67 years 
(range 38 to 83 years) with 46% of patients between 65 and 74 years and 17% of patients at least 
75 years. Fifty-five percent (55%) of patients had primary MF, 26% had post-polycythaemia vera MF, 
and 19% had post-essential thrombocythemia MF. Sixteen percent (16%) of patients had 
intermediate-1 with symptoms, 49% had intermediate-2, and 35% had high-risk disease. The median 
haemoglobin count was 9.8 g/dL (range 6.8 to 15.3 g/dL) at baseline. The median platelet count was 
147.0 x 109/L (range 48.0 to 929.0 x 109/L) at baseline; 34.0% of patients had a platelet count 
< 100 x 109/L, and 66.0% of patients had a platelet count ≥ 100 x 109/L. Patients had a median 
palpable spleen length of 18 cm (range 5 to 36 cm) at baseline and a median spleen volume as 
measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) of 2893.5 mL (range 
of 737 to 7815 mL) at baseline. 
The median duration of prior exposure to ruxolitinib was 10.7 months (range 0.1 to 62.4 months). 
Seventy-one percent (71%) of patients had received a dose of either 30 mg or 40 mg daily of 
ruxolitinib prior to study entry. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients achieving a ≥ 35% reduction in spleen 
volume from baseline to the end of cycle 6 as measured by MRI or CT. 
For the primary endpoint, the percentage of patients (95% confidence interval) who achieved a ≥ 35% 
reduction in spleen volume by MRI or CT at the 400 mg dose at the end of cycle 6 was 22.7% (22/97, 
95% CI: 14.8%, 32.3%) 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Inrebic in all subsets of the paediatric population for the treatment of myelofibrosis (MF) (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Fedratinib at 300 mg to 500 mg once daily (0.75 to 1.25 times the recommended dose of 400 mg) 
results in a dose proportional increase in geometric mean fedratinib Cmax and the area under the plasma 
concentration time curve over the dosing interval (AUCtau). The mean steady state levels are achieved 
within 15 days of daily dosing. The mean accumulation ratios are similar in adult patients with 
primary MF, post-PV MF or post-ET MF, ranging from 3- to 4-fold. 
At the dose of 400 mg once daily, the geometric mean (coefficient of variation, %CV) fedratinib 
Cmax,ss is 1 804 ng/mL (49%) and AUCtau,ss is 26 870 ng.hr/mL (43%) in patients with myelofibrosis. 
Following 400 mg once daily oral administration, fedratinib is rapidly absorbed, achieving Cmax at 
steady-state in 3 hours (range: 2 to 4 hours). Based on a mass balance study in humans, oral absorption 
of fedratinib is estimated to be approximately 63-77%. 
A low-fat, low-calorie (total 162 calories: 6% from fat, 78% from carbohydrate and 16% from protein) 
or a high-fat, high-calorie (total 815 calories: 52% from fat, 33% from carbohydrate and 15% from 
protein) meal increased AUCinf up to 24% and Cmax up to 14% of a single 500 mg dose of fedratinib. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thus, fedratinib can be taken with or without food since no clinically meaningful effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of fedratinib was observed with food. Administration with a high fat meal may 
reduce the incidence of nausea and vomiting and thus fedratinib is recommended to be taken with 
food. 
Distribution 
The mean apparent volume of distribution of fedratinib at steady-state is 1770 L in patients with 
myelofibrosis at 400 mg once daily dose suggesting extensive tissue distribution. The human plasma 
protein binding of fedratinib is approximately 95%, mostly to α1-acid glycoprotein. 
Biotransformation 
Fedratinib is metabolized by multiple CYPs in vitro, with the predominant contribution from 
CYP3A4, and with a lesser contribution from CYP2C19 and FMOs. 
Fedratinib was the predominant entity (approximately 80% of plasma radioactivity) in systemic 
circulation after oral administration of radiolabelled fedratinib. None of the metabolites contribute 
greater than 10% of total parent substance-related exposure in plasma. 
Elimination 
Following a single oral dose of radiolabelled fedratinib, elimination was primarily through metabolism 
with approximately 77% of radioactivity excreted in faeces and only approximately 5% of the excreted 
in urine. Unchanged parent substance was the major component in excreta, accounting on average for 
approximately 23% and 3% of the dose in faeces and urine, respectively. 
Fedratinib pharmacokinetics is characterised by a biphasic disposition with an effective half-life of 
41 hours, a terminal half-life of approximately 114 hours, and apparent clearance (CL/F) (%CV) of 
13 L/hr (51%) in patients with myelofibrosis. 
Special populations 
Age, body weight, gender and race 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis of cumulative data from 452 patients, no clinically 
meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of fedratinib was observed with regard to age (analysis 
including 170 patients with age 65-74 years, 54 with age 75-84 years and 4 with age 85+ years), body 
weight (40 to 135 kg), gender (analysis including 249 males and 203 females) and race (analysis 
including 399 White, 7 Black, 44 Asian and 2 other). 
Renal impairment 
Following a single 300 mg dose of fedratinib, the AUCinf of fedratinib increased by 1.5-fold in 
subjects with moderate renal impairment (CLcr 30 mL/min to 59 mL/min by C-G) and 1.9-fold in 
subjects with severe renal impairment (CLcr 15 mL/min to 29 mL/min by C-G), compared to that in 
subjects with normal renal function (CLcr ≥ 90 mL/min by C-G). 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis of cumulative data from 452 patients, no clinically 
meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of fedratinib was observed with regard to mild renal 
impairment (defined as 60 ≤ CLcr < 90 mL/min). 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and pharmacokinetics of a single oral 300 mg dose of fedratinib were evaluated in a study 
in subjects with normal hepatic function and with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class A). No 
clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of fedratinib was observed in subjects with mild 
hepatic impairment compared to that in subjects with normal hepatic function. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis of cumulative data from 452 patients, no clinically 
meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of fedratinib was observed with regard to mild (defined as 
total bilirubin ≤ ULN and AST > ULN or total bilirubin 1 to 1.5 times ULN and any AST increase; 
n = 115) or moderate (defined as total bilirubin > 1.5 to 3 times ULN and any AST; n = 17) hepatic 
impairment. 
Fedratinib pharmacokinetics has not been evaluated in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh Class C) (see section 4.2). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Fedratinib has been evaluated in safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and 
reproductive toxicity studies and in a carcinogenicity study. Fedratinib was not genotoxic and not 
carcinogenic in the 6-month Tg.rasH2 transgenic mouse model. Preclinical studies have demonstrated 
that at clinically-relevant doses, fedratinib does not inhibit thiamine transport in the gastrointestinal 
tract or the brain (see sections 4.2 and 4.8) 
In repeat-dose toxicity studies of up to 9 months in length, in mice, rats and dogs, the main toxicities 
observed included bone marrow hypoplasia; bile duct hypertrophy, necrosis and proliferation; 
lymphoid atrophy/depletion; renal tubular degeneration/necrosis; gastrointestinal tract inflammation; 
degeneration/necrosis of skeletal and cardiac muscle; histiocytic infiltration of the lung; and evidence 
of immunosuppression including pneumonia and/or abscesses. The highest plasma exposures achieved 
in the repeat-dose toxicology studies were associated with significant toxicity, including mortality, and 
were below the tolerated plasma exposures in patients at the highest recommended dose of 400 mg, 
suggesting humans are less sensitive than preclinical species to the toxicities of fedratinib. 
Clinically-relevant exposures were not attained in the species used in the toxicology studies, therefore 
these studies have a limited value in producing clinically relevant safety data on fedratinib. 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Fedratinib had no effect on the oestrous cycle parameters, mating performance, fertility, pregnancy 
rate or reproductive parameters in male or female rats. The exposure (AUC) was approximately 0.10 
to 0.13 times the clinical exposure at the recommended dose of 400 mg once daily. In a repeat-dose 
toxicity study, at exposures approximately equivalent to human clinical exposure, fedratinib caused 
aspermia, oligospermia and seminiferous tubule degeneration in male dogs (see section 4.6). 
Embryo-foetal development 
Fedratinib administered to pregnant rats during organogenesis (gestation days 6 to 17) was associated 
with adverse embryo-foetal effects including post-implantation loss, lower foetal body weights, and 
skeletal variations. These effects occurred in rats at approximately 0.1 times the clinical exposure at 
the recommended human daily dose of 400 mg/day. In rabbits, fedratinib did not produce 
developmental toxicity at the highest dose level tested (exposure approximately 0.08 times the clinical 
exposure at the recommended human daily dose). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Silicified microcrystalline cellulose (contains microcrystalline cellulose (E460) and silica colloidal 
anhydrous (E551)). 
Sodium stearyl fumarate 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin (E441) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
Printing ink 
Shellac (E904) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
High-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with polypropylene child resistant cap and heat induction 
seal. 
Each bottle contains 120 hard capsules and is packed in a cardboard carton. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused product or waste material should be returned to the pharmacist for safe disposal in 
accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1514/001 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 8 February 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Celgene Distribution B.V. 
Orteliuslaan 1000 
3528 BD Utrecht 
Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
INREBIC 100 mg hard capsules 
fedratinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains fedratinib dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 100 mg fedratinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
120 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
QR code to be included 
www.inrebic-eu-pil.com 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1514/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INREBIC 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
INREBIC 100 mg hard capsules 
fedratinib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains fedratinib dihydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 100 mg fedratinib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
120 hard capsules. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1514/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Inrebic 100 mg hard capsules 
fedratinib 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Inrebic is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Inrebic 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Inrebic 
Possible side effects 
How to store Inrebic 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Inrebic is and what it is used for 
What Inrebic is 
Inrebic contains the active substance fedratinib. It is a type of medicine known as ‘protein kinase 
inhibitors’. 
What Inrebic is used for 
Inrebic is used to treat adult patients with an enlarged spleen or with symptoms related to 
myelofibrosis, a rare form of blood cancer. 
How Inrebic works 
An enlarged spleen is one of the characteristics of myelofibrosis. Myelofibrosis is a disorder of the 
bone marrow, in which the marrow is replaced by scar tissue. The abnormal marrow can no longer 
produce enough normal blood cells and as a result the spleen becomes significantly enlarged. By 
blocking the action of certain enzymes (called Janus Associated Kinases), Inrebic can reduce the size 
of the spleen in patients with myelofibrosis and relieve symptoms such as fever, night sweats, bone 
pain and weight loss in patients with myelofibrosis. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Inrebic 
Do not take Inrebic 
- 
if you are allergic to fedratinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant. 
- 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking these capsules and during treatment, if you have any 
of the following signs or symptoms: 
Condition affecting the brain called encephalopathy, including Wernicke’s encephalopathy 
• 
Confusion, memory loss, or difficulty thinking; loss of balance or difficulty walking. 
• 
Eye problems such as random eye movement, double-vision, blurred vision and loss of vision. 
These maybe signs of a brain condition called encephalopathy, including Wernicke’s 
encephalopathy which may lead to death. 
Contact your doctor immediately if you get any of these signs or symptoms. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist during your treatment 
• 
if you are feeling very tired, being short of breath, pale skin or fast heartbeat – these may be 
signs of a low red blood cell count. 
if you have unusual bleeding or bruising under the skin, longer than usual bleeding after your 
blood has been drawn, or bleeding from your gums – these may be signs of a low blood platelet 
count. 
if you have frequent or re-occurring of infections which may be a sign of a low white blood cell 
count. 
if you have nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea. 
if you have or ever had any kidney problems. 
if you have or ever had any liver problems. 
if you have or ever had any problems with your pancreas. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following has been observed in another similar type of medicine used for the treatment of 
rheumatoid arthritis: heart problems, blood clots and cancer. Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before 
or during treatment if you: 
• 
are older than 65. Patients aged 65 years and older may be at increased risk of heart problems 
including heart attack and some types of cancer. 
have or have had heart problems. 
have or have had cancer. 
are a smoker or have smoked in the past. 
have previously had blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs 
(pulmonary embolism). 
get sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, chest pain or pain in upper back, swelling 
of the leg or arm, leg pain or tenderness, or redness or discoloration in the leg or arm as these 
can be signs of blood clots in the veins. 
notice any new growths on the skin or changes in existing growths. Your doctor may 
recommend that you have regular skin examinations while taking Inrebic. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Your doctor will discuss with you if Inrebic is appropriate for you. 
Blood tests 
Before and during treatment, you will have blood tests to check your blood cell levels (red blood cells, 
white blood cells and platelets), your vitamin B1 levels and your liver and pancreatic function. Your 
doctor may adjust the dose or stop treatment based on the results of the blood tests. 
Children and adolescents 
Inrebic should not be used in children or young people under 18 years of age because this medicine 
has not been studied in this age group. 
Other medicines and Inrebic 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This is because Inrebic can affect the way some other medicines work. Also some other 
medicines can affect the way Inrebic works. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following may increase the risk of side effects with Inrebic: 
• 
• 
• 
Ketoconazole, fluconazole (used to treat fungal infections); 
Fluvoxamine (used to treat depression); 
Ritonavir (used to treat HIV infections/AIDS). 
The following may reduce the effectiveness of Inrebic: 
• 
• 
• 
Rifampicin (used to treat tuberculosis (TB) and some other infections); 
Phenytoin (used to treat epilepsy and control fits or convulsions); 
Efavirenz (used to treat HIV infections/ AIDS). 
Inrebic may affect other medicines: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Midazolam (used to help you sleep or relieve anxiety); 
Omeprazole (used to treat stomach problems); 
Metoprolol (used to treat angina or high blood pressure); 
Metformin (used to lower blood sugar levels); 
Also simvastatin, S-mephenytoin and dextromethorphan. 
Your doctor will decide if the dose needs to be changed. 
Also tell your doctor if you recently had an operation or if you are going to have an operation or a 
procedure as Inrebic may interact with some sedatives. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Do not take Inrebic during pregnancy. If you are able to become pregnant, you must use effective 
contraception whilst taking these capsules and avoid becoming pregnant for at least one month after 
the last dose. 
Do not breast-feed while taking Inrebic and for at least one month after the last dose as it is not known 
if this medicine passes into breast milk. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel dizzy, do not drive or operate machines until these side effects have gone away. 
Inrebic contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Inrebic 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 400 mg (four 100 mg capsules) taken by mouth once daily. 
You will have blood tests before and while you take this medicine to monitor your progress. 
If you get certain side effects while you are taking Inrebic (see section 4) your doctor may lower your 
dose or pause or stop treatment. 
Taking these capsules 
• 
swallow the capsules whole, preferably with water. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
do not open, break or chew the capsules. 
the capsules can be taken either with or without food but it is preferable to take them with food 
to avoid feeling or being sick (vomiting). 
You should continue taking Inrebic for as long as your doctor tells you to. This is a long-term 
treatment. 
If you take more Inrebic than you should 
If you accidentally take too many Inrebic capsules or a higher dose than you should, contact your 
doctor or pharmacist straight away. 
If you forget to take Inrebic 
If you miss a dose or vomit after taking a capsule, skip the missed dose and take your next scheduled 
dose at your regular time the next day. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten or 
vomited capsule. 
If you stop taking Inrebic 
Do not stop taking Inrebic unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following symptoms which could be a sign 
of a serious condition which affects the brain called encephalopathy (including Wernicke’s 
encephalopathy): 
• 
• 
• 
Confusion, memory loss or difficulty thinking, 
Loss of balance or difficulty walking, 
Eye problems such as double-vision, blurred vision loss of vision or random eye movements. 
Talk to your doctor if you get any other side effects. These can include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Low levels of red blood cells which may cause tiredness, shortness of breath, pale skin or a fast 
heartbeat (anaemia). 
Reduction in blood platelets, which can make you bleed or bruise easily (thrombocytopenia). 
Reduction in white blood cells (neutropenia), sometimes with fever. Low level of white blood 
cells can reduce your ability to fight off infections. 
Feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting). 
Diarrhoea. 
Constipation. 
Bleeding. 
Urinary tract infection. 
Headache. 
Muscle spasms. 
Tiredness (fatigue) or weakness (asthenia). 
Changes in blood test results (alanine amino transferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase 
increased, increase in blood creatinine, increase in amylase and lipase levels). These may be 
signs of liver, kidney or pancreas problems. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
Dizziness. 
Increase in blood pressure (hypertension). 
Indigestion (dyspepsia). 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bone pain. 
Pain in limbs, hands or feet (pain in extremity). 
• 
• 
•  Weight gain. 
• 
Painful passing of urine. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Inrebic 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and bottle after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Inrebic contains 
• 
The active substance is fedratinib. Each hard capsule contains fedratinib dihydrochloride 
monohydrate equivalent to 100 mg fedratinib. 
The other ingredients are: 
o 
The capsule content contains silicified microcrystalline cellulose (contains 
microcrystalline cellulose (E460) and silica colloidal anhydrous (E551)) and sodium 
stearyl fumarate (see section 2, “Inrebic contains sodium”). 
The capsule shell contains gelatin (E441), titanium dioxide (E171) and red iron oxide 
(E172). 
The white printing ink is composed of shellac (E904), titanium dioxide (E171) and 
propylene glycol (E1520). 
o 
o 
What Inrebic looks like and contents of the pack 
• 
Inrebic are 21.4 -22.0 mm, reddish-brown capsules, printed with “FEDR” on the cap and 
“100 mg” on the body in white ink. 
The capsules are packaged in a high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a seal and 
polypropylene child resistant cap. Each bottle contains 120 capsules and is packed in a 
cardboard carton. 
• 
• 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Celgene Distribution B.V. 
Orteliuslaan 1000 
3528 BD Utrecht 
Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
Detailed information on this medicine is also available by scanning the QR code on the outer 
packaging with a smartphone. The same information is available on the following URL: www.inrebic-
eu-pil.com. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
