European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, July 2009 
Doc.Ref.:  EMEA/290364/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Instanyl 
International Nonproprietary Name: fentanyl  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/959 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
©EMEA 2009  Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 11 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 39 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 40 
Page 2 of 43 
 
1. 
  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Nycomed Danmark ApS submitted on 20 November 2007 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Instanyl,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 1 August 2006. 
The eligibility to the centralised procedure under Article 3(2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was 
based on demonstration of interest of patients at Community level. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / Known active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  the  management  of  breakthrough  pain  in  adults 
already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic  cancer  pain.  Breakthrough  pain  is  a 
transitory exacerbation of pain that occurs on a background of otherwise controlled persistent pain.  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Pierre Demolis 
Co-Rapporteur: Karl Broich  
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 20 November 2007. 
The procedure started on 26 December 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 March 
2008. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 14 
March 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  April  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 April 2008. 
The summary report of the inspection carried out at sites in Germany, Poland and UK between 
13-16 May, 30 June-3 July, 7-11 July 2008 was issued on 10 September 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  18 
August 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 6 October 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 October 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the list of outstanding issues on 17 January 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list 
  of outstanding issues on 29 January. Revised version was circulated on 3 and 4 February 2009. 
Page 3 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 February 2009, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
  applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP on 18 February 2009. 
During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 February 2009, an additional list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed by the Applicant was adopted. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the additional list of outstanding issues on 19 March 
  2009. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the 
additional list of outstanding issues on 6 April 2009. The revised version was circulated on 10 
April 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 April 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Instanyl  on  23  April  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 23 April 2009. 
The  CHMP  opinions  were  forwarded  in  all  official  languages  of  the  European  Union  to  the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 20 July 2009. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 Introduction 
Instanyl  is  a  nasal  fentanyl  formulation,  a  novel  formulation  of  fentanyl  intended  to  improve  the 
treatment of Breakthrough Pain (BTP) in adults who are already receiving maintenance opioid therapy 
for chronic cancer pain.  
BTP  is  a  transitory  exacerbation  of  pain  that  occurs  in  addition  to  otherwise  stable  persistent  pain 
(Mercadante et al. 2002). BTP is usually severe and the median from onset to peak is 3 min (range 1s 
to 30 min) (Portenoy et al. 1999). Its duration is relatively short, usually no longer than 30 minutes 
with  an  average  frequency  of  3-4  episodes  per  day.  (Portenoy  et  al.  1999a,  Mercadante  et  al.  2002, 
Hwang  et  al.  2003).  Although  almost  62%  of  the  patients  could  identify  precipitants,  almost  half 
(48.2%) also stated that BTP was not predictable. 
Currently available BTP treatments are immediate release formulations of the opioids commonly used 
for treating background cancer pain, i.e. morphine, oxycodone, hydromorphone. In 2001, the first oral 
transmucosal  fentanyl  citrate  (OTFC)  obtained  a  marketing  authorisation  through  a  Mutual 
Recognition  Procedure  (Actiq).  Since  that  time,  fentanyl  buccal  tablet  (FEBT)  was  granted  a 
marketing authorisation in the USA on 25th of September 2006 for use in patients with cancer and BTP 
(Fentora). A positive opinion for Effentora has been given on January 2008 by CHMP. 
The development  of  nasal fentanyl  (Instanyl)  aims  to  improve  the  treatment  of BTP  in  adult  cancer 
patients aged 18 years or more, with stable, chronic opioid treatment of at least 60 mg oral morphine 
per day, 30 mg oxycodone per day, 8 mg oral hydromorphone per day or 25 micrograms transdermal 
fentanyl per hour. 
A BTP analgesic should provide rapid onset of effect, duration of effect to cover the duration of the 
episode,  no  long-active  metabolites  and  availability  of  a  non-invasive  formulation.  The  nasal 
formulation of fentanyl is expected to provide these features.  
Nasal  fentanyl  bypasses  the  oral  route  and,  its  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  characteristics  and  resulting 
dynamic effects could mimic the course of a BTP episode. Furthermore, it should be convenient for 
most  patients,  especially  those  with  nausea  or  vomiting,  dry  mouth  syndrome,  oral  mucositis  and 
impaired gastrointestinal function, which are common symptoms in cancer patients. 
The nasal fentanyl product developed by Nycomed is self-administered via a mechanical multi-dose 
nasal spray device. It is proposed for marketing in the final marketed formulation at 3 dose levels, 0.5, 
1.0 and 2.0 mg/mL (50, 100 and 200 µg per dose), which are all presented at a pH of 6.5 to 6.6 and an 
osmolality equivalent to a 0.9% saline solution. Regardless of the concentration (dose strength) of the 
nasal solution, the nasal spray is designed to deliver a quantity of 100 microliters per dose. 
Page 4 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initial strength should be one dose of 50 micrograms in one nostril, titrating upwards as necessary 
through the range of available strengths (50, 100, and 200 micrograms). If adequate analgesia is not 
obtained  redosing  of  the  same  strength  may  be  administered  at  the  earliest  after  10 minutes.  Each 
titration step (dose strength) should be evaluated in several episodes.No more than two doses are to be 
administered for each BTP episode.  
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management  of  opioid  therapy  in  cancer  patients.  Physicians  should  keep  in  mind  the  potential  of 
abuse of fentanyl. 
Patients  should  be  individually  titrated  to  the  dose  that  provides  adequate  analgesia  with  tolerable 
adverse drug reactions. Patients must be carefully monitored during the titration process.  
Titration to a higher dose necessitates contact with the health care professional. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Instanyl nasal spray contains fentanyl citrate as active substance. The nasal spray pharmaceutical form 
is regarded as a novel dosage form in the therapy of break through pain claiming fast absorption of 
fentanyl through the nasal mucosa. The nasal route of absorption avoids first-pass metabolism of the 
active substance.  
Fentanyl is  a  well  known  and  characterized  potent  opioid  analgesic  with a  potency  about  100 times 
that of morphine. The active substance has been first marketed in the early 1960s and meanwhile is 
available  in  different  pharmaceutical  forms  (including  transdermal,  parenteral  and  transmucosal 
formulations).   
Instanyl  is  indicated  for  the  management  of  break  through  pain  in  adults  who  are  already  receiving 
maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain.        
It  will  be  marketed  in  dosage  strengths  of  0.5  mg/ml,  1.0  mg/ml  and  2.0  mg/ml  (corresponding  to 
fentanyl) as a multi dose product.  
Active Substance  
The  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  is  fentanyl  citrate  corresponding  to  the  chemical  name:  N-
phenyl-N-  [1-(2-phenylethyl)  piperidin-4-yl]propanamide  dihydrogen  2-hydroxypropane-  1,2,3-
tricarboxylate  and  to  the  molecular  formula:  C22H28N2O  .  C6H8O7.  The  relative  molecular  mass  is: 
528.6  (salt),  and  336.48  (base).  It  appears  as  a  white  or  almost  white  crystalline  powder,  soluble  in 
water, freely soluble in methanol, sparingly soluble in alcohol. Its pKa is 8.3. 
•  Manufacture 
Two alternative active ingredient manufacturers are mentioned.  
For  one  of  them  a  CEP  is  available  and  has  been  submitted.  Apart  from  manufacturing  the  CEP 
includes supplementary specifications with regard to impurities impurity residual solvents and re-test 
period. 
An ASMF has been submitted for the active substance sourced from the second supplier. Fentanyl is 
manufactured by several chemical and purification steps all sufficiently described. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  release  and  shelf-life  specification  complies  with  the  requirements  of  the 
European  Pharmacopoeia  for  fentanyl.  Additional  in-house  testings  to  the  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  are: 
residue  on  ignition,  heavy  metals,  fentanyl  assay  and  a  number  of  other  impurities  by  an  additional 
HPLC method and particle sizes for the milled active substance. 
Batch analysis data were provided for three batches. All batches met the Ph. Eur. specification.   
•  Stability 
Page 5 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Stability data for seven batches, all packaged in type III glass with phenolic cap and in double bags 
placed  in  HDPE  bottles,  stored  at  25°C/60%  RH  up  to  60  months  and  for  two  batches  stored  at 
40°C/75% RH up 6 months were presented. 
All parameters tested during the stability studies remained within specifications over the period tested. 
No real tendency in regard to the active substance’s degradation can be concluded from the generated 
data, neither under long term nor accelerated storage conditions. Overall, the data submitted support 
the proposed re-test period when stored in the original packages.   
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The medicinal product is a nasal spray solution. It contains a buffered, non-preserved aqueous solution 
of the active substance fentanyl citrate in three strengths; 0.5 mg/ml fentanyl, 1.0 mg/ml fentanyl and 
2.0 mg/ml fentanyl. 
Fentanyl citrate is listed in Ph. Eur. It is soluble in water, and in solution is most stable at pH between 
3.5 and 7.5. 
The product’s pH of approx. 6.6 falls within the stability optimum for fentanyl citrate solution, which 
is cited in the literature. The pH of the solution almost approaches the pH of the human nasal mucosa 
which is cited in the literature.       
The  osmolality  of  the  solution  corresponds  to  a  0.9  %  NaCl  solution.  Combined  with  the  pH 
adjustment at a value of pH 6.6 the physiological preconditions for a safe and non-irritating have been 
considered.      
For  the  respective  dosage form  the  active  substance’s  particle  size  is therefore no  critical  parameter 
regarding  the  in-vivo  performance,  since  fentanyl  citrate  is  completely  dissolved  in  the  aqueous 
solution.      
The excipients used in the formulation are all well known and commonly used in nasal sprays. Both 
excipients as well as the solvent, purified water are controlled and covered by the requirements of the 
Ph. Eur.     
The container closure system used for the medicinal product is a mechanical multi dose nasal spray 
device. It consists of a non-vented pump and an actuator mounted on a 10 ml glass v-bottom bottle. 
Pump delivers a dose of 100 µl. The container closure system is constructed as to form a preservative 
free system rendering the use of preservative agents unnecessary. The nasal spray will be packaged in 
a child resistant secondary container, which is not in contact with the medicinal product. 
The  composition  of  the  pump  material  and  a  justification  for  the  suitability  of  the  material  for  the 
intended purpose has been provided. Along with a certificate stating the conformity to EU regulations. 
However  the  proposed  closure  system  lacks  a  lock  out  mechanism  to  prevent  overdosing,  a  dose 
counting  system  to  indicate  when  the  solution  is  exceeding  the  number  of  proposed  actuations  and 
finally a child resistant pumping device. 
With  regard  to  the  possible  risk  of  overdose  and  potential  danger  of  the  product  for  children  and 
family circle because of the primary container closure system, which should include a lock out system 
and a dose counter, the applicant presented detailed risk evaluation data and risk management plan and 
committed to continue the development of the multi-dose electronic safety device, with dose counting, 
lock-out system and built-in child-resistance. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Not applicable. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  comprises  the  following  steps:  dissolving  the  active  substance  and 
excipients  in  the  purified  water,  filtration  of  solution,  filling  of  bottles,  mounting  of  pump  and 
actuator,  and  labelling.  During  the  process  development  a  number  of  process  parameters  were 
identified as critical all of which are controlled by in appropriate in process tests. 
Based  on  the  provided  validation  results  and  keeping  in  mind  that  sterility  is  not  defined  as  quality 
requirement  for  nasal  non-preserved  aqueous  nasal  spray  in  multi  dose  containers  in  the  Ph.Eur. 
Page 6 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monograph  at  the  time  of  assessment  of  the  application,  the  process  should  be  considered  well 
controlled in regard to microbiological safety aspects. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specifications  of  the  medicinal  product  at  release  and  shelf-life  include  tests  for  appearance 
(clarity and colour Ph. Eur.), identification (HPLC and UV), pH (Ph. Eur), assay (HPLC), uniformity 
of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), mean delivered dose (formula calculation), degradation products (Ph. Eur 
and HPLC), and microbiological tests (Ph. Eur). 
Batch  information  and  batch  data  for  16  batches  of  Instanyl  nasal  spray  were  provided  covering  all 
dosage  strengths  and  package  sizes.  Fentanyl  citrate  from  both  active  substance  manufacturers  has 
been used for the tested batches. The results comply with the specification, confirm consistency of the 
product and support the specification acceptance criteria.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  data  is  available  for  a  total  of  16  batches  including  all  dosage  strengths  and  package  sizes 
(filling volumes) and using fentanyl citrate from both active substance manufacturers. Stability results 
were presented for up to 5 years under 25°C / 40%RH, for up to one year under 30°C / 65%RH, and 
for up to six months under 40°C / NMT 25%RH. 
All  results are  in  accordance  with  the  specifications and  support  the  proposed shelf life and  storage 
conditions recommendation.   
An additional photostability study according to the requirements of the ICH guideline Q1B has been 
performed on one batch of each package size. No significant changes were seen for samples exposed 
to light when compared to controls stored in a dark place. It is concluded that the primary packaging 
protects the product against light. 
Extractables and leachables studies 
Extractable  profile  has  been  established  by  the  manufacturer  of  the  pump  and  the  actuator. 
Extractables  are  below  the  limit  of  detection  (0.01mg/g)  and  conform  to  the  Ph.  Eur.  3.1.3 
Polyolefines  and  3.1.5  Polyethylene  with  additives  for  containers  for  preparation  parenteral  use  and 
for ophthalmic preparation. 
Leachables have been evaluated by analyzing and comparing placebo product stored at 
25°C/40%  RH  for  12  months,  30°C/65%  RH  for  12  months  and  40°C/25%  RH  for  12  months, 
respectively, to Instanyl solution stored at 25°C/40% RH for 12 months and 60 months and 30°C/65% 
RH for 12 months. LC-MS studies have been performed for identification of potential leachables. 
The recommended storage condition for Instanyl is “store below 30°C”. No unspecified impurities are 
expected to exceed 0.025 µg/100 µl. As eight strokes are the maximum number of strokes allowed per 
day, they correspond to 0.20 µg per day. 
Based  on  the  studies  performed  and  the  recommended  storage  condition  to  store  the  product  below 
30°C it is concluded that leachables are not a concern in Instanyl. 
Studies of In-use robustness, temperature cycling and a microbiological In-use test  
An In-use study design with three parts (In-use robustness, temperature cycling and a microbiological 
In-use test) has been performed. For all tests satisfactory results were obtained. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Instanyl  nasal  spray  solution  is  adequately  established.  Information  on  development, 
manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The 
quality of the active substance is considered sufficiently described and adequately supported by data. 
Sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and 
control  of  the  medicinal  product  has  been  presented.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the 
clinic.  
Page 7 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant submitted a Letter of Undertaking and 
committed to resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The present marketing authorization application is a complete independent application for marketing 
authorisation. The submission contains a comprehensive literature overview of the non-clinical safety 
profile of fentanyl concerning non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology.  
With the exception of two local tolerance studies in minipigs, the applicant has not carried out own 
studies. In substitute for conventional single dose, repeat dose, genotoxicity, reproductive toxicity and 
cancerogenicity  studies,  the  applicant  has  provided  an  overview  based  on  published  scientific 
literature. Since the toxicity profile of fentanyl was extensively studied in various species and different 
routes of application, the strategy of the company to replace unnecessary animal studies by published 
scientific literature, where possible, is reasonable. 
The studies reported in the literature were not conducted to GLP and therefore the quality with respect 
to data recording and facilities, environment and investigators cannot be assessed.  The data included 
in  the  provided  review  has  been  judged  to  be  of  good  scientific  quality  based  on  the  publications 
reviewed.  No  information  is  available  regarding  the  quality  of  the  active  substance  used  in  the 
publications. In many instances evidence of exposure is available and therefore provides an indication 
that the active substance contained sufficient fentanyl to achieve the exposure levels cited but does not 
give an indication of the purity and levels of contaminants.   
The  pivotal  4-week  study  of  local  toxicity  following  intranasal  administration  conducted  by  the 
applicant in minipigs was GLP compliant. 
As  the  general  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  properties  of  fentanyl  are  well 
known,  only  new  data  or  data  directly  relevant  to  the  nasal  formulation  itself  are  more  extensively 
discussed  in  this  report.  The  main  toxicological  concern  within  this  marketing  authorization 
application is whether Instanyl administration enhances toxicity due to increased systemic exposure, 
or causes local toxic effects. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Fentanyl is a selective µ-opioid receptor agonist showing selectivity over δ- and κ- opioid receptors of 
around 200 fold depending on the receptor system studied. It is around 70 to 100 fold more potent than 
morphine  with  a  significant  shorter  duration  of  action.  Fentanyl  has  been  used  as  an  anaesthetic  in 
humans for decades. 
However,  data  on  analgesic  activity  in  animals  of  nasally  administered  fentanyl  is  not  available, 
although analgesic activity in humans has been reported. As fentanyl is a substance with well known 
analgesic  activity  shown  in  a  variety  of  animal  species  and  humans  it  is  acceptable  to  use  present 
published data only and demonstrate the therapeutic effectiveness of the nasal formulation by means 
of clinical data. 
The  therapeutic  doses  of  nasal  fentanyl  are  50,  100  and  200  µg  which  will  be  titrated  for  each 
individual  starting  with  the  lowest  dose.    Up  to  two  nasal  administrations  of  fentanyl  may  be  made 
with  10  minutes  between  administrations  to  treat  an  episode  of  BTP.    Data  from  studies  in  cancer 
patients with BTP indicate that mean plasma levels associated with the maximum dose of 200 µg were 
1.2  ng/mL,  equivalent  to  around  3.5  nM  of  compound  or  where  two  administrations  are  made  10 
Page 8 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
minutes apart plasma peak plasma levels would be around 2.39 ng/mL or 7 nM.  Taking into account 
plasma protein binding, these plasma levels are consistent with the  µ-opioid receptor interactions of 
fentanyl. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Fentanyl’s  analgesic  activity  is  at  dose  levels  that  are  mostly  lower  than  those  associated  with 
secondary or safety pharmacological effects, including  
- Bradycardia and decrease in cardiac output in dogs and primates at plasma levels around 80 – 130 
nM or 10 – 20 times the levels associated with analgesic activity in these species. Hypotension and an 
associated reduction in renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rates may explain effects on renal 
function observed in animals at high dose levels. 
- Effects on QT interval with fentanyl where free drug is around 100 nM, equivalent to a total plasma 
levels  of  500  nM,  approximately  100  times  higher  than  peak  plasma  levels  of  fentanyl  found  when 
treating BTP in cancer patients. 
-  Stimulation  of  the  CNS  increasing  the  level  of  excitability  and  arousal  and  reducing  motor 
coordination at high dose levels achieving plasma concentrations of 126-300 nM: around 50-100 times 
levels associated with analgesia in rats. 
-  A  depressed  respiratory  function  by  fentanyl,  evident  at  dose  levels  around  the  onset  of  analgesic 
activity.  
- A reduced GI motility at plasma levels of around 24 nM 
These  effects  are  well  known  consequences  of  exaggerated  pharmacological  effects  of  fentanyl  and 
are adequately described in the SPC and PIL. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  pharmacokinetic  studies  investigated  drug-drug  interactions.  Data  reported  from  the  literature 
indicate  that  CYP3A4  inhibitors  such  as  ritonavir  and  troleandomycin  decreased  fentanyl  clearance 
and CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampicin increase fentanyl clearance. The available data on fentanyl 
are adequately reported in section 4.5 of the SmPC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No  animal  or  in  vitro  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  Instanyl  or  other  nasal  formulations  have  been 
submitted.  Instead,  a  comprehensive  summary  of  published  kinetic  data  of  various  other  routes, 
supplemented with clinical data of Instanyl were presented in the documentation. 
There  are  no  reports  of  the  extent  of  absorption  from  a  nasally  administered  dose  but  it  has  been 
shown that bioavailability from a trans-membrane dose can be up to 60%. It would be expected that 
fentanyl  absorbed  by  this  route  would  have  the  same  pharmacokinetics  as  fentanyl  administered  by 
other routes. 
Immediately  following  administration  by  any  route, fentanyl  is rapidly  taken  up  by  the  brain,  heart, 
and  lung.    Within  30  min,  there  is  redistribution  to  other  organs  such  as  fat,  muscle,  and  glandular 
tissues. Fentanyl is approximately 80% protein bound. There is no indication of retention of fentanyl 
or metabolites in the tissues.  There is limited transfer at early times post dose across the placenta in 
pregnant animals, with the rate of disappearance in line with that seen in maternal plasma.  There is, 
however, transfer of fentanyl into milk. 
Page 9 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The elimination of fentanyl is via metabolism, mainly to norfentanyl. The metabolism of Fentanyl is 
dependant  on  the  presence  of  CYP3A4.  Care  must,  therefore,  be  taken  when  concomitantly 
administering  fentanyl  with  any  compounds  which  also  have  an  effect  on  or  are  metabolised  by 
CYP3A4.  There  is  no  study  of  the  capacity  of  fentanyl  to  inhibit  the  main  drug  metabolising 
Cytochrome  P450  enzymes  and  no  study  of  the  capacity  of  fentanyl  to  induce  the  main  drug 
metabolising Cytochrome P450 enzymes in a human in vitro model. Fentanyl has been shown in some 
studies to be an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein, attention must be given if fentanyl is to be used with other 
compounds which are P-glycoprotein substrates as their kinetics may be altered by fentanyl. 
In  all  species,  excretion  occurs  via  both  urine  and  faeces  in  rat  and  dog  whereas  it  is  primarily  via 
urine in man. 
Toxicology 
Taking  into  account  the  established  clinical  use  of  fentanyl,  the  main  toxicological  concerns  are 
focused on whether Instanyl administration enhances toxicity, due to increased systemic exposure, or 
causes local toxic effects.  
Whereas increased systemic exposure could be addressed at the clinical level, the preclinical studies 
performed  by  the  applicant  were  limited  to  local  tolerance  assessment.  The  remaining  toxicological 
issues were addressed based on publications and data taken from already marketed fentanyl-containing 
products.  
•  Single dose toxicity 
Systemic  toxicity  was  observed  following  single  dose  administration  by  all  routes  given,  with  mild 
clinical  signs  associated  with  pharmacological  actions  of  fentanyl  at  lower  doses  and  more  marked 
clinical signs such as rigidity and prostration, respiratory depression, cyanosis, and mortality at high 
doses. Exposures would be significantly above the plasma levels required to achieve analgesia.   
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The applicant reported repeated dose study data from European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for 
IonSyS  as  well  as  from  FDA  submission  for  Duragesic.  Beyond  pharmacological  related  effects, 
histological  changes  were  observed  in  the  liver  and  in  the  kidneys  only  in  the  dog  at  1  mg/kg 
following  a  4-week  daily  i.v.  administration  of  fentanyl.  Data  available  to  the  applicant  were 
incomplete,  particularly  in  term  of  detailed  histopathological  finding,  to  characterize  in  detail  the 
toxicity of fentanyl following repeated administration. These are however considered sufficient taking 
into account the long standing clinical experience with fentanyl.  
•  Genotoxicity 
Fentanyl  was  shown  as  negative  in  a  battery  of  genotoxicity  assays  (bacterial  mutation,  in  vitro 
cytogenetics, mouse lymphoma assay, in vivo cytogenetics and UDS in vitro).  
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  data  are  available.  Due  to  the  indication  and  the  lack  of  signals  regarding  a 
carcinogenic potential based on the mode of action, the genotoxicity data and the clinical experience, 
the lack of carcinogenicity data is considered acceptable. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Fentanyl has been shown to cause no adverse effects on fertility or early embryo development in male 
or  female  rats  following  administration  by  s.c.  implanted  osmotic  minipumps.  Fentanyl  has  been 
shown not to cause embryo-foetal toxicity or adverse effect on peri- and postnatal development in rats 
at dose levels up to 500 µg/kg/day. At this dose level, plasma levels were 8.5 ng/mL, compared to Cmax 
Page 10 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of 2.4 ng/mL following clinical i.n. administration of 2x 200 µg fentanyl to patients with cancer for 
breakthrough pain.  
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  of  fentanyl  intranasally  administered  was  assessed  in  the  Göttingen  mini-pig  in  a 
program  carried  out  by  the  applicant  under  GLP  compliance.  In  the  preliminary  study,  by  use  of  a 
marker substance (methylene blue), it was demonstrated that the intranasal spray device would deliver 
fentanyl as far as the middle section of the nasal endoturbinates of the mini-pigs. In the pivotal study, 
twelve females were exposed. No adverse clinical signs indicative of systemic toxicity or local toxicity 
at  the  site  of  administration  at  the  dose  level  administered  (400  µg/animal,  5x  day).  The  applicant 
calculated  a  safety  ratio  of  2.3  compared  to  the  maximum  clinical  dose  per  day  based  on  the  FDA 
Guidance  for  Industry:  Estimating  the  Maximum  Safe  Starting  Dose  in  Initial  Clinical  Trials  for 
Therapeutics in Adult Healthy Volunteers, 2005. This calculation was not acceptable to CHMP as it is 
specified page 8 of the guidance that scaling between species based on mg/m² is not recommended for 
the  therapeutics  administered  by  alternative  routes  such  as  intranasal.  Such  therapeutics  should  be 
normalized  to  concentration  or  amount  of  drug  at  application  site.  In  the  present  case,  the 
concentration of fentanyl is 4 mg/ml, corresponding to 2 times the maximal concentration used at the 
clinical  level.  In  terms  of  quantity,  2  mg  are  administered  per  day,  corresponding  to  1.25  times  the 
intended maximum clinical dose per day. These data allowed the HMP to conclude that animals were 
sufficiently exposed to address the local tolerance in the clinical situation.  
The impurities related to fentanyl have a limit specification of less than 0.25% in percentage of area in 
Fentanyl.  The  specification  is  compliant  with  the  monograph  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia. 
Regarding  potential  local  effects,  the  pivotal  local  tolerance  study  performed  by  the  applicant 
adequately qualify these impurities.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  predicted  environmental  concentration  in  surface  waters  (PECsw)  for  the  mentioned  maximum 
dose of active ingredient consumed per inhabitant was determined to be 0.008 µg/L. Fentanyl has a 
moderate  potential  for  bioaccumulation  as  indicated  by  its  n-octanol/water  partition  coefficient,  log 
Kow,  of  2.9.  It  can  be  assumed  that  the  medicinal  product  is  unlikely  to  represent  a  risk  for  the 
environment  following  its  prescribed  usage  in  patients,  and  the  submission  of  ecotoxicological  test 
results was not required. 
2.4 Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Fentanyl  is  a  well-known  µ-opioid  receptor  agonist  which  was  introduced  in  the  1960s  as  an 
intravenous  (IV)  anaesthetic  and  has  been  used  for  decades  for  anaesthesia  and  analgesia  during 
surgery and intensive care. Fentanyl is 50 to 100 times more potent than morphine on a weight basis. 
This application concerns the development of a nasal formulation of fentanyl. 
The early (2002) clinical development programme of Instanyl consisted of a pilot study, FT-001-IN, 
which was a combined phase I/II, placebo-controlled, double blind, cross-over study in opioid-naive 
non-cancer  patients  with  post  operative  pain  after  oral  surgery  (third  molar  extraction)  evaluating 
doses of 75, 100, 150 and 200 µg, administered either as one dose (75 and 100 µg) or two doses at 5 
minutes interval (150 and 200 µg), and a pivotal study, FT-003-IN, which was a double-blind, double 
dummy, cross-over, dose ranging study in opioid tolerant cancer patients (doses from 50 to 1200 µg), 
with an open safety follow-up study, FT-011-IN. The overall objectives of the FT-003-IN and FT-011-
IN studies were to demonstrate the efficacy and to evaluate safety and tolerability of nasal fentanyl in 
the treatment of BTP. 
Page 11 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  scientific  advice  meeting  was  held  with  the  MHRA/UK  on  July  29,  2002  to  discuss  the  clinical 
development  programme  for  Instanyl.  At  that  time  study  FT-001-IN  was  completed  and  the  results 
available. Two indications in two different patient populations were discussed during the meeting i.e.: 
•  Treatment  of  episodic  or  BTP  experienced  by  patients  with  otherwise  controlled  chronic 
background pain  
•  Treatment of acute and postoperative moderate to severe pain (i.e. acute moderate to severe 
pain in non-cancer, opioid naïve patients) 
The  MHRA  recommended  that  an  interaction  study  with  a  decongestant  should  be  performed 
(xylometazoline)  (this  was  not  done),  the  kinetic  program  was  considered  sufficient  (no  need  of 
multiple dosing), the use of morphine or Actiq as comparator and evaluation of local tolerance were 
also  discussed.  It  was  also  concluded  that  the  design  of  study  FT-003-IN  was  interesting  but  that  it 
may be hard to show a difference between the titration dose and half this dose. No further advice was 
asked by the applicant for studies FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM. 
The  studies  FT-003-IN  and  FT-011-IN  were  prematurely  terminated  and  Nycomed  decided  to 
terminate the Instanyl development programme in 2003 for the following reasons: the conduct of FT-
003-IN  had  met  unforeseen  problems  including  an  8-month  delay  of  initiation,  slow  recruitment, 
inclusion of patients in more advanced stages of cancer than expected and therefore in need of higher 
doses  of  BTP  analgesic  than  foreseen.  Therefore,  a  new  development  strategy  was  decided  by 
Nycomed. 
The development was then resumed (2006/2007) and the documentation submitted in this application 
includes an open, phase Ib study, FT-016-IM, in cancer patients and two phase III, placebo controlled 
efficacy and safety studies in cancer patients with BTP, FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM.  
Overall, the clinical dossier is in compliance, as far as the efficacy endpoints are concerned, with the 
CHMP Guidelines on ‘Note for guidance on clinical investigation of medicinal products for treatment 
of nociceptive pain’ (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/612/00 2002), 
GCP and inspection issues 
All clinical studies in support of this MAA were conducted in Europe. The clinical program for nasal 
fentanyl was designed in accordance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and International Conference 
on Harmonisation (ICH) guidelines. 
On November 30, 2007 observations were reported giving rise to suspicion of misconduct in FT-019-
IM (open label, comparative, randomised, balanced crossover trial comparing nasal fentanyl and oral 
transmucosal fentanyl (Actiq) in breakthrough pain (BTP) in patients with cancer) at site X. This study 
is not included in the initial Instanyl application, however this investigator did also recruit patients in 
the trials FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM, which are part of the dossier. 
An inspection was conducted following a request from CHMP (May-July 2008). The purpose of the 
inspection  was  to  verify  whether  the  clinical  trials  FT-017-IM  and  FT-018-IM  were  conducted  in 
compliance with GCP and applicable regulations, in particular where it had impact on the validity of 
the  data  or  the  ethical  conduct  of  the  trials.  As  misconduct  in  the  trials  FT-017-IM  and  FT-018-IM 
could not be ruled out, the applicant resubmitted the trial data to the EMEA excluding the data of site 
X. 
The site X was inspected, together with site Y, which was the one with the highest number of patients 
recruited in the trials: 24.5% (46 patients) for FT-017-IM and 29.6% (40 patients) for FT-018-IM. 
The inspections identified major and critical findings regarding the quality and validity of the efficacy 
data  (primary  and  secondary)  reported  in  the  two  trials.  This  is  three  -fold,  firstly  because  of  the 
deficiencies  observed  for  the  IMP  container  design  and  the  subsequent  lack  of  dose  compliance 
monitoring, secondly because of the inaccurate protocol and patient diary design and thirdly because 
of the insufficient quality measures taken by the sponsor and CRO. 
Page 12 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety data reported in the clinical trials FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM were not considered reliable 
by  the  inspectors  for  use  in  the  assessment  of  the  marketing  authorisation  application  for  nasal 
fentanyl (Instanyl) at the initial stage of the assessment.  
Underreporting of adverse events was observed on three levels: 
All sites 
It  was  systematic  for  all  investigational  sites  involved  in  terms  of  the 
complete absence of space on the diary cards allocated to AE entry. 
Both inspected sites 
Both  investigators  of  the  inspected  sites  consistently  were  unaware  of  the 
change according to protocol amendment 1 stating that AEs probably related 
to the progression of the underlying cancer disease were also to be reported as 
adverse events.  
Investigation site Y 
At investigation site Y with the highest patient recruitment AE reporting was 
based on the investigator’s subjective judgement but not on the AE definition 
according to ICH-GCP. 
The sponsor started a revisiting of the sites and reassessments of safety data: the results were provided 
to CHMP.  
However,  only  the  adverse  events  which  were  actually  recorded  by  the  investigators  could  be 
collected. Adverse events which occurred but were not noted by the investigator could not be collected 
retrospectively. 
The CHMP considered that the majority of non reported events could not be remedied retrospectively.  
The Applicant provided the requested reanalysis. Following the review of the applicant’s responses to 
the Day 180 List of Outstanding Issues the CHMP had still concerns about the quality and reliability 
of the safety and efficacy data particularly in relation to the following points: 
1. Quality Management System 
During re-monitoring, 49 additional unreported AEs were discovered in trial FT-017-IM (increase by 
70%)  and  238  additional  AEs  in  FT-018-IM  (increase  by  100%,  doubled).  These  high  numbers  of 
unreported AEs raised the concern that the underreporting of AEs was not limited to the two inspected 
investigational  sites,  and  it  is  the  result  of  inadequate  quality  management  system  (monitoring  and 
auditing)  in  the  two  trials.  The  applicant  was  requested  to  provide  reassurance  that  the  quality 
management system (monitoring and auditing) was sufficient to ensure the quality and integrity of the 
safety and efficacy data. 
2. Adverse Event Reporting 
During the re-monitoring only AEs recorded in the source notes and not reported could be collected 
retrospectively. The applicant was requested to provide reassurance on the completeness of the safety 
data.  
3. Protocol Design 
The fact that according to the protocol instructions, study staff was allowed to enter efficacy data into 
the patient diary card is an important issue which might have affected the efficacy data of the trial. The 
applicant was requested to specifically comment on the impact on the reliability of the data collected. 
After  the  Applicant’s  responses  to  the  2nd  list  of  Outstanding  Issues,  and  consideration  of  the  the 
inspectors’ report, the CHMP concluded as follows: 
1) Quality Management System: 
The quality management system for the two trials was not only considered insufficient regarding the 
aspect  of  AE reporting,  but  regarding  other  aspects, too.  An  effect  of this  general  deficiency  on the 
efficacy data of the trials could still not be excluded, according to the inspectors. 
Page 13 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Adverse Event Reporting: 
The  investigators  of  both  sites  which  were  inspected (site X and  Y)  were not sufficiently  trained  in 
ICH-GCP,  which  is  the  essential  basis  for  conducting  a  clinical  trial.  Thus  even  if  the  investigators 
have documented according to what is considered by them as “normal clinical practice” relevant safety 
information might have not been appropriately reported. 
The adverse events which occurred but were not recorded by the investigators because they were not 
aware  of  the  reporting  requirements  according  to  the  protocols  and  ICH-GCP  or  which  were  not 
recorded  by  the  patients  in  the  diaries  because  there  was  no  space  allocated,  could  not  be  collected 
retrospectively. Thus, the inspectors notified the CHMP that it still could not be excluded that clinical 
relevant AE information was lost and to which extent it was lost. 
3) Protocol Design: 
It was still not clear to which extent the study staff has assisted the outpatients in entering data during 
visits. Therefore the inspectors notified the CHMP that it was still not assessable whether there was an 
influence on the efficacy data of the trial. 
The  inspectors  concluded  that  it  appeared  that  the  quality  management  system  was  insufficient  to 
ensure the quality and integrity of the efficacy and safety data. 
The  results  obtained  are  however  consistent  between  the  efficacy  studies.  The  CHMP  therefore 
concluded with regard to the whole documentation that the deficiencies found in the quality system of 
the sponsor are unlikely to invalidate the quality of the efficacy and safety data. 
Having reviewed the analysis of the data excluding site X, the CHMP conclusion is that exclusion of 
site  X  does  not  make  any  substantial  changes  to  the  efficacy  or  safety  results  as  compared  to  the 
results for all patients presented in the initial application. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The clinical pharmacology documentation is comprised of 2 clinical pharmacokinetic studies (FT-001-
IN,  FT-016-IM),  14  pivotal  publications  on  pharmacokinetics  and  metabolism  of  fentanyl  and  19 
publications  providing  supplementary  pharmacokinetic  information.  These  latter  publications  were 
designated as "non pivotal" by the applicant. 
The pharmacokinetic  studies  consisted of  a pilot  dose-finding  study  and  a  pharmacokinetic  study  in 
cancer patients.  
•  Absorption  
In the two pharmacokinetic studies submitted, plasma concentrations were determined using validated 
methods. The intra assay, inter assay precision and mean accuracy were within the ± 15% limits for all 
concentrations. 
Fentanyl  formulated  as  nasal  spray  is  readily  absorbed.  Mean  time  to  maximum  observed  plasma 
concentration (Tmax) is about 13 minutes. Absolute bioavailability is close to 100%. 
Comparatively,  the  median  Tmax  of  Actiq  varies  between  20  to  40  minutes  (20-280)  and  the  mean 
Tmax of Effentora is 46.8 minutes (20-240). 
•  Distribution 
From the literature, it is known that the volume of distribution is approximately 4 l/kg. There is a rapid 
redistribution  phenomenon  characterised  by  a  slow  return  of  the  unchanged  drug  from  peripheral 
compartment containing the well perfused tissues to the central compartment. 
The plasma protein binding is about 80%. The main binding protein is alpha – 1 – acid glycoprotein 
but both albumin and lipoproteins contribute to some extent to the binding. 
Page 14 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mass balance data from the literature indicate that after IV fentanyl administration, 85% of the dose is 
recovered in urine (76%) and in feces (9%). A small proportion of the dose is recovered unchanged in 
urine  (1.2%)  suggesting  that  fentanyl  is  extensively  metabolised.  CYP3A4  was  found  to  be  mainly 
responsible  for  the  dealkylation  of  fentanyl  to  norfentanyl.  Hydroxynorfentanyl  and  hydrofentanyl 
were also identified. Fentanyl metabolites possess no significant activity. 
•  Elimination 
Mass balance data from the literature indicate that after IV fentanyl administration, 85% of the dose is 
recovered in urine (76%) and in feces (9%). A small proportion of the dose is recovered unchanged in 
urine  (1.2%)  suggesting  that  fentanyl  is  extensively  metabolised.  CYP3A4  was  found  to  be  mainly 
responsible  for  the  dealkylation  of  fentanyl  to  norfentanyl.  Hydroxynorfentanyl  and  hydrofentanyl 
were also identified. Fentanyl metabolites possess no significant activity. 
The disposition of fentanyl formulated as nasal spray in cancer patients was characterised by a slow 
elimination phase resulting in a mean T1/2 of approximately 200 minutes. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality 
Dose  proportionality  of  single  50  to  200  µg  nasal  doses  of  fentanyl  was  evaluated  in  patients  with 
cancer  with  breakthrough  pain  receiving  chronic  non  fentanyl-opioids  as  an  around  the  clock  pain 
treatment  Cmax  and  AUC  values  of  fentanyl  following  nasal  administration  were  less  than  dose 
proportional across the dose range 50 – 200 µg. There was no kinetic information on doses ranging 
between 200 and 400 µg, whereas the administration of 200 µg x 2 is possible according to the SmPC 
(and occurred in more than 75% of the patients receiving 200 µg in clinical studies). This lack of data 
was of concern to the CHMP, who requested the applicant to provide further studies.  
In their response, the applicant provided the results of study FT-024-IM, a randomised, single-center, 
open-label, 2-way crossover study to compare the bioequivalence of single doses (200 µg) of fentanyl 
nasal  spray  using  single  dose  (SDS)  and  multi-dose  delivery  systems  (MDS)  followed  by  a  third 
dosing period (two doses of 200 µg) using a multi-dose delivery system in healthy subjects. 
This study was primarily designed to investigate  bioequivalence of a single 200 µg dose administered 
either  from  a  single-  or  multiple-dose  device.  It  failed  in  this  objective,  since  the  90.2%  CI  for  the 
Cmax ratio (0.90) fell outside the 0.8-1.25 acceptance range (0.74 – 1.09). However, it also provided 
some  data  on  the  fentanyl  blood  levels  after  two  successive  200  µg  doses,  either  administered  as 
simultaneous doses (one in each nostril) or with a 10 minute interval between the two doses 
Unexpectedly Cmax after simultaneous two doses of 200 µg each (2 x 100 µl) was considerably lower 
than the maximum concentration achieved with the 10 min interval.  It might be related to drainage of 
parts of the applied solution into the oro-pharynx in case of simultaneous administration. Furthermore, 
the number of subjects was rather small: parallel group design with 7 or 8 subjects for each group. The 
applicant  proposed  as  an  explanation  that  these  results  could  be  due  to  the  low  number  of  subjects 
included and consequently to a lack of power for both studies. 
Considering the importance of these PK data that have to be seen in the context of the whole 10 min 
interval concept, a larger study population and a cross-over design for the second phase of the study 
would have been desirable. Although the second half of the dose was administered after 10 minutes, 
higher Cmax was found. The finding gives rise to further questions, e.g. the comparison of 400 µg in 
100 µl (one dose) versus 2 doses of 200 µg (100 µl each, 10 min interval) in order to eliminate the oro-
pharynx drainage as an influencing factor. 
In the answers to the day 180 questions, the applicant have presented modelling data of the PK profile 
after two administrations of 200 µg with a 10 minutes interval and referenced to the PK US studies. 
The result for the ratio of mean AUC indicated the plasma drug exposure was comparable between the 
two treatments. Moderately lower peak plasma concentration was observed following administration 
of two doses of fentanyl nasal spray 200 µg with the second dose administered immediately after the 
first  compared  to  the  second  dose  given  after  a  10-minutes  interval.  The  relative  bioavailability  of 
fentanyl nasal spray 200 µg x two doses taken immediately is less than that of the fentanyl nasal spray 
200 µg x two doses taken 10 minutes apart (ratio of 0.91). 
Page 15 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although dose proportionality between 200 and 400 µg doses was not studied in cross-over design, the 
AUC  and  Cmax  results  from  study  FT-024-IM  seem  to  indicate  that  fentanyl  pharmacokinetics  is 
approximately linear between these 2 doses. The CHMP considered this issue solved. 
It  was  also  unclear  from  the  initially  submitted  documentation  whether  the  bioavailability  was 
modified after long term treatment due either to saturability of absorption with respect to a possible 
volume effect, the influence of a nasal decongestant in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis, or the 
effect of a common cold with upper respiratory symptoms.  
The  applicant  was  requested  to  provide  further  studies:  the  data  on  saturability  of  absorption  with 
respect  to  a  possible  volume  effect  (study  FT-023-IM),  the  influence  of  a  nasal  decongestant  in 
patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis (study FT-025-IM) and the effect of a common cold with upper 
respiratory symptoms (study FT-026-IM) were provided in the day 180 answers as summaries of each 
study as the final study report had not yet been signed off. 
These three PK-studies used the single-dose nasal spray, whereas the pivotal studies used the multi-
dose  nasal  spray.  Bioequivalence  data  between  the  single-dose  and  the  multi-dose  nasal  spray  were 
available from study FT-024-IM. 
Study FT-026-IM has shown that following administration of one dose of fentanyl nasal spray 200 µg, 
an upper respiratory infection does not alter the absorption of fentanyl nasal spray in subjects with a 
common cold. 
In study FT-023-IM, although “dripping” was observed in seven out of twelve subjects with increasing 
numbers  of  subsequent  actuations  into  the  same  nostril,  approximate  linearity  of  fentanyl  plasma 
concentration was found. The application of two, three or even four doses in quick succession into the 
same nostril is, however, an artificial scenario that is not expected to occur based the recommended 
method  of  administration  according  to  the  SPC.  Furthermore,  the  focus  is  placed  upon  observing 
“dripping  out  of  the  nostril”.  The  question  of  possible  drainage  into  the  oro-pharynx  was  not 
addressed.  Coming  back  to  the  results  obtained  in  study  FT-024-IM  (Cmax  higher  with  10  min 
interval as compared to two simultaneous doses, one into each nostril), it would have been interesting 
to evaluate any possible “saturation effects” (drainage) by comparing 1 x 200 µg dose (100 µl) with 
two simultaneous doses of 100 µg (100 µl into each nostril). This scenario was considered to represent 
a more realistic clinical setting with regard to “volume effects”.  
In  their  answers  the  applicant  also  discussed  studies1  about  the  influence  of  head  position  on  nasal 
administration.  Some  (uncomfortable)  head  positions  allow  for  a  wider  mucosal  distribution  of  the 
drug. However studies with fentanyl nasal spray using a ´generic´ instruction on how to administer the 
drug  have  shown  a  rapid  absorption  and  high  (close  to  100%)  bioavailability  of  fentanyl,  hence 
positional differences were not considered to be of crucial importance from a pharmacokinetic point of 
view. 
Study  FT-025-IM  assessed  the  pharmacokinetics  of  fentanyl  nasal  spray  in  subjects  with  seasonal 
allergic rhinitis with and without prior administration of oxymetazoline. 
The study showed that following administration of a single dose of 200 µg fentanyl nasal spray to the 
subjects  with  allergic  rhinitis, the prior treatment  of  the  nasal  constrictor  (oxymetazoline)  decreased 
peak  fentanyl  plasma  concentration  by  over  50%,  and  Tmax  was  substantially  increased  by  2-fold 
(median  21  minutes  versus  46  minutes). The  CHMP therefore  proposed  the  insertion  of  appropriate 
wording in sections 4.5 and 5.2 of the SPC, and considered the issue solved. 
(section 4.5) 
In a pharmacokinetic interaction study it was found that the maximum plasma concentration of nasally 
applied fentanyl was reduced about 50% by the concomitant use of oxymetazoline, while the time to 
reach  Cmax  (Tmax)  was  doubled.  This  may  reduce  the  efficacy  of  Instanyl.  It  is  recommended  that 
concomitant use of nasal decongestants is avoided (see section 5.2) 
1 Bateman et al (2002)  and Raghavan & Logan (2000) 
Page 16 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
(section 5.2) 
A drug-drug-interaction study was performed with a nasal vasoconstrictor (oxymetazoline). Subjects 
with  allergic  rhitinis  received  oxymetazoline  nasal  spray  one  hour  prior  to  Instanyl.  Comparable 
bioavailability (AUC) of fentanyl was achieved with and without oxymetazoline, while fentanyl Cmax 
decreased  and  Tmax  increased  by  a  factor  two  when  oxymetazoline  was  administered.  The  overall 
extent  of  fentanyl  exposure  in  subjects  with  allergic  rhinitis  without  prior  treatment  with  nasal 
vasocontrictor  is  comparable  to  that  in  healthy  subjects.  Concomitant  use  of  nasal  vasoconstrictor 
should be avoided (see section 4.5). 
Fentanyl mean pharmacokinetic parameters for a dose of  
and a dose of twice 200 µg with the second dose 10 minutes after the first dose 
Mean fentanyl plasma concentration-time curves following administration of single-dose or 2 
doses of fentanyl nasal spray 200 µg using MDS: (top, log scale, 0 to 72 hours; bottom, linear 
scale 0 to 8 hours) 
Page 17 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interindividual variability 
In  patients,  the  interindividual  variability  expressed  as  coefficients  of  interindividual  variation  for 
AUC and Cmax are of 40-50%, and are in the same order of magnitude as shown for other fentanyl 
Page 18 of 43 
 
 
 
 
formulations  intended  for  the  treatment  of  breakthrough  pain.  The  estimation  of  the  intraindividual 
variability shows that the intraindividual variability is likely to be high, i.e; higher than 30%. 
This  intra  individual  variability  was  calculated  in  a  study  performed  in  standardised  conditions. 
However, the safety data derived from the clinical studies did not show any particular concern. The 
CHMP therefore considered the issue solved. 
•  Special populations 
No  formal  clinical  pharmacology  studies  were  specifically  conducted  in  special  populations.  Data 
from  the  literature  are  scarce.  Published  experience  with  fentanyl  in  elderly  subjects  shows 
discrepancies  in  the  data.  Accordingly,  as  with  other  marketed  fentanyl  formulations,  a  special 
warning  for  the  use  in  patients  with  impaired  hepatic  or  renal  functions  and  in  elderly  patients  was 
included in the SmPC. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  pharmacokinetic  studies  investigated  drug-drug  interactions,  other  than  oxymethazoline.  Data 
reported  from  the  literature  indicate  that  CYP3A4  inhibitors  such  as  ritonavir  and  troleandomycin 
decreased  fentanyl  clearance  and  CYP3A4  inducers  such  as  rifampicin  increase  fentanyl  clearance. 
The available data on fentanyl interactions were considered adequately reported in section 4.5 of the 
SmPC. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No studies were submitted and this was considered acceptable by CHMP. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No specific pharmacodynamic studies were performed for the nasal fentanyl formulation. Fentanyl is a 
well known analgesic which acts as an opioid agonist. It has been used for years as an analgesic either 
in  intravenous  or  transdermal  administration  and  its  major  effect  and  side-effect  profiles  are  well 
known and well documented. 
Clinical efficacy  
The efficacy documentation comprises a pilot dose finding study (FT-001-IN), 2 clinical studies aimed 
to investigate the efficacy and safety of Instanyl, which were terminated prematurely (FT-003-IN and 
FT-011-IN) and two main pivotal studies (FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM). 
Please refer to the discussion above under GCP/inspections for the deficiencies identified during the 
inspection of these studies. 
•  Dose response study(ies) 
Study FT-001-IN: pilot, cross-over study to evaluate the tolerability, pharmacokinetic profile as well 
as onset, duration and extend of pain relief of nasal administration of fentanyl with i.v. administration 
at  four  different  doses  (75,  100,  150  and  200  microgrammes)  in  patients  undergoing  third  molar 
surgical extraction. The dose schedule used in this trial was based on the recommendations for i.v./i.m. 
fentanyl for post-operative pain: 50 to 100 µg repeated every 5 to 10 minutes to achieve the desired 
level  of  analgesia  and  on  the  published  pharmacokinetics  of  nasal  fentanyl  with  a  bioavailability  of 
71% as compared to i.v. fentanyl. 
Each  patient  had  two  nasal  applications,  one  in  each  nostril,  with  an  interval  of  five  minutes. 
Simultaneously,  the  patient  had  two  i.v.  injections  of  2.0  ml  with  an  interval  of  five  minutes. 
Depending on randomisation the first dose of test treatment was either nasal or i.v; fentanyl. Nasal and 
i.v. placebo formulations were used as the second dose for the two lowest dose groups (75 and 100 
µg). 24 subjects were randomised and 23 completed the study. 
The results of this study showed that nasal fentanyl presents a short onset of action (7 minutes) and a 
median duration of action of 56 minutes. These clinical characteristics fit well with the treatment of 
Page 19 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BTP. The studied doses of nasal fentanyl allowed to achieve a decrease of pain intensity of the same 
magnitude  to  the  one  observed  after  i.v.  administration.  In  addition,  there  is  a  dose-response 
relationship (exploratory population) with a mean duration of action of 47 minutes for 75 micrograms 
and 89 minutes for 200 micrograms (p=0.04). 
However, the chosen dose and the proposed administration schedule were not justified. The fact that 
patients with the lowest dose (75 and 100 µg) received single administration whereas patients with the 
highest  dose  (150  and  200  µg)  received  two  administrations  at  5  minutes  interval  made  the 
interpretation of the results difficult. The applicant was requested to explain the choice of this design. 
At day 180, the applicant submitted new kinetic data regarding dose linearity between 200 and 400 µg, 
effect  of  volume  on  saturability  and  data  on  nasal  congestion,  allergic  rhinitis  with  or  without  the 
administration of vasoconstrictor and common cold and patient intra-variability (see discussion under 
Pharmacokinetics).  Thus  these  major  objections  were  considered  solved,  and  the  corresponding 
information, when needed, has been included in the SPC. 
The clinical efficacy of the second dose is confirmed by the re-analysis provided for study FT-018-IM, 
even if the question of the choice of dose interval (50 to 200 µg) and the mode of administration (one 
dose  followed,  in  case  of  inefficacy,  by  a  second  one  10  minutes  after)  were  not  convincingly 
demonstrated in this trial. 
•  Main study(ies)  
The two main studies (pivotal study FT-017-IM and confirmatory study FT-018-IM) were performed 
to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  nasal  fentanyl  in  the  treatment  of  BTP  in  adult  cancer  patients  already 
receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain., The patients included in study FT-018-
IM should have received at least one dose of Instanyl as part of studies FT-016-IM or FT-017-IM (see 
below). 
Study FT-017-IM 
Intranasal fentanyl for the treatment of breakthrough pain in cancer patients: A randomised, double-
blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over confirmatory trial testing the doses 50, 100 and 200 µg fentanyl 
and placebo in eight breakthrough pain episodes. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion criteria for both studies were as follows: 
• 
adult cancer patients aged 18 or more, with stable chronic opioid treatment equivalent to 60-
500 mg oral morphine/day or to transdermal fentanyl 25-200 µg/hour, 
•  background pain controlled to a mild level (defined as ≤4 on an 11 point NRS), 
• 
at least three episodes of BTP per week but not more than 4 episodes per day 
Facial  radiotherapy  was  an  exclusion  criterion  due  to  potential  effects  on  the  uptake  of  nasally 
administered fentanyl caused by damage to the epithelial cells of the nose. 
The current opioid background dose was defined as being equivalent to 60-500 mg morphine/day or to 
transdermal fentanyl 25-200 µg/h. 
Treatments 
Doses  of  0,  50,  100  and  200  µg  fentanyl  were  given  twice  following  a  randomised  order  for  the 
treatment  of  eight  BTP  episodes.  The  Investigational  Medicinal  Product  (IMP)  was  administered  as 
one dose in one nostril. In case of insufficient pain relief, a second dose (of the same dose) was taken 
after 10 min. Rescue analgesics were allowed after further 10 min. 
During the trial, patients received their stable background pain opioid(s) and were allowed to take their 
usual analgesic for any type of pain. Administration of rescue analgesic for BTP in case of IMP failure 
Page 20 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was recorded in the diary. Analgesics other than IMP taken outside the time interval of 0-60 min after 
IMP  administration  –  apart  from  the  background  pain  opioid(s)  -  were  regarded  as  concomitant 
medication. 
For patients who took rescue analgesic before 60 min, the last value prior to taking rescue analgesics 
was carried forward (LOCF) and imputed for all time points after administration of rescue analgesic. 
Rescue analgesics included any analgesic taken between time=0 min and time=60 min as a supplement 
to the IMP. A second dose of IMP was allowed if required and was not considered rescue medication.  
Instanyl was supplied in a glass container with a standard nasal spray pump and actuator, containing 
40 doses. The containers were labelled in local language. The Instanyl was available as a phosphate 
buffered solution of fentanyl citrate in three strengths: 0.5 mg/ml, 1.0 mg/ml and 2.0 mg/ml fentanyl in 
multiple-dose  containers.  The  corresponding  doses  were  50,  100  and  200  µg  fentanyl/dose  as  to  be 
administered as one dose in one nostril. One dose defined and equalled one dose (100 µl). During their 
baseline visit, each patient was given instructions on how to use the Instanyl spray bottle and practiced 
with  the  test  bottle.  Placebo  for  nasal  use  was supplied  in  identical  spray  bottles  containing  sodium 
citrate in a phosphate buffered solution. 
To  ensure  safety  of  patients,  a  200  µg  test  dose  was  given  in-hospital  prior  to  randomisation.  If 
clinically significant intolerable reactions occurred, the patient was not randomised. 
Objectives 
The objective of study 017 was to demonstrate efficacy of nasal fentanyl (Instanyl) in the treatment of 
breakthrough  pain  in  cancer  patients,  and  to  explore  the  relationship  between  the  response  to  the 
Instanyl dose and the stable background pain opioid dose. 
Endpoints 
The main efficacy variables for this study were: 
-  Pain Intensity (PI) evaluated on an 11 point Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), at 0, 10, 20, 40 
and 60 minutes, 
-  Pain  Intensity  Difference  (PID)  and  Sum  of  Pain  Intensity  Difference  (SPID),  which  were 
derived from PI. 
-  Global Impression (GI) measured with a five-point Verbal Rating Scale (VRS) at 1 hour, 
-  Rescue medication. 
The primary efficacy variables were PID10 (PID at 10 minutes) and average responder rates: average 
responder rates were computed by dose. A positive response to treatment of a BTP episode for each 
patient for each dose was defined as PID10 > 2, where PID10 was calculated as an average score for 
the two episodes within a patient. 
Sample size 
184 patients were enrolled. 
Randomisation 
The patients first received a test dose of 200 µg nasal fentanyl (Instanyl) and were randomised if they 
did not develop clinically substantial respiratory depression or other clinically meaningful intolerable 
reactions (e.g. sedation, vertigo, nausea). Then they received a Instanyl kit containing 8 bottles, 2 of 
each dose (placebo, 50, 100 and 200 µg fentanyl/dose) in a random order. 
Eight BTP episodes per patient (within the treatment phase of up to three weeks) were treated with the 
following doses: 2 x placebo, 2 x 50 µg Instanyl, 2 x 100 µg Instanyl and 2 x 200 µg Instanyl. Patients 
were  randomised  to  dosing  sequences  in  which  each  of  the  four  doses  (including  placebo)  was 
received twice. The randomisation was restricted such that the first four and last four episodes were 
Page 21 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treated with four different doses. The eight episodes of BTP were to be treated with IMP in the order 
the spray bottles were numbered (1 to 8). 
The  intended  purpose  of  this  trial  design  was  questioned  by  CHMP  as  assignment  of  fixed  doses 
(instead  of  individual  titration)  inevitably  led  to  under-  and  overdosed  BTP  periods  in  each  patient. 
The  applicant  justified  their  choice  of  design  stating  that  their  primary  aim  was  to  demonstrate 
efficacy and dose response of nasal fentanyl of each of the three fixed strengths. This was accepted by 
CHMP but the study was still considered methodologically flawed. 
Statistical Methods 
The  PID10  for  each  patient  for  each  dose  was  calculated  as  an  average  score  for  the  two  episodes. 
Individual as well as mean dose response curves were presented graphically. 
The  PID10  was  analysed  by  successive  F-tests  of  the  contrasts  of  200  µg  vs  placebo,  100  µg  vs 
placebo and 50 µg vs placebo. To ensure protection of the significance level, the tests were performed 
sequentially, only proceeding to the next test if the current test was statistically significant so it was 
not possible to conclude that 100 µg was effective if 200 µg was not. For each test, the hypothesis was 
that of no difference between mean response on active dose and mean response on placebo with the 
alternative that they differ. The trial followed a cross-over design with each of the four doses taken 
twice. The corresponding mixed linear model included the following fixed effects: 
• Treatment (0, 50, 100, 200 µg IMP) (categorical) 
• Centre (categorical) 
• Average baseline PI (over all episodes for a patient) (continuous) 
• Deviation of baseline PI for each episode from average baseline PI (continuous) 
RESULTS 
Recruitment 
This study was conducted from May 2006 to May 2007. 
Conduct of the study 
The inspections identified major and critical findings regarding the quality and validity of the efficacy 
and safety data (primary and secondary) reported in the trial, particularly with reference to site X. This 
is  three  -fold,  firstly  because  of  the  deficiencies  observed  for  the  IMP  container  design  and  the 
subsequent  lack  of  dose  compliance  monitoring,  secondly  because  of  the  inaccurate  protocol  and 
patient diary design and thirdly because of the insufficient quality measures taken by the sponsor and 
CRO. 
For a detailed discussion refer to the GCP section. 
Baseline data 
The  relationship  between  the  IMP  dose  and  the  baseline  dose  of  the  background  pain  opioid  was 
evaluated for PID10 and for responders (PID10 >2). For this purpose, the background pain opioid dose 
was standardised to morphine equivalent doses (Breitbart et al, 2000). Based on the acceptable range 
of background pain opioid dose which was equivalent to 60 to 500 mg oral morphine/day (inclusion 
criterion 5) the cut-off points were defined as increments of 180 mg/day: low (≤180 mg/d), medium 
(>180  -  ≤360  mg/d),  and  high  dose  (>360  mg/d)  of  background  pain opioid.  Summary  statistics  for 
PID10  and  for  responders  by  dose  were  presented  by  category  of  baseline  background  pain  opioid 
dose (low, medium, high). 
The most frequently reported background pain opioid medications were fentanyl (89 patients, 58.6%) 
and morphine (65 patients, 42.8%). 
The  mean  standardised  morphine  equivalent  dose  of  background  opioid  pain  medication  at  baseline 
was  191.7  mg/d.  The  majority  of  patients  (100  patients,  65.1%)  were  considered  to  be  in  the  ‘low’ 
dose  category  (≤  180  mg/d);  25.7%  were  in  the  ‘medium’  dose  category  (>180  -  ≤  360  mg/d),  and 
Page 22 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.2% were in the ‘high’ dose category (>360 mg/d). Six patients had baseline background opioid daily 
doses  that  slightly  exceeded  the  protocol-specified  limit  of  500  mg  (maximum  dose  used  was  600 
mg/d) but were included in the ITT and PP analysis sets. 
Numbers analysed 
Of  the  184  enrolled  patients,  19  patients  were  enrolled  at  site  X  and  were  excluded  from  the  re-
analysis of the trial data, as shown in Table 1. Of the six patients who did not tolerate the test dose, 
and were therefore excluded from randomisation, none were enrolled at site X, resulting in a total of 
159  randomised  patients  in  the  re-analysed  population.  Additionally,  none  of  the  seven  patients 
excluded  from  the  ITT  analysis  set,  none  of  the  16  patients  excluded  from  the  PP  analysis  set,  and 
none of the 14 patients who discontinued prematurely were at site  X. 
Table 1 Summary of Patient Disposition 
Number of Patients 
All Patients  Site X Excluded 
Enrolled (received NAF test dose) 
Randomised 
184 
178 
165 
159 
Intent-to-treat analysis set (ITT) 
171 (100.0%) 
152 (100.0%) 
Per-protocol analysis set (PP) 
155 (90.6%) 
136 (89.5%) 
Completed double-blind treatment phase 
157 (91.8%) 
138 (90.8%) 
Discontinued prematurely 
14 (8.2%) 
14 (9.2%) 
  Adverse events 
8 (4.7%) 
8 (5.3%) 
  Non-compliance with protocol 
3 (1.8%) 
3 (2.0%) 
  Other 
3 (1.8%) 
3 (2.0%) 
NAF = nasal fentanyl 
Exclusion of study center X did not alter the demographic proportions of the study population: 52.6% 
male and 47.4% female, mean age (61.6 years), mean BMI (23.7 kg/m2), mean weight (67.3 kg for 
males and 64.9 kg for females), and mean height (171.3 cm for males and 162.5 cm for females). All 
patients for whom race was reported were Caucasian (data collected for 145 patients, 95.4%). 
The six patients who did not tolerate the test dose experienced nausea (3 patients), vertigo (3 patients), 
vomiting (1 patient), hypertension (1 patient), sedation (1 patient), and syncope (1 patient). The ITT 
analysis set comprised all randomised patients who took at least one dose of double-blind trial drug for 
treatment of BTP. Of the 159 patients who tolerated the test dose and were randomised, seven patients 
were excluded from the ITT analysis set: six received no trial treatment whereas one patient received 
medication kit from trial FT-018-IM by mistake. Sixteen patients were excluded from the PP analysis 
set for the following reasons: 3 patients violated various inclusion criteria, 2 patients did not follow the 
randomisation schedule, and 11 patients did not have at least one per-protocol episode for each dose of 
the trial drug. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Patients were instructed to treat only one episode per day with IMP. The trial design conditions that 
allowed to treat at the most one BTP episode per day with the test product, do not reflect the typical 
needs of cancer patients suffering an average of 1-5 breakthrough pain episodes per day (Bennett D et 
al.  2005.  Consensus  Panel Recommendations  for  the Assessment  and  Management  of  Breakthrough 
Pain.  Part  I  Assessment).  Furthermore,  the  dosing  instructions  given  in  the  SPC  point  out  that, 
Page 23 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
typically, no more than four breakthrough pain episodes should be treated per day. This discrepancy 
between the trial design and the need of the average patient that requires to cover 1-5 episodes per day 
arises even more concerns when considering that no PK-data have been generated for multiple dosing 
either.  The  applicant  justified  this  choice  with  the  argument  that  in  order  to  minimise  the  risk  of 
carryover  effect  in the  FT-017-IM  dose-response  crossover  study  between  each  BTP  treatment  with 
intranasal  fentanyl,  only  one  BTP  per  day  was  treated  with  intranasal  fentanyl.  In  the  FT-018-IM 
confirmatory efficacy study four BTP episodes per day were treated. This was accepted by CHMP. 
Furthermore,  the  concerns  about  the  design  of  study  FT-017-IM  which  was  conducted  following  a 
fixed-dose design which contradicts the principle of individual dose titration and thus does not reflect 
the dosing instructions proposed in the SPC have been  mentioned. The fixed-dose design inevitably 
leads to under- and over-dosed patients which hampers both interpretation of efficacy data in terms of 
PID and assessment of adverse events.  
These methodological flaws notwithstanding, the results of study FT-017-IM were as follows: 
Study  FT-017-IM:  Mean  Overall  Pain  Intensity  by  Treatment  Dose  and  Time  Point  –  ITT 
Analysis Set 
The  mean  PID10  were  1.41,  1.82,  2.23  and  2.65  for  placebo  and  Instanyl  50,  100  and  200  µg 
respectively. The corresponding LS mean (versus placebo) were 0.41, 0.81 and 1.24 for 50, 100 and 
200 µg respectively (p value versus placebo <0.001 for all doses).  
The  PID  at  20  minutes  and  thereafter  (possibly  after  another  dose  of  the  same  dose)  continued  to 
increase.  
The results in term of responder rates are presented in the table below. 
Page 24 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FT-017-IM Responder Rate at 10 minutes-ITT analysis set 
Responder Rate 
at 10 Minutes, 
ITT Analysis 
Set 
Fentanyl 
50 µg NAF 
All Patients
Placebo 
All 
Patients 
Site X 
Excluded 
Site X 
Excluded 
All 
Patients 
N 
Mean 
Standard 
Deviation 
Median 
Minimum 
Maximum 
164 
23.48 
34.331 
0 
0 
100.0 
145 
22.07 
33.269 
0.0 
0.0 
100.0 
167 
29.94 
37.649 
0 
0 
100.0 
148 
29.05 
37.350 
0.0 
0.0 
100.0 
167 
45.51 
42.094 
50.0 
0 
100.0 
Fentanyl 
100 µg NAF 
Fentanyl 
200 µg NAF 
Site X 
Excluded 
All 
Patients 
SiteX 
Excluded 
148 
41.55 
41.399 
50.0 
0.0 
100.0 
166 
53.92 
44.035 
50.0 
0 
100.0 
147 
49.66 
43.987 
50.0 
0.0 
100.0 
A responder for a treated break through pain (BTP) episode has pain intensity difference at 10 min (PID10)  >2 for that episode. Overall 
responder rate is equal to: (1) 100% if patient is a responder in both treated BTP episodes within a dose. (2) 50% if patient is a responder in 
one treated BTP episode and non-responder in the other treated BTP episode within a dose. (3) 0% if patient is a non-responder in both 
treated BTP episodes.  
ITT= intent-to-treat; NAF = nasal fentanyl 
The  responder  rate  after  one  dose  at  10  minutes  varies  from  31%  to  49%  depending  on  the  dose 
received, whether in the placebo group, the responder rates varies from 20% to 22%. 
For study FT-017-IM, the analysis of each BTP treatment in terms of number of Instanyl doses, shows 
that  78.1%,  75.7%,  68.8%  and  61.5%  of  patients  required  two  doses  for  the  first  BTP  episode  and 
79.0%,  75.0%,  71.9%  and  54.7%  required  two  doses  for  the  second  BTP  episode,  in  placebo  and 
Instanyl 50, 100, 200 µg groups respectively. 
Due to high proportion of patients requiring a second dose 10 minutes after the first actuation, the dose 
chosen  was  not  considered  justified.  Particularly  the  range  proposed  50  to  200  µg  and  the  mode  of 
administration have not been adequately determined by dose ranging studies. The fact that more that ¾ 
of  the  patients  needed  two  doses  to  treat  BTP  episode  with  the  200  µg  dose  suggest  that  the 
administration of highest dose could be useful to treat BTP episodes. 
This was addressed by the applicant with the submission of further studies during the procedure (see 
below) 
Study FT-018-IM 
Study  018  was  conducted  as  a  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  trial  confirming  the 
efficacy  of  nasal  fentanyltitrated  to  50,  100  or  200  µg  with  an  open  long-term  safety  follow-up  in 
cancer patients with breakthrough pain. The trial was initiated on 13 June 2006, data obtained from the 
open-label long-term safety follow-up period were reported as 4-month data until 13 September 2007. 
The study report was last modified on 15 February 2008 after exclusion of study center X (see above). 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria in study 018 correspond to those already described for study 017. 
In study FT-018-IM, patients included should have already received nasal fentanylas part of the study 
FT-016-IM  or  FT-017-IM.  After  randomisation,  they  entered  a  first  phase  of  dose  titration  then  the 
dose identified as successful during this phase was used to treat six BTP episodes, and placebo was 
used  to  treat  two  BTP  episodes,  in  a  randomised  double-blind  sequence.  A  safety  follow-up  phase 
followed  this  double-blind  phase,  during  which  patients  received  open-label  Instanyl  treatment  for 
BTP episodes. 
As a consequence of this design, the population included in study Ft-018-IM is the same as the ones 
already  included  in  studies  FT-016-IM  and  FT-017-IM.  Moreover,  as  these  patients  have  already 
Page 25 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
received Instanyl, they may be considered as responders and tolerant (in terms of safety) to Instanyl. 
This biased the results of this study. 
Moreover, these patients know well the treatment and its effects: the blinding of such a study could be 
questionable. However, as these studies were fixed dose studies, without titration of the patients to an 
effective  dose,  it  is  not  so  clear  that  these  patients  could  be  considered  as  responders  to  nasally 
administered fentanyl. 
Treatments 
During dose titration, the following efficacy variable was assessed by the patient and recorded in the 
patient diary: 
• The GI of efficacy in the treatment of BTP(s) was assessed 60 min after the first Instanyl dose using 
a categorical 5-point VRS: 0=poor, 1=fair, 2=good, 3=very good; 4=excellent (Collins et al, 2001). 
For  each  IMP-treated  BTP  episode,  the  patients  had  to  enter  a  GI  score  as  a  means  of  rating  the 
efficacy of the BTP treatment at 60 min after the first dose. A summary of the activities that were to be 
performed by the patient for each IMP-treated BTP episode is provided in Table 2. 
The titration should always be started on the 50 µg dose. For an Instanyl dose (50, 100 or 200 µg) to 
be  considered  successful,  treatment  of  at  least  three  of  four  BTP  episodes  had  to  be  considered 
successful by the patient according to the following definition: The definition of successful Instanyl 
treatment (one or two doses) was:  
1) No need of rescue analgesic within the first 60 min;  
2) A score of ≥ 2 on the GI scale by the patient at 60 min after the first Instanyl dose; and  
3)  No  severe  undesirable  effects  such  as  pronounced  hypoventilation,  unacceptable  sedation  or 
drowsiness.  
If two treatments with a dose were unsuccessful, the patient was to proceed to the next dose (one step 
up or down). If in three of four episodes, pain relief was obtained only after a second Instanyl dose, the 
investigator  was  to  consider  increasing  the  dose.  This  consideration  had  to  be  based  on  a  balance 
between  efficacy  and  safety  (as  indicated  by  AEs  experienced  by  the  patient  as  a  result  of  Instanyl 
treatment). The algorithm for determining adjustments in a patient’s Instanyl dose 
is summarised in Table 3. 
Page 26 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If after up to four titration steps (all three doses and possibly one down-titration) a successful dose was 
not identified, the patient was withdrawn. 
Once the successful dose was established, the patient entered the efficacy phase of the trial (Phase 2), 
in which the Instanyl dose identified in Phase 1 was used to treat six BTP episodes and placebo was 
used to treat two episodes in a randomised, double-blinded sequence. Pain intensity (PI, using the 11-
pt NRS) and General Impression (GI) scores were assessed for each BTP episode as shown below. 
Following assessment of the double-blinded treatment of the eight BTP episodes, patients continued 
participation in the trial in a safety follow-up phase (Phase 3) during which they received open-label 
Instanyl treatment for BTP episodes. 
Objectives 
The aim was to confirm the efficacy of Instanyl titrated to doses of 50, 100 or 200 µg for treatment of 
BTP in cancer patients tolerant to opioids, to establish the long-term safety of treatment with Instanyl 
and to explore the relationship between the dose of background pain opioid treatment and the titrated 
Instanyl dose. 
Endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  PI  difference  at  10  min  (PID10)  after  the  first  actuation. 
Responder rate was computed from the number of patients with a PID10 > 2. The secondary efficacy 
variables were the sum of the PIDs over the time interval 0-60 min (SPID0-60) and the GI score. 
Sample size 
135 patients were enrolled. 
Page 27 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation  
Patients were randomised to treatment sequences in which six treatments were the successful Instanyl 
dose  identified  in  the  titration  phase  and  two  were  placebo.  The  eight  episodes  of  BTP  were  to  be 
treated with Instanyl in the order the spray bottles were numbered (1 to 8). 
Blinding (masking) 
In  the  efficacy  phase,  the  treatment  sequence  was  double-blinded  and  randomised  such  that  one 
placebo treatment occurred in episodes 1-4 and one in episodes 5-8. 
Statistical methods 
The variation in PID10 between treated BTP episodes within patient was calculated by 
treatment (Instanyl or placebo) and expressed as SD and coefficient of variation (CV). 
The statistical analysis was performed with a mixed linear model including the following fixed effects: 
treatment, centre, average baseline PI (over all episodes for a patient), deviation of baseline PI for each 
episode from average baseline PI). Patient was included in the model as a random effect. 
There was no imputation for missing episodes. If rescue medication was taken within the first 10 min, 
the PI scores were set to missing for all consecutive time points, i.e. the PID10 was missing as well. 
The primary endpoint was analysed for the ITT and the PP datasets. 
RESULTS 
Conduct of the study 
This  was  an  efficacy  and  safety  study,  recruiting  patients  from  studies  FT-016-IM  and  FT-017-IM. 
Patients were enrolled in 23 centres in five European countries (Austria, Germany, Denmark, France, 
Poland).  
Baseline data 
The  numbers  of  male  and  female  patients  were  equal  (63  of  each).  Mean  age  was  60.9  years  and 
ranged from 33 to 83 years. Mean body mass index (BMI) was 24.1 kg/m² (range 15.4-50.2). Mean 
weight was 71.7 kg for the male patients (range 48.0-106.0), and 65.8 kg (range 40.0-130.0) for the 
females. Mean height was 173.7 cm for the male patients (range 158-192), and 163.7 cm (range 150-
178)  for  the  females.  All  patients  for  whom  race  was  reported  were  Caucasian.  The  demographic 
profile of the ITT analysis set excluding site  X was not different from the total population. 
The  majority  of  patients  (105  patients,  83.3%)  reported  a  past  or  concomitant  illness,  including 
previous  neoplasms  (Table  14.1.05).  The  most  frequently  reported  were  vascular  disorders  in  59 
patients  (46.8%).  The  mean  number  of  concomitant  illnesses  was  3.4  (median  =  3).  The  maximum 
number of concomitant illnesses per patient was 16 (for one patient) and the minimum  was one (21 
patients). 
The  most  frequently  reported  concomitant  medications  were  ketoprofen  (41  patients,  32.5%), 
omeprazole  (35  patients,  27.8%),  megestrol  acetate  (31  patients,  24.6%),  lactulose  (27  patients, 
21.4%),  dexamethasone  (26  patients,  20.6%),  and  furosemide  (26  patients,  20.6%)  (Table  14.1.10). 
The  majority  of  concomitant  medications  taken  during  this  trial  were  related  to  treatment  of  the 
patient’s primary diagnosis as well as palliative treatments for sequelae of radiation or chemotherapy. 
The most frequently reported primary tumour sites were lung/ respiratory system (22 patients, 17.5%); 
breast (19 patients, 15.1%), colon/rectal (16 patients, 12.7%); and female genital (13 patients, 10.3%) 
Background  pain  opioid  medication  at  baseline:  The  most  frequently  reported  were  fentanyl  (62 
patients, 49.2%) and morphine (58 patients, 46.0%). 
The mean standardised morphine equivalent dose of background opioid pain medication at the end of 
titration was 209.6 mg/d. The majority of patients (76 patients, 60.3%) were in the ‘low’ dose category 
Page 28 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(≤180 mg/d); 23.8% were in the ‘medium’ dose category (>180 - ≤360 mg/d), and 15.9% were in the 
‘high’ dose category (>360 mg/d). 
A total of 127 patients completed titration (112 when patients for centre X are excluded). One hundred 
and nine patients were titrated to either 100 or 200 µg doses. The remaining 18 patients were titrated to 
the 50 µg dose. In general, patients with low level background opioid pain treatment tend to achieve 
effective  pain relief  with  a  correspondingly  lower  Instanyl  dose compared  to the  patients  taking  the 
higher levels of background pain opioids. 
Numbers analysed 
Of the 135 enrolled patients, 15 were enrolled at site X and were excluded from the re-analysis of the 
trial data. All remaining 120 patients were included in the Safety Analysis set. Of these, 113 patients 
were  randomised  to  double-blind  efficacy  treatment;  111  of  the  patients  who  entered  the  efficacy 
phase were included in the ITT analysis set and 101 were included in the PP analysis set. 
Summary of Patient Disposition 
Number of Patients 
Enrolled  
All Patients 
135 
Site X  
Excluded 
120 
Safety Analysis Set 
135 (100.0%) 
120 (100.0%) 
Randomised 
128 (94.8%) 
113 ( 94.2%) 
Intent-to-treat analysis set (ITT) 
126 (93.3%) 
111 ( 92.5%) 
Per-protocol analysis set (PP) 
114 (84.4%) 
101 ( 84.2%) 
Of  the  119  patients  who  entered  the  titration  phase  (patient  0202  entered  the  titration  phase  but  the 
titration dose was not reached – patient was put on the 200 µg dose for phase 2 and 3), 112 completed 
the  titration  phase.  Of  these,  111  patients  entered  the  double-blind  efficacy  phase  (ITT).  During 
titration, 5 withdrew due to adverse events and 2 patients withdrew consent.  
The  demographic  profile  of  the  ITT  analysis  set  excluding  site  X  was  not  different  from  the  total 
population. Mean age was 60.6 years and ranged from 35 to 79 years. Mean body mass index (BMI) 
was  24.0  kg/m2.  Mean  weight  was  70.3  kg  for  the  male  patients,  and  63.0  kg  for  the  females.  All 
patients for whom race was reported were Caucasian (data collected for 107 patients, 96.4%). 
Protocol violations occurred led to the exclusion of 12 patients from the PP analysis set . 
Outcomes and estimation 
With  site  X  excluded,  a  total  of  95  patients  were  titrated  to  either  100  (51/112,  45.5%)  or  200  µg 
(44/112, 39.3%) doses. The remaining 17 (15.2%) patients were titrated to the 50 µg dose. 
In preceding MA procedures dealing with rapidly absorbed fentanyl preparations, a rate of about 65% 
subjects  finding  a  successful  dose  during  titration  was  found.  However,  it  is  to  be  taken  into 
consideration that in these studies patients were recruited that were naïve to this type of breakthrough 
pain treatment. In study FT-018-IM, 112 out of 119 (94.1%) patients are able to define their individual 
successful dose. This figure is to be explained by the fact that only patients that previously participated 
in  studies  016  and/or  017  were  recruited  in  study  018,  thereby  constituting  a  known  responder 
collective. 
A responder was defined as having a PID10 > 2 for a given episode. 
Page 29 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FT-018-IM: Mean overall pain intensity by treatment dose and time point-efficacy phase, ITT analysis 
set (site X excluded) 
In  study  FT-018-IM,  pain  intensity  that  amounts  to  about  6.5  on  average  on  NRS  scale  before 
administration, is reduced to a score of about 4.0-4.5 ten minutes after the first actuation of Instanyl. 
Highly  significant  superiority  in  PID10  scores  over  placebo  could  be  shown  for  all  three  dose 
strengths  (Placebo:  1.28,  50  µg:  2.0,  100  µg:  2.74,  200  µg:  2.60).  Therefore,  based  on  the  PID10 
results  obtained in study  FT-018-IM,  it  is  acknowledged  that  breakthrough  pain  occurring  in  cancer 
patients  receiving  opioid  maintenance  therapy  can  be  successfully  treated  with  nasally  administered 
fentanyl. 
Also for this study, the PID at 20 minutes and thereafter (possibly after another dose of the same dose) 
continued to increase.  
The results of this study in term of responder rates are presented in the table below. 
FT-018-IM: Responder Rate -ITT analysis set 
Responder 
Rate at 10 
Minutes, ITT 
Analysis 
Set  
N  
Mean  
Standard 
Deviation  
Median  
Minimum  
Maximum  
Placebo  
Fentanyl 50 µg 
Instanyl  
Fentanyl 100 µg 
Instanyl  
Fentanyl 200 µg 
Instanyl  
Total Fentanyl 
Instanyl  
All 
Patie
nts  
125  
19.2
0  
32.8
63  
0.0  
0.0  
100.
0  
Site X 
Exclude
d  
110  
All 
Patients  
19  
Site X 
Exclude
d  
18  
All 
Patients 
55  
Site X 
Exclude
d  
48  
All 
Patients  
52  
Site X 
Exclude
d  
45  
All 
Patients 
126  
Site X 
Exclud
ed  
111  
20.91  
33.33  
31.48  
64.55  
60.42  
54.54  
48.95  
55.71  
51.08  
34.122  
31.914  
31.772  
37.823  
38.535  
37.681  
37.383  
38.145  
38.108 
0.0  
0.0  
100.0  
16.7  
0.0  
83.3  
16.7  
0.0  
83.3  
83.3  
0.0  
66.7  
0.0  
66.7  
0.0  
66.7  
0.0  
66.7  
0.0  
66.7  
0.0  
100.0  
100.0  
100.0  
100.0  
100.0  
100.0  
responder for a treated break through pain (BTP) episode has pain intensity difference at 10 min (PID10) >2 for that episode. 
Overall responder rate is defined as the percentage of 
BTP episodes with a positive response to treatment (Instanyl or placebo) within a patient. ITT= intent-to-treat; Instanyl = nasal 
fentanyl 
The  responder  rate  after  one  dose  at  10  minutes  varies  from  31%  to  49%  depending  on  the  dose 
received, whether in the placebo group, the responder rates varies from 20% to 22%. 
Page 30 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For study FT-018-IM, the majority of all BTP episodes were treated with two doses of Instanyl. The 
proportions  were  highest  for  the  placebo  group  (85.1%)  compared  to  all  Instanyl  doses  combined 
(63.6%).The numbers of BTP episodes necessitating 2 doses were 84%, 68.5%, 61.5% and 76.4% in 
the placebo and fentanyl 50, 100 and 200 µg groups respectively.  
Coming back to the issue of missing dose-finding data, it appears evident that for a good portion of 
patients  breakthrough  pain  might  have  been  more  effectively  treated  if  higher  doses  were  applied 
straight away. 
Overall, it can be concluded that early onset analgesia with significantly superior pain reduction after 
ten  minutes  is  achievable  by  means  of  nasally  applied  fentanyl  when  compared  to  placebo.  With 
regard to maturity of clinical development, however, the studies submitted in support of the Instanyl 
application, demonstrate major methodological drawbacks and leave essential questions in relation to 
dose finding and the appropriateness of the applied dosing regimen unanswered. 
Study FT-019-IM 
This  study  report  was  submitted  during  the  procedure  as  part  of  the  answers  to  address  the  clinical 
objections regarding the chosen dose and the proposed administration schedule. The pivotal phase III 
trials were started with a dose range that was not tested before in the target population. These doses 
taken as one dose seem to be insufficient to treat BTP as more than 50% of patients needed a second 
dose. The possibility to take a second dose in case of inefficacy of the first one after 10 minutes was 
also derived from results obtained in opioid naïve patients, difficult to extrapolate to patient with BTP.  
Study  FT-019-IM  was  an  open  label,  comparative,  randomised,  balanced  crossover  trial  comparing 
nasal fentanyl and oral transmucosal fentanyl (Actiq) in breakthrough pain in patients with cancer. The 
aim was to compare the efficacy of Instanyl titrated to one or two doses of 50, 100, 200 µg to Actiq 
titrated to one or two doses of 200, 400, 600, 800, 1200 or 1600 µg for the treatment of BTP. During 
the titration and efficacy phase, all BTP episodes, up to four per day were to be treated with Instanyl 
or Actiq. 
Instanyl was to be administered as one dose in one nostril. If the patient had insufficient pain relief, an 
extra dose was to be taken after 10 minutes, preferably in the other nostril. The maximum dose was 
2x200 µg taken 10 minutes apart. 
Actiq was to be applied to the oral cavity in doses of 200, 400, 600, 800, 1200 and 1600 µg fentanyl 
per  lozenge.  If  the  patient  had  insufficient  pain  relief,  a  second  lozenge  could  be  taken  30  minutes 
after the start of the administration of the first one. 
A  total  of  196  patients  were  enrolled,  139  were  randomised  (71  to  nasal  fentanyl/Actiq,  68  to 
Actiq/nasal fentanyl) and 86 patients completed the study. Mean age of the patients was 62.0 years (22 
to 94). 
The majority of patients reached successful doses during titration in both treatment sequence (98.3% 
for Instanyl and 64.7% for Actiq). 
The  primary  endpoint  of  the  study  was  the  time  to  onset  of  meaningful  pain  relief,  recorded  by 
stopwatch, and was defined as the time at which the patient experienced meaningful pain relief. 
The  results  show  that  the  median  total  difference  between  treatments  was  5.0  minutes  in  favour  of 
nasal  fentanyl.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  a  fastest  time  to  onset  of  pain  relief  was  higher  for 
nasal  fentanyl  and  the  differences  were  statistically  significant.  All  nasal  fentanyl  doses  provided 
higher  mean  PID10  scores  (from  1.64  to  3.00)  compared  with  all  Actiq  doses  (from  0.51  to  1.46). 
Higher mean PID scores were obtained for nasal fentanyl compared to Actiq at 20 minutes with the LS 
mean difference of the PID20 being statistically significant (1.20; CI: 1.05, 1.35; p<0.001).  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No  specific  studies  were  performed  by  the  applicant  using  nasal  fentanyl  in  elderly  patients  or  in 
patients  with  severe  hepatic  or  renal  impairment.  However,  elderly  patients  were  not  excluded from 
Page 31 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  clinical  programme.  Since  elderly  patients  may  experience  a  higher  exposure  to  fentanyl  for  a 
given  dose,  caution should  be taken  in  treatment  of  elderly  patients.  Due to the fact  that  fentanyl  is 
metabolised in the liver by the cytochrome P (CYP) 3A4 isoform, caution should be taken in treatment 
of  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  or  receiving  concomitant  medication  that  may  alter 
CYP3A4 activity.  
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Studies FT-003-IN/FT-011-IN 
These  studies  were  designed  to  investigate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  nasal  fentanyl  administered  at 
doses between 50 and 1200 micrograms per episode in the treatment of BTP in patients with cancer 
related pain (study FT-003-IN) and to evaluate safety and tolerability of nasal fentanyl in the treatment 
of BTP (FT-011-IN). 
Study  FT-003-IN  comprised  a  blinded  dose-finding  phase  in  which  for  each  patient  a  successful 
Instanyl dose for treatment of the target BTP was established (phase 2), then a randomised, cross-over, 
double-blind  treatment  phase  in  which  the  successful  dose  of  Instanyl  was  compared  with  half  this 
dose (phase 3). During the dose-finding phase, patients treated each episode of BTP with 2 doses at 
the  same  time  (one  in  each  nostril)  and  with  a  third  dose  in  case  of  insufficient  pain  relief  after  15 
minutes. So the dose to be administered may vary from 50 to 1200 µg. 
Study  FT-011-IN  was  an  open,  multi-centre  study,  planned  as  a  follow-up  for  two  protocols.  Only 
patients that completed FT-003-IN were enrolled since the other study was never initiated. 
At the termination of the studies, data from only 17 patients were available for study FT-003-IN which 
did not allow any statistical testing to be performed. The 14 patients that completed the dose finding 
phase were titrated to various successful Instanyl doses (50 µg for 2 patients,100 µg for 4 patients, 400 
µg for 3 patients and 800 µg for 4 patients) . In phase 3, these doses were tested against half the dose 
in  12  BTP  episodes.  When  the  successful  doses  were  compared  to  half  the  doses  (6  BTP  episodes 
each, randomly), the effects of the low and the high doses (mean SPID, mean TOTPAR, PID and PAR 
by time point) were similar.  
The 14 patients who completed study FT-003-IN entered the study FT-011-IN. None of these patients 
completed the 6-month follow-up period. 
Out  of  the  17  patients  included  in  study  FT-003-IN,  14  completed  the  dose-finding  phase,  thus 
achieving a successful dose of nasal fentanylbetween 50 and 800 µg. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  applicant  acknowledges  that  no  clear  dose-effect  relationship  have  been  established  in  patients 
presenting  BTP  with  a  background  opioid  treatment  for  cancer  pain.  The  chosen  dose  for  pivotal 
studies  and  the  mode  of  administration  (one  dose  then  another  one  10  minutes  after  in  case  of 
inefficacy)  are  based  on  a  study  in  healthy  volunteers,  undergoing  third  molar  extraction,  and  not 
treated with opioids as a background therapy. Thus the conditions of the dose finding study are very 
different from the conditions of cancer patients presenting with BTP. The fact that the results of this 
kind of study could be extrapolated to the target population were considered questionable.  
Considering the patient with BTP, The CHMP recognised that BTP episodes may vary for the same 
patient, depending on the conditions in which it occurs. This variability in BTP justifies the fact that a 
titration is individually needed for a given BTP episode. 
In the FT-018-IM study,  more than 50% of the patients needed two doses to treat their BTP. When 
looking  at  the  results,  it  can  be  seen  that  patients  taking  a  second  dose  presented  PID  lower  than 
patients taking only one dose. The administration of a second dose allows these patients to attain the 
same level of PID than patients responding to only one dose.  
All of the PID achieved with Instanyl, either with one or two doses, are significantly different from the 
one obtained with placebo. 
Page 32 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Even if the questions of the dose-effect relationship and the choice of mode of administration were not 
fully elucidated, the CHMP considered that, as Instanyl is effective in about 50% of patients who take 
one  dose,  and  as  the  patients  who  took  a  second  dose  achieved  a  clinical  and  significant  additional 
benefit, the doses and mode of administration proposed by the applicant were acceptable. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Safety information presented into this document is derived from: 
-  6  clinical  studies  conducted  by  Nycomed:  FT-001-IN,  FT-003-IN,  FT-011-IN,  FT-016-IM, 
FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM. Moreover 9 publications report the efficacy and/or pharmacokinetic and 
safety  results  of  prospective,  controlled  studies  in  which  nasal  fentanyl  was  administered  to  adults 
(patients or healthy volunteers). These publications have been designated ‘pivotal’ by the applicant for 
the purposes of this submission, but were not considered as such by the CHMP. 
-  15  publications  providing  information  on the  safety  of  fentanyl  administered  nasally  (uncontrolled 
studies  or  studies  in  children),  or  via  other  routes.  These  publications  have  been  designated 
‘non-pivotal’ by the applicant.  
The table below summarises the clinical trial exposure 
Study 
Indication 
Underlying 
condition 
Brief study design 
N analysed for safety 
FT-001-IN 
Post-op pain  Molar 
Pharmacokinetics +  efficacy  
24 patients 
FT-003/011-IN 
BTP 
FT-016-IM 
FT-017-IM 
FT-018-IM 
BTP 
BTP 
BTP 
extraction 
Cancer  
Cancer  
Cancer  
Cancer  
Dose-finding 
Efficacy  
Pharmacokinetics  
Efficacy +  safety  
Dose titration  
Efficacy 
Safety follow-up  
FT-019-IM 
BTP 
Cancer  
Comparison with Actiq+  efficacy +  
safety follow-up  
17 patients 
19 patients 
152 patients 
119 patients 
111 patients 
108 patients 
139 patients 
FT-021-IM 
FT-022-IM 
FT-023-IM 
FT-024-IM 
FT-025-IM 
PK 
PK 
PK 
PK 
PK 
FT-026-IM 
PK 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
(allergic 
rhinitis) 
Healthy 
(common cold) 
Pharmacokinetics  +  comparison with 
Actiq 
24 healthy subjects 
Pharmacokinetics +  dose linearity  
12 healthy subjects 
Pharmacokinetics +  volume effect  
12 healthy subjects 
Pharmacokinetics +  bioequivalence 
16 healthy subjects 
Pharmacokinetics in seasonal allergic 
rhinitis +  drug interaction 
(oxymetazoline) 
12 subjects with allergic 
rhinitis 
Pharmacokinetics in common cold 
8 subjects with common cold 
FT-1305-028-SP  PK 
Healthy 
Pharmacokinetics +  bioequivalence 
24 healthy subjects 
(including elderly) 
A total of 207 patients treated with a total of 3351 episodes of BTP with nasal fentanyl were included 
in  the  Instanyl  development  programme  submitted  with  the  initial  application.  The  studies  were 
performed in different adult populations of patients with chronic cancer pain. The mean age and the 
gender are summarised below. 
Page 33 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FT-003/011-IN 
FT-016-IM 
FT-017-IM1 
FT-018-IM2 
(N=17) 
(N=19) 
(N=171) 
(N=126) 
Age, years 
Mean 
Range 
Gender, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
52.5 
57.8 
61.8 
60.9 
25 to 75 
39 to 68 
32 to 86 
33 to 83 
12 (71%) 
5 (29%) 
7 (37%) 
12 (63%) 
90 (53%) 
81 (47%) 
63 (50%) 
63 (50%) 
1 In study FT-017-IM, demographics are presented for the intent-to-treat population which was the basis for safety 
analyses. 
2 In study FT-018-IM, demographics are presented for the intent-to-treat population (n=126); demography was not 
summarised for the safety population (n=135). 
Dose  levels  ranged  from  50  µg  to  800  µg.  Duration  of  treatment  ranged  from  single  dose  (study 
FT-016-IM)  to  8  days  for  controlled  phase  of  the  studies.  In  the  follow-up  of  FT-018-IM,  patients 
were  treated  up  to  4  months.  The  frequency  of  administration  also  varied  from  single  dose  to  a 
maximum of four BTP episodes per day. Fentanyl was administered as a pre-specified dose (studies 
FT-016-IM  and  FT-017-IM)  or  was  individually  titrated  (studies  FT-003-IN,  FT-011-IN  and 
FT-018-IM). Four studies permitted an additional dose of nasal fentanyl if pain relief was inadequate 
(studies FT-003-IN, FT-011-IN, FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM). 
The  number  of  patients  (207)  is  rather  small.  Fentanyl  has  a  well-known  risk  profile  for  i.v.  or 
transdermal administration.  
•  Adverse events  
The following assessment pertains to the evaluation of the initially submitted data: 
The proportion of patients presenting with at least one AE was 62.2% for study FT-018-IN, 52.9 and 
100% for both studies 003/011-IN, 31.6% for study FT-016-IM and 21.6% for study FT-017-IM. The 
nature of the AE reported corresponds to the known safety profile of fentanyl.  
Overall,  the  percentage  of  patients  who  experienced  at  least  one  AE  was  low  in  these  studies, 
compared to more than 80% patients experiencing at least one AE in Effentora pivotal studies. This 
fact is surprising in a population of patients with severe illness and with a chronic opioid treatment and 
other  concomitant  drugs.  One  possible  reason  could  be  the  noted  deficiency  in  the  reporting  of  the 
AEs. 
SAEs  were  reported  for  42%  of  patients  in  study  FT-018-IM,  17.6%  and  100%  for  both  studies 
003/011 respectively, 5.3% of patients in study Ft-016-IM and 6.4% of patients of study FT-017-IM. 
The  percentage  of  SAE  reported  is  unusually  low  in  studies  FT-016-IM  and  FT-017-IM.  (for 
comparison,  34%  of  patients  reported  at  least  1  SAE  for  Effentora).  If  this  low  reporting  can  be 
explained for study FT-016-IM by the short duration of the study, this is not the case for studyFT-017-
IM. It is unclear whether this low reporting is related to the mode of collection of AE or the analytical 
method.  
Of  note, a severe  respiratory  depression occurred in a  patient  80  minutes  after the administration  of 
Instanyl  (study  FT-017-IM).  When  considering  the  delay  of  occurrence  of  this  adverse  event,  a 
relationship with the administration of Instanyl was considered unlikely. Moreover, as the titration and 
administration of Instanyl should be performed under the supervision of a healthcare professional, the 
monitoring of the patients was considered adequate. 
Page 34 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further to the results of the inspection, the safety data for studies FT-017-IM and FT-018-IM were re-
monitored.  A  summary  report  of  this  re-monitoring  was  provided  by  the  applicant,  and  is  assessed 
below: 
In study FT-017-IM, a total of 49 additional AEs in 23 patients were identified during re-monitoring. 
That  have  not  been  previously  reported.  These  AEs  were  allocated  to  nasal  fentanyl  as  follows:  14 
AEs  in  10  patients  (6.8%  for  50  µg,  9  AEs  in  6  patients  (4.0%)  for  100  µg,  12  AEs  in  8  patients 
(5.4%) for 200 µg, and 14 AEs in 10 patients (6.8%) for placebo. Of these, none were severe, serious, 
or resulted in death or withdrawal. One patient experienced three AEs (two occurrences of malignant 
neoplasm  progression  and  one  of  paraesthesia)  that  were  considered  possibly  or  probably  related  to 
treatment.  These  were  the  only  newly  identified  events  that  were  considered  to  have  a  possible  or 
probable relationship to treatment. 
In study FT-018-IM, a total of 238 additional AEs in 65 patients were identified during re-monitoring 
of sites that had not been previously reported. Of these, 4 patients (3.3%) experienced severe AEs; 3 
patients  (2.5%)  experienced  AEs  that  were  considered  related  to  treatment;  5  patients  (4.2%) 
experienced serious AEs (SAEs); 1 patient (0.8%) died; and 1 patient (0.8%) was withdrawn due to 
AEs. 
The AEs identified during re-monitoring were attributed to the phases of the trial as follows: 33 AEs 
in 19 patients (16.0%) in the titration phase; 7 AEs in 6 patients (5.4%) in the efficacy phase, and 198 
AEs in 59 patients (54.6%) in the safety follow-up phase. 
None  of  the  newly  identified  severe  (5  events  in  4  patients)  or  serious  (8  events  in  5  patients)  AEs 
were considered related to treatment 
Among the three patients with newly identified AEs with a possible or probable relationship to nasal 
fentanyl treatment, all were mild in severity and non-serious; none resulted in withdrawal or death. 
The key results of study FT-019-IM were also provided. Overall, 79 patients (56.8%) had AEs during 
the  trial:  56  patients  (45.9%)  following  nasal  fentanyl  treatment  and  41  patients  (34.7%)  following 
Actiq treatment. Most of the AEs (160 of 228) were reported during titration, and most (160 of 228) 
were not considered related to treatment. 
Serious AEs (SAEs) were reported for a total of 19 patients (13.7%): 13 patients (10.7%) had SAEs 
allocated  to  nasal  fentanyl  treatment  and  6  patients  (5.1%)  to  Actiq  treatment,  though  none  were 
considered related to either trial medication. A total of five patients who took at least one dose of IMP 
in  the  trial  (3.6%)  died  due  to  causes  unrelated  to  study  treatment:  four  patients  (2.9%)  during  the 
titration  phase  and  one  patient  (0.7%)  during  the  efficacy  phase  died  of  malignant  neoplasm 
progression;  these  were  allocated  to  the  nasal  fentanyl  portion  of  the  crossover  treatment.  One 
additional  patient  experienced  disease  progression  on  the  day  of  randomisation  to  Actiq  and  died 
seven days later. The patient had not completed any entries in the patient diary. 
Severe AEs were reported for a total of 25 patients (18.0%): 
16  patients  (13.1%)  following  nasal  fentanyl  treatment  and  9  patients  (7.6%)  following  Actiq 
treatment. No SAE was considered related to a trial medication. 
A  total  of  16  patients  (11.5%)  were  discontinued  from  the  trial  due  to  AEs.  Of  these,  10  patients 
(8.2%)  experienced  AEs  following  nasal  fentanyl  treatment  and  8  patients  (6.8%)  experienced  AEs 
following Actiq treatment. 
Severe  nasal  ulcer  related to  nasal  fentanyl  was  reported for  one  patient. This patient  (number  092) 
had a medical history of chronic hepatitis and prostate cancer with bone metastases. Seven days after 
initiation  of  nasal  fentanyl  treatment,  two  small  ulcers  of  the  nasal  mucosa  (one  in  each  nostril) 
developed. The patient was concomitantly treated with chemotherapy. The patient had no prior history 
of  nasal  ulcers  (e.g.  herpes  infection).  No  further  examinations  were  performed  in  relation  to  the 
ulcers.  Nasal  fentanyl  spray  was  discontinued  and  the  patient  recovered  nine  days  later.  This  is  the 
only reported instance of nasal ulcers in any nasal fentanyl trial to date. 
The  most  frequently  occurring  AEs  overall  were  nausea,  vomiting,  and  constipation,  reported  in  16 
patients  (11.5%),  10  patients  (7.2%),  and  9  patients  (6.5%),  respectively.  Nausea  was  the  most 
Page 35 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
frequently  reported  AE  for  both  treatments:  10  patients  following  nasal  fentanyl,  and  9  patients 
following Actiq (three patients experienced nausea following both treatments). Nausea was considered 
related to treatment in all cases, and was considered severe for three patients (two patients following 
nasal fentanyl and one patient following Actiq; Vomiting was considered related to treatment for three 
patients following nasal fentanyl and two patients following Actiq and was considered severe for one 
patient in each treatment group. 
Constipation was considered related to treatment for two patients in each group, and was considered 
severe for one patient following treatment with Actiq. 
System organ class 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Dependence, insomnia 
Somnolence, dizziness, 
headache 
Ear and Labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Vertigo 
Flushing, hot flush 
Throat irritation 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea, vomiting 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  Hyperhidrosis 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
The following points were particularly considered during the inspection: 
Sedation, myoclonus,  
paraesthesia, dysaesthesia,  
dysgeusia 
Motion sickness 
Hypotension 
Respiratory depression, 
epistaxis, nasal ulcer, 
rhinorrhea 
Constipation, stomatitis, dry 
mouth 
Pain of skin, pruritus 
Pyrexia 
Translation error (Rescue medication) 
During  re-monitoring  all  investigators  confirmed  to  have  understood  and  communicated  the 
instruction for rescue medication correctly despite of this formally unacceptable translation error. The 
applicant therefore considered that the original results and conclusions in the study reports from FT-
017-IM 
error. 
Retrospective  re-evaluation  of  the  actual  timepoint  of  rescue  medication  usage  and  its  bearings  on 
efficacy parameters like e.g. PID60 was thought to be difficult. However, the CHMP conceded that it 
is rather  improbable  that  the  inconsistencies  arising  from  the translation error  entirely  invalidate  the 
efficacy results.  
FT-018-IM 
invalidated 
translation 
and 
not 
are 
the 
by 
Dose titration 
In line with the translation error finding described above, the protocol deviations regarding the dose 
titration procedure are thought to be reflective of suboptimal GCP compliance. In the case of leaving 
the  patient  on  the  same  dose  despite  four  consecutive  unsuccessfully  treated  episodes  is  not  only  of 
ethical  concerns  but  may  also  have  to  do  with  the  general  shortcoming  of  the  whole  clinical 
development,  i.e.  missing  dose-finding  and, in  consequence,  offering  a  dose  range  to the patients  in 
phase III that potentially is too narrow.  
Recording and reporting of AEs 
The applicant reassures that in future trials, Nycomed will ensure that diary cards will have allocated 
space  for  entering  information  about  AEs.  During  re-monitoring  the  newly  identified  events  were 
almost  entirely  AEs  associated  with  the  underlying  diseases  of the  patient  population of adults  with 
cancer, and did not reveal any new severe, serious or other important events considered related to the 
study  drug.  Additional safety  data  are reported from  recently  conducted  study  FT-019-IM,  an  open-
label comparison of Instanyl with Actiq. For the purpose of study FT-019-IM, new patients (without 
pre-knowledge  of  Instanyl)  have  been  recruited.  Similar  safety  profiles  of  Instanyl  were  observed 
Page 36 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
across all studies. Re-monitoring of AEs – although difficult to accomplish retrospectively – did not 
change the overall safety evaluation of nasally applied fentanyl.  
Nonetheless, the responses of the Applicant did not change the GCP inspectors’ major concerns about 
the quality and reliability of the safety and efficacy data of the trials. 
Dosing compliance 
Dose accountability was not provided – neither during the clinical trials nor in clinical practice. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The following relates to the initially reported adverse events: 
In study FT-018-IM, 46 patients (34%) died during the study. In study FT-003/011-IN three patients 
(18%) died in dose-finding study FT-003-IN and 11 patients (79%) during follow-up study FT-011-
IN, giving a total of 14 out of 17 patients (82%). In study FT-017-IM, eight patients (5%) died during 
the double-blind phase. 6 deaths were due to disease progression, 1 dyspnoea, and 1 cachexia. 
The majority of the deaths reported were related to disease progression. None of the death was related 
to  treatment  administration.  The  high  number  of  deaths  in  studies  003/011  is  explained  by  the 
applicant by the fact that patients included in this study presented more advanced stage of disease than 
expected, which was one of the reason of the early termination of these studies. 
Upon re-evaluation of the data following the inspection, only a few additional serious adverse events 
were identified (see paragraph above), and these were considered not related to treatment. Even with 
the proven deficiencies of the quality management system, it can be assumed that serious AEs were 
collected. 
In  conclusion,  the  newly  reported  AEs  identified  for  both  studies  did  not  alter  the  safety  profile 
initially assessed for fentanyl nasal spray at doses of 50 to 200 µg, administered as one dose or two 
doses 10 minutes apart. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory parameters were not assessed in studies FT-017-IM or FT-018-IM. Laboratory tests were 
performed  at  screening  only  in  pharmacokinetic  study  FT-016-IM.  In  study  FT-003-IN,  laboratory 
parameters  were  to  be  assessed  at  baseline  and  the  end-of-study  visit.  However,  laboratory  samples 
were not analysed because the majority of end-of-study samples were missing. 
This was considered acceptable by CHMP in light of the known profile of Fentanyl. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Elderly 
The applicant did not provide any assessment of AEs related to age. The mean age of included patients 
was  around  60  years,  with  a  maximum  of  83.  An  integrated  safety  report  regarding  elderly  patients 
(>75 years) should be provided and has been requested as part of the follow up measures. 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
No  particular  evaluation  was  made  in  patient  with  renal  and  hepatic  insufficiency.  However,  the 
information proposed in the SPC is in agreement with the one included in the SPC of other fentanyl 
containing products. This was considered acceptable by CHMP. 
Overdose, drug abuse, withdrawal and rebound 
One  patient  in  the  titration  phase  of  study  FT-018-IM  had  an  AE  of  accidental  overdose  (patient 
received  one  dose  of  100  µg  and  was  described  by  the  investigator  as  “cerebrally  affected”);  the 
subject was withdrawn from the study. No other cases of fentanyl overdose were reported in any of the 
clinical studies. 
Page 37 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study FT-011-IN, three patients (21.4%) had AEs of dependence during the 6-month safety follow-
up. There were no other reports of dependence in any studies. 
No evidence of rebound or withdrawal effects was seen in these patients 
The  applicant  was  requested  to  propose  how  to  evaluate  by  the  patient  the  number  of  self 
administration  and  the  time  between  two  administrations.  In  the  response  to  the  LoI  the  applicant 
proposed to provide patients with a dosing scheme in the educational material. However, the only way 
to  really  evaluate  the  number  of  self  administrations  would  be  the  implementation  of  a  counting 
system, and this was requested in the follow-up measures. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No interaction studies have been performed with nasal fentanyl. One study with oxymethazoline was 
submitted during the procedure and is discussed in the pharmacokinetics section. 
The absence of the other studies was acceptable to CHMP due to the fact that fentanyl is a well known 
active substance. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In study FT-018-IM, a total of 51 patients (37.8%) were withdrawn due to AEs during the study; six 
patients (4.5%) during the titration phase, one patient (0.8%) during the efficacy phase and 44 patients 
(35.8%) during the safety phase. 
In  study  FT-003-IN,  one  patient  (6%)  was  withdrawn  due  to  a  fatal  AE  (malignant  neoplasm 
progression).  In  study  FT-011-IN,  13  patients  (93%)  were  withdrawn  due  to  an  AE;  11  of  these 
patients died. AEs leading to withdrawal were not summarised for study FT-011-IN 
In study FT-017-IM six patients were withdrawn due to AEs after the 200 µg nasal fentanyl test dose; 
nausea and vertigo were reported for two patients; vertigo, vomiting and hypertension in one patient; 
nausea  in  one patient;  sedation  in  one  patient,  and  syncope  in  one  patient.  A  total  of  eight  patients 
(4.7%) were withdrawn due to AEs during the double-blind phase of this study. The most common AE 
leading to withdrawal was malignant neoplasm progression (two patients) 
In  long  term  studies  a  very  high  percentage  of  patients  were  withdrawn,  mostly  due  to  malignant 
neoplasm  progression.  However,  during  the  safety  phase  of  study  FT-018-IM,  33  (27%)  patients 
withdrawn their consent and 11 (9%) for other reasons. It is surprising that in patients with a severe 
pathology and a credible increasing pain, the Instanyl treatment was withdrawn. This can be explained 
either by a lack of efficacy (or a decrease of efficacy with time) or AEs. The applicant was requested 
to provide more in details the reason for the withdrawal of these patients. The answers of the applicant 
and the inspection report confirm that underreporting and incorrect recording took place. 
However,  due  to  the  fact  that  no  unexpected  toxicity  was  evidenced  for  this  well  known  active 
substance, the CHMP considered this point resolved. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety profile of Instanyl seems comparable to the one of the other fentanyl containing products. 
After the inspection and reassessment of the data, the CHMP concluded that the newly reported AEs 
identified for both studies did not alter the safety profile initially assessed for fentanyl nasal spray at 
doses of 50 to 200 µg, administered as one dose or two doses 10 minutes apart.  
Nonetheless, the responses of the Applicant did not change the GCP inspectors’ major concerns about 
the quality and reliability of the safety and efficacy data of the trials. 
However, even with the proven deficiencies of the quality management system, it can be assumed that 
the serious AEs were collected. Furthermore, Instanyl safety profile does not seem to differ from the 
safety profile of other fentnayl containing products indicated in the treatment of BTP. However, the 
non serious AEs were probably under reported. This is not considered as a public health concern, and 
the AE profile of Instanyl will be further defined with the RMP. Also the applicant should provide the 
CHMP with an integrated safety reports of all the safety data (including the FT-019-IM study versus 
Actiq), and particularly regarding the elderly (>75 years old) as a follow-up measure. 
Page 38 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential risk of overdose and danger for children and family circle remains with the proposed device 
due  the  proposed  container  closure  system.  The  Applicant  has  undertaken  to  develop  an  improved 
device. 
Additionally, section 4.2 of the SPC states that: 
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management  of  opioid  therapy  in  cancer  patients.  Physicians  should  keep  in  mind  the  potential  of 
abuse of fentanyl. 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  applicant  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
pharmacovigilance.  A  statement  signed  by 
for 
pharmacovigilance, indicating that the applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance  and  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse  reaction  occurring 
either in the Community or in a third country has been provided.  
the  qualified  person 
the  applicant  and 
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements as described in Volume 9A of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European 
Union  and  provides  adequate  evidence  that  the  applicant  has  the  services  of  a  qualified  person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Summary of the EU Risk Management Plan 
Safety concern 
Device 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and additional) 
Targeted pharmacovigilance 
surveillance 
Off-label use 
Targeted pharmacovigilance 
surveillance 
Drug utilisation study 
Page 39 of 43 
Propose risk minimisation activities  
(routine and additional) 
Special and restricted prescription:  
Treatment should be initiated by and 
remain under the supervision of a 
physician experienced in the management 
of opioid therapy in cancer patients. 
Physicians should keep in mind the 
potential of abuse of fentanyl.  
Educational material 
Child-resistant secondary container 
Different colour of labelling material for 
different strengths 
Dose-counting scheme 
Systematic return of used and unused nasal 
spray solutions 
Development of a secure multi-dose 
device with dose counting and lock-out 
system  
Special and restricted prescription:  
Treatment should be initiated by and 
remain under the supervisionof a physician 
experienced in the management of opioid 
therapy in cancer patients. Physicians 
should keep in mind the potential of abuse 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abuse 
Targeted pharmacovigilance 
surveillance 
Post-authorisation surveillance 
study 
Misuse, diversion 
Targeted pharmacovigilance 
surveillance 
Post-authorisation surveillance 
study 
Accidental 
overdose 
Targeted pharmacovigilance 
surveillance 
Post-authorisation surveillance 
study 
Local tolerability 
symptoms 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Local tolerability sub-trial 
of fentanyl.  
Educational material 
Special and restricted prescription  
Warning in Summary of Product 
Characteristic: Tolerance and physical 
and/or psychological dependence may 
develop upon repeated administration of 
opioids such as fentanyl. However, 
iatrogenic addiction following therapeutic 
use of opioids is rare in the treatment of 
cancer related pain. 
Educational material 
Special and restricted prescription  
Warning in Summary of Product 
Characteristic: Tolerance and physical 
and/or psychological dependence may 
develop upon repeated administration of 
opioids such as fentanyl. However, 
iatrogenic addiction following therapeutic 
use of opioids is rare in the treatment of 
cancer related pain. 
Educational material 
Educational material 
Child-resistant secondary container 
Different colour of labelling material for 
different strengths 
Dose-counting scheme 
Development of a single dose fentanyl 
nasal spray as a line-extension to the multi 
dose product 
None 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: see as detailed in section 2.3 of this CHMP Assessment Report. 
2.6 Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  With 
regard  to  the  possible  risk  of  overdose  and  potential  danger  of  the  product  for  children  and  family 
circle because of the primary container closure system, which should include a lock out system and a 
dose  counter,  the  applicant  presented  detailed  risk  evaluation  data  and  risk  management  plan  and 
committed to continue the development of the multi-dose safety device, with dose counting, lock-out 
system. There are a number of other quality issues that will be resolved as Follow-up Measures within 
an agreed timeframe. None of the above issues is expected to have a negative impact on the Benefit 
Risk balance of the product. 
Page 40 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
As  the  general  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and  toxicological  properties  of  fentanyl  are  well 
known,  the  main  toxicological  concerns  within  this  authorization  application  is  whether  Instanyl 
administration enhances toxicity due to increased systemic exposure, or causes local toxic effects. 
The  data  related  to  the  specific  toxicological  issues  raised  for  Instanyl  compared  to  the  already 
marketed fentanyl-containing products indicated that Instanyl is expected to be well tolerated locally, 
provided qualification of the impurities and did not indicate special hazard for the environment.  
Efficacy 
The applicant acknowledges that no clear dose-effect relationship have been established in patients for 
nasally administered fentanyl. Fentanyl is a highly potent opioid agonist which has been in clinical use 
for decades and its major effect and side-effect profiles are well known and well documented. 
This new fentanyl formulation was intended to improve the treatment of BTP in adults, by providing a 
rapid onset of effect, duration of effect to cover the duration of the episode, no long-active metabolites 
and availability of a non invasive formulation.  
Instanyl  has  a  fast  onset  of  efficacy  (10  minutes),  which  is  supported  by  kinetic  data  and  is  an 
advantage as compared to the other available treatments indicated in the treatment of BTP. 
Kinetic data were provided for doses between 50 and 400 mg, corresponding to the doses allowed in 
the clinical program. 
Despite  the  lack  of  justification  for  the  proposed  dosage  regimen,  in  both  pivotal  studies  nasal 
fentanylled  to  a  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  decrease  of  PID10  (at  10  minutes) 
compared to placebo with a dose-effect relationship evidenced in study FT-017-IM. The efficacy of 
nasal  fentanylwas  confirmed  on  the  other  important  criteria  such  as  responder  rates,  patient  general 
impression and SPID0-60. 
In  study  FT-018-IM,  pain  intensity  that  amounts  to  about  6.5  on  average  on  NRS  scale  before 
administration, is reduced to a score of about 4.0-4.5 ten minutes after the first actuation of Instanyl. 
Highly  significant  superiority  in  PID10  scores  over  placebo  could  be  shown  for  all  three  dose 
strengths  (Placebo:  1.28,  50  µg:  2.0,  100  µg:  2.74,  200  µg:  2.60).  Therefore,  based  on  the  PID10 
results  obtained in study  FT-018-IM,  it  is  acknowledged  that  breakthrough  pain  occurring  in  cancer 
patients  receiving  opioid  maintenance  therapy  can  be  successfully  treated  with  nasally  administered 
fentanyl. A responder was defined as having a PID10 > 2 for a given episode. 
The  responder  rate  after  one  dose  at  10  minutes  varies  from  31%  to  49%  depending  on  the  dose 
received, whether in the placebo group, the responder rates varies from 20% to 22%. 
Even if the questions of the dose-effect relationship and the choice of mode of administration were not 
fully elucidated, the CHMP considered that, as Instanyl is effective in about 50% of patients who take 
one  dose,  and  as  the  patients  who  took  a  second  dose  achieved  a  clinical  and  significant  additional 
benefit, the doses and mode of administration proposed by the applicant were acceptable. 
The inspection conducted in May-July, at the request from CHMP for studies FT-017-IM and FT-018-
IM  led  to  the  conclusion  that there  were  major  deficiencies  in the conduct of the  studies  and  in  the 
quality management system. After the applicant has conducted a remonitoring of all the centres, there 
were  still  concern  on  the  quality  management  system,  the  adverse  event  reporting  and  the  protocol 
device. 
Following the applicant response, it appears that the quality management system was insufficient to 
ensure the quality and integrity of the efficacy and safety data. 
However,  the  results  obtained  are  consistent  between  the  efficacy  studies.  The  CHMP  therefore 
concluded with regard to the whole documentation that the deficiencies found in the quality system of 
the sponsor are unlikely to invalidate the quality of the efficacy and safety data. 
Page 41 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  Instanyl  has  shown  clinical efficacy  in  the treatment  of  BTP in  patients  with  chronic 
cancer pain treated by opioids. 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
Even  with  the  proven  deficiencies  of  the  quality  management  system,  it  can  be  assumed  that  the 
serious AEs were collected. Instanyl safety profile does not seem to differ from the safety profile of 
other fentnayl containing products indicated in the treatment of BTP. However, the non serious AEs 
were probably under reported. This is not considered as a public health concern, and the AE profile of 
Instanyl will be further defined with the RMP. Also the applicant should provide the CHMP with an 
integrated  safety  reports  of  all  the  safety  data  (including  the  FT-019-IM  study  versus  Actiq),  and 
particularly regarding elderly patients (>75 years old) as a follow-up measure. 
Potential risk of overdose and danger for children and family circle remains with the proposed device 
due  the  proposed  container  closure  system.    The  Applicant  has  undertaken  to  develop  an  improved 
device. The follow-up measures proposed by the applicant are acceptable.  
•  User consultation 
The  methodology  is  acceptable.  The  test  is  satisfactory  in  terms  of  Guideline  requirements,  but  the 
report presents several insufficiencies and isn’t detailed enough, especially in terms of specifying the 
criteria of inclusion and exclusion, the verbatim of the answers of the participants, the description of 
the modifications made to the PIL and the data processing. 
The test is however considered as acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Fentanyl  is  a  highly  potent  opioid  agonist  which  has  been  in  clinical  use  for  decades  and  its  major 
effect and side-effect profiles are well known and well documented. 
This new fentanyl formulation was intended to improve the treatment of BTP in adults, by providing a 
rapid onset of effect, duration of effect to cover the duration of the episode, no long-active metabolites 
and availability of a non invasive formulation.  
Nasally  administered  fentanyl  was  shown  to  have  a  fast  onset  of  efficacy  (10  minutes),  which  is 
supported by kinetic data, which were provided for doses between 50 and 400 mg, corresponding to 
the doses allowed in the clinical program. 
In both pivotal studies nasal fentanyl led to a statistically significant and clinically relevant decrease of 
PID10 (at 10 minutes) compared to placebo with a dose-effect relationship evidenced in study FT-017-
IM.  The  efficacy  of  nasal  fentanyl  was  confirmed  on  the  other  important  criteria  such  as  responder 
rates, patient general impression and SPID0-60. 
The  responder  rate  after  one  dose  at  10  minutes  varies  from  31%  to  49%  depending  on  the  dose 
received, whether in the placebo group, the responder rates varies from 20% to 22%. A responder was 
defined as having a PID10 > 2 for a given episode. 
Even if the questions of the dose-effect relationship and the choice of mode of administration were not 
fully elucidated, the CHMP considered that, as Instanyl is effective in about 50% of patients who take 
one  dose,  and  as  the  patients  who  took  a  second  dose  achieved  a  clinical  and  significant  additional 
benefit, the doses and mode of administration proposed by the applicant were acceptable. 
GCP Inspections concluded that quality management system was insufficient to ensure the quality and 
integrity of the efficacy and safety data. 
Page 42 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  the  results  obtained  are  consistent  between  the  efficacy  studies.  The  CHMP  therefore 
concluded with regard to the whole documentation that the deficiencies found in the quality system of 
the sponsor are unlikely to invalidate the quality of the efficacy and safety data. 
In  conclusion,  Instanyl  has  shown  clinical efficacy  in  the treatment  of  BTP in  patients  with  chronic 
cancer pain treated by opioids. 
Even with the proven deficiencies of the quality management system, the CHMP concluded that the 
serious AEs were adequately collected. Instanyl safety profile does not seem to differ from the safety 
profile  of  other  fentanyl  containing  products  indicated  in  the  treatment  of  BTP.  However,  the  non 
serious AEs were probably under reported. This is not considered as a public health concern, and the 
AE profile of Instanyl will be further defined with the RMP. 
However, potential risk of overdose and danger for children and family circle still remains due to the 
device design. The Applicant has undertaken to develop an improved device. 
Additionally, section 4.2 of the SPC states that: 
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
management  of  opioid  therapy  in  cancer  patients.  Physicians  should  keep  in  mind  the  potential  of 
abuse of fentanyl. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
-  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
- the following additional risk minimisation activities were required: see as detailed in section 2.3 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Instanyl in the management of breakthrough pain in adults 
already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic  cancer  pain  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 43 of 43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
