Summary of the risk management plan for Insulatard
(human insulin)
This is a summary of the RMP for Insulatard. The RMP details important risks 
of Insulatard, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Insulatard’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).
Insulatard’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package 
leaflet (PL) give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients 
on how Insulatard should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Insulatard should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all of which is part of the EPAR.
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in 
updates of Insulatard’s RMP.
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
Insulatard is authorised for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. It contains 
human insulin as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous route.
Further information about the evaluation of Insulatard’s benefits can be found 
in Insulatard’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
EMA website, under the medicine’s webpages (EPAR link Insulatard).
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Insulatard, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about Insulatard’s risks, are 
outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on 
correct use, in the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals.
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging.

 The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so 
to ensure that the medicine is used correctly.
 The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the 
patient (e.g., with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about AEs is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Insulatard are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as 
identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Insulatard. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on 
the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B Summary of important risks
No risks of Insulatard need special risk management or pharmacovigilance 
activities for further characterisation.
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or 
specific obligation of Insulatard.
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
No studies are required for Insulatard.
