EMA/353032/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004303 
EPAR summary for the public 
Insulin lispro Sanofi 
insulin lispro 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Insulin lispro Sanofi. It 
explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its 
conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Insulin lispro Sanofi. 
For practical information about using Insulin lispro Sanofi, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Insulin lispro Sanofi and what is it used for? 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is a medicine used to control blood glucose (sugar) levels in adults and children 
with diabetes who need insulin. It contains the active substance insulin lispro. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that it is highly similar to a biological 
medicine (also known as the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the European Union 
(EU). The reference medicine for Insulin lispro Sanofi is Humalog 100 U/ml solution. For more 
information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
How is Insulin lispro Sanofi used? 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is given as an injection under the skin in the upper arm, thigh, buttock or belly. It 
can also be given with an infusion pump. In some circumstances, such as when blood acid levels are 
dangerously high (ketoacidosis), the medicine may be given into a vein.  
Because Insulin lispro Sanofi is a fast-acting insulin, it is usually given shortly before a meal and, when 
necessary, soon after a meal. The dose of Insulin lispro Sanofi is worked out for each patient and 
depends on the patient’s blood glucose level. The doctor should instruct the patient on how to use the 
medicine properly. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Insulin lispro Sanofi work? 
In diabetes, patients have high levels of blood glucose either because the body does not produce 
enough insulin or the body is unable to use insulin effectively.  
The active substance in Insulin lispro Sanofi is a form of insulin which is absorbed more quickly by the 
body than human regular insulin, and can therefore act faster. It helps control blood glucose levels, 
thereby alleviating symptoms and reducing the risk of complications of diabetes. 
What benefits of Insulin lispro Sanofi have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Insulin lispro Sanofi with the reference medicine Humalog have shown 
that the active substance in Insulin lispro Sanofi is highly similar in terms of structure, purity and 
biological activity to that of Humalog. In addition, studies have shown that both medicines produce 
similar levels of the active substance in the body. 
Two further studies in a total of 1,012 patients compared Insulin lispro Sanofi with Humalog and found 
them to be similarly effective at reducing blood levels of a substance called glycosylated haemoglobin 
(HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well blood glucose levels are controlled over time. In one 
study, in patients with type 1 diabetes, HbA1c reduced by 0.44 and 0.46 percentage points with Insulin 
lispro Sanofi and Humalog respectively after 26 weeks; in the second study, in patients with type 2 
diabetes, the corresponding figures were 0.93 versus 0.88 percentage points. 
What are the risks associated with Insulin lispro Sanofi? 
Insulin lispro Sanofi may cause hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels) and must not be given to 
patients whose blood glucose is already low. Severe hypoglycaemia can lead to loss of consciousness 
and, in very extreme cases, to death. Hypoglycaemia may be due to the medicine itself or other 
factors such as diet and exercise.  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Insulin lispro Sanofi, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Insulin lispro Sanofi approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements for biosimilar medicines, Insulin lispro Sanofi has a highly similar structure, 
purity and biological activity to Humalog and is distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, 
studies show that both medicines have similar effects in reducing blood glucose levels and similar side 
effects. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Humalog, the benefits of Insulin lispro Sanofi 
outweigh its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Insulin lispro Sanofi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Insulin lispro Sanofi have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
Other information about Insulin lispro Sanofi 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Insulin lispro Sanofi on 19 July 2017. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi  
EMA/353032/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Insulin lispro Sanofi can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Insulin lispro Sanofi, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi  
EMA/353032/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
