31 March 2015 
EMA/182584/2015 
Update of 15 September 2015: the shortage affecting Insuman has been resolved and 
the below information and recommendations which were issued during the shortage no 
longer apply. 
Insuman Rapid, Basal and Comb(insulin human) 
3 ml cartridges and pre-filled pens   
Indication 
Insuman is a range of insulin-containing solutions and suspensions 
for injection that are used in patients with diabetes (type 1 and 2) 
who need treatment with insulin.  
Some forms of Insuman can also be used for the treatment of 
hyperglycaemic coma (coma caused by very high blood glucose 
[sugar] levels) and ketoacidosis (high levels of certain substances 
[ketones] in the blood), and to control blood glucose before, during 
or after an operation. 
Insuman Rapid is a fast-acting insulin solution containing soluble 
insulin, Insuman Basal is an intermediate-acting insulin suspension 
containing isophane insulin, and Insuman Comb is available in 
various combinations of fast- and intermediate-acting insulins. 
Reason for shortage  
Following a problem in the manufacturing process of Insuman the 
marketing authorisation holder has reduced the production and 
release of all batches of Insuman Basal, Comb and Rapid 
(cartridges and pre-filled pens). While the issue is being addressed, 
a limited number of batches of Insuman cartridges and pre-filled 
pens will be produced or released and as a result a shortage may 
occur in some EU Member States by end of March 2015. 
Member States affected 
Temporary supply disruptions are expected to occur in the following 
EU Member States: Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Norway and 
Information to healthcare 
professionals  
Poland.  
• 
• 
• 
Problems with the supply of Insuman cartridges (3 ml) and pre-
filled pens (Rapid/Basal/Comb25) may affect some member 
states by the end of March. 
The shortage does not affect Insuman vials. Insuman 
Implantable vials, Infusat vials and Infusat cartridges will also 
not be affected by the shortage. 
In case of shortage, healthcare professionals should prescribe 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insuman Rapid, Basal and Comb(insulin human) 
3 ml cartridges and pre-filled pens   
Information to parents and 
carers 
an alternative human insulin, taking into account local and 
national guidance. 
•  Adequate training and support should be provided for patients 
who are being prescribed alternatives. 
• 
Patients should be asked to monitor their blood glucose levels 
closely during the switch to alternative human insulin. 
•  Healthcare professionals in countries affected will be informed 
by the company of the shortage. 
•  Additional advice may be available from the national competent 
authority. 
• 
• 
Problems with the supply of Insuman cartridges (3 ml 
cartridges and pre-filled pens (Rapid/Basal/Comb25) may affect 
some member states by the end of March. 
The shortage does not affect Insuman vials. Insuman 
Implantable vials, Infusat vials and Infusat cartridges will also 
not be affected by the shortage. 
•  During the shortage healthcare professionals may prescribe an 
alternative insulin medicine and provide the necessary training 
on how to use this medicine. 
• 
• 
Patients should monitor their blood sugar levels more closely. 
Patients who have any questions should speak to their doctor 
or pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from the national competent 
authority. 
Insuman Rapid, Basal and Comb(insulin human) 
EMA/182584/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
