EMA/242544/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005033 
Insulin aspart Sanofi (insulin aspart) 
An overview of Insulin aspart Sanofi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Insulin aspart Sanofi and what is it used for? 
Insulin aspart Sanofi is a medicine used to control blood glucose (sugar) levels in patients from one 
year of age who have diabetes.  
Insulin aspart Sanofi is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Insulin aspart Sanofi is highly similar to 
another biological medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The 
reference medicine for Insulin aspart Sanofi is NovoRapid. For more information on biosimilar 
medicines, see here. 
Insulin aspart Sanofi contains the active substance insulin aspart, a rapid-acting insulin. 
How is Insulin aspart Sanofi used? 
Insulin aspart Sanofi can only be obtained with a prescription. It is given as an injection under the skin 
in the upper arm, thigh, buttock or belly. Because Insulin aspart Sanofi is a fast-acting insulin, it is 
usually given shortly before a meal or if more appropriate, soon after a meal. Insulin aspart Sanofi is 
normally used in combination with a longer-acting insulin. The dose is worked out for each patient and 
depends on the patient’s weight and blood glucose level. 
A healthcare professional should explain to the patient how to use the medicine properly. 
For more information about using Insulin aspart Sanofi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
How does Insulin aspart Sanofi work? 
In diabetes, patients have high levels of blood glucose either because the body does not produce 
enough insulin or the body is unable to use insulin effectively.  
The active substance in Insulin aspart Sanofi is a form of insulin which is absorbed more quickly by the 
body than regular insulin, and can therefore act faster. It helps control blood glucose levels, thereby 
alleviating symptoms of diabetes and reducing the risk of complications. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Insulin aspart Sanofi have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Insulin aspart Sanofi with NovoRapid have shown that the active 
substance in Insulin aspart Sanofi is highly similar to that in NovoRapid in terms of structure, purity 
and biological activity. Studies have also shown that giving Insulin aspart Sanofi produces similar 
levels of the active substance in the body to giving NovoRapid. 
In addition, a study involving 597 patients already being treated with insulin for diabetes showed that 
6-months’ treatment using Insulin aspart Sanofi plus a longer-acting insulin (insulin glargine) was as 
effective in controlling blood sugar as a combination including NovoRapid and insulin glargine. The 
average HbA1c (a measurement that gives an indication of how well blood glucose levels are controlled 
over time) was 8.00% at the start in those treated with Insulin aspart Sanofi and 7.94% in those given 
NovoRapid; after 6 months it was 7.62% and 7.64% respectively. 
Because Insulin aspart Sanofi is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of 
insulin aspart carried out with NovoRapid do not all need to be repeated for Insulin aspart Sanofi. 
What are the risks associated with Insulin aspart Sanofi? 
The safety of Insulin aspart Sanofi has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out 
the side effects of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine 
NovoRapid. 
The most common side effect with Insulin aspart Sanofi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels) and the medicine must not be given to people whose blood 
glucose level is already low. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Insulin aspart Sanofi, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Insulin aspart Sanofi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Insulin aspart Sanofi has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to 
NovoRapid and is distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in patients with diabetes 
have shown that the safety and effectiveness of Insulin aspart Sanofi is equivalent to that of 
NovoRapid. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Insulin aspart Sanofi will behave in the same 
way as NovoRapid in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for NovoRapid, the benefits of Insulin aspart Sanofi outweigh the identified risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Insulin aspart Sanofi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Insulin aspart Sanofi have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Insulin aspart Sanofi are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Insulin aspart Sanofi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Insulin aspart Sanofi (insulin aspart)  
EMA/242544/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Insulin aspart Sanofi 
Insulin aspart Sanofi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 June 2020. 
Further information on Insulin aspart Sanofi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/insulin-aspart-sanofi.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2020.  
Insulin aspart Sanofi (insulin aspart)  
EMA/242544/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
