19 January 2023 
EMA/8885/2023 Rev.11 
Shortage of Insuman Rapid, Basal and Comb 25 (insulin human) 
Solution for injection, prefilled pen 
Indication 
Insuman is used in patients with diabetes (type 1 and 2) 
who need treatment with insulin. 
Insuman Rapid can also be used for the treatment of 
hyperglycaemic coma (coma caused by too much blood 
glucose [sugar]) and ketoacidosis (high levels of ketones 
[acids] in the blood), and to control blood glucose before, 
during or after an operation. 
Reason for shortage  
Several events at the manufacturing site resulted in a 
temporary supply shortage of Insuman in early 2023. They 
included supply delays of pen components and issues on 
filling, assembly and packaging lines. In addition, the 
marketing authorisation holder has decided to stop 
production and marketing of Insuman Rapid, Basal and 
Comb 25 worldwide.  
Member States affected2 
All EU Member States where Insuman Rapid, Basal and 
Comb 25 are currently authorised. 
Monitoring of shortage 
EMA’s SPOC working party3 is closely monitoring the supply 
situation and engaging with the marketing authorisation 
holder and other stakeholders to identify measures to 
mitigate the impact of the supply shortage.  
Information to healthcare 
• 
There have been supply shortages of Insuman Basal, 
professionals  
Rapid and Comb 25 since January 2023. In addition, 
the marketing authorisation holder has decided to stop 
production and marketing of Insuman Rapid, Basal and 
Comb 25 worldwide.  
•  As a result, no new patients should be started with any 
of the impacted Insuman products and existing patients 
1 This document was modified on 13 July 2023 to reflect the decision by the marketing authorisation holder to stop 
marketing the product and to reflect ongoing monitoring by the Medicine Shortages Single Point of Contact (SPOC) 
working party and additional measures to maintain supply. 
2 This information may change. For accurate information about the status of a medicine shortage in a particular 
Member State the national competent authority should be contacted. 
3 The SPOC working party is responsible for monitoring and reporting events that could affect the supply of 
medicines in the EU. Summaries of the SPOC working party meetings can be found on EMA’s website. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shortage of Insuman Rapid, Basal and Comb 25 (insulin human) 
Solution for injection, prefilled pen 
Information to patients  
should be switched to suitable alternatives at the next 
scheduled appointment.  
•  Alternatives should be chosen based on national or local 
guidance and based on the patients’ needs. The switch 
should be done under the supervision of a healthcare 
professional with close monitoring of blood glucose 
levels.  
•  A delay in switching may result in patients missing the 
required doses, which may have serious clinical 
consequences such as hyperglycaemia. 
•  A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) 
has been sent to relevant healthcare professionals and 
is also available on the EMA website. 
•  Additional advice may be available from your country’s 
national shortage register. 
There have been supply shortages of Insuman Basal, 
• 
Rapid and Comb 25 since January 2023. In addition, 
the marketing authorisation holder has decided to stop 
production and marketing of Insuman Rapid, Basal and 
Comb 25 worldwide. If you take Insuman Basal, Rapid 
and Comb 25, make an appointment with your doctor 
before your current insulin supply finishes, so that a 
suitable alternative can be found.  
•  A delay in switching may result in you missing doses, 
which may lead to high blood sugar levels.  
•  Switching to an alternative medicine should be done 
under the supervision of a healthcare professional and 
with close monitoring of blood sugar levels. 
• 
If you have any questions, speak to your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
•  Additional advice may be available from your country’s 
national shortage register. 
Status 
Ongoing 
Shortage of Insuman (insulin human) 
EMA/8885/2023  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
