SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Insuman.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 May 2002. For information on changes after this date please refer 
to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Insuman is recombinant human insulin (Insulin HGT) produced by r-DNA technology. The structure 
and  activity  are  identical  as  compared  to  the  semi-synthetic  human  insulin  products  (produced  by 
enzymatic  conversion  of  porcine  insulin)  currently  marketed  in  several  countries,  but  the 
manufacturing  process  of  the  active  ingredient  differs.  Recombinant  DNA  technology  offers  an 
efficient  alternative  manufacturing  procedure  to  that  used  for  semi-synthetic  insulins,  which  are 
dependent upon a constant supply of porcine pancreas. 
The  Recombinant  human  insulin  molecule  consists  of  two  chains  interconnected  by  two  disulfide 
bonds  and  has  a  molecular  weight  of  5,808.  It  is  derived  from  Escherichia  coli  K  12  bacteria  as  a 
chimeric  product  in  the  form  of  a  fusion  protein  and  modified  chemically  and  enzymatically  during 
downstream processing. 
Insuman,  annex  II  application  of  Commission  regulation  (EC)  No  542/95,  as  amended  under  the 
centralised procedure, was submitted in order to introduce a second generation of recombinant human 
insulin (insulin HR 1799 or insulin HPR). 
This  centralised  application,  from  Hoechst  Marion  Roussel  Deutschland  GmbH  (Germany)  differs 
from the first generation recombinant human insulin (insulin HGT) in its manufacturing process. The 
modified  manufacturing  process  avoids  the  use  of  cyanogen  chloride,  sulfitolysis  and  urea  in  high 
amounts during stream down streamprocessing (dominus technicus). 
Insulin  HPR  is  manufactured  from  a  protein  produced  by  a  K12  strain  of  Escherichia  coli  that  has 
been genetically modified with a corresponding recombinant plasmid.  
The first generation insulin HGT was approved for marketing in February 1997, but the company does 
not intend to market this product. Instead, a Marketing Authorisation has been sought for the second 
generation recombinant human insulin HPR. 
Insuman (insulin HPR) is indicated for the treatment of diabetes mellitus and, like the previous insulin 
HGT,  is  presented  as  6  different  preparations  depending  on  the  ratio  short/prolonged  duration  of 
action: Insuman Rapid, Comb 50, Comb 25, Comb 15, Basal, Infusat. The Rapid formulation contains 
the regular, unmodified insulin, while the Basal one is an insulin suspension with delayed absorption. 
Insuman  Comb  contains  fixed  combinations  of  these  two  formulations.  Insuman  Infusat  is  a 
formulation  for  pump  infusion.  For  all  presentations,  except  Infusat,  two  dosage  forms  were 
developed: recombinant human insulin with 40 IU/ml and with 100 IU/ml. 
Except  for  Insuman  Infusat,  Insuman  is  presented  in  vials  and  in  cartridges  for  use  in  reusable 
injection pens (“OptiPen”). Insuman Infusat is insulin for use in an insulin pump and is presented in 
vials  and  cartridges.  Insuman  Rapid,  Comb  15,  Comb  25,  Comb  50  and  Basal  are  also  presented  in 
pre-filled disposable injection pens under the name Insuman OptiSet with strength of 100 IU/ml. The 
total  content  of  a  pen  corresponds  to  300  IU  human  insulin.  The  colour  code  indicated  on  the 
cartridges  dosage  knob  matches  the  colour  code  on  the  labelling  of  the  cartridge  and  of  the  outer 
carton. 
On  two  occasions  (12  May  1995,  15  May  1996)  the  applicant  requested  scientific  advice  from  the 
CPMP on the sufficiency to perform a reduced clinical program. The CPMP emphasised that “in order 
to demonstrate that the two recombinant human insulins  have the same characteristics, the company 
should conduct intensive comparative studies on physico-chemical characterisation. Evidence should 
be provided that the two r-h-insulins produced with different means have the same quality in terms of 
both 
the  active  compound.  On  basis  of  comparative 
pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  studies,  the  company  will  have  to  demonstrate  that  similar 
biologic  activity  and  similar  pharmacokinetic  parameters  can  support  identical  therapeutic  activity. 
impurities  and  characteristics  of 
1/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore,  the  company  should  provide  information  on  the  level  of  antigenicity  of  the  different 
types  of  insulin.  Provided  that  the  results  obtained  with  proper  studies  are  satisfactory,  a  reduced 
clinical package of information can be considered.” 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  documentation  submitted  for  part  II  of  the  Annex  II  application  (Insuman,  insulin  HR  1799  or 
insulin HPR) contains a revision of the sections on production and control of starting material active 
substance,  packaging  material  of  the  active  substance,  stability  tests  on  active  substance  and 
virological safety. With regard to the finished products (parts IIA, IIB, IIC.2, IIC. 3, IIE, IIF), cross-
reference was made to Insuman centrally authorised in 1997, procedure number EMEA/H/C/119, and 
a  brief  summary  is  provided  in  this  section.  In  2000  Part  II  of  the  dossier  was  updated  to  take  into 
account  the  change  from  the  previous  source  (insulin  HGT)  to  the  new  source  of  active  ingredient 
(insulin  HR1799).  In  addition  minor  changes  to  the  manufacturing  process  were  introduced.  These 
changes did not modify the quality of Insuman. 
Part  II  of  the  dossier  of  HR  1799  is  well  documented  and  the  data  provided  demonstrates  that  the 
production  process  for  HR  1799  is  well  controlled  and  that  consistency  in  this  process  is  achieved. 
Furthermore,  the  company  has  conducted  intensive  comparative  studies  using  state-of-the-art 
techniques  on  the  physico-chemical  characteristics  of  insulin  HR1799,  insulin  HGT  and  insulin  ET 
(semi-synthetic insulin). These studies indicate that the structure of these insulins is indistinguishable 
within the accuracy of the  measurements. The impurity profile of insulin HR 1799 is comparable to 
insulin HGT, with the exception of pre-HR 1799 in insulin HR 1799 (≤ 0.1 % of total protein). The 
evaluation of the immunogenicity of insulin HR 1799 is considered a clinical topic. 
The  applicant  has  overall  responded  in  a  satisfactory  way  to  the  major  objection  and  minor  points 
related  to  part  II  during  the  assessment  of  the  dossier.  Additionally  some  tests  will  be  included  in 
specifications  of  the  active  substance  and  the  applicant  will  present  the  test  results  as  follow-up 
measures.   
As a condition to the marketing authorisation, the applicant made the commitment to further optimise 
the sensitivity of an appropriate routine test for residual E. coli proteins in the specifications, and to 
submit  within  an  agreed  timeframe,  description  and  validation  batch  results  on  a  full-scale  level.  A 
validated test was presented in November 1998. 
The shelf life proposed for the active substance is 24 months. Stability results covering the complete 
re-test period were presented post-approval. 
With  regard  to  the  finished  product,  the  approved  shelf  life  of  2  years  was  granted  on  the  basis  of 
stability  data  obtained  with  the  previous  insulin  HGT.  Results  from  stability  studies  performed  on 
insulin HR1799 have not been presented. The MAH indicated that stability studies according to ICH 
guidelines  have  been  initiated  on  the  first  marketed  (full-scale)  batches  of  all  products  containing 
insulin  HR1799.  The  MAH  will  present  6  months  stability  data  in  June  2000  together  with  a 
comparison with the stability data obtained with products containing insulin HGT. 
Brief summary on the cross referred information on the pharmaceutical data is hereto provided 
Composition of the medicinal product Insuman is presented as solution for injection or suspension 
for  injection  in  six  different  injectable  formulations  (table  I  below),  activity  profiles  varying  from 
rapid to intermediate. Insuman Rapid contains regular unmodified insulin. Insuman Basal is an insulin 
suspension  (crystalline  insulin)  with  delayed  absorption  whereas  Insulin  Comb  contains  fixed 
combinations  (three  different  combinations)  of  these  two  formulations.  Insuman  Infusat  is  a 
formulation for pump infusion. Five of these formulations will be produced in two strengths; 40 IU/ml 
and 100 IU/ml. Insuman Infusat is presented only in one strength; 100 IU/ml.  
2/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table I: Insuman formulations 
CODE 
HOE 31 HPR 
TRADE NAME 
Insuman Rapid 
INSULIN TYPE 
regular, short action 
100 % dissolved insulin 
HOE 36 HPR 
Insuman Basal 
basal, prolonged action 
100% crystalline insulin 
HOE 32 HPR 
Insuman Comb 15 
HOE 33 HPR 
Insuman Comb 25 
HOE 34 HPR 
Insuman Comb 50 
HOE 21 PPR 
Insuman Infusat 
intermediate, 
15% dissolved insulin 
85% crystalline insulin 
intermediate, 
25% dissolved insulin 
75% crystalline insulin 
intermediate, 
50% dissolved insulin 
50% crystalline insulin 
regular, for use in insulin 
infusion system, 
100 % dissolved insulin 
STRENGTH, CONTAINER 
100 IU/ml in vials 
100 IU/ml in cartridges for 
OptiPen 
 40 IU/ml in vials 
100 IU/ml in vials 
100 IU/ml in cartridges for 
OptiPen 
 40 IU/ml in vials 
100 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, cartridges for OptiPen 
 40 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, cartridges for OptiPen 
 40 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, cartridges for OptiPen 
 40 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, vials 
100 IU/ml, cartridges 
The  composition  of  the  six  formulations  differs  in  relationship  to  the  excipients.  Insuman  Rapid 
contains  m-Cresol  as  preservative,  sodium  hydrogen  phosphate  as  buffering  agent,  glycerol  for 
ensuring  isotonicity,  hydrochloric  acid  to  dissolve  human  insulin  and  finally,  sodium  hydroxide  for 
adjusting  pH.  Insuman  Basal  and  Comb  formulations  include  in  addition  phenol  as  preservative, 
protamine sulphate as a crystallising agent and zinc chloride, which acts as a promotor of the complex 
formulation. The special characteristics for Insuman Infusat are obtained by using non-ionic surfactant 
poloxamer 171 as stabilising agent. The product contains also zinc, which has an additional stabilising 
effect. Phenol is used as an antimicrobial preservative, trometamol as a buffering agent, glycerol for 
ensuring isotonicity and hydrochloric acid for dissolution.  
Insuman  Rapid,  Basal  and  Comb  are  presented  in  5-  or  10-ml  vials  or  in  3-ml  cartridges.  Insuman 
Infusat is packaged in 10-ml vials or 3 15-ml cartridges. The glass complies with type I glass (Ph.Eur.) 
and  the  rubber  with  type  I  rubber  closures  (Ph.Eur.).  The  packaging  material  can  be  regarded  as 
suitable for its intended use. 
Clinical studies have been performed with 3-ml cartridges of the 100 IU/ml formulations, which are 
identical to the formulations to be marketed. 
There is no need for submission of product development studies, as the composition of these products 
is based on the present formulations for insulin semi-synthetic products. 
Method of preparation 
Preparation and filling are performed under aseptic conditions. Insulin is dissolved and mixed with an 
aqueous  solution  of  the  excipients  to  obtain  a  soluble  insulin  preparation.  Crystalline  insulin  is 
prepared by dissolving insulin and mixing with solutions of the excipients dissolved at an appropriate 
pH to crystallise insulin. The bulk solutions are sterilised by filtration. 
Appropriate  sterilisation  methods  for  the  equipment,  glass  vials,  etc.  are  used.  The  method  of 
preparation as well as the packaging is adequately validated.  
Control of starting materials 
Active ingredient  
Active  ingredient  specifications  comply  with  the  Ph.  Eur.  and  USP.  Additional  tests  are  carried  out 
according to the methods developed by the company. All tests are validated.  
3/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Development genetics 
The  assembly  of  the  production  strain  has  been  described.  The  genetic  information  cloned  into  the 
vector used for the production of Insulin HGT has been described in its key elements. 
Three different plasmids were used as source material for the construction of the expression vector. 
The  nucleotide  sequence  of  the  coding  region  of  the  fusion  protein,  the  promotor  and  the  junctions 
between the individual plasmids were confirmed by DNA sequencing. A complete DNA sequence has 
been provided. 
Seed bank system 
Sufficient  details  on  the  preparation  and  storage  of  the  master  cell  bank  (MCB)  and  working  cell 
banks  (WCB)  are  provided.  All  these  seed  banks  were  tested  for  identity,  growth  rate,  viability, 
microbial contamination, plasmid retention. 
Also the protocol for the preparation of a subsequent new working cell bank from the master cell bank 
is given. Concerning the stability, the company has provided reassurance that the cell bank systems are 
periodically tested for cell viability and genotypic and phenotypic stability. 
Fermentation and harvesting 
The fermentation process is performed in a closed system and has been adequately described. Details 
of description of the process, equipment used etc. have been provided. 
Downstream modification and purification 
The downstream processing of the fusion protein to human insulin is a sequence of modification and 
purification steps. Certain steps are specifically designed to remove specific contaminants. 
All the steps are well validated and sufficient in-process controls are performed. 
Characterisation 
Evidence  of  the  structure  of  insulin  was  adequately  provided  by  using  several  techniques  (mass 
spectroscopy, protein sequencing and H-NMR).  
Process validation and batch analysis 
The full-scale process has been adequately validated and the data from production runs are provided.  
Batch analysis of batches produced on production scale and the batches used for the pre-clinical and 
clinical  studies  have  been  provided.  The  data  demonstrate  sufficiently  the  consistency  of  the 
production and the purification process. 
Other ingredients 
The excipients used are described in Ph.Eur., USP or USP/NF. 
Control test on the finished product  
It  is  shown  that  the  finished  medicinal  product  meets  the  Ph.Eur.  specifications.  Apart  from  the 
Ph.Eur.  Tests,  specifications  are  included  for  appearance,  high  molecular  weight  proteins, 
preservatives, bacterial endotoxins, and, if applicable, resuspendability, sedimentation. Batch analyses 
data indicate an acceptable batch consistency. 
Insuman OptiSet (disposable injection pen) 
The  data  provided  in  support  of  the  application  for  the  disposable  injection  pen  satisfactorily 
addressed concerns with respect to the performance of the injection device and in particular the dose 
accuracy.  In  the  absence  of  regulatory  guidance,  the  current  draft  ISO/DIS  11608  “Insulin  Syringes 
and  Medicine  Pen-injectors”  was  taken  into  account  for  testing  the  performance  of  the  pen  with 
respect  to  dose  accuracy  and  resistance  to  impact  (free  fall  test).  In  addition  dose  accuracy  was 
evaluated on three batches of the disposable pen filled with Insuman Rapid. An HPLC investigation of 
dose accuracy was also performed on pens filled with Insuman Basal.  
Stability testing on the assembled device containing the cartridge was not performed. Given that the 
injection  pens  contain  previously  approved  cartridges,  the  device  as  such  does  not  influence  the 
4/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
quality  of  the  insulin  used  in  the  disposable  pen.  The  shelf  life  and  storage  directions  for  the 
disposable pen are the same as for the single cartridges, i.e. 2 years at 2°C to 8°C.  As for the reusable 
pens  (“OptiPen”),  the  disposable  pens  may  be  kept  up  to  four  weeks  once  in  use  when  stored  not 
above  25°C.  The  MAH  will,  however,  perform  stability  testing  on  the  assembled  injection  device 
containing the cartridge in order to evaluate dose accuracy after storage over the complete shelf life 
and report results on an ongoing basis. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The format and the presentation of the pre-clinical data are considered acceptable and the studies were 
performed under GLPs.  
However, a consequence of the novel production process is that the final product contains ≤ 0.1 % of a 
insulin  like  by-product  protein,  pre-HR  1799,  which  was  described  as  a  partly  processed  pre-pro-
insulin,  in  which  the  normal  B-chain  is  extended  at  its  amino-terminus  by  10  residues  of  the  fusion 
peptide.  The  most  significant  toxico-pharmacological,  and  of  course  also  clinical  aspect  of  this 
insulin-like by-product is the assessment of its immunogenicity. Some pre-clinical data are available 
in  the  dossier;  this  issue  is  further  addressed  under  chapter  4.  Overview  of  Part  IV  of  the  dossier: 
clinical aspects. 
There were no major objections or questions with regard to the presented data for the authorisation of 
Insuman, insulin HR 1799. 
Brief summary on the cross-referred information on the pre-clinical data is hereto provided 
The pre-clinical data provided for the authorisation of Insuman, insulin HGT is summarised as follow: 
Pharmacodynamics 
Related to the proposed indication 
The blood glucose lowering effect of Insuman formulations were indistinguishable from that of semi-
synthetic human insulin preparations after subcutaneous administration in rats, dogs and rabbits. In the 
rat and dog studies, a statistically significant difference in depot effect between three preparations has 
been demonstrated. 
Safety 
The general cardiovascular pharmacodynamics of Insulin HGT was studied in anaesthetised dogs. The 
observed and expected cardiovascular effects were shown to be due to induced hypoglycemia. 
The additional administration of other drugs may potentiate or attenuate the effect of insulin on blood 
glucose  concentrations.  There  is  considerable  experience  of  this  in  the  clinic.  It  was  therefore 
considered not necessary or appropriate to perform additional experiments in animals.  
Pharmacokinetics 
No pharmacokinetic studies were performed in laboratory animals. This information is considered not 
to be necessary for the products at hand. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity was studied in Wistar rats. The animals were observed for three weeks for signs 
of toxicity. No signs of toxicity occurred. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  has  not  been  studied.  The  low  level  of  impurities  in  the  recombinant  insulin 
preparations and the biological and chemical identity of the drug to natural insulin are considered to be 
valid arguments for the chosen strategy. 
5/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduction studies 
Reproduction  studies  have  not  been  performed.  It  is  known  from  the  literature  that  insulin-induced 
hypoglycaemia  provokes  birth  defects  in  mice,  rats  and  rabbits.  In  addition,  it  is  well  known  that 
diabetic  hyperglycaemia  causes  congenital  malformations  and  increased  neonatal  mortality. Because 
of  the  complexity  of  this  problem  and  the  identity  of  recombinant  and  semi-synthetic  insulin,  the 
arguments put forward are considered to be acceptable. 
Mutagenic potential 
Mutagenicity testing is not required for recombinant human insulin because of its peptidic nature and 
well-characterised impurity profile.  
Nevertheless the following tests were performed: Ames test and E. coli WP2 uvrA test. The tests were 
performed with or without addition of metabolic activator. Insulin HGT did not increase the number of 
revertant colonies above background. Appropriate positive controls were presented. 
Carcinogenicity 
No studies were performed. The arguments put forward were considered to be acceptable. 
Local tolerance (e.g. phototoxicity, photosensitivity) 
Local  tolerance  of  s.c.  injection  of  Insuman  Rapid  was  tested  in  rabbits.  No  macroscopic  or 
microscopic signs of local toxicity were observed. 
Special toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity, the induction of anti-insulin antibodies, is discussed in the clinical assessment report 
(section 3.4). 
Environmental risk assessment 
Since natural human insulin is rapidly and completely degraded by enzymatic hydrolysis, the injected 
drug is no environmental risk factor. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
The clinical part of the dossier for the approval of Insuman (Insulin HPR or Insulin HG 1799) consists 
of  4  bioequivalence  studies  carried  out  studying  the  comparison  of  the  biosynthetic  human  insulin 
from  the  applicant,  Hoechst  Marion  Roussel  GmbH,  versus  the  corresponding  recombinant  human 
insulin manufactured by a competitor:  
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Study  A1:  Comparison  of  the  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  of  HOE  31  HPR 
(Insuman Rapid, biosynthetic human insulin, applicant) and biosynthetic human insulin (human 
insulin fast acting, ATC code: A10AB01) using the euglycaemic clamp technique. 
Study  A2:  Comparison  of  the  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  of  HOE  35  HPR 
(human  intermediate  intermediate  30%  dissolved  insulin  and  70%  crystalline  insulin, 
biosynthetic  human  insulin,  applicant)  and  biosynthetic  human  insulin  (human  insulin 
intermediate acting combined with fast acting, ATC code: A10D01) by using the euglycaemic 
clamp technique. 
Study  A3:  Comparison  of  the  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  of  HOE  36  HPR 
(Insuman Basal, biosynthetic human insulin, applicant) and biosynthetic human insulin (human 
insulin intermediate acting, ATC code: A10C01) by using the euglycaemic clamp technique.  
Study  A4:  Comparison  of  the  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  of  HOE  31  HPR  and 
HOE 31 HGT (Insuman Rapid, biosynthetic human insulins, applicant) and biosynthetic human 
insulin  (human  insulin  fast  acting,  ATC  code:  A10AB01)  by  using  the  euglycaemic  clamp 
technique.  
In all these studies the euglycaemic clamp technique is used to compare the blood glucose lowering 
activity  of  biosynthetic  human  insulins  from  Hoechst  Marion  Roussel  and  the  corresponding 
recombinant human insulins manufactured by a competitor. By adjustment of the glucose infusion rate 
6/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(GIR) the euglycaemic clamp technique allows blood glucose levels to be maintained at the individual 
fasting  concentration  in  each  subject  after  injection  of  insulin.  The  technique  is  widely  used  to 
demonstrate the time-action profiles of glucose-lowering drugs. 
All  four  studies  were  carried  out  in  accordance  with  GCP  guidelines.  In  addition,  these  studies  in 
healthy  volunteers  were  carried  out  according  to  the  CPMP  guidelines  regarding  bioequivalence 
studies as far as study design, analytical procedures and statistical methods are concerned. 
In study A1 the two insulin preparations compared well with regard to all variables calculated for the 
Glucose Infusion Rate (GIR) and the exogenous insulin serum concentrations. Based on these results it 
can  be  concluded  that  the  two  insulin  preparations  studied,  i.e.  HOE  31  HPR  (Insuman  Rapid, 
applicant) and human insulin fast acting from the competitor are bioequivalent. 
For  study  A2  the  two  tested  insulin  preparations  also  compared  well  with  regard  to  all  variables 
calculated  for  GIR  and  the  exogenous  insulin  serum  concentrations.  Based  on  these  results  one  can 
conclude  that  the  two  insulin  preparations  studied,  i.e.  HOE  35  HPR  (applicant)  and  human  insulin 
intermediate acting combined with fast acting from the competitor are bioequivalent.  
However, in study A3, bio-equivalence was not fully demonstrated between HOE 36 HPR applicant 
and  human  insulin  intermediate  acting,  due  to  the  well-known  high  intra-individual  coefficients  of 
variation of NPH. 
After the assessment of the responses provided by the applicant, the slight differences between HOE 
36  HPR  (Hoechst  Marion  Roussel)  and  human  insulin  intermediate  acting  can  be  considered  as 
clinically not relevant. 
In the study A4 the three insulin preparations compared well with regard to all variables calculated for 
the  Glucose  Infusion  Rate  (GIR)  and  the  exogenous  insulin  serum  concentrations.  Based  on  these 
results, it can be concluded that the three insulin preparations studied, i.e. HOE 31 HPR and HOE 31 
HGT (both from Hoechst Marion Roussel) and human insulin fast acting are mutually bioequivalent. 
The  results  from  studies  A1  to  A4  based  on  both  the  pharmacodynamic  effect  and  pharmacokinetic 
profile,  indicate  that the  3 insulin formulations, Insuman  Rapid (insulin HPR  1799), Insuman  Rapid 
(insulin HGT) and another fast acting insulin have comparable benefit/risk profiles when administered 
intravenously. Based on this assessment a new route of administration (intravenous use) was added for 
Insuman Rapid for treatment of hyperglycaemic coma and ketoacidosis, as well as for achieving pre-, 
intra- and post-operative stabilisation in patients with diabetes mellitus. 
For  Insuman  Infusat  (HOE  21  PPR  100  IU/ml),  a  solution  of  regular  insulin  for  i.v.  infusion,  bio-
equivalence studies are not required according to the EU guidelines. The applicant intends to submit a 
variation application in order to claim for this route of administration. 
For  Insuman  Comb  15  (HOE  32  HPR),  Insuman  Comb  25  (HOE  33  HPR)  and  Insuman  Comb  50 
(HOE 34 HPR) no bio-equivalence studies were presented. 
Furthermore, no studies are included in the dossier dealing with product immunogenicity in humans. 
Chemically, a new insulin like by-product was found (pre-HR 1799), although in low concentrations. 
Some pre-clinical data are available in the dossier, but these data are insufficient to assess the lack of 
immunogenicity  in  humans.  The  applicant  agreed  to  provide  the  human  data  on  immunogenicity 
during the post-marketing phase. 
In  a  number  of  Member  States  of  the  EU,  Insuman  will  be  replacing  semi-synthetic  human  insulin 
produced  by  enzymic  modification  of  porcine  insulin.  In  three  Member  States  (Austria,  France  and 
Ireland),  the  tradename  Insuman  is  already  used  for  the  marketed  semi-synthetic  human  insulin 
products. During its July 1997 meeting, CPMP raised concerns about possible confusion caused by the 
use  of  the  same  tradename.  In  September  1997,  the  company  provided  CPMP  with  information  on 
how they would  manage the changeover. Following this reassurance, the use of the same tradename 
was accepted by CPMP. The company has committed itself to the following activities for the launch of 
recombinant human insulin in Austria, France and Ireland: 
• 
• 
The change from semi-synthetic to recombinant human insulin will be discussed together with 
wholesalers, pharmacists, diabetes associations, opinion-leaders, patients’ groups and nurses. 
An information campaign will be started prior the launch. 
7/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
There will be a new HMR design of packages at the launch of the recombinant human insulins. 
This will exclude the risk of mixing up. 
In  the  other  Member  States  where  these  semi-synthetic  human  insulins  are  marketed  (Germany, 
Finland,  Netherlands,  Portugal  and  Sweden),  a  different  tradename  is  used.  The  company  had 
requested  permission  from  the  European  Commission  to  indicate  after  the  name  on  the  German 
labelling  “previously  known  as  H-Insulin  Hoechst”.  This  proposal  was  legally  acceptable  to  the 
Commission provided it was for a limited period of one year. However, CPMP had concerns that such 
a  statement  would  be  misleading  since  the  semi-synthetic  and  recombinant  human  insulins  are 
comparable from a quality, safety and efficacy point of view, but they are not identical. In addition, it 
was considered that the equivalent information should be given on the labelling in all Member States 
where these semi-synthetic human insulins are marketed. 
It was concluded that the following condition would be applied to the Marketing Authorisation: 
In Member States where Hoechst Marion Roussel Deutschland GmbH or any entities belonging to the 
same industrial pharmaceutical group as Hoechst Marion Roussel Deutschland GmbH hold Marketing 
Authorisations  for  semi-synthetic  insulins,  each  blue  box  will  clearly  state  that  such  recombinant 
human  insulin  (Insuman)  replaces  the  corresponding  semi-synthetic  insulin.  Each  statement  should 
clearly indicate the tradename of the product replaced by such recombinant human insulin (Insuman). 
Such statement should not be used for a period of time exceeding one year from the date of placing on 
the market of the first batch of the recombinant human insulin (Insuman). 
Brief summary on the cross referred information on the clinical data is hereto provided 
The  applicant  dossier  is  cross-referred  to  the  clinical  data  presented  for  the  approval  of  Insuman 
(Insulin HGT) 
Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetics  studies  were  performed  in  volunteers  after  single 
administration of one of the Insuman preparations. A total of five Phase I studies were submitted. In 
these  studies,  five  different  biosynthetic  formulations  were  compared  to  those  of  the  corresponding 
semi-synthetic insulins. Insulin was injected subcutaneously. 
In  all  studies  the  pharmacodynamic  action  of  insulin  was  assessed  using  the  euglycaemic  clamp 
technique.  There  were  no  statistically  differences  between  biosynthetic  and  semi-synthetic  insulins. 
However,  high  variation  in  all  parameters  was  observed  due  to  well-known  variation  in  absorption 
from  the  injection  site  and  method  of  euglycaemic  clamp  technique.  As  conclusion,  no  significant 
differences in the pharmacodynamic values were found. 
The  results  indicated  that  variability  in  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  is  high.  Single  noted 
differences are of no therapeutic relevance. 
Clinical efficacy 
In  order  to  assess  the  clinical  efficacy  of  Insuman,  two  phase  III  trials  (B1-B2)  were  performed 
involving a total 611 patients with either type I or type II diabetes mellitus. 
B1 study was a multi-centre parallel-group study. Men and woman of ages 18-70 were enrolled in the 
study. Patients were stratified either to a free combination of NPH (crystalline, basal) with or without 
regular  insulin  or  to  a  fixed  combination  Insuman  Comb  25.  Patients  were  randomised  to  either 
biosynthetic or semi-synthetic insulin preparations in each group. A total of 288 patients were treated 
daily with biosynthetic insulin for a range of 2-266 (median of 176) days and 289 patients were treated 
daily  with  semi-synthetic  insulin  for  a  range  of  2-247  (median  of  176)  days.  There  was  a  strong 
association between stratified regimen and type I diabetes. 
B2 was a small multi-centre open non-controlled trial including 34 patients. Men and women aged 18-
65  years  suffering  type  I  diabetes  mellitus  were  included  in  the  study.  Patients  received  continuous 
infusion  of  biosynthetic  human  pump  insulin  designed  for  use  in  an  external  insulin  pump.  The 
duration of treatment was 12 weeks.  
Glycated hemoglobin and hypoglycaemia were chosen as primary efficacy parameters. 
8/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Results in B1 study show that both biosynthetic and semi-synthetic insulin gave similar lowering of 
glycated hemoglobin levels until week 12 of the study. Thereafter the levels remained constant during 
the  second  half  of  the  study.  There  is  no  significant  difference  between  biosynthetic  and  semi-
synthetic insulins during the 24-week study. Subgroups analyses performed with different factors (age, 
sex, type of diabetes, pre-study treatment with insulin, presence of diabetic late complications) show 
that there were no special areas of concern for patients in these subgroups with respect to % glycated 
haemoglobin. In all treatments the level of glycated haemoglobin was less than optimal. 
In study B2 at endpoint no significant increase (0.2%) of glycated haemoglobin was measured. In this 
study the patients had a better metabolic control at baseline compared to the B1 study. The reason for 
this was the fact that most of the patients had already been treated with insulin pump when the study 
started. 
The difference between mild, moderate and severe hypoglycaemia episodes was investigated by using 
the criteria of the American Diabetes Association.  
With regard to the study B1, the tables (II and III) show the distribution of hypoglycaemic episodes 
separated by intensity after 10 weeks of treatment and during the entire study. After 10 week treatment 
more  than  40%  patients  both  semi-synthetic  and  biosynthetic  group  experienced  hypoglycaemic 
episodes. No statistically significant difference between these two groups was seen. 
Table II: After 10 weeks 
No. OF PATIENTS (%) 
MILD 
MODERATE 
SEVERE 
No of  
Episodes 
HGT* 
(n=267) 
H** 
(N=268) 
HGT 
(n=267) 
H 
(n=268) 
HGT 
(n=267) 
H 
(n=268) 
> 1 
>3 
> 9 
86 (32%) 
78 (29%) 
50 (19%) 
45 (17%) 
3 (1%) 
6 (2%) 
29 (11%) 
29 (11%) 
9 (3%) 
12 (4%) 
15 (6%) 
15 (6%) 
3 (1%) 
5 (2%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Note: For 1 HGT and 3 H patients, recorded episodes did not specify intensity. 
HGT* = biosynthetic insulin 
H** = semi-synthetic insulin 
Table III: During entire study 
No. OF PATIENTS (%) 
MILD 
MODERATE 
SEVERE 
No of  
Episodes 
HGT 
(n=288) 
H 
(N=289) 
HGT 
(n=288) 
H 
(n=289) 
HGT 
(n=288) 
H 
(n=289) 
> 1 
>3 
> 9 
118 
(41%) 
53 (18%) 
103 
(36%) 
47 (16%) 
18 (6%) 
23 (8%) 
78 (27%) 
64 (22%) 
7 (2%) 
11 (4%) 
1 
0 
0 
0 
21 (7%) 
24 (8%) 
4 (1%) 
8 (3%) 
Note: For 3 HGT and 6 H patients, recorded episodes did not specify intensity. 
In  study  B2,  19  patients  out  of  34  experienced  at  least  one  hypoglycemic  episode  per  month.  Most 
patients had had pump insulin before the study and all patients had had mild hypoglycemic episodes 
during the previous year. The patients who experienced severe and frequent episodes in the pre-study 
were also those who had greater hypoglycemic scores during the study. None of severe episodes led to 
9/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a serious adverse event or to a withdrawal. Frequency and severity of hypoglycemic episodes are in 
line with published data and clinical experience. 
Clinical safety 
Apart from routine analysis of adverse events and blood chemistry and hematology, IgG antibodies to 
insulin and antibodies to E. coli peptides were measured. 
As in all studies with human insulin, the immunogenicity is quite low. In study B1 at the endpoint, 4 
biosynthetic  treated  patients  and  5  semi-synthetic  treated  patients  had  elevated  IgG  antibodies,  that 
were not present at baseline. In study B2 IgG antibodies were detected in one patient, but they were 
present  already  at  start.  After  24  weeks  of  the  study  B1,  antibodies  to  E.  coli  peptides  decreased  in 
both  semi-synthetic  and  biosynthetic  insulin  treated  groups.  The  elevated  activity  at  baseline  is 
explained by a cross reaction to antibody of previous E. coli infection. 
Regarding  the  adverse  events  in  study  B1,  the  overall  frequency  both  for  biosynthetic  and  semi-
synthetic  insulin  treated  patients  was  45%.  Infection,  usually  a  common  cold  (including  fever, 
bronchitis, rhinitis, upper respiratory infections etc.) was the most frequently occurring adverse event 
in  the  biosynthetic  insulin  treated  patients.  None  of  them  could  be  specially  related  to  the  insulin 
treatment. As in all insulin studies, some patients reported moderate reactions at injection site. Serious 
adverse  events  occurred  in  8%  biosynthetic  and  10%  semi-synthetic  treated  patients.  In  the 
biosynthetic  insulin  treated  group  infection  and  myocardial  infarction  were  the  most  frequently 
recorded  serious  adverse  events.  In  4  patients  the  serious  adverse  events  were  considered  to  be 
possibly related to the study. In this study 3 patients, all in the biosynthetic group, died. Two of these 
had both a history of cardiovascular disease. The cause for the first death was ventricular fibrillation 
and for the second it was suspected to be arrhythmia or coronaropathy. The third patient died of acute 
diabetic ketoacidosis. The insulin does obviously not cause the death of this patient. 
In study B2 the  overall frequency of adverse events  was 53% where infection was seen as the  most 
common adverse event. Diabetic ketoacidosis occurred in one patient. This was likely to be due to a 
technical pump incident and more related to the pump and not to the insulin used. No deaths occurred 
in this study. One patient was withdrawn from the study because of recurrence of skin allergy to the 
plastic  catheter  used  in  the  pump,  which  is  a  classical  adverse  event  in  insulin  pump  therapy  and 
obviously unrelated to the type of insulin used in the system. 
Postmarketing experience 
No  new  concern  regarding  the  safety  of  Insuman  have  been  raised  following  assessment  of 
postmarketing experience. 
5. 
Overall risk/benefit analysis 
The CPMP, on the basis of the overall benefit/risk ratio, considers that Insuman showed a satisfactory 
safety profile and adequate evidence of efficacy. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder has been requested to submit additional chemical-pharmaceutical 
and  clinical  information  on  this  medicinal  product.  All  additional  studies  will  be  carefully  assessed 
and the results will be reviewed by the CPMP. 
10/10 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
