Summary of risk management plan for Insulin aspart Sanofi (Insulin aspart) 
This is a summary of the RMP for Insulin aspart Sanofi. The RMP details important risks of 
Insulin aspart Sanofi, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be 
obtained about Insulin aspart Sanofi’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Insulin aspart Sanofi's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Insulin aspart Sanofi should 
be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Insulin aspart Sanofi should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Insulin 
aspart Sanofi’s RMP. 
I. THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Insulin aspart Sanofi is authorized for treatment of diabetes mellitus in adults, adolescents and 
children aged 1 year and above (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains insulin aspart as the 
active substance and it is injected by subcutaneous route.  
Further information about the evaluation of Insulin aspart Sanofi’s benefits can be found in 
Insulin aspart Sanofi’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/insulin-aspart-sanofi
II. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER 
CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
There are no important risks or missing information considered as relevant for Insulin aspart 
Sanofi’s RMP. 
II.A. List of important risks and missing information 
Table 1   List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risk 
Important potential risk 
Missing information 
None  
None 
None   
II.B. Summary of important risks  
Not applicable 
II.C. Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Insulin aspart Sanofi. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for Insulin aspart Sanofi.  
