18 May 2017 
EMA/351195/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Insulin lispro Sanofi 
International non-proprietary name: insulin lispro 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/004303/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 7 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 77 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 80 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 2/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AAS 
Atomic absorption spectrometry 
ADME   
Absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion 
AE 
AESI 
AIA 
Adverse event 
Adverse event of specific interest 
Anti-insulin antibodies 
ANCOVA 
Analysis of covariance 
ARAC 
Allergic reaction assessment committee 
AST 
AUC 
Aspartate transaminase 
Area under the concentration-time curve 
%B/T 
Per cent bound radioactivity relative to the total amount of radioactivity present  
BMI 
BP 
CFR 
CI 
Body mass index 
Blood pressure 
Code of Federal Regulations 
Confidence interval 
Cmax 
Maximal concentration 
CRU 
CSII 
CSR 
dL 
DM 
Clinical research unit 
Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion 
Clinical study report 
Decilitre 
Diabetes mellitus 
DNA 
Deoxyribonucleic acid 
E. coli 
Escherichia coli 
EC 
ECG 
eCRF 
eGFR 
EMA 
EPC 
ERC 
EU 
European Commission 
Electrocardiogram 
Electronic case report form 
Estimated glomerular filtration rate 
European Medicines Agency 
End of Production Cells 
Ethical Review Committee 
European Union 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 3/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FAS 
FDA 
FPG 
GCP 
GIR 
Full Analysis Set 
Food and Drug Administration 
Fasting Plasma Glucose 
Good Clinical Practice 
Body weight standardized glucose infusion rate 
GIR-AUC 0-12h  Area under the body weight standardized GIR versus time curve from 0 to 12 hours 
GIRmax 
Maximum smoothed body weight standardized GIR 
GIR-tmax 
time to GIRmax 
GM 
GMR 
HA 
Geometric mean 
Geometric mean ratio 
Hypoglycaemia assessment 
HbA1c 
Glycated haemoglobin 
HPLC  
High pressure liquid chromatography 
HLT 
Hr 
ICH 
ID 
High level term 
Hour 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Identification 
IGF-1R 
Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor 
IMP 
Investigational medicinal product 
INS-AUC 
Area under the concentration of insulin (lispro) versus time curve extrapolated to 
infinity 
INS-AUClast  Area under the concentration of insulin (lispro) versus time curve from time 0 until the 
time corresponding to the last concentration above the limit of quantification 
INS-Cmax 
Maximum observed concentration of insulin (lispro) 
IR-A 
IR-B 
IRB 
ITT 
IVRS 
IWRS 
L 
LADA 
LOCF 
Insulin receptor, subtype A 
Insulin receptor, subtype B 
Institutional Review Board 
Intent-to-treat 
Interactive voice response system 
Interactive web response system 
Litre 
 Late autoimmune diabetes in adults 
Last observation carried forward 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 4/81 
 
 
 
 
 
LOESS 
Locally weighted regression in smoothing scatter plots 
LOQ 
Limit of quantitation 
LS means 
Least squares means 
MA 
MAH 
MBC 
Marketing Authorisation 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Master cell bank 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Mg 
mL 
Milligram 
Millilitre 
MODY 
 Maturity-onset diabetes in the young 
ND 
NEC 
NIMP 
OHA 
PD 
PK 
PT 
rDNA 
ROW 
SAE 
SAP 
SC 
SD 
SE 
Not done 
 Not Elsewhere Classified 
Non-investigational medicinal product 
Oral anti-hyperglycaemic medication  
Pharmacodynamic 
Pharmacokinetic 
Preferred term 
Recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid 
Rest of the world 
Serious adverse event 
Statistical analysis plan  
Subcutaneous 
Standard deviation 
Standard error 
SMPG 
Self-monitored plasma glucose 
SMQ 
SOC 
T1DM 
T2DM 
TEAE 
Tmax 
TAMC 
Standardized MedDRA Query 
System organ class 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
Time to maximal concentration 
Total aerobic microbe count 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 5/81 
 
 
 
 
 
TYMC 
U/kg 
U100 
ULN 
US 
WBC 
WCB 
WFI 
Total yeast microbe count 
Units/kilogram 
100 Units/millilitre 
Upper limit of normal 
United States 
White blood (cell) count 
Working cell bank 
Water for injections 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 6/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant sanofi-aventis groupe submitted on 7 September 2016 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Insulin lispro Sanofi, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication:   
“For the treatment of adults and children with diabetes mellitus who require insulin for the 
maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis. Insulin lispro Sanofi is also indicated for the initial 
stabilisation of diabetes mellitus.” 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to applications for a biosimilar medicinal products. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
appropriate non-clinical and clinical data for a similar biological medicinal product. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Humalog 100 U/ml solution for injection 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 30-04-1996 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EMEA/H/C/000088 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Humalog 100 U/ml solution for injection 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 30-04-1996 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EMEA/H/C/000088 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 7/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Humalog 100 U/ml solution for injection 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
•  Date of authorisation: 30-04-1996 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EMEA/H/C/000088 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 25/09/2014. The Scientific Advice pertained 
to insert quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Outi Mäki-Ikola 
Co-Rapporteur: Martina Weise 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 7 September 2016. 
•  The procedure started on 29 September 2016.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 December 
2016. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 
December 2016. The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
members on 16 December 2016.  
• 
During the meeting on 26 January 2017, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 8/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to be sent to the applicant.  
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 17 February 
2017. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 27 March 2017. 
• 
During the PRAC meeting on 06 April 2017, the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview 
and Advice to CHMP. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 21 April 2017, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
sent to the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 25 April 2017. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 03 May 2017.  
•  During the meeting on 18 May 2017, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a marketing 
authorisation to Insulin lispro Sanofi on 18 May 2017.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 9/81 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Insulin lispro Sanofi (also referred to in this report as SAR342434), has been developed as an insulin 
lispro biosimilar. The EU reference medicinal product is Humalog solution for injection 100 U/mL, which 
was authorised through the centralised procedure in 30 April 1996.  
Insulin lispro is approved and marketed in several countries worldwide, including the EU and USA, for 
the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes (T1DM) and type 2 diabetes (T2DM).  
About the product 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is an insulin lispro, an analogue protein of human insulin. It is a genetically 
engineered recombinant protein produced in Escherichia coli cells. Insulin lispro belongs to the 
pharmacotherapeutic group: drugs used in diabetes, insulins and analogues for injection, fast-acting, 
ATC code: A10AB04. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi is available in three presentations, as a cartridge or a pre-filled pen (3 ml, 300 U) 
and as a vial (10 ml, 1000 U). The cartridge can either irreversibly be assembled into a multiple-use, 
disposable pen injector by the applicant or it can be used with the marketed reusable CE-marked pens 
JuniorStar and AllStar. 
In accordance with its reference product, the applied indications for Insulin lispro Sanofi were for the 
treatment  of  adults  and  children  with  diabetes  mellitus  who  require  insulin  for  the  maintenance  of 
normal glucose homeostasis and for the initial stabilisation of diabetes mellitus.  
Mechanism of Action 
Insulin lispro is homologous to human insulin with the exception of the penultimate lysine and proline 
residues  on  the  C-terminal  end  of  the  B-chain  at  B28  and  B29,  which  are  reversed.  This  structural 
change renders lispro insulin less prone to self-association than human insulin. The relatively unstable 
lispro  hexamers  readily  dissociate  to  monomer  subunits  (without  the  intermediate  dimerization  as 
human  insulin);  as  a  result  lispro  insulin  is  absorbed  more  rapidly  after  subcutaneous  injection  than 
human  regular  insulin.  Consequently,  insulin  lispro  has  a  faster  onset  and  shorter  duration  of 
hypoglycaemic action than human regular insulin when administered subcutaneously. 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This Marketing Authorisation Application is an abridged application for a similar biological medicinal 
product under Article 10 (4) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended by Directive 2004/27/EC. 
The clinical development programme of Insulin lispro Sanofi has specifically considered the following 
EU guidelines:  
• 
“Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as 
active substance: quality issues (revision 1)” (EMA/CHMP/BWP/247713/2012)  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 10/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
“Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as 
active substance: non-clinical and clinical issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev. 1) 
“Annex  to  guideline  on  similar  biological  medicinal  products  containing  Biotechnology-derived 
proteins  as  active  substance:  Non-clinical  and  clinical  issues.  Guidance  on  similar  medicinal 
products  containing  recombinant  human  soluble  Insulin”  (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005 
Rev.1) 
 “International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines (ICH 
E6) 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Insulin lispro, the active substance is a rapid-acting insulin with faster onset and shorter duration of 
action when compared with human regular insulin. Insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the 
amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by 
proline. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi has been developed in the EU as a similar biological medicinal product to the 
reference product, Humalog (insulin lispro 100 U/ml). 
The finished product is presented as a solution for injection containing 100 units/ml of insulin lispro as 
the active substance. Other ingredients are: metacresol, glycerol, disodium hydrogen phosphate 
heptahydrate, zinc oxide, water for injections, hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) and sodium 
hydroxide (for pH adjustment).  
The product will be available in a 10 ml vial, a 3 ml cartridge for use in compatible CE-marked re-
usable pens (AllStar and JuniorStar) and a 3 ml disposable pre-filled pen injector (3 ml cartridge 
irreversibly integrated in a disposable pen injector). Insulin lispro Sanofi pen injector is a fully 
mechanical device, containing no electronic components. The pen injector is designed to deliver 
multiple doses of variable volume. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
The active substance is a two-chain peptide consisting of 51 amino acids. The international non-
proprietary name (INN) is insulin lispro. The A-chain is composed of 21 amino acids and the B-chain is 
composed of 30 amino acids. It is identical in primary structure to human insulin, only differing in 
amino acid sequence at positions 28 and 29 of the B-chain. Human insulin is 28B-L-Proline-29B-L-
lysine, whereas insulin lispro is 28B-L-Lysine-29B-L-Proline. 
As human insulin, insulin lispro contains 2 interchain disulfide bonds and 1 intrachain disulfide bond, in 
total 3 disulfide bonds. All amino acids are natural L-amino acids. The structure, including the change 
in comparison to human insulin, is outlined in Figure 1 below.  
Figure 1: Schematic amino acid sequence indicating the change in comparison to human insulin 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 11/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary, secondary and tertiary structures are well-defined without considerable inherent 
heterogeneity and without glycosylation or other post-translational modifications.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology using an Escherichia coli strain as host cell 
for the expression plasmid. The upstream process starts with one vial from the Working Cell Bank 
(WCB) that is expanded via shake flask followed by seed fermentation and main fermentation. The 
manufacturing process can be divided into three parts; cultivation steps, basic downstream processing 
and final purification phase. Following transfer of cell suspensions from shake flask via seed fermenter 
to the production fermenter, cells are further expanded in the production fermenter to reach the 
required cell density level for induction of expression of insulin lispro. 
The fusion protein can be synthesized in such amounts that it precipitates within the cell, forming 
inclusion bodies. The cells with the inclusion bodies are harvested by centrifugation and disrupted to 
liberate the inclusion bodies. Thereafter the fusion protein is dissolved and the insulin lispro precursor 
is formed by refolding reaction, followed by enzymatic cleavage and chromatographic purification steps 
to obtain a solution of insulin lispro. Centrifuged precipitate is washed and dried. Dried active 
substance is filled, homogenised, divided in suitable portions, if desired, and stored. Adequate 
information has been provided for the container closure system of the active substance. 
The process for insulin lispro production was established for direct processing of intermediate solutions 
and suspensions. Only in-process holding of suspensions and solutions as required by the processing 
occurs. No long-term storage of isolated intermediates is intended.  
Control of materials 
In the manufacturing of insulin lispro no materials of human or animal origin are used. The raw 
materials used in the manufacturing have been adequately described in the dossier.  
The cell bank system has been established according to ICH guidelines comprising Master Cell Bank 
(MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB). The history and development of the expression system is 
presented as well as a protocol to establish a new WCB. The cell bank stability show good stability. 
Manufacturing process development 
The insulin lispro manufacturing process is based on Sanofi’s platform process for recombinant proteins 
expressed in E. coli. For the development of the manufacturing process of insulin lispro elements of 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 12/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
QbD were added in an otherwise conventional manufacturing development in order to implement a risk 
based strategy.  
The criticality of parameters was determined by a risk-based approach based on the severity, 
occurrence and detectability of the process failure which has been adequately described including a list 
of the critical quality attributes and non-critical attributes. The determination of proven acceptable 
ranges has also been sufficiently described. Critical process parameters are controlled during 
manufacturing.  
All predefined ranges for operational parameters and specifications for performance parameters were 
consistently met. 
Process development addressed the intended quality target product profile (QTPP) of insulin lispro 
solution for injection which was found to be similar to Humalog. Critical quality attributes were defined 
based on the QTPP, available knowledge about the originator active substance (AS) and on the 
experience of Sanofi from other insulin analogues produced from recombinant E. coli.  
Process characterisation and development from pilot scale to commercial scale has been adequately 
presented. The comparability from pilot scale to final process confirmed the comparability of the active 
substance throughout development.  
Process Validation 
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated. The results from the validation runs for 
each manufacturing step are very consistent and therefore the robustness of manufacturing is 
acceptable and the process well controlled. In addition it has been validated that the process and 
product related impurities are efficiently removed during downstream steps. 
Holding times have been validated to demonstrate the stability of the concerned intermediate.  
Characterisation 
The structural elucidation and confirmation of insulin lispro has been carried out on batches of insulin 
lispro with the following orthogonal analytical techniques: amino acid sequencing, MS, peptide 
mapping, isoelectric point determination by capillary isoelectric focusing, ultraviolet (UV) / visible 
absorption spectrophotometry, CD, FT-IR and NMR. In addition, comparisons have been performed 
with insulin lispro batch and the current USP and Ph. Eur. reference standards, to demonstrate 
similarity of structure, using the following techniques: UV/visible absorption spectrophotometry, CD, 
FT-IR and NMR.  
The biological activity has been adequately presented and discussed. All tests gave acceptable and 
predicted results verifying the correct structural construction of insulin lispro molecule. 
Potential impurities arising from the expression system, the process and product related impurities 
arising during production and purification steps have been described and presented. Removal of 
impurities is demonstrated to be well below the limits given in the Ph. Eur. For insulin lispro no viral 
contamination is foreseen, since no animal or human material is used and the peptide is expressed in 
E.coli not supporting viral expression. 
Metal catalysts, reagents and elemental impurities are addressed as required by ICH Q3D, and the 
very low amounts found do not raise any concern.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 13/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
The proposed specifications for insulin lispro active substance are considered appropriate for control of 
the active substance.  
The analytical methods used for active substance release are mainly based on the pharmacopoeial 
monograph for insulin lispro, so that no respective validation data is required in the dossier. For the in-
house methods, validation data have been provided demonstrating the suitability of the methods. 
Production batches of insulin lispro active substance as well as batches that have been used during 
development for toxicological, clinical and primary stability studies have been presented. All batch 
results were in accordance with the active substance specifications. 
As  official  standards  for  insulin  lispro  are  available  (Ph.  Eur.  and  USP.)  no  in-house  primary  standard 
for insulin lispro was established. A secondary/working standard has been prepared and the criteria for 
establishment of new batches of reference standard have been stated and are considered acceptable. 
Stability 
Insulin lispro stability studies have been performed according to ICH guidelines for three primary 
batches manufactured at production scale and filled in containers representative of the container 
closure system proposed for commercial manufacture. Stability data have been presented.  
Photostability in accordance with ICH Q1B has been tested. The results under conditions of -20 ± 5 °C, 
and under +5 °C ± 3 °C show good stability for the tested period. Under stress conditions and under 
light, out of specifications are obtained as expected, which is acceptable.  
A suitable post-approval stability protocol and commitments have been provided.  
The results generated during the stability studies support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions 
for the active substance stored in an airtight container, protected from light. 
Comparability exercise for Active Substance 
Comparability of the active substance was demonstrated from laboratory scale to production scale. 
Supportive data related to process related impurities have been presented for the clinical program and 
the intended commercial process side by side. There are no significant differences between the results. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Insulin lispro Sanofi, solution for injection finished product (FP) is intended for subcutaneous 
administration and it may also be administered intravenously. The FP has the same excipients as the 
reference product, Humalog. The excipients (metacresol, glycerol, disodium hydrogen phosphate 
heptahydrate, zinc oxide, water for injections, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide) have been justified 
based on formulation development studies and are in compliance with Ph. Eur. and USP.  
The product is presented as: 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 14/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Insulin lispro Sanofi 100 units/ml solution for injection in vial 
10 ml vial containing 10 ml nominal volume of FP solution to be administered by use of a 
syringe, a pump device or to be diluted in an infusion bag. The type I colourless glass vial 
is closed with a flanged cap (aluminium) with a sealing disk (chlorobutyl rubber) and a 
tear-off cap (polypropylene). 
• 
• 
Insulin lispro Sanofi 100 units/ml solution for injection in cartridge 
Type I colourless glass cartridge with a black plunger (bromobutyl rubber) and a flanged 
cap (aluminium) with a sealing disk (laminate of isoprene and bromobutyl rubber). Each 
cartridge contains 3 ml of solution. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi 100 units/ml solution for injection in a pre-filled pen 
Type I colourless glass cartridge with a black plunger (bromobutyl rubber) and a flanged 
cap (aluminum) with a sealing disk (laminate of isoprene and bromobutyl rubber) sealed in 
a disposable pen injector. Each pre-filled pen contains 3 ml of solution.  
EC certificates for quality assurance system issued by Notified Body TUV SUD Product Service GmbH 
(Stuttgart, Germany) have been provided for the manufacturers of the reusable pens. Information on 
the human factors validation study for the pen injector has been provided. 
Pharmaceutical development 
The applicant has performed an appropriate formulation study with varying quantities of the 
formulation excipients. For this study, a suitable design of experiment (DoE) approach was applied 
based on FP physicochemical test parameters which had been evaluated by a risk assessment. The 
outcome of the study confirmed the composition to be comparable to Humalog and to be adequate and 
justified in view of FP quality and stability.  
The degradation of Insulin lispro Sanofi FP solution was adequately studied by applying appropriate 
stress conditions such as elevated temperature, different pH and light exposure. The optimum 
concentration of the preservative metacresol in Insulin lispro Sanofi FP solution was adequately 
evaluated to ensure sufficient antimicrobial efficacy up to the end of shelf life. 
In order to demonstrate the suitability of the selected container closure systems different tests and 
studies were conducted. Extractables and leachables (E&L) studies were adequately designed and 
ensured a comprehensive E&L evaluation by covering all different components of the container closure 
systems. A toxicological assessment on the quantities of the leachables found in Insulin lispro Sanofi 
FP concluded that these leachables do not present a toxicological concern. 
Functional performance of the Insulin lispro Sanofi disposable pen and of the re-usable pen injectors 
after assembly with Insulin lispro Sanofi cartridges was appropriately investigated according to the 
relevant ISO standards.  
Integrity of the container closure systems was confirmed by using an adequate container closure 
integrity evaluation study by using a microbial challenges test.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 15/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The finished product manufacturing process has been sufficiently described and validated. Flow charts 
and descriptions of each unit operation of the manufacturing processes have been provided for 
cartridges, vials and disposable pen injectors.  
The critical steps of the insulin lispro solution manufacturing process have been determined. The 
validated process is controlled by “critical process controls”.  
Process Validation  
The process validation has been adequately performed. The process controls and release testing 
results of all cartridge and vial batches are coherent and within the pre-defined acceptance criteria and 
specification limits. The impact of different manufacturing activities on the degradation of insulin lispro 
had been adequately evaluated during pharmaceutical development.  
Sterilization of equipment, filling of sterile product into cartridges and vials has been validated. The 
provided validation results met their pre-defined acceptance criteria.  
Product specification 
The finished product release specifications for the cartridge and vial are identical with the exception of 
the acceptance criteria for extractable volume that has been set according to the container.  
The specifications are considered appropriate for the finished product control at release. Justifications 
for all specification limits have been provided. The limits for most of the specification parameters are in 
compliance with Ph. Eur., BP and USP monographs for insulin preparations. In addition, an appropriate 
specification for the pre-filled Insulin lispro Sanofi pen injector has been established.  
Bach release data of commercial scale and pilot scale batches has been presented. The provided 
results fulfil the specification criteria for all attributes. 
Stability of the product 
Insulin lispro Sanofi finished product has been placed in stability studies in line with ICH Q5C. The 
stability protocols for the storage conditions and testing frequency have been provided. The protocols 
provided for cartridge and vial presentations cover long term, accelerated and stressed conditions for a 
maximum of 36, 6 and 1 month’s storage, respectively.  
The results of the cartridges and vials remain within the specification limits for all parameters tested at 
long term and accelerated storage. In-use testing of 28 days has been performed.  
Pen functionality and dose accuracy was tested. The dose accuracy study results remained within the 
specifications.  
Photostability studies performed according to ICH Q1B demonstrate that the finished product in vials 
and cartridges is photosensitive. The carton box and pen injector are sufficient to protect the finished 
product from light. 
Temperature cycling studies have been performed. The stability parameters tested are found 
adequate. Based on the results it can be concluded that the finished product presented in cartridges 
and vials is stable when stored at 2°C - 8°C but becomes unstable at high temperatures (+37/40°C) 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 16/81 
 
 
 
 
 
and during exposure to light. Excursions of one month at room temperature do not have a major 
impact on the quality parameters tested.  
Based on the primary and supportive stability data the claimed 36 months shelf life stored at 2°C - 8°C 
can be accepted. The in-use stability data support a storage temperature of below 30°C after first use 
and the product should be disposed of 4 weeks after first use. 
Comparability exercise for finished product 
The finished product process development has started at lab scale and has been increased via pilot 
scale to final commercial scale processes for 3 ml cartridges and 10 ml vials. By conducting 
appropriate process characterisation studies, the impact of process parameters on FP quality and 
stability were evaluated. Based on the outcome of the process characterisation studies, an adequate 
process control strategy was established including raw material control, process controls and process 
parameters to be monitored. 
The analytical comparability of pilot scale and production scale batches has been assessed using lot 
release testing. The release results of both batches fit well within the specification limits and are highly 
similar. Stability testing at long term, accelerated and stress testing conditions showed comparable 
profiles for both batches. The analytical comparability testing has been appropriately performed for the 
finished product batches manufactured at pilot scale and commercial scale processes.  
Adventitious agents 
For the manufacturing of the finished product Insulin lispro Sanofi solution for injection 100 U/mL no 
animal and/or human derived material is used. This applies to the active substance and all excipients 
used. Moreover, the finished product complies with the requirements of the note for guidance on 
minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and 
veterinary medicinal products (EMEA/410/01, current revision). 
Biosimilarity 
Insulin lispro Sanofi has been developed as a biosimilar to Humalog (Insulin lispro). The reference 
product is marketed worldwide, and the studies were designed to demonstrate similarity between 
Insulin lispro Sanofi derived from different active substance batches, Humalog purchased from the EU 
market (Humalog EU) and Humalog purchased from the US market (Humalog US). In the clinical 
studies Humalog sourced both from the EU and the US has been used and therefore a bridging study 
between EU and US Humalog is necessary to demonstrate that US Humalog is representative of EU 
Humalog.  
The composition of the biosimilar is comparable to the reference product. The composition of Humalog 
with respect to content of insulin lispro, m-cresol and zinc as well pH is available from the product 
information. For these parameters, the applicant´s approach to demonstrate similarity has been to 
compare Insulin lispro Sanofi with the available Humalog information. Analytical data of Humalog 
batches regarding these parameters have been submitted. The results support that Insulin lispro 
Sanofi is similar to Humalog with regard to the composition.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 17/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similarity is established based on physicochemical properties, biological properties and on comparison 
of purity and product related proteins. The similarity is demonstrated also by performing comparative 
stability studies under long term, accelerated and stress conditions and by performing photostability 
tests.  
A set of state-of-the-art analytical methods was used to characterize side-by-side Insulin lispro Sanofi 
and Humalog and to address physicochemical characteristics of insulin lispro. A statistical evaluation 
has been applied to demonstrate similarity of product related impurities. Process-related impurities 
have not been tested in side by side analysis but their levels are controlled as part of the control 
strategy. 
Similarity assessment results 
Physicochemical studies 
The primary structure was investigated by mass spectrometry and Edman degradation. Experimental 
results derived from the biosimilar and reference product were compared to the theoretical primary 
structure of insulin lispro that is available in literature. No differences in the amino acid sequences 
were detected between Humalog US, Humalog EU, and Insulin lispro Sanofi. The intact masses were 
determined by MALDI MS and comparable molecular masses were observed for Humalog US, Humalog 
EU, and Insulin lispro Sanofi. Similarly the reduced masses of insulin lispro A- and B-chain were 
determined by MALDI MS. The masses comply with the theoretical masses and no differences between 
the samples were observed. Secondary structure was investigated by FT-IR and Far-UV spectroscopy. 
The results for secondary structure determination demonstrate correctly folded secondary structures of 
the insulin lispro that are identical in the products. 
Near-UV CD spectroscopy was used for side-by-side comparison of the tertiary structure of Insulin 
lispro Sanofi and Humalog. Overlapping near-UV CD spectra were observed indicating identical tertiary 
structures. 
The structure was verified also by NMR spectroscopy. Coinciding NMR spectra for all samples 
investigated were obtained. Investigation of higher order structure revealed that Insulin lispro Sanofi, 
Humalog US and Humalog EU mainly contain the insulin hexamer. 
The molecular mass was measured with an analytical ultracentrifuge. All samples contained mainly 
hexamer and small amounts of the putative monomer and higher oligomers. No differences between 
the Insulin lispro Sanofi batches, Humalog US batches and Humalog EU batches were observed. pH, 
zinc content and preservative were all within the same range of Humalog and within the specifications. 
Biological properties 
The biological activity of Insulin lispro Sanofi, Humalog US and Humalog EU was assessed by the rabbit 
blood sugar method according to USP 37 <121>. According to the applicant an effect of lot-to-lot 
variability could be excluded based on the physicochemical data on potency and purity. Therefore, the 
test was performed on one batch per product. Results revealed comparable biological activity that 
complies with the label of Humalog, 100 U/ml.  
The applicant has used two different HPLC methods to assess the purity of the products. Several 
batches of Insulin lispro Sanofi and several batches of Humalog EU and Humalog US were used. 
Similarity ranges were defined on the basis of batch to batch variability of Humalog EU, and the 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 18/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
applicant defined similarity ranges such that equivalence can be shown for the comparison of Humalog 
EU in cartridges and Humalog EU in vials.  
A side-by-side analysis of Insulin lispro Sanofi with Humalog EU and Humalog US was performed to 
investigate the samples with respect to desamido variants and other impurities, applying a method 
that is orthogonal to RP-HPLC. No major differences were detected. For the results of high molecular 
weight proteins (HMWP) analysis no major differences were observed as well.  
Overall, several batches (Humalog vials and cartridges from EU and US market) were analysed. The 
impurity profiles of Humalog and Insulin lispro Sanofi were found to be similar for all batches 
investigated.  
Comparative stability studies 
A comparison of the stability profiles of Insulin lispro Sanofi, Humalog US, and Humalog EU was 
performed under in-use conditions, (+25 °C; 28 days), accelerated (+25 °C, 6 months) and stress 
(+37 °C, 3 months) conditions as well as for long term conditions (+5 °C).  A photostability study, 
where samples were exposed to indoor light for a period of 14 days, was also carried out.  
The data indicate that the degradation pathways of Insulin lispro Sanofi, Humalog EU and Humalog US 
under the stability conditions investigated are comparable. No additional degradation products were 
detected in Insulin lispro Sanofi. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Active substance 
Manufacturing 
Fermentation of E.coli bacteria and expression of the insulin lispro is a common process for production 
of insulin and its analogues. The relevant parameters have been discussed. There are no intermediates 
in the process. The holding times during the process are intended only for short term storages. Hold 
time studies have been conducted. The results for different process steps are stable along the holding 
time applied for the step. All containers used for the collection/storage of the intermediates are 
considered inherent material. 
Cell banks 
Generation and characterisation of the MCB and WCB have been adequately described. The end of 
production cells are shown to be stable. The specification for establishing a new WCB is provided and 
the protocol is agreed. 
Process Validation 
The validation of the process is considered to be adequate. A traditional approach was chosen for 
process validation at commercial scale. Overall, the results presented during process verification were 
homogenous and therefore allow the conclusion of successful process verification. The batch definition 
has been adequately described.  
Characterisation 
The primary and higher order structure of insulin lispro has been investigated. Amino acid sequence 
and molecular mass verify the primary structure. The spectroscopic analysis reveals the secondary and 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 19/81 
 
 
 
 
 
tertiary structure. The chromatograms for peptide mapping, RP-HPLC and SEC for insulin lispro have 
been provided.  
Finished Product 
Manufacturing  
The manufacturing process of the finished product has been appropriately described. The vial is 
intended to be used with a syringe, a pump designed for subcutaneous infusion or infusion bags for 
intravenous infusion. The compatibility of the finished product with infusion bags has been presented. 
The results of simulated infusion studies demonstrated that the diluted Insulin lispro remains stable for 
use at room temperature for 48 hours. Additionally examples of commercially available pumps have 
been provided. The manufacturer’s instructions of the pump devices facilitate the proper use of the vial 
with the pumps. 
Validation 
The validation results demonstrate that finished product manufacturing process operates appropriately 
within the established parameters and performs reproducibly under controlled conditions. The filter 
validations were performed by the manufacturer and appropriate filter validation reports of the 
manufacturer have been provided. Data has been provided verifying that the disposable pen injector 
assembly process is validated. Simulated transfer validation studies have been appropriately 
performed and study reports provided for vials, cartridges and pen. 
Specification 
The test parameters in the proposed specifications are considered appropriate for the finished product 
control. Upon request, the specification limits were tightened taking into consideration actual batch 
data of Insulin lispro Sanofi (including the clinical batch) and of the reference product. The requested 
information has been provided and the respective sections of the dossier updated for the storage 
conditions (i.e. temperature, container closure etc.) of the reference materials.  
Stability 
Stability studies have been appropriately performed and included long term, accelerated, stressed, in-
use testing and temperature cycling studies. The stability parameters tested are adequate.  
Biosimilarity 
The applicant has performed extensive biosimilarity study. A considerable number of batches have 
been analysed in the study, and Insulin lispro Sanofi was compared to both EU and US Humalog 
products. The comparability exercise covered similarity between Insulin lispro Sanofi and the reference 
product and demonstrated that Humalog US can be considered representative of Humalog EU. The 
number of batches analysed in each individual study has been justified by the expected variability of 
the parameter selected for comparison. An appropriate number of reference product lots was tested to 
assess lot-to-lot variability and differences due to sample age. Humalog batches were selected from 
the sample pool on a random basis to perform structure, purity and potency assays. 
Insulin lispro Sanofi and Humalog have been analysed side-by-side in structural and functional 
characterization studies. The applicant has chosen the relevant parameters for the biosimilarity 
studies. Biological activity with blood sugar test (USP) was investigated. The biological activity was 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 20/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
further addressed in the non-clinical section using several other assays and batches. Results were been 
presented and discussed.  
Potency of Insulin lispro Sanofi was determined by HPLC compared to the label of Humalog. The results 
obtained for Insulin lispro Sanofi content were in accordance with the specification limits. For the 
purpose of labelling 3.47 mg insulin lispro is equivalent to 100 U.  
The approach chosen by the applicant for defining the equivalence/similarity range was questioned, 
since it did not take account the variability of Humalog batches for each attribute. In addition, some 
concerns were raised with respect to the underlying assumptions of the applied statistical approach 
and with respect to general validity of the statistical approach. In order to address these issues, the 
applicant provided clarifications and presented a new statistical analysis of similarity where several 
aspects were changed compared to the original analysis, including re-defined similarity ranges. The 
overall data package provided supports biosimilarity. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The overall quality documentation provided in the Insulin lispro Sanofi marketing authorisation 
application is of adequate quality and support biosimilarity to the reference product Humalog. In 
addition, it has been demonstrated that Humalog sourced from the US can be considered 
representative of the reference product Humalog EU. In conclusion, based on the review of the quality 
data provided, the marketing authorisation application for Insulin lispro Sanofi is approvable from the 
quality point of view. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
N/A 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The nonclinical development of SAR342434 was done in accordance with the guidelines on “non-clinical 
and clinical development of similar biological medicinal products containing recombinant human insulin 
and insulin analogues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005 Rev. 1) and “Guideline on similar biological 
medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance: non-clinical and 
clinical issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/42832/2005 Rev. 1).  
Comparative in vitro nonclinical pharmacology studies were focused on insulin receptor (IR-A and IR-B) 
binding, binding kinetics and their activation, metabolic responses, insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor 
(IGF-1R) binding and activation, and mitogenic activities.  
The toxicological program consisted of comparative 1-month repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats and a 
local tolerability study in rabbits.  
The specific studies on safety pharmacology, pharmacodynamic drug interactions, pharmacokinetic, 
genotoxicity, carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental toxicity were not submitted in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 21/81 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
A  panel  of  comparative  in  vitro  receptor  binding  and  biological  activity  studies  with  SAR342434  and 
reference product Humalog were conducted for demonstration of similarity. The comparability exercise 
was done in three-way comparability approach with SAR342434, Humalog sourced from EU and US. 
The studies were arranged in three sets; sets 1 and 2 compared 2 batches of SAR342434 to 1 batch of 
Humalog,  and  set  3  included  an  extended  in  vitro  characterisation  studies  (4  batches  of  SAR342434 
compared  to  4  batches  of  Humalog).      An  overview  of  the  most  extensive  third  set  of  studies  is 
summarised in Table 1. Results in the table shown are only for Humalog sourced from the EU. 
The acceptance criteria on the ratio for each study were defined (based on the Coefficient of Variation 
of  the  individual  assay  parameters  and  the  number  of  determinations/batch).  SAR342434  was 
considered  similar  to  Humalog,  if  the  90%  confidence  interval  of  the  ratio  was  within  the  acceptance 
region. 
Concentration-response  curves,  both  for  raw  data  and  normalised  to  maximal  response=100%  were 
also  submitted  for  each  PD  study  to  derive  and  compare  EC50  or  IC50  values  including  statistical 
evaluation.  
Concentration–response curves of the raw and normalized data from a representative run (out of four 
experiments) from study DIVT0076 experiment 4 are shown in Figure 2. 
In this study, the binding of SAR342434 and Humalog (both EU and US sourced) to IR-B was assessed 
using a competition-inhibition binding assay.  
To  quantify  the  difference  of  the  in  vitro  affinity  to  human  IR-B  the  difference  in  means  of  the  log-
transformed  IC50  values  with  90%  confidence  interval  were  determined  and  converted  to  ratio  of 
means  with  90%  confidence  interval  via  the  anti-log  transformation  or  an  equivalence  approach  was 
used. 
Table 1. Overview of primary pharamcodynamic in vitro bioassays for demonstration of the similarity 
of SAR342434 and Humalog  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 22/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of Study 
Binding 
to insulin 
receptor
s 
IR-B binding  
(IC 50 nM) 
IR-A binding (IC 50, 
nM) 
IR-B binding kinetics 
Ratio [90 % CI] 
SAR342434/Humalog  
1.032  [0.9745;1.0925] 
Acceptanc
e region 
Results 
Study 
number 
[0.80;1.25] 
Similar 
DIVT0076 
0.993 [0.9052;1.0894] 
ka1 0.982 [0.948;1.017] 
kd1 0.977 [0.946;1.009] 
ka2 1.000 [0.962;1.040]  
kd2 0.977 [0.958;0.997] 
K D1 1.007 [0.98; 1.04] 
K D2 0.936 [0.89; 0.98] 
[0.75;1.33] 
Similar 
DIVT0077 
[0.80;1.25] 
Similar 
DIVT0091 
IR-A binding kinetics  ka1 0.971 [0.935;1.009] 
kd1 0.978 [0.937;1.021] 
ka2 0.981 [0.942;1.021] 
kd2 0.969 [0.934;1.005] 
[0.80;1.25] 
Similar 
DIVT0090 
Biologica
l activity 
studies 
Activation of IR-B  
Auto-phosphorylation 
Activation of IR-A 
Auto-phosphorylation 
Metabolic activity 
Inhibition of lipolysis 
K D1 1.030 [0.99; 1.07] 
K D2 0.980 [0.93; 1.03] 
1.038  [0.939; 1.113] 
0.943 [0.874 ; 1.017] 
1.043  [0.971;1.121] 
Metabolic activity  
Stimulation of glucose 
uptake 
Metabolic activity:  
Regulation of glucose 
6-phosphatase gene 
expression 
0.991 [0.904;1.087] 
1.089 [0.892;1.330] 
[0.75;1.33] 
Similar 
DIVT0080 
[0.75;1.33] 
Similar 
DIVT0079 
[0.75;1.33] 
Similar 
DIVT0081 
[0.70;1.43] 
Similar 
DIVT0082 
[0.70;1.43] 
Similar 
DIVT0087 
Figure 2. Representative of four experiments of concentration-response curve for binding of 
SAR342434 and different batches of Humalog (EU, US) to human IR-B (normalised data, Study 
DIVT0076) 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 23/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
In  addition  to  the  studies  required  by  the  CHMP  guideline  on  similar  biological  medicinal  products 
containing recombinant human insulin and insulin analogues (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005 Rev. 1), 
the  in  vitro  comparability  program  included  also  the  analyses  of  binding  to  and  activation  of  the 
insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) and mitogenic activity.  
As with the primary PD studies, three sets of studies were conducted, the third being the most 
extensive for which the acceptance criterion for each assay ratio (weighted geometric means) was 
defined. The results from this set of studies, comparing SAR342434 and EU Humalog are summarised 
in Table 2. 
Table 2. Overview of secondary pharmacodynamic in vitro bioassays for demonstration of the 
similarity of SAR342434 and Humalog (insulin lispro) 
Type of Study  
Binding to IGF-1R 
Activation of IGF-1R 
Autophosphorylation 
Mitogenic activity 
Stimulation of labelled thymidine 
incorporation into DNA  (MCF- cells) 
Ratio [90% CI] 
SAR342434/Humalo
g  
Results 
Study 
number 
1.111 [0.988;1.251] 
DIVT0078 
Similar  
1.057 [0.969; 1.154] 
Similar  
DIVT0083 
1.069 [0.917;1.247] 
Similar  
DIVT0088 
Safety pharmacology programme 
No safety pharmacology studies were submitted in line with the CHMP guidance on similar biological 
medicinal products containing recombinant human insulin and insulin analogues 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005 Rev. 1). 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No comparative studies assessing PD drug interactions were submitted in line with relevant guidelines 
including the CHMP guidance on similar biological medicinal products containing recombinant human 
insulin and insulin analogues (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005 Rev. 1). 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic (toxicokinetic, TK) data for SAR342434 and Humalog (EU, US) were assessed as part 
of the 1-month repeat toxicity studies in rats.  The TK data are presented in the toxicology section 
below. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The  toxicology  program  of  SAR342434  consisted  of  two  GLP-compliant  1-month  repeat-dose  toxicity 
studies with toxicokinetics in rats and a local tolerability study in rabbits (Table 3).   
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 24/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
One  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  was  conducted  with  Humalog  EU  and  one  with  Humalog  US  as  a 
comparator. 
The  maximum  dose  tested  was  200  U/kg/day  (100  U/kg/twice  daily).  The  SAR342434  formulation 
used in the toxicology studies was the final to-be-marketed formulation. 
Table 3. Toxicology studies with SAR342434 and Humalog 
Species 
(Strain) 
(sex/group) 
Test 
products 
SAR342434  
Repeated dose toxicity  
Rat 
Sprague-
Dawley 
Crl:CD(SD) 
(10M / 10F) 
Humalog EU  
Duration of 
Dosing 
(method of 
admin.) 
1 month 
 SC 
SAR342434  
Humalog US  
Rat 
Sprague-
Dawley 
Crl:CD(SD) 
(10M / 10F) 
Local tolerance  
1 month 
 SC 
yes 
10, 50, 
200 
U/kg 
Doses 
GLP   Testing 
Facility 
yes 
10, 50, 
200 
U/kg 
Covance Laboratories 
Ltd, Willowburn 
Avenue, Alnwick, 
Northumberland, NE66 
2JH, ENGLAND 
Covance Laboratories 
Inc., Kinsman 
Boulevard, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA 
Study 
Number 
TSA1505  
TSA1519  
Rabbit 
New Zealand 
White 
(3M) 
SAR342434  
Humalog EU 
0.1 ml  
subcutaneous, 
paravenous 
100 
U/ml 
yes 
Sanofi-Aventis 
recherche & 
développement 
Montpellier, FRANCE 
TOL1162 
0.5 ml  
intramuscular 
Repeat dose toxicity 
To compare toxicity profile and exposure of SAR342434 and the reference products Humalog EU 
(Study TSA1505) or US (Study TSA1519) Sprague-Dawley rats received either solutions of Humalog or 
SAR342434 at 0, 5, 25 or 100 U/kg/administration by subcutaneous injection twice daily for 1 month, 
i.e. 0, 10, 50 or 200 IU/kg/day. 
Mortality,  clinical  observations,  body  weight,  food  consumption,  ophthalmology,  blood  glucose 
monitoring  (n=4/sex/dose),  haematology,  coagulation,  clinical  chemistry,  and  urinalysis  assessments 
were  done.  Plasma  samples  were  obtained  for  toxicokinetic  determinations  and  anti-insulin  antibody 
(AIA) assessment. Surviving rats were euthanized and necropsied at the end of the treatment. Organ 
weights were recorded and representative tissue samples were examined microscopically from rats in 
the  control  and  in  the  200  U/kg/day  groups.  Ki-67  staining  of  the  mammary  glands  was  done  as  a 
parameter for a mitogenic potential. 
Hypoglycaemia  related  unscheduled  deaths  at  50  U/kg/day  (one  male  treated  with  SAR342434)  and 
200 U/kg/day (two animals treated with Humalog EU) were reported in the study TSA1505. One of the 
Humalog EU treated animals was euthanized due to marked lethargy. The related microscopic changes 
(astrocytic  swelling  in  brains,  decrease  in  glycogenic  vacuolation  in  liver)  were  revealed  in  the 
examinations of two other animals which were culled prescheduled.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 25/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study TSA1519, two rats (F) given 50 U/kg/day of SAR342434 died or were euthanized in moribund 
condition  during  the  dosing  phase.  No  clinical  signs  were  noted  at  50  or  200  U/kg/day  from  the 
SAR342434  treated  animals  and  the  deaths  were  considered  unlikely  related  to  SAR342434  but  to 
stress or blood collection.  
Effects  on  the  urinalysis  parameters  (increases  in  phosphorus,  urine  volume  increase,  osmolality 
decrease, and urinary protein concentration decrease) were also noted and were similar in SAR342434 
and Humalog treated animals.  
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic specimen (3 rats/timepoint) were collected at days 1 and 29 pre-dose and 0.33h, 1h, 2h, 
3h, 4h - following first and second daily dose administration. The toxicokinetic parameters are shown 
in Table 4. 
Table 4. Toxicokinetic parameters for SAR342434 and Humalog EU in rats, Study TSA1505 (SC 
administration, dose U/kg/day) 
Local Tolerance  
The local tolerance for SAR342434 was compared to Humalog EU in male rabbits (n=3/group).  
Rabbits received SAR342434 or Humalog EU with subcutaneous (0.1 ml, 100 U/mL (3.5 mg/ml), SC), 
intravenous  (0.5  ml,  IV),  paravenous  (0.1  ml,  PV)  or  intramuscular  (0.5  ml,  IM)  routes.  Each  rabbit 
was dosed either by the combination of the IM and the PV routes or the IV and the SC routes. 
Local  tolerance  at  the  injection  site,  mortality,  clinical  signs  and  body  weights  were  assessed. 
Histological  assessment  of  the  injection  sites  were  conducted  at  necropsy  24  h  or  120  h  after  drug 
administration. 
No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  SAR342434  and  Humalog  treated  animals  in 
their injection site reactions. 
Local  tolerance  findings  erythema,  oedema,  hematoma  and  eschar/ulcer  were  classified  as  slight  to 
severe or marked. Erythema, oedema and hematoma were observed in three SAR342434 (SC) treated 
rabbits and in two Humalog (SC) treated rabbits. 
Injection site findings included subcutaneous inflammation, haemorrhage, necrosis and fibrosis in rats 
and erythema, oedema, hematoma and eschar/ulcer in rabbits after subcutaneous administration.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 26/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  rabbits,  Humalog  EU  was  slightly  better  tolerated.  After  IM  delivery  of  SAR342434  moderate 
multifocal necrosis/degeneration with mild-haemorrhagic infiltration and acute inflammation was noted 
in  one  rabbit.  After  SC  delivery,  the  findings  were  slightly  more  frequent  in  rabbits  treated  with 
SAR342434 than with Humalog EU, but more frequent in rats treated with Humalog in comparison to 
SAR342434. 
Antigenicity 
Samples for anti-drug antibody analysis were collected from all toxicokinetic phase animals on Day 29 
(following the last TK sampling time point). Dose–dependent increase in incidence on formation of the 
anti-insulin antibodies was detected in 67 - 100% of treated animals in study TSA1505 (data not 
shown). 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In  accordance  with  the  guideline  on  environmental  risk  assessment  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  corr 
2), the applicant did not submit any ERA studies as the active substance of SAR342434 (insulin lispro) 
is  a  natural  substance  (insulin  analogue),  the  use  of  which  will  not  alter  the  concentration  or 
distribution of the substance in the environment. Therefore, SAR342434 is not expected to pose a risk 
to the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The applicant has performed all pharmacodynamic tests which are required to demonstrate 
biosimilarity at the non-clinical level, evaluating the receptor binding and activation, and metabolic 
activity characteristics of SAR342434 and Humalog. In addition, activation of the IGF-1 receptor and 
effect on tumour cell proliferation was also investigated. All experiments were conducted in vitro, in 
line with the requirements of the Guideline on non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological 
medicinal products containing recombinant human insulin and insulin analogues 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005_Rev. 1). In vitro tests are preferred over in vivo studies because the 
former are usually more accurate in this setting. 
The studies were conducted in three sets, of which the third was the most extensive and relevant for 
determination of similarity as in this set of experiments, acceptance criterion for each assay ratio 
(weighted geometric means) was defined. SAR342434 was considered similar to Humalog, if the 90% 
CV of the ratio was within the acceptance region. 
The applicant also submitted concentration-response relationships in all studies, thereby covering the 
relevant concentration range. Raw data could be well fitted to a sigmoid curve which allowed reliable 
determination of EC50 or IC50 values. The EC50/IC50 values as well as the concentration-response 
relationship were highly similar between SAR and the reference product. 
The comparative competition-inhibition binding analysis to IR-B indicates similar binding activity of 
SAR342434 and Humalog (EU). There were no significant differences in SAR342434 or Humalog in 
association and dissociation kinetics to insulin receptor isomers within the assay conditions. The 
calculated ratios were similar. Thus, SAR342434 can be considered similar to Humalog EU in the IR-B 
and IR-A binding. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 27/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the insulin receptor autophosphorylation (activation), and metabolic activities (inhibition of 
lipolysis, stimulation of glucose uptake,regulation of glucose 6-phosphatase gene) and binding to and 
activation of the IGF-1R and mitogenic activity, SAR342434 and Humalog can be considered similar. 
Toxicology studies usually are not required for insulin biosimilar applications. Nevertheless, the 
applicant submitted two 1-month studies in rats, one comparing SAR342434 with Humalog from EU 
and one comparing SAR342434 with Humalog from US. Furthermore, local tolerance was studied in 
rabbits.  
Studies of single dose toxicity, genetic toxicity, carcinogenicity and reproductive toxicity are not 
required for insulin biosimilars and were not submitted by the applicant. 
Rats  received  SAR342434  or  Humalog  5,  25  or  100  U/kg/administration  by  subcutaneous  injection 
twice  daily  for  1  month.  Maximum  daily  dose  tested  was  200  U/kg/day  which  was  equivalent  to  the 
dose level used with the previous studies of insulin lispro (reference medicinal product).  
There  were  no  unexpected  toxicity  findings  in  the  rats  and  rabbits  related  to  the  SAR342434  or 
Humalog. The increases in body weight, body weight gain, food consumption, glucose and phosphorus, 
and  evidence  of  hypoglycaemia  linked  to  either  the  direct  or  indirect  pharmacological  actions  to  the 
administration of insulin were noted in the repeated dose toxicity studies.  
Rabbits received SAR342434 or Humalog EU with subcutaneous (0.1 ml, 100 U/ml (3.5 mg/ml), SC), 
intravenous  (0.5  ml,  IV),  paravenous  (0.1  ml,  PV)  or  intramuscular  (0.5  ml,  IM)  routes.  Each  rabbit 
was dosed either by the combination of the IM and the PV routes or the IV and the SC routes. 
Injection site findings included subcutaneous inflammation, haemorrhage, necrosis and fibrosis in rats 
and erythema, oedema, hematoma and eschar/ulcer in rabbits after subcutaneous administration. The 
local tolerance findings in rabbits could be procedural or treatment/drug – related or a chance finding 
(small  scale  study).  However,  no  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  SAR342434  and 
Humalog treated animals in their injection site reactions.  
There  were  no  significant  differences  on  pharmacokinetic/toxicokinetic  profiles  between  SAR342434 
and  Humalog.  At  day  29  the  Cmax  and  AUC0-8h  exposure  values  for  Humalog  EU  were  slightly  higher 
(Cmax 1.7 –fold, AUC0-8h  1.4 – 1.2 fold higher) than those for SAR342434 at 200 U/kg/day dose group 
animals,  whilst  some  variation  in  the  values  was  also  noted.  However,  as  there  were  no  differences 
noted in  the  human  PK  data  between  SAR342434  and  Humalog  (see  section 2.4.2),  these  findings  in 
rats were not considered to be of clinical relevance. 
Overall, no safety findings were identified in the nonclinical SAR342434 studies which could be 
considered of significant clinical relevance. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The submitted non-clinical comparability exercise was considered appropriate. Relevant regulatory 
guidelines were taken into consideration. 
Based on the results submitted, Insulin lispro Sanofi can be considered similar to the reference product 
Humalog in terms of in vitro functionality and toxicological, toxicokinetic and local tolerance profiles. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 28/81 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 29/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Euglycemic 
clamp study 
(PK/PD) 
3x1 day cross-
over study 
Design 
Population  Patients with 
T1DM 
•  Humalog US 
•  Humalog EU 
SC injection 
syringes 
Comparato
r and 
regions 
Randomis
ation 
Route of 
administra
tion and 
injection 
device for 
IMP 
Objectives  PK and PD  
•  PK: AUC, 
Primary 
endpoint  
AUClast Cmax, 
•  PD: GIR-
AUC0-12 
N=30 
3x1 day  
Number of 
patients 
randomize
d 
Duration 
of 
treatment 
PDY12704 
EFC12619 
EFC13403 
Efficacy/safety 
Phase 3 study 
Efficacy/safety Phase 3 
study 
Randomised, active-
controlled, open-label, 
parallel group study 
Randomised, active-
controlled, open-label, 
parallel group study 
Patients with T2DM on 
Lantus in combination with 
mealtime insulin analogue 
for at least 6 months prior 
to the study 
Patients with T1DM on 
Lantus in combination 
with mealtime insulin 
analogue for at least 6 
months prior to the 
study 
•  Humalog US 
•  Humalog EU 
•  Humalog US 
•  Humalog EU 
•  Humalog US 
1:1:1 
1:1 
1:1 
1:1  
PDY13502 
Safety study 
Randomised, active-
controlled, open-label, 
2x4 weeks cross-over 
study 
Patients with T1DM on 
Continuous 
Subcutaneous Insulin 
Infusion (CSII) 
SC injection before 
each main meal or 
snack; or immediately 
after meal intake (if 
allowed per local label) 
SAR342434:  SoloStar 
Humalog:    KwikPen 
Efficacy and safety 
HbA1c (%), change 
from baseline to 
Week 26 
SC injection before each 
main meal or snack; or 
immediately after meal 
intake (if allowed per local 
label) 
SAR342434:   SoloStar 
Humalog:    KwikPen 
Efficacy and safety 
HbA1c (%), change from 
baseline to Week 26 
SAR342434:   N=253 
N=254 
Humalog: 
SAR342434:   N=253 
N=252 
Humalog: 
External pump for 
continuous SCII 
(Medtronic with 3 mL  
reservoir or Animas 
Vibe or OneTouch Ping 
pump) 
Safety 
Incidence of infusion 
set occlusions defined 
as failure to correct 
hyperglycemia (plasma 
glucose ≥300 mg/dL) by 
insulin bolus via the 
insulin pump 
N=27 
6 months (main study 
period) 
6 months comparative 
safety extension period 
6 months  
2x4 weeks  
T1DM = type 1 diabetes mellitus; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus; PK: pharmacokinetic; PD: 
pharmacodynamics; SC: subcutaneous; CSII: continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion; IMP: 
investigational medicinal product; HbA1c: glycated hemoglobin; AUC: area under the concentration 
versus time curve extrapolated to infinity; AUClast: area under the concentration versus time curve 
from 0 to time of last concentration above the limit of quantification; Cmax: maximum observed 
concentration; GIR-AUC0-12: area under the body weight standardized glucose infusion rate versus 
time curve from 0 to 12 hours post-IMP administration 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Study PDY12704 
This was a single-centre, double-blind, randomized, 3-way cross-over euglycaemic clamp study 
conducted under fasting conditions in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). The study 
compared the PK and PD of SAR342434 (T) to Humalog 100 U/mL registered in the US (R1; Humalog 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 30/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
US) and Humalog 100 U/mL registered in the EU (R2; Humalog EU), as well as the PK and PD between 
Humalog US and Humalog EU. 
The 3 treatments were administered as single dose injections of 0.3 U/kg, in a crossover manner in 3 
treatment periods with 6 treatment sequences, as illustrated in Figure 3. Plasma samples for insulin 
lispro concentrations were collected for 12 hours post dose.  
Figure 3. Design of study PDY12704 
T=SAR342434; R1=Humalog US; R2=Humalog EU; TP=Treatment Period; EOS=End of Study;  
* wash-out period 5 to 18 days (preferentially 7 days). 
An LC-MS/MS assay was developed for quantitative determination of insulin lispro in human plasma 
samples. The assay was validated over the concentration range of 100.00-8000.00 pg/mL.  
The primary PK parameters were log-transformed before statistical analyses. A linear mixed effects 
model was used to obtain estimates and the 90% confidence interval (CI) of the difference between 
treatment means and then converted to ratio of geometric means by the antilog transformation. 
Bioequivalence was concluded if the 90% CI for the treatment ratios (T/R1 and T/R2) was entirely 
contained within 0.80 to 1.25. 
A total of 30 subjects were randomized and treated, with 28 subjects completing all 3 treatment 
periods. For one subject data was available only for treatment period with SAR342434, and for another 
subject only for treatment periods with Humalog US and Humalog EU. Thus, PK parameters for 29 
plasma concentration versus time profiles were obtained for each treatment and were included in 
statistical analyses in accordance with the statistical analysis plan. Supplemental statistical analyses 
for the primary PK and PD parameters were performed, excluding one subject who was not compliant 
with study protocol. The results matched closely the original results presented below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 31/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean plasma concentration versus time profiles for SAR342434, Humalog US, and Humalog EU are 
presented in Figure 4 and the results of the relative bioavailability analyses are summarised in Table 
5.  
Figure 4. Mean (+SD) plasma concentration vs. time profiles for SAR342434, Humalog US, and 
Humalog EU in study PDY12704 
Table 5. Relative bioavailability analysis of INS-Cmax, INS-AUClast, and INS-AUC for SAR342434 vs. 
Humalog US and Humalog EU, and Humalog US vs. Humalog EU in Study PDY12704 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Insulin lispro, similar to endogenous insulin, binds to the transmembrane insulin receptor that is 
expressed almost ubiquitously in the cells of the human body. The insulin receptor plays a key role in 
the regulation of glucose homeostasis, inducing glucose uptake in peripheral tissues and inhibition of 
hepatic glucose production by decreasing gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 32/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further effects induced by insulin include e.g. increase in lipid synthesis and amino acid uptake, 
decrease in lipolysis and proteolysis, relaxation of arterial walls, increase in potassium uptake etc.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The PD effect of SAR342434 vs. was evaluated using the euglycaemic clamp technique in study 
PDY12704 which has been described in Section 2.4.2 of this report. During the clamp, the blood 
glucose concentration, the glucose infusion rate (GIR), and the amount of glucose needed to keep a 
subject's blood glucose concentration at its target level were continuously measured and recorded 
using the Biostator device (continuous glucose monitoring system, Life Sciences Instruments, Elkhart, 
IN, US). The target blood glucose level was 5.5 mmol/L (100 mg/dL). The study was conducted under 
fasting conditions. 
The Biostator determined blood glucose levels in 1-minute intervals and adjusted the body weight 
standardized glucose infusion rate (GIR) in response to changes in blood glucose using a predefined 
algorithm. During the clamp, arterialized venous blood glucose concentrations, which reflected the 
supply for total glucose utilization of all tissues, as well as GIRs, were continuously monitored.  
The clamp quality, assessed by the individual CV% of blood glucose over the clamp duration (from 
time 0 to the end of euglycaemia), was reliably maintained with reasonable variability [median CV 
values of 6.80%, 6.60%, and 6.20% for SAR342434, Humalog US, and Humalog EU, respectively]. 
Due to noise in the GIR adjustment, the derivation of GIRmax was based upon a locally weighted 
regression smoothing technique for the raw body weight standardized GIR data. 
Body weight standardized GIR vs. time curve from 0 to 12 hours (GIR-AUC0-12) was the primary PD 
endpoint specified in the study protocol. In accordance with Guideline 
EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005_Rev.1 in the evaluation of this application, GIR max was also 
considered a primary PD endpoint. 
Treatment ratios with 90% and 95% confidence intervals for GIR-AUC0-12 and GIRmax were calculated 
in accordance with the statistical analysis plan using similar statistical methodology as was used for 
primary PK parameters.  
Mean smoothed GIR profiles are displayed in Figure 5. 
Figure 5. Overlay plots of mean smoothed GIR profiles in study PDY12704 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 33/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Point estimates for between-treatment GIR-AUC0-12 and GIRmax ratios and the corresponding 90% and 
95% CIs are provided in Table 6.  
Table 6. Comparability of GIR-AUC0-12 and GIRmax for SAR342434 vs. Humalog US and Humalog EU, 
and Humalog US vs. Humalog EU in study PDY12704 
Parameter 
GIR-AUC0-12h (mg/kg) 
GIR max (mg/kg/min) 
Treatment ratio 
Estimate 
90% CI 
95% CI 
SAR342434 vs Humalog US 
SAR342434 vs Humalog EU 
Humalog US vs Humalog EU 
SAR342434 vs Humalog US 
SAR342434 vs Humalog EU 
Humalog US vs Humalog EU 
1.00 
1.06 
1.05 
1.04 
1.07 
1.03 
(0.94 to 1.07) 
(0.97 to 1.15) 
(0.98 to 1.14) 
(0.93 to 1.08) 
(0.95 to 1.17) 
(0.96 to 1.15) 
(0.98 to 1.10) 
(0.99 to 1.14) 
(0.95 to 1.10) 
(0.96 to 1.12) 
(0.98 to 1.16) 
(0.94 to 1.12) 
 GIR = body weight standardized glucose infusion rate. GIRmax is based on smoothed GIR profiles  
The GIR-AUCs for time intervals of 0 to 2 hours (GIR-AUC0-2) and 4 to 12 hours (GIR-AUC4-12) were 
calculated as secondary endpoints and are presented in Table 7.  
Table 7. Point estimates of treatment ratio of GIR-AUC0-2 and GIR-AUC4-12 with 90% and 95% 
confidence intervals for SAR342434 vs. Humalog US and Humalog EU, and Humalog US vs. Humalog 
EU in study PDY12704 
Parameter 
GIR-AUC0-2h (mg/kg) 
Treatment ratio 
SAR342434 vs Humalog US 
SAR342434 vs Humalog EU 
Humalog US vs Humalog EU 
GIR-AUC4-12h (mg/kg)  SAR342434 vs Humalog US 
SAR342434 vs Humalog EU 
Humalog US vs Humalog EU 
Estimate  90% CI  
95% CI 
1.13 
1.13  
1.01 
0.81 
0.94 
1.17 
(1.05 to 1.21) 
(1.04 to 1.23) 
(1.02 to 1.27) 
(0.99 to 1.29) 
(0.90 to 1.12) 
(0.88 to 1.15) 
(0.61 to 1.06) 
(0.58 to 1.12) 
(0.72 to 1.24) 
(0.68 to 1.31) 
(0.92 to 1.48) 
(0.88 to 1.55) 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 34/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to GIR onset [mean (SD)] was 0.27 (0.15) hours, 0.35 (0.17) hours, and 0.35 (0.22) hours for 
SAR342434, Humalog US, and Humalog EU, respectively. GIR-t max [mean (SD)] was 2.07 (0.78) 
hours, 2.30 (0.83) hours, and 2.37 (0.85) hours for SAR342434, Humalog US, and Humalog EU, 
respectively. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Design of the clamp study PDY12704, including blinding, population (patients with T1DM), insulin 
dosage, pre-study and within-study fasting, target blood glucose level, and duration of clamp, were in 
accordance with the Guideline on non-clinical and clinical development of similar biological medicinal 
products containing recombinant human insulin and insulin analogues (EMEA/CHMP/ BMWP/32775/ 
2005_Rev. 1). 
There was some deviation from the Guideline with regards to the selected primary endpoints of the 
study. In assessment of the current application the following were considered as primary endpoints: 
• 
• 
PK: AUC0-last and Cmax 
PD: GIR-AUC0-12 and GIRmax 
in accordance with the Guideline. 
The 12-hour study sufficiently covered the PK profile of insulin lispro: only 4 subjects had quantifiable 
concentrations (>100 pg/mL) at 12 hours post dose. The PK parameters were calculated using 
conventional noncompartmental analysis, and body weight standardised glucose infusion rate is the 
conventional PD marker in insulin clamp studies. Appropriately pre-defined smoothing technique 
(LOESS, factor 0.06) was used for GIRmax and several secondary PD endpoints. This is in accordance 
with the Guideline and was considered acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetics: 
Mean plasma concentration vs. time curves of SAR342434 and Humalog EU (and Humalog US) were 
comparable. The treatment ratios and 90% CIs for PK parameters were calculated in accordance with 
the statistical analysis plan and using acceptable methodology, and pre-defined biosimilar 
comparability limits (0.80 to 1.25) are acceptable.  
The point estimates [90% CIs] of treatment ratio for SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU for the primary PK 
parameters INS-Cmax and INS-AUClast were 0.96 [0.89 to 1.04] and 0.97 [0.94 to 1.01], respectively. 
The results indicate similar pharmacokinetics between SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU. The results for 
secondary PK endpoints support this conclusion. For INS-AUC, the ratio was 0.97 [0.94 to 1.00]. 
Pharmacodynamics: 
The variability of blood glucose level during the clamp was acceptable. The point estimates [95% CIs] 
of treatment ratio for SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU for the primary PD parameters GIR-AUC0-12h and 
GIRmax were 1.06 [0.95 to 1.17] and 1.07 [0.98 to 1.16], respectively. The results indicate similar 
pharmacodynamic effect between SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU. In addition, similar pharmacodynamic 
effect between SAR342434 vs. Humalog US was demonstrated for the primary PD parameters. 
Regarding secondary PD endpoints, the point estimates [95% CIs] of treatment ratio for SAR342434 
vs. Humalog EU 95% were 1.13 [0.99-1.29] and 0.94 [0.68-1.31] for GIR-AUC 0-2 and GIR-AUC4-12, 
respectively, i.e. outside the equivalence margin (0.80 to 1.25). However, this was not considered to 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 35/81 
 
 
 
 
 
negatively impact on the similarity comparability, as the primary PD endpoints for rapid- and short-
acting insulins as defined in Guideline EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005_Rev. 1, demonstrated similar 
pharmacodynamic effect between SAR342434 and Humalog EU.   
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Results from Study PDY12704 demonstrated similarity between Insulin lispro Sanofi (SAR342434) and 
Humalog. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
As this application relates to a biosimilar product, there is no requirement for dose-response studies. 
The proposed dosing regimens for Insulin lispro Sanofi are identical to those approved for Humalog. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
Study EFC12619 (Sorella-1) 
A 6-month, Randomized, Open-label, Parallel-group Comparison of SAR342434 to Humalog in Adult 
Patients With Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus Also Using Insulin Glargine, with a 6-month Safety Extension 
Period 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria 
• 
Patients with T1DM diagnosed for at least 12 months and treated with Lantus and 
Humalog/Liprolog (as per amendment 2) or NovoLog/NovoRapid (at least 3 times daily before 
each meal) in the 6 months prior to the screening visit. 
•  Signed written informed consent.  
Exclusion criteria (selection) 
•  Male or female; age under legal age of adulthood at screening visit. 
•  HbA1c <7% or >10% at screening. 
•  Diabetes other than T1DM. 
•  Status post pancreatectomy. 
•  Status post pancreas and/or islet cell transplantation. 
• 
Less than 1 year on continuous insulin treatment. 
•  Use of insulin pump in the last 6 months before screening visit. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 36/81 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Use of glucose lowering agents other than insulin including use of non-insulin injectable 
peptides in the last 6 months prior to screening. 
•  Any contraindication to use of Lantus and/or Humalog as defined in the national product labels. 
• 
Pregnancy and lactation. 
•  Women of child bearing potential (premenopausal, not surgically sterile for at least 3 months 
prior to the time of screening) not using highly-effective (ie, with low failure rate <1% per 
year) method(s) of birth control throughout the study and/or unwilling to be tested for 
pregnancy. 
Treatments 
The study design is presented in Figure 6. 
Figure 6. Study design, EFC12619 
SAR342434 was supplied as a 100 U/mL solution for SC injection in 3 mL cartridges in the SoloSTAR 
disposable prefilled pen, allowing a maximum dose of SAR342434 per injection of 80 units and 
minimum dose of 1 unit. Humalog was supplied as a 100 U/mL insulin solution for subcutaneous 
injection in the Humalog KwikPen disposable prefilled pen, allowing a maximum dose of the Humalog 
of 60 units and minimum dose of 1 unit. 
Patients  in  both  treatment  groups  continued  with  their  mandatory  background  basal  insulin  therapy: 
Lantus, injected SC once daily, which was considered to be NIMP. Lantus was self-administered by SC 
injection  once  daily  at  the  same  time  either  at  bedtime  or  in  the  morning,  consistent  with  the  local 
label. 
Any other glucose-lowering agents were prohibited. 
Objectives 
Primary objectives 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 37/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate non-inferiority of SAR342434 versus Humalog 
in terms of change in HbA1c from baseline to Week 26 in patients with T1DM also using Lantus. 
Secondary objectives 
The secondary objectives were: 
• To assess the immunogenicity of SAR342434 and Humalog in terms of positive/negative 
status and antibody titers at baseline and during the course of the study (as per protocol 
amendment 1) 
• To assess the relationship of anti-insulin antibodies with efficacy and safety including during 
the safety extension (Week 52) 
• To assess the efficacy of SAR342434 and Humalog in terms of proportion of patients reaching 
target HbA1c < 7%, Fasting Plasma Glucose (FPG) and SMPG profiles and insulin dose 
(proportion of patients reaching target HbA1c <7% was specified in protocol amendment 1). 
• To assess safety of SAR342434 and Humalog. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was the change in HbA1c from baseline (scheduled at Day 1) to Week 26 
(Month 6) which is defined as: HbA1c value at Week 26 - HbA1c value at baseline (%). 
Results for the primary efficacy variable were also presented in mmol/mol. 
The secondary efficacy endpoints were: 
• Percentage of HbA1c responders (patients with HbA1c <7%) at Week 26 
• Change in FPG (mmol/L) from baseline to Week 26; 
• Change in the mean 24-hour plasma glucose concentration (mmol/L) from baseline to Week 26 
based on the 7-point SMPG profiles; 
• Change in postprandial plasma glucose excursions (mmol/L) from baseline to Week 26 based 
on the 7-point SMPG profiles (difference between 2 hour postprandial and pre-prandial plasma 
glucose values at breakfast, lunch and dinner). 
Other secondary efficacy endpoints were: 
• Change in 7-point SMPG profiles per time-point from baseline to Week 26; 
• Change in 3-point SMPG profiles per time-point from baseline to Week 26. 
Sample size 
The sample size calculation was performed based on the primary endpoint, change in HbA1c from 
baseline to endpoint (Week 26). 
A sample size of 480 patients (240 patients per arm) was considered sufficient to ensure that the 
upper bound of the 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) for the adjusted mean difference between 
SAR342434 and Humalog would not exceed 0.3% HbA1c with at least 90% power. This calculation 
assumed a common standard deviation (SD) of 1.0% and a true difference in HbA1c between the 
treatment groups of zero. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 38/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Randomisation 
The patients were randomised to either SAR342434 or Humalog (1:1) after the screening period, at 
baseline of the 26-week study period. Randomization was stratified according to the patients screening 
HbA1c (<8.0%; ≥8.0%), prior use of Humalog (Y/N) and also geographical region (Non-Japan, Japan). 
Interactive voice response system (IVRS) or interactive web response system (IWRS) was used for 
randomisation. 
Blinding (masking) 
Blinding on patient and investigator level was not feasible due to distinguishable pre-filled pen devices. 
Investigators were instructed to report any information relating to IMP without indicating to which 
open-label treatment the patient was assigned. The assessment of outcomes at sponsor level was 
blinded to treatment until database lock. HbA1c, FPG, and AIA were determined in central laboratories 
blinded to the treatment received. 
Statistical methods 
According to the statistical plan submitted, non-inferiority would be demonstrated if the upper bound 
of the two-sided 95% CI of the difference between SAR342434 and Humalog on ITT population was 
<0.3%. 
Following a protocol amendment, the inverse non-inferiority of Humalog over SAR342434 would be 
demonstrated using a hierarchical step-down testing procedure, if the lower bound of the 2-sided 95% 
CI of the difference between SAR342434 and Humalog in the ITT population was above 0.3%.  
For the primary endpoint, analysis was performed using a mixed-effect model for repeated measures 
(MMRM) approach. The model included the fixed categorical effects of randomisation strata of 
screening HbA1c (<8.0, ≥8.0%), prior use of Humalog (Yes, No), geographical region (Japan, Non-
Japan); treatment group (SAR342434, Humalog), visit (Week 12, Week 26), and treatment-by-visit 
interaction, as well as the continuous fixed covariates of baseline HbA1c value and baseline HbA1c 
value-by-visit interaction. 
Multiple sensitivity analyses for handling of missing data were performed on the ITT population. These 
analyses involved a penalized multiple imputation approach, a tipping point analysis and analyses to 
explore the missing data frequency and pattern. 
All continuous secondary endpoints were analysed using a similar MMRM model as the primary 
endpoint. 
All categorical secondary endpoints were analysed by using logistic regression stratified by 
randomization strata of screening HbA1c, prior use Humalog, and geographical region (Non-Japan; 
Japan). 
Safety analyses were descriptive and performed on the safety population: all patients randomized and 
exposed to at least one dose of IMP, regardless of the amount of treatment administered. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 39/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 7. Patient disposition in study EFC12619 
Among the 254 patients randomized to Humalog, 140 (55.1%) were randomized in sites using 
Humalog US, and 114 (44.9%) were randomized in sites using Humalog EU. 
Recruitment 
The study was initiated on 11 November 2014 (first patient enrolled) and was completed on 1 July 
2016. A total of 89 study centres across 8 countries worldwide enrolled patients. 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol was amended 2 times mainly to clarify inclusion and exclusion criteria and the monitoring 
of patients with elevated AIA titres and to introduce some changes to the statistical analysis plan. 
Major or critical protocol deviations potentially impacting efficacy analyses were reported in few 
patients in both treatment groups (SAR342434: 9 patients [3.6%]; Humalog: 8 patients [3.1%]). In 
both groups, the most frequently reported deviation was the absence of post-baseline HbA1c value 
available for analysis. One patient in the SAR342434 group was included in the study with having 
diabetes other than T1DM. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic and patient characteristics are summarised in Table 8. 
Table 8. Demographics and patient characteristics at baseline in study EFC12619 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 40/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 41/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Disease characteristics of patients are summarised in Table 9. 
Table 9. Disease characteristics of patients at baseline in study EFC12619 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 42/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 43/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant antidiabetic medications 
A similar percentage of patients, 16.2% in the SAR342434 group and 17.7% in the Humalog group, 
took concomitant antidiabetic medications other than the IMP or the NIMP which in most cases were 
other insulin products.  
Numbers analysed 
All randomized patients were included in the ITT population for the efficacy analyses. Of the 507 
randomized patients, 1 patient in the SAR342434 group did not receive the IMP and was not included 
in the safety population. 
Table 10. Data sets analysed in study EFC12619 
Outcomes and estimation 
The primary efficacy analysis results are summarised in Table11. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 44/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11. Primary efficacy endpoint analysis in study EFC12619 - summary of change in HbA1c (%) 
form baseline to Week 26 using MMRM analysis (ITT population) 
MMRM; Mixed-effect model for repeated measures 
The plot of mean HbA1c values from baseline to Week 26 by visit is provided in Figure 8. 
Figure 8. HbA1c (% and mmol/mol) - Mean (+/- SE) by visit during the main 6-month period − ITT 
population − EFC12619 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 45/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Secondary endpoints included the percentage of HbA1c responders as well as change from baseline to 
Week  26  in  FPG,  mean  24-hour  plasma  glucose  concentration,  glucose  excursions  and  7-point  SMPG 
profiles (Table 12 and Figure 9). 
Table 12. Summary of secondary efficacy endpoints in study EFC12619 
Figure 9. 7-point SMPG profile (mmol/L and mg/dL) - Mean (+/- SE) at baseline and Week 26 per 
time point (ITT population) − EFC12619 
Study EFC13403     
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 46/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This was similar to EFC12619, in terms of design, duration andf endpoints investigated, but included 
patients with T2DM.  
Therefore only the results from this study are presented in the following sections of this report. 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 10. Patient disposition in study EFC13403 
Among the 252 patients randomized to Humalog, 120 (47.6%) were randomized in sites using 
Humalog US, and 132 (52.4%) were randomized in sites using Humalog EU. 
Recruitment 
The study was initiated on 14 January 2015 (first patient enrolled) and was completed on 16 February 
2016. A total of 99 study centres across 12 countries worldwide enrolled patients. 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol was amended 1 time mainly to clarify monitoring of patients with elevated AIA titres. 
The only major or critical deviation potentially impacting the efficacy analyses that was identified 
during the treatment period was the absence of post-baseline HbA1c value available for analysis; it 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 47/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was reported in few patients in both treatment groups (SAR342434: 14 patients [5.5%]; Humalog: 6 
patients [2.4%]) who discontinued the treatment before the first HbA1c measurement at Week 12. 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic and patient characteristics are summarised in Table 13. 
Table 13. Demographics and patient characteristics at baseline in study EFC13403 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 48/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disease characteristics of patients are summarised in Table 14. 
Table 14. Disease characteristics of patients at baseline in study EFC13403 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 49/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Concomitant antidiabetic medications 
A similar percentage of patients, 61.3% in the SAR342434 group and 67.1% in the Humalog group, 
took concomitant antidiabetic medications other than the IMP or the NIMP. 
Numbers analysed 
All randomized patients (505) were included in the ITT population for the efficacy analyses; all 
randomised patients received the IMP and were included in the safety population. 
Table 15. Data sets analysed in study EFC13403 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 50/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
The primary efficacy analysis results are summarised in Table 16. 
Table 16. Primary efficacy endpoint analysis in study EFC13403 - summary of change in HbA1c (%) 
form baseline to week 26 using MMRM analysis (ITT population) 
MMRM; Mixed-effect model for repeated measures 
The plot of mean HbA1c values from baseline to Week 26 by visit is provided in Figure 11. 
Figure 11. HbA1c (% and mmol/mol) - Mean (+/- SE) by visit during the main 6-month period − ITT 
population − EFC13403 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 51/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Secondary endpoints included the percentage of HbA1c responders as well as change from baseline to 
Week  26  in  FPG,  mean  24-hour  plasma  glucose  concentration,  glucose  excursions  and  7-point  SMPG 
profiles (Table 17 and Figure 12). 
Table 17. Summary of secondary efficacy endpoints in study EFC13403 
Figure 12. 7-point SMPG profile (mmol/L and mg/dL) - Mean (+/- SE) at baseline and Week 26 per 
time point (ITT population) − EFC13403 
] 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 52/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 18. Summary of efficacy for trial EFC12619 
Title: Six-month, Randomized, Open-label, Parallel-group Comparison of SAR342434 to Humalog® in 
Adult  Patients  With  Type  1  Diabetes  Mellitus  Also  Using  Insulin  Glargine,  with  a  6-month  Safety 
Extension Period (N=507) 
Study identifier 
EFC12619 
Design 
Randomized  (1:1),  open-label,  2-arm  parallel  group,  multicentre  study.  
The total study duration per patient was 2 weeks of screening + 52 weeks 
of treatment + 1 day safety follow-up. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
26 weeks  
2 weeks 
weeks 
26 
extension period 
safety 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority (margin of 0.3% HbA1c on primary end point) 
Treatments groups 
SAR342434 in combination with Lantus 
Humalog 
in  combination  with  Lantus  [US-
Humalog  (US  and  Japan)  or  EU-Humalog 
(France, Germany, Hungary, 
Poland, Spain, Russia)] 
SAR342434  100  U/ml, 
self-administrated  SC, 
immediately 
before 
food  intake,  6  months, 
N=253, randomized 
Humalog  100  U/ml, 
self-administrated  SC, 
before 
immediately 
food  intake,  6  months, 
N=254, randomized 
Endpoints and definitions 
Primary end point 
Change 
in 
HbA1c  (%-
units) 
Change  in  HbA1c  (%-
units)  from  baseline  to 
Week 26  
Secondary end point 
HbA1c <7% 
Secondary end point 
Secondary end point 
in 
Change 
FPG 
(mmol/L) 
in 
Change 
24-hour 
plasma 
glucose 
(mmol/L) 
Percentage  of  HbA1c 
(patients 
responders 
with  HbA1c  <7%)  at 
Week 26 
Change in FPG (fasting 
glucose 
plasma 
mmol/L)  from  baseline 
to Week 26 
Change  in  the  mean 
plasma 
24-hour 
glucose  concentration 
(mmol/L) 
from 
baseline  to  Week  26 
based  on  the  7-point 
SMPG profiles 
Page 53/81 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary end point 
in 
Change 
PPG 
(mmol/L) 
Change in postprandial 
plasma  glucose  (PPG) 
excursions 
(mmol/L) 
from  baseline  to  Week 
26  based  on  the  7-
point  SMPG  profiles 
(difference  between  2 
hour  postprandial  and 
plasma 
pre-prandial 
at 
glucose 
breakfast,  lunch  and 
dinner). 
values 
Database lock 
The  database  for  study  EFC12619  was  locked  on  03  February  2016  (26-
week  treatment  period;  results  in  this  table)  and  on  20  July  2016  (52-
week,  incl.  6-month  safety  extension  period;  results  not  included  in  this 
table). 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis  population  and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
ITT population, week 26 
Treatment group 
SAR342434  
Humalog  
Number of subject 
n=253 
n=254 
Primary endpoint  
n=240 
n=246 
Change in 
HbA1c (% units) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
-0.44 
0.81 
-0.40 
-2.6 : 2.8 
-0.46 
0.88 
-0.50 
-2.8 : 6.4 
Secondary endpoint  
n=253 
n=254 
Proportion of subjects with 
HbA1c <7% 
22.5% (57) 
21.7% (55) 
Secondary endpoint  
n=234  
n=235  
Change in FPG (mmol/L) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
-0.41 
4.54 
-0.65 
-17.3 : 11.5 
-0.55 
5.24 
-0.40 
-16.4 : 16.3 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 54/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint  
n=198 
n=190 
Change 
plasma glucose (mmol/L) 
in  mean  24-hour 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
-0.27 
2.53 
-0.46 
-8.0 : 7.4 
-0.41 
2.39 
-0.53 
-7.0 : 8.4 
Secondary endpoint  
n=181 
n=181 
Change in 
PPG excursion - breakfast  
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
-0.54 
5.58 
-0.25 
-20.0 : 23.2 
0.47  
5.61 
0.36 
-14.7 : 12.7 
Secondary endpoint  
n=185 
n=172 
Change in 
PPG excursion - lunch  
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
0.14 
5.23 
0.07 
-21.7 : 11.6 
-0.25 
5.41 
-0.08 
-15.0 : 18.7 
Secondary endpoint  
n=190 
n=171 
Change in 
PPG excursion - dinner  
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
0.09 
5.41 
-0.28 
-14.2 : 15.7 
0.45 
5.78 
0.65 
-18.2 : 15.1 
Effect 
comparison 
estimate 
per 
Primary endpoint  
Comparison 
groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Difference 
HbA1c (%-units) 
in  change 
in 
Mean 
LS 
difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.06 
95% CI 
[-0.084, 0.197] 
P-value 
0.4270  
Secondary endpoint  
Comparison 
groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Proportion of subjects with 
HbA1c <7% 
OR 
Ratio) 
(Odds 
1.06 
95% CI  
[0.685, 1.632] 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 55/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-value 
ND* 
Secondary endpoint  
Comparison 
groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Difference  in  change  in  FPG 
(mmol/L) 
Mean 
LS 
difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.15 
95% CI 
[-0.537, 0.841] 
P-value 
ND* 
Secondary endpoint  
Comparison 
groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Difference  in  change  in  24-
hour plasma glucose  
Secondary endpoint  
Difference  in  change  in  PPG 
excursion - breakfast  
LS 
Mean 
difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.25 
95% CI  
[-0.153, 0.660] 
P-value 
ND* 
Comparison 
groups 
LS 
Mean 
difference  vs. 
Humalog 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
-0.64 
95% CI  
[-1.469, 0.184] 
P-value 
ND* 
Secondary endpoint  
Comparison 
groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Difference  in  change  in  PPG 
excursion - lunch  
LS 
Mean 
difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.40 
95% CI  
[-0.443, 1.245] 
P-value 
ND* 
Secondary endpoint  
Comparison 
groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Difference  in  change  in  PPG 
excursion - dinner  
LS 
Mean 
difference  vs. 
Humalog 
-0.07 
95% CI  
[-0.953, 0.804] 
P-value 
ND* 
Notes 
*ND = Not done. P-values not calculated for secondary endpoints. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 56/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19. Summary of Efficacy for trial EFC13403 
Title:  Six-month,  Randomized,  Open-label,  Parallel-group  Comparison  of  the  Insulin  Analog  SAR342434  to 
Humalog in Adult Patients With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus also Using Insulin Glargine (EFC13403;SORELLA 2) 
Study identifier 
Design 
EFC13403 
Randomized  (1:1),  open-label,  active-controlled,  2-arm  parallel-group  multicentre  trial. 
The total study duration per patient was 2 weeks of screening + 52 weeks of treatment 
+ 1 day safety follow-up. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
26 weeks 
2 weeks 
Duration of Extension phase: 
26 weeks safety extension period 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority 
Treatments 
groups 
SAR342434  in  combination  with 
Lantus 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
[US-Humalog 
in  combination  with 
Humalog 
(US  and 
Lantus 
Japan)  or  EU-Humalog  (France, 
Germany, Hungary, 
Poland, Spain, Russia)] 
Primary end point  Change 
in 
(%-
HbA1c 
units) 
Secondary 
point 
end 
Secondary 
point 
end 
subjects 
Proportion 
of 
with 
HbA1c <7% 
subjects 
Proportion 
of 
with 
HbA1c 
≤6.5% 
SAR342434  100  U/ml,  self-administrated  SC, 
immediately  before  food  intake,  6  months,  N=253, 
randomized 
Humalog  100  U/ml, 
self-administrated  SC, 
immediately  before  food  intake,  6  months,  N=252, 
randomized 
Change  in  HbA1c  (%-units)  from  baseline  to  Week 
26 
Percentage  of  HbA1c  responders  (patients  with 
HbA1c <7%) at Week 26 
Percentage  of  HbA1c  responders  (patients  with 
HbA1c ≤6.5%) at Week 26 
Secondary 
point 
end 
Secondary 
point 
end 
Secondary 
point 
end 
Change 
FPG 
(mmol/L) 
Change 
24-hour 
plasma 
glucose 
(mmol/L) 
Change 
PPG 
(mmol/L) 
in 
Change  in  FPG  (fasting  plasma  glucose  mmol/L) 
from baseline to Week 26 
in 
Change  in  the  mean  24-hour  plasma  glucose 
concentration  (mmol/L)  from  baseline  to  Week  26 
based on the 7-point SMPG profiles 
in 
Change  in  postprandial  plasma  glucose  (PPG) 
excursions  (mmol/L)  from  baseline  to  Week  26 
based  on  the  7-point  SMPG  profiles  (difference 
between  2  hour  postprandial  and  pre-prandial 
plasma  glucose  values  at  breakfast,  lunch  and 
dinner). 
Database lock 
11 April 2016. 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis 
and 
population 
point 
time 
ITT population, week 26 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 57/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Treatment group 
SAR342434  
Humalog  
Number of subject 
n=253 
n=252 
Primary endpoint  
n=231 
n=232 
−0.93 
0.97 
−0.90 
−3.9 : 2.7 
n=253 
−0.88 
0.84 
-0.80 
−3.5 : 1.7 
n=252 
of 
42.3% (107) 
40.5% (102) 
n=253 
n=252 
of 
27.3% (69) 
24.2% (61) 
n=220 
n=220 
−0.65 
2.92 
−0.64 
−8.9 : 15.1 
−0.60 
3.34 
−0.42 
−10.8 : 13.7 
n=180 
n=189 
−1.06 
2.65 
−1.01 
−7.9 : 12.6 
−0.85 
1.98 
−0.55 
−7.2 : 4.1 
n=171 
n=184 
Change in 
HbA1c(% units) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Proportion 
subjects with 
HbA1c <7% 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Proportion 
subjects with 
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
Secondary 
endpoint  
in  FPG 
Change 
(mmol/L) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Change  in  mean 
24-hour  plasma 
glucose 
(mmol/L) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Change in 
PPG  excursion  - 
breakfast  
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
−0.72 
4.18 
−0.89 
−11.9 : 12.7 
−0.14 
3.93 
−0.26 
−11.8 : 12.1 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 58/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Change in 
PPG  excursion  - 
lunch  
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
Secondary 
endpoint  
n=170 
n=174 
−0.38 
4.36 
−0.44 
−13.6 : 19.3 
0.10 
4.32 
0.04 
−12.2 : 20.6 
n=167 
n=168 
Change in 
PPG  excursion  - 
dinner  
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min/Max 
0.14 
4.37 
−0.47 
−11.4 : 16.5 
−0.35 
4.56 
−0.04 
−11.5 : 12.6 
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint  
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
Difference 
in 
change  in  HbA1c 
(%-units) 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
−0.07 
95% CI  
P-value 
[−0.215, 0.067] 
0.3039  
Secondary 
endpoint  
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
OR (Odds Ratio) 
1.08 
Proportion 
subjects 
HbA1c <7% 
of 
with 
95% CI  
P-value 
[0.748, 1.566] 
ND* 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
OR (Odds Ratio) 
1.19 
Proportion 
subjects 
HbA1c ≤6.5% 
of 
with 
95% CI 
P-value 
[0.783, 1.803] 
ND* 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Difference 
change 
(mmol/L) 
in 
in  FPG 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Difference 
change 
hour 
glucose  
in 
in  24-
plasma 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.06  
95% CI  
P-value 
[−0.430, 0.547] 
ND* 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog  
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
−0.09  
95% CI  
[−0.464, 0.287] 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 59/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint  
Difference 
change 
excursion 
breakfast  
in 
in  PPG 
- 
Secondary 
endpoint  
in 
Difference 
change 
in  PPG 
excursion - lunch  
Secondary 
endpoint  
Difference 
change 
excursion 
dinner  
in 
in  PPG 
- 
P-value 
ND* 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
−0.48  
95% CI  
P-value 
[−1.127, 0.164] 
ND* 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
−0.05  
95% CI  
P-value 
[−0.749, 0.655] 
ND* 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.21  
95% CI  
P-value 
[−0.525, 0.945] 
ND* 
Notes 
*ND = Not done. P-values not calculated for secondary endpoints. 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
−0.48  
95% CI  
P-value 
[−1.127, 0.164] 
ND* 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
−0.05  
95% CI  
P-value 
[−0.749, 0.655] 
ND* 
Comparison groups 
SAR342434 - Humalog 
LS  Mean  difference  vs. 
Humalog 
0.21  
95% CI  
[−0.525, 0.945] 
Secondary 
endpoint  
in 
Difference 
change 
in  PPG 
excursion - lunch  
Secondary 
endpoint  
Difference 
change 
excursion 
dinner  
in 
in  PPG 
- 
Notes 
*ND = Not done. P-values not calculated for secondary endpoints. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 60/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  efficacy  profile  of  SAR342434  was  compared  with  the  reference  product  Humalog  based  on  26-
week data from two phase III clinical trials, one in subjects with T1DM (EFC12619) and one in subjects 
with  T2DM  (EFC13403).  Both  studies  were  multinational,  randomised,  open-label,  2-parallel  group 
efficacy studies and a total of 1012 patients were randomized. Insulin glargine 100 U/mL (Lantus) was 
used as the mandatory basal insulin therapy throughout both studies.  
The data from the efficacy and safety studies included in the submission were collected in 15 countries 
worldwide. Global standards were followed for study design, choice of comparator and study conduct. 
The comparator was Humalog EU (for patients enrolled in Europe, Turkey, Korea, Argentina, Chile and 
Colombia) or Humalog US (for patients enrolled in US and Japan). As similarity of PK exposure and PD 
activity  between  Humalog  products  from  both  regions  has  been  established  in  study  PDY12704,  this 
was considered appropriate. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  reduction  of  HbA1c  from  baseline  after  26  weeks,  and  the  secondary 
efficacy  endpoints,  i.e.  fasting  plasma  glucose  (FPG)  and  SMPG  profiles,  the  proportion  of  subjects 
achieving  glycaemic  goals,  and  changes  in  insulin  dose  are  typically  used  in  studies  of  anti-
hyperglycaemic medications. 
Both  studies  were  conducted  open-label:  subjects  and  investigators  were  aware  of  subject  treatment 
assignments;  however,  HbA1c,  FPG  and  AIA  were  determined  in  central  laboratories  blinded  to  the 
treatment  received.  In  addition,  at  Sponsor  level,  the  unblinded  treatment  group  allocation  variable 
was  included  in  the  clinical  study  database  only  at  time  of  6-month  database  lock,  to  perform  the 
corresponding  final  analyses.  Summary  results  by  treatment  arm  were  therefore  not  available  to 
anyone  before  the  last  patient  end  of  main  6-month  period  and  corresponding  database  lock.  The 
open-label  setting  on  patient  and  investigator  level  might  have  biased  results  by  affecting  patient 
counselling or other non-pharmaceutical aspects in the treatment of study subjects according to study 
arm. For safety assessment and comparison with the reference product, it is considered appropriate to 
use the prefilled pen device intended for marketing authorisation. Even if non-blinding on the patient/ 
investigator-level  might  affect  efficacy  and  safety,  or  assessment  thereof  by  the  investigators,  the 
open-label design is not expected to affect the crucial issue of immunogenicity assessment.  
The  study  subjects  chosen  for  both  efficacy  and  safety  studies  were  representative  of  target 
populations for prandial insulin. The ethnic profile is considered sufficiently representative of European 
population. Studies were conducted only in adults, which is acceptable, as for a biosimilar no studies in 
special populations are required. 
Allowing only one type of basal insulin is appropriate to reduce confounding by basal insulin effect on 
efficacy  and  safety  endpoints.  As  the  efficacy  and  safety  studies  included  patients  having  previously 
used  as  bolus  insulin  either  insulin  lispro  or  insulin  aspart,  the  studies  yield  clinical  information  on 
changing  from  these  insulins  to  SAR342434.  Therefore,  study  results  may  help  clinicians  when  they 
consider changing the bolus insulin from one rapid-acting to another in clinical practice. 
Overall, the conduct of both studies was acceptable and there were no notable findings that could have 
impacted the robustness of clinical findings and conclusions. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Patient  demographics  and  disease  characteristics  were  well  balanced  across  treatment  arms  in  both 
efficacy  and  safety  studies.  Non-inferiority  in  the  primary  objective,  change  in  HbA1c,  was 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 61/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated  as  the  upper  bound  of  the  2  sided  95%  CI  of  the  difference  between  SAR342434  and 
Humalog was below the pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 0.3% in both studies. 
In  study  EFC12619,  the  observed  LS  mean  change  in  HbA1c  from  baseline  to  Week  26  in  the 
SAR342434 group was −0.42% and the Humalog group −0.47% The LS mean difference between the 
SAR342434 and the Humalog group was 0.06% (95% CI: −0.084 to 0.197). In study EFC13403, mean 
HbA1c  decreased  similarly  from  baseline  to  Week  26  in  the  SAR342434  group  (LS  mean  change 
−0.92%) and the Humalog group (−0.85%). The LS mean difference between the SAR342434 and the 
Humalog  group  was  −0.07%  (95%CI:  −0.215  to  0.067).  The  inverse  non-inferiority  of  Humalog  over 
SAR342434  was  also  demonstrated  in  both  studies  as  the  lower  bound  of  the  2  sided  95%  CI  of  the 
difference between SAR342434 and Humalog was above −0.3% (95% CI: −0.215 to 0.067). 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoint  results  were  comparable  in  both  efficacy  and  safety  studies  with  one 
exception: self-monitored pre-breakfast glucose values at Week 26 in study EFC12619 were higher for 
SAR342434  than  Humalog,  as  the  self-monitored  pre-breakfast  values  for  SAR342434  increased  and 
for Humalog decreased over time. The difference in morning SMPG was reflected also in a difference in 
post-breakfast  glucose  excursion,  as  the  post-breakfast  SMPG  values  were  similar  in  both  arms. 
Potentially the patients injected more prandial insulin or ingested fewer carbohydrates at breakfast in 
the SAR342434 arm to correct for the elevated fasting glucose than the patients on Humalog, who had 
a lower morning level of glucose. The difference on pre-breakfast values is not considered relevant for 
defining biosimilarity, as the pre-breakfast values do not depend on prandial insulin but rather on basal 
insulin  and/or  evening  snack.    Furthermore,  the  more  accurate  laboratory-measured  FPG  was  on 
similar level. For all other time points, the confidence intervals for mean glucose values at baseline and 
at  endpoint  and  for the  change  in  glucose level  over  26  weeks  overlapped.  Overall, the  SMPG  curves 
were similar. 
At all other time points of the SMPG profile showed similar glucose levels, and in study EFC13403 also 
the  morning  SMPG  levels  were  similar.  This  small  difference  observed  only  in  the  T1DM  study  is 
considered a chance finding. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
For the purpose of the clinical biosimilarity exercise for biosimilar insulin products, the evaluation of 
HbA1c is not a sensitive endpoint and therefore efficacy studies evaluating HbA1c are not requested 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005_Rev. 1). Nevertheless, the applicant has conducted two large 
efficacy and safety (phase III) non-inferiority studies comparing the test and reference products in 
order to investigate how PK/PD features of the biosimilar candidate product translate into clinical 
parameters relevant for the management of patients with Type 1 and 2 DM. 
This  data  is  considered  supportive  in  establishing  biosimilarity.  Both  studies,  demonstrated  that 
SAR342434 is non-inferior to Humalog in improvement of glycaemic control by Week 26 and therefore 
provided  strong  supportive  evidence  about  the  comparability/  biosimilarity  of  the  two  products.  The 
12-month  results  of  study  EFC12619  further  supported  similar  clinical  efficacy  of  SAR342434  and 
Humalog in T1DM subjects. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Clinical safety was assessed in one Phase 1 PK/PD euglycaemic clamp study for T1DM (PD12704), two 
efficacy and safety studies for T1DM (EFC12619) and T2DM (EFC13403) and a safety study using an 
external insulin pump for T1DM (PDY13502).  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 62/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Since  the  main  long-term  safety  (and  efficacy)    Phase  III  studies  (EFC12619  and  EFC13403)  have  a 
similar  design  (multinational,  randomized,  open-label,  parallel  group,  controlled  6-month)  safety  and 
efficacy comparisons of SAR342434 and Humalog data were also pooled across these studies to gather 
a  safety  assessment  of  SAR342434  versus  Humalog  in  the  combined  population  of  T1DM  and  T2DM 
patients.  Hypoglycaemia  results  were  not  pooled  across  studies  because  of  the  differences  in  the 
underlying  risk  of  hypoglycaemia.    Furthermore,  study  EFC12619  has  a  6-month  comparative  safety 
extension period. 
In  the  safety  study  using  external  insulin  pump  (PDY13502,  T1DM)  the  main  safety  parameter, 
frequency  distributions  by  treatment  (SAR342434  versus  US  approved  Humalog)  were  provided  for 
number and percentage of patients with at least one infusion set occlusion and also for the number of 
infusion set occlusion events. 
Patient exposure 
In  clinical  studies,  over  1000  subjects  with  T1DM  or  T2DM  received  treatment  with  SAR342434  or 
Humalog  (the  total  number  of  patients  receiving  SAR342434  being  553  patients).  In  addition,  the 
mean duration of exposure to SAR342434 vs. Humalog was comparable. Overall there were 233 T1DM 
patients and 221 T2DM patients exposed to SAR342434 for > 6 months. 
Adverse events 
The results for treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and severe TEAEs are presented in Tables 
20 and 21. 
Table 20. Overview of treatment emergent adverse events during the on-treatment period in Phase 
III studies 
n(%) 
Patients with any TEAE 
Patients  with  any  treatment  emergent 
SAE 
Patients with any TEAE leading to death 
Patients  with  any  TEAE  leading  to 
permanent IMP discontinuation 
  EFC12619 (T1DM) 
  EFC13403 (T2DM) 
SAR342434 
(N=252) 
Humalog 
(N=254) 
SAR342434 
(N=253) 
Humalog 
(N=252) 
108  (42.9%) 
  106  (41.7%) 
118  (46.6%) 
  108  (42.9%) 
8   (3.2%) 
1   (0.4%) 
  14   (5.5%) 
0 
14   (5.5%) 
1   (0.4%) 
  27  (10.7%) 
2   (0.8%) 
1   (0.4%) 
1   (0.4%) 
7   (2.8%) 
6   (2.4%) 
Table 21. Summary of severe TEAEs by preferred term in 2 or more patients in Phase III studies 
Preferred term 
Study EFC12619 (T1DM)  
SAR342434 
(N=252) 
n (%) 
Humalog 
(N=254) 
n (%) 
Study EFC13403 (T2DM)  
SAR342434 
(N=252) 
n (%) 
Humalog 
(N=253) 
n (%) 
Any class 
7 (2.8%) 
10 (3.9%) 
11 (4.3%) 
20 (7.9%) 
Hypoglycaemic unconsciousness 
2 (0.8%) 
Hypoglycaemia 
Diabetic ketoacidosis 
0 
0 
3 (1.2%) 
2 (0.8%) 
2 (0.8%) 
2 (0.8%) 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.8%) 
1 (0.4%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 63/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred term 
Study EFC12619 (T1DM)  
SAR342434 
(N=252) 
n (%) 
Humalog 
(N=254) 
n (%) 
Study EFC13403 (T2DM)  
SAR342434 
(N=252) 
n (%) 
Humalog 
(N=253) 
n (%) 
Atrial fibrillation 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.8%) 
Based on the pooled data of Phase III studies, the  percentage of patients with any  TEAEs  was in the 
SAR342434 group (44.8%) and Humalog group (42.3%). Events with severe intensity were reported in 
3.6%  of  the  patients  treated  with  SAR342434  and  in  5.9%  of  the  patients  treated  with  Humalog. 
Further,  TEAEs  related  to  IMP  were  reported  in  22  (4.4%)  SAR342434  treated  patients  and  in  15 
(3.0%)  in  Humalog  treated  patients;  the  most  frequently  reported  were  general  disorders  and 
administration  site  conditions  (SAR3424341  group  1.4%  and  Humalog  group  0.6%)  and  injury, 
poisoning and procedural complications (SAR342434 group 0.8% and Humalog group 1.2%). 
PDY12704 (T1DM) 
Treatment-emergent  adverse  events  were  reported  in  6/29  subjects  following  administration  of 
SAR342434, 6/29 subjects following administration of Humalog US-approved, and 3 out of 29 subjects 
following  administration  of  Humalog  EU-approved.  Altogether  5  (17.2%)  subjects  reported  5  AEs  of 
headache  following  administration  of  SAR342434,  4  (13.8%)  subjects  reported  4  AEs  following 
administration  of  Humalog  US  and  2  (6.9%)  subjects  reported  2  AEs  of  headache  following 
administration of Humalog EU. None of the TEAEs were severe.  
PDY13502 (T1DM)  
Altogether  three  (12%)  SAR342434-treated  patients  and  four  (14.8%)  Humalog-treated  patients 
reported  at  least  one  TEAE.  The  most  frequently  reported  TEAEs  at  the  HLT  level  were  upper 
respiratory  tract  infections  (4%  for  SAR342434  versus  7.4%  for  Humalog)  and  potassium  imbalance 
(none  in  SAR342434  group  versus  7.4%  patients  in  Humalog  group).  No  patient  in  the  SAR342434 
group reported any TEAE related to IMP.  
The number of patients who had at least one infusion set occlusion during the on-treatment period, 
defined as failure to correct hyperglycaemia by insulin bolus via the insulin pump (excluding pump 
malfunction) was 6/25 (24%) in the SAR342434 group and 4/27 (14.8%) in the Humalog group (risk 
estimate of 22.5% versus 14.6% respectively) with a risk difference for SAR342434 versus Humalog of 
7.9% (95% CI [-1.90% to 17.73%]). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious TEAEs were reported in 8 subjects (3.2%) in the SAR342434 group and in 14 subjects (5.5%) 
in  the  Humalog  group  (5.5%)  in  study  EFC12619  (T1DM).  The  reported  serious  TEAE  were 
hypoglycaemia in one patient (0.4%) in SAR342434 group and 2 patients (0.8%) in Humalog group. In 
addition,  hypoglycaemic  unconsciousness  was  reported  in  SAR342434  group  (0.8%;  2  patients  with 
each 1 event) and in Humalog group (1.6%; 4 patients with each 1 event).  
Serious TEAEs were reported in 14 subjects (5.5 %) in the SAR342434 group and 27 subjects (10.7%) 
in the Humalog group in EFC13403 study (T2DM). There were events from the cardiac disorders SOC 
in  the  Humalog  group  (11  patients  [4.4%])  and  in  the  SAR342434  group  (3  patients  [1.2%]).  The 
reported  serious  TEAE  were  angina  pectoris  in  Humalog  group  1.2%  (3  patients)  and  cardiac  failure 
congestive  in  SAR342434  group  in  0.4%  of  patients  (1  patient)  and  in  Humalog  group  0.8%  (2 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 64/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients).  Severe  hypoglycaemia  was  reported  as  an  SAE  in  2  patients  (0.8%)  in  both  treatment 
groups: SAR34234 group as hypoglycaemia and Humalog group as hypoglycaemia unconsciousness  
Moreover,  in  PDY13502  (T1DM)  study  one  patient  (3.7%)  in  the  Humalog  group  experienced  3 
treatment-emergent SAEs: cardiorespiratory arrest, hypoglycaemia and accidental overdose with fatal 
outcome.   
Altogether  five  on-treatment  deaths  were  reported.  In  EFC12619  (T1DM)  study  one  death  was 
reported in the SAR342434 group and not considered related to IMP.  
Three  deaths  were  reported  in  EFC13403  (T2DM)  study:  one  patient  in  the  SAR342434  group  and  2 
patients in the Humalog group. None of these deaths were considered related either to the IMP or to 
Humalog.   
Adverse Events of special interest 
Hypoglycaemia 
Hypoglycaemia  was  reported  as  an  SAE  only  if  it  was  associated  with  clinical  symptoms  such  as 
seizure,  unconsciousness  or  coma  or  SAE  criteria  were  met.  The  threshold  of  plasma  glucose  ≤3.9 
mmol/L (70 mg/dL) was defined as hypoglycaemia. 
The incidence of hypoglycaemia and number of hypoglycaemic events and rate per patient-year in both 
Phase III studies are summarised in Tables 22 and 23. 
Table 22. Number (%) of patients with at least one hypoglycaemia during the 6-month on-treatment 
period in Phase III studies 
Any hypoglycaemia 
  EFC12619 (T1DM) 
SAR342434 
(N=252) 
249   (98.8%) 
Humalog 
(N=254) 
  253   (99.6%) 
  EFC13403 (T2DM) 
SAR342434 
(N=253) 
173   (68.4%) 
Humalog 
(N=252) 
  188   (74.6%) 
Severe hypoglycaemia 
20 
 (7.9%) 
19 
 (7.5%) 
6 
 (2.4%) 
4 
 (1.6%) 
Documented symptomatic hypoglycaemia 
≤3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) 
<3.0 mmol/L (54 mg/dL) 
214   (84.9%) 
159   (63.1%) 
  225   (88.6%) 
  177   (69.7%) 
152   (60.1%) 
73   (28.9%) 
  167   (66.3%) 
69   (27.4%) 
Asymptomatic hypoglycaemia 
≤3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) 
<3.0 mmol/L (54 mg/dL) 
Severe and/or confirmed hypoglycaemia  
238   (94.4%) 
167   (66.3%) 
  241   (94.9%) 
  180   (70.9%) 
89   (35.2%) 
26   (10.3%) 
94   (37.3%) 
32   (12.7%) 
≤3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) 
<3.0 mmol/L (54 mg/dL) 
247   (98.0%) 
216   (85.7%) 
  253   (99.6%) 
  227   (89.4%) 
169   (66.8%) 
89   (35.2%) 
  183   (72.6%) 
84   (33.3%) 
Probable symptomatic hypoglycaemia 
26   (10.3%) 
24 
 (9.4%) 
9 
 (3.6%) 
16 
 (6.3%) 
Relative hypoglycaemia 
>3.9 mmol/L (70 mg/dL) 
16 
 (6.3%) 
17 
 (6.7%) 
22 
 (8.7%) 
33   (13.1%) 
Table 23. Number of hypoglycaemic events and rate per patient-year in Phase III studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 65/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  study  PDY13502  (T1DM)  Hypoglycaemia  occurred  in  21  (84%)  patients  when  taking  SAR342434 
and in 23 (85.2%) patients taking Humalog. There were no reports of severe hypoglycaemia. 
Injection site reactions 
In  study  EFC12619  the  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  injection  site  reactions  during  the  on-
treatment  period  was  in  the  SAR342434  group  1.2%  (3  patients)  and  in  Humalog  group  0.8%  (2 
patients).  None  of  the  events  were  considered  as  serious.  Altogether  three  injection  site  reaction  in 
SAR342434 group and two in Humalog group was considered as related to IMP.  
In  study  EFC13403  the  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  injection  site  reactions  during  the  on-
treatment  period  was  in  the  SAR342434  group  0.4%  (1  patient)  and  in  Humalog  group  1.6%  (4 
patients).  None  were  considered  as  serious.  Moreover,  one  injection  site  reaction  was  considered  as 
related to SAR342434 and 3 reactions related to Humalog.  
In study PDY13502 one patient in the SAR342434 group and no patients in the Humalog group 
experienced an injection site reaction.  
Hypersensitivity reactions 
EFC12619 (T1DM)  
Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 13 patients (5.2%) in the SAR342434 and 10 patients 
(3.9%) in the Humalog group. 
Hypersensitivity reaction was considered by the investigator as related to IMP in 1 patient in the 
SAR342434 group (hypersensitivity) versus none in the Humalog group. None of the events were 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 66/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
considered as serious. Further, all resolved while treatment was ongoing with the exception of 2 events 
in each treatment group (SAR342434 group: 1 event of asthma that was ‘not recovered but stabilized’ 
and 1 event of conjunctivitis allergic that was recovering/resolving; Humalog group: 1 event of rhinitis 
allergic and 1 event of eosinophil count increased that were not resolved). 
Altogether, 8 events (SAR342434 group 5 events and Humalog group 3 events) were adjudicated by 
the ARAC: none of the 5 events in the SAR342434 group were adjudicated to be an allergic reaction. 
However, in the Humalog group, 1 of the 3 events was adjudicated to be an allergic reaction 
(urticaria): not related to IMP and mild in intensity.  
EFC13403 (T2DM) 
Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 10 patients (4.0%) in the SAR342434 and 9 patients 
(3.6%) in the Humalog group.    
One event in the SAR342434 group (respiratory failure during a brain surgery) was reported as SAE 
and not related to IMP. None of hypersensitivity reactions led to IMP discontinuation and most events 
were mild or moderate in intensity. Hypersensitivity reactions that were considered by the investigator 
as related to IMP was reported in 1 patient in the SAR342434 group (pruritus) and 1 patient in the 
Humalog group (erythema). 
Among events of hypersensitivity reactions, 4 events in 4 patients in the SAR342434 group and 3 
events in 2 patients in the Humalog group were adjudicated by the ARAC as allergic reactions. Those 
events in the SAR342434 group (seasonal allergy, dermatitis contact, allergy to arthropod bite and 
rhinitis allergic) were all mild as intensity and assessed not related to the IMP. The 2 events of 
hypersensitivity (both pruritus) in one patient in the Humalog group were both mild in intensity and 
assessed possibly related to the study medication. Thus, the event of mouth swelling was considered 
as moderate in intensity and not related to the study medication.   
Laboratory findings 
Haematology (haemoglobin, platelet count, white blood cell count with differential count) and clinical 
chemistry parameters (lipid parameters, electrolytes, renal and liver function) were analysed and no 
meaningful differences between SAR342434 and Humalog were revealed.  
Immunological events 
The immunogenicity of SAR342434 and Humalog was compared regarding formation of AIA; potential 
effects  of  AIA  on  efficacy  (i.e.  effects  on  glycaemic  endpoints  and/or  insulin  doses);  and  potential 
effects of AIA on safety, especially hypoglycaemic events and hypersensitivity reactions. 
Anti-insulin  antibodies  (AIA)  were  measured  in  the  pivotal  PK/PD  study  (insulin  clamp  study, 
PDY12704) at screening and again at the end of the study. However, as the assay used to detect AIAs 
in this study was not validated these results are of limited significance in assessing the immunogenicity 
of the product. 
No  AIA  determinations  occurred  in  the  supportive  study  PDY13502  comparing  the  biosimilar  and 
reference product used as continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion. 
Studies EFC12619 and EFC23403 
In EFC12619, blood samples for AIA were taken at V3 (Day 1, baseline), V4 (Week 4), V6 (Week 12), 
V8 (Week 26; endpoint), V10 (Week 40) and V11 (Week 52, end of the safety extension period of the 
study).  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 67/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In EFC13403, AIA samples were collected at V3 (Day 1, baseline), V4 (Week 4), V6 (week 12), and V8 
(Week 26, end of study). 
AIA were determined in a blinded fashion at a centralized laboratory. 
The anti-insulin antibody population was defined as all patients from the safety population with at least 
one  AIA  sample  available  for  analysis  during  the  main  6-month  on-treatment  period.  An  AIA  sample 
was  considered  as  available  for  analysis  if  the  sample  was  collected  during  the  main  6-month  on-
treatment  period  and  at  least  8  hours  after  the  last  administration  of  mealtime  insulin.  Results  were 
expressed in titres (1/dil). 
Based  on  the  pre-existing  AIA  and  recent  recommendations  for  the  reporting  of  clinical 
immunogenicity,  the  analysis  of  AIA  data  focused  on  the  change  in  AIA  response  observed  following 
the IMP administration using the following definitions: 
• 
• 
• 
Patients  with  treatment-induced  AIAs  were  defined  as  patients  with  AIAs  that  developed de  novo 
(seroconversion)  following  the  IMP  administration  (defined  as  patients  with  at  least  one  positive 
AIA sample at any time during the on-treatment period, in those patients without pre-existing AIA 
or with missing baseline sample). 
Patients  with  treatment-boosted  AIAs  were  defined  as  patients  with  pre-existing  AIAs  that  were 
boosted  to  a  significant  higher  titre  following  the  IMP  administration  (defined  as  patients  with  at 
least  one  AIA  sample  with  at  least  a  4-fold  increase  in  titres  compared  to  baseline  value  at  any 
time during the on-treatment period, in those patients with pre-existing AIA). 
Patients with treatment-emergent AIA (Yes, No) were derived as follows: 
o  Patients  with  treatment-emergent  AIAs  (AIA  incidence)  were  defined  as  patients  with 
treatment-induced or treatment-boosted AIAs. 
o  Patients  without  treatment-emergent  AIAs  were  defined  as  patients  with  neither 
treatment-induced nor treatment-boosted AIAs. 
o 
Inconclusive  patients  (patients  who  could  not  irrefutably  be  classified  as  patients 
without treatment-emergent AIAs were not included in the above categories and were 
listed separately. 
For  patients  with  treatment-induced  and  treatment-boosted  AIAs,  the  peak  titre  was  defined  as  the 
maximal  titre  observed  during  the  on-treatment  period  and  the  kinetics  of  AIA  response  was  further 
classified as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
Transient AIA response, defined as a response detected only at one sampling time point during the 
on-treatment period (excluding the last sampling time point); or response detected at two or more 
sampling time points during the on-treatment period, where the first and last AIA-positive samples 
(irrespective of any  negative samples in between) are separated by a period less than 16 weeks, 
and the patient’s last sampling time point is AIA-negative. 
Persistent  AIA  response,  defined  as  a  response  detected  at  two  or  more  sampling  time  points 
during  the  on-treatment  period,  where  the  first  and  last  AIA-positive  on-treatment  sample 
(irrespective of any negative samples in between) are separated by at least 16 weeks; or response 
detected in the last two sampling time points, irrespective of the time period in between. 
Indeterminate  AIA  response,  defined  as  a  response  where  only  the  last  sampling  time  point  is 
positive and all previous samples are negative. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 68/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-insulin antibody response in Studies EFC12619 (T1DM) and EFC13403 (T2DM) 
At  baseline,  close  to  half  of  T1DM  subjects  participating  in  study  EFC12619  and  one  fourth  of  T2DM 
subjects participating in study EFC13403 were AIA-positive.  
The changes in AIA over the 6-month controlled periods of the two studies are presented in Table 24. 
Table 24. Anti-insulin antibody data − Summary of AIA response during the main 6-month on-
treatment period − Anti-insulin antibody population  
The  majority  of  AIAs  both  in  the  SAR342434  and  the  Humalog  arms  of  the  study  showed  cross-
reactivity    with  human  insulin  (88.2%  and  90.9%),  insulin  glargine  (83.8%  and  86.4%),  and  insulin 
glargine metabolite M1(70.6% and 72.7%).  
AIAs in subgroups defined by screening and baseline factors of patients (age, gender, race, ethnicity, 
baseline  BMI,  baseline  eGFR,  duration  of  diabetes,  prior  use  of  Humalog,  randomization  stratum  of 
screening  HbA1c),  or  by  sites  in  different  geographical  regions,  showed  no  consistent  trends 
suggesting heterogeneity (data not shown).  
When subgroups using US-approved Humalog and EU-approved Humalog were analysed separately, it 
was  found  out  that  in  the  subgroup  of  US-approved  Humalog  treatment  boosted  AIAs  occurred  more 
frequently  with  the  biosimilar  (SAR342434  29.6%;  Humalog  US  13.3%),  whereas  in  the  subgroup  of 
EU-approved  Humalog  the  difference  was  due  to  patients  with  treatment  induced  AIAs  (SAR342434 
18.1%; Humalog EU 12.4%). 
The percentages of patients positive for AIA slightly increased during the 6-month on-treatment period 
similarly  in  both  treatment  groups.  At  Week  26,  30.8%  of  the  patients  in  the  SAR342434  group  and 
29.2% in the Humalog group were AIA positive. The median AIA titres were similar in both treatment 
groups (4.00) and remained unchanged over time, with a maximum interquartile range during the 6-
month on-treatment period of 2.00 to 16.00 in both group. Maximum titres (in both groups 256) were 
found in the SAR342434 group at baseline, in the Humalog group at Week 4.  
In  study  EFC13403,  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  having  used  Humalog  in  the  6  months  prior  to  the 
study,  ie.,  switching  from  commercial  Humalog  to  SAR342434  or  the  comparator  Humalog,  similar 
percentages  of  patients  in  the  SAR342434  group  (31/130;  23.8%)  and  Humalog  group  (27/126  ; 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 69/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21.4%)  were  AIA  positive  at  baseline.  In  this  subgroup,  treatment-emergent  AIAs  were  found  in 
similar percentages of SAR342434 (21/130; 16.2%) and Humalog treated patients (19/126; 15.1%). 
In  study  EFC12619  similar  percentages  of  patients  in  both  treatment  groups  were  positive  for  AIA  at 
baseline  (SAR342434:  47.6%;  Humalog:  49.2%).  The  percentages  of  patients  with  a  treatment-
emergent AIA response (i.e., treatment-boosted or treatment-induced AIAs) during the 12-month on-
treatment  period  were  similar  in  both  groups  (incidence,  SAR342434:  56/248  [22.6%];  Humalog: 
61/252 [24.2%]): 
•  Treatment-boosted  AIAs  were  found  in  less  SAR342434  treated  patients  (19/118  [16.1%) 
than in Humalog treated patients (26/124 [21.0%]). The median peak titre was 16.00 in both 
treatment groups. 
•  Treatment-induced  AIAs  were  found  in  similar  percentages  of  SAR342434  treated  patients 
(37/130 [28.5%]) and Humalog treated patients (35/128 [27.3%]). The median peak titre was 
2.00 in both treatment groups. 
Similar percentages of patients in the SAR342434 group (155/248; 62.5%) and in the Humalog group 
(159/252;  63.1%)  were  positive  for  AIA  at  least  at  one  time-point  between  baseline  and  Week  52. 
Treatment-emergent  AIA  at  the  last  on  treatment  value  were  comparable  in  both  treatment  groups 
(SAR342434: 10.2%; Humalog: 13.5%). 
Additional  analyses  were  performed  to  further  clarify  the  AIA  response  for  studies  EFC12619  (12 
months)  and  EFC13403,  using  for  the  calculations  titres  (unit:  1/dil)  as  continuous  variable  without 
applying  any  titre  threshold.  In  these  analyses,  increased  titres  of  AIA  (i.e.  treatment-boosted  AIA) 
occurred  in  42.4  %  of  AIA  positive  T1DM  patients  administered  SAR342434  and  in  52.4%  of  those 
administered  Humalog.  Occurrence  of  AIA  in  T1DM  patients  that  were  AIA-negative  at  baseline,  i.e. 
treatment-induced  AIA,  was  28.5%  in  patients  administered  SAR342434  and  27.3%  in  patients 
administered Humalog.  
For T2DM subjects, the difference in AIA response in study EFC13403 was found to be smaller when no 
titre threshold was applied in the calculations than in the original calculations.  In T2DM patients who 
were AIA-positive at baseline, an increase of AIA titres (treatment-boosted AIA) occurred in 40.0% of 
patients  in  the  SAR342434  arm  of  the  study  and  in  34.9%  in  the  Humalog  arm  of  the  study.  In 
patients  who  were  AIA-negative  at  baseline,  the  occurrence  of  AIA  (treatment-induced  AIA)  was 
18.4% in subjects administered SAR342434 arm and 15.1% in subjects administered Humalog. 
Impact  of  anti-insulin  antibodies  on  glycaemic  efficacy  in  Studies  EFC12619  (T1DM)  and 
EFC13403 (T2DM) 
No  relationship  between  AIA  levels  and  glycaemic  efficacy  was  seen  in  studies  EFC12619  and 
EFC13403.  Scatterplots  were  provided    in  the  submission  to  identify  any  individuals  with  high  AIA. 
These subjects had a similar change in HbA1c as the study participants in general.  
No differences were noted between study arms in glycaemic endpoints when analysing the subgroups 
with and without treatment-emergent AIA. 
The  primary  endpoint,  change  in  HbA1c  during  the  6-month  controlled  study  period,  was  similar  in 
both study arms in both phase III efficacy/safety trials regardless of treatment-emergent AIA. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 70/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact of anti-insulin antibodies on insulin dose in Studies EFC12619 (T1DM) and EFC13403 
(T2DM) 
In study EFC12619 (T1DM), changes in the basal insulin dose from baseline to Week 26 were slightly 
(about  0.01  to  0.02  U/kg)  higher  in  both  treatment  groups  in  patients  with  treatment-emergent  AIA 
than in patients without treatment-emergent AIA; however, no difference was noted between subjects 
administered  SAR342434  and  subjects  administered  Humalog.  One  patient  in  the  SAR342434  group 
with treatment-emergent AIA (treatment induced) was reported with an increase from baseline of 324 
U (5.83 U/kg) at Week 20 and 210 U (3.98 U/kg) at Week 26, resulting in a higher mean daily dose in 
patients  treated  with  SAR342434  than  in  those  treated  with  Humalog;  but  this  was  confirmed  to  be 
data entry error. Changes in the doses of both lispro insulin products from baseline to week 26 were 
small and not related to treatment-emergent AIA. 
In study EFC13403 (T2DM), changes from baseline to Week 26 in daily doses of prandial insulin lispro 
and basal insulin glargine were similar between the SAR342434 and Humalog arms of the study both in 
the  subgroup  with  treatment-emergent  AIA  and  in  the  subgroup  without  treatment-emergent  AIA. 
Treatment-emergent AIA were overall not related to evolution of insulin doses during the 6 months of 
the study. 
The 12-month data from study EFC12619 showed no relationship between the individual maximal AIA 
titres or titres at Week 52 and the change in total insulin dose from baseline to Week 52, regardless of 
treatment-emergent AIA status. 
Impact of anti-insulin antibodies on safety 
Hypoglycaemia 
Forest plot graphs were given for the  number of patients with at least one hypoglycaemia during the 
on-treatment  period,  stratified  for  each  category  of  hypoglycaemia,  and  according  to  AIA  status 
(yes/no), and no differences between the SAR342434 group and the Humalog group were seen (Data 
not shown).  
In the 12-month results of study EC12619, no differences in hypoglycaemic events were seen between 
study arms regardless of AIA status. 
Injection site and hypersensitivity reactions 
During the 6-month treatment periods of both safety studies, similar percentages of patients reported 
injection  site  and  hypersensitivity  reactions  in  both  treatment  groups  (Table  25).  None  of  the 
hypersensitivity reactions led to permanent IMP discontinuation.  
Table 25. Number (%) of patients with hypersensitivity reactions and injection site reactions by 
treatment-emergent AIA during the 6-month on-treatment period in study EFC12619 and study 
EFC13403 – Anti-insulin antibody population 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 71/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All these events were of mild intensity and resolved while treatment was ongoing.  
One event in the SAR342434 group was reported as a SAE (respiratory failure during biopsy of a 
gliosis; not related to IMP). Events were considered by the Investigator as related to SAR342434 in 1 
patient with T1DM (hypersensitivity) and 1 patient with T2DM (pruritus) and related to Humalog in 1 
patient with T2DM (erythema). 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The two efficacy and safety studies, EFC12619 in T1DM (N = 507) and EFC13403 in T2DM (N = 505), 
provide a sufficient data base to establish the safety profile of Insulin lispro Sanofi. 
No relevant differences were observed between SAR342434 and Humalog in patients with any AEs, 
TEAEs, treatment emergent SAEs, TEAEs leading to death or TEAEs leading to permanent IMP 
discontinuation.  
In T2DM patients, TEAE incidence was slightly higher in SAR342434 treated patients compared with 
Humalog treated patients. However, there were more TEAEs in the infections and infestations SOC in 
SAR342434 treated patients and within the SOC, nasopharyngitis was the most frequently reported PT 
in this patient population. This difference in occurrence of infections and specifically nasopharyngitis 
cannot be addressed to glycaemic control as there was no difference between study arms in glycaemia. 
Thus, this numerical difference is small, and is most likely due to random fluctuation and unlikely 
related to the IMP. 
In the two efficacy and safety studies, the percentage of patients with at least one hypoglycaemia 
reported at any time of the day was similar between the SAR342434 and Humalog groups. The number 
of hypoglycaemic events (rate per patient-year) was higher in SAR342434 group in both Phase III 
studies. However, this imbalance is explained by one patient in both studies. No difference in 
hypoglycaemia risk between SAR342434 and Humalog was identified in any other subgroup analyses. 
In the short-term studies (PDY12704 and PDY13502) no relevant safety differences were detected, 
apart from difference in the proportion of patients with at least one infusion set occlusion in the insulin 
pump study (24% in SAR342434 and 14.8% in the Humalog groups). The Applicant confirmed that the 
difference was due to only two subjects in the SAR342434 group. The difference is not regarded as 
clinically relevant. 
Thus, when assessing the safety according to occurrence of AEs, TEAEs, SAEs, TEAEs leading to IMP 
discontinuation and death, in addition to hypoglycaemia, injection site and hypersensitivity reactions, 
no differences could be seen between SAR342434 and Humalog.  
Injection site reactions were rare and there were no relevant differences between SAR342434 and 
Humalog groups. Further, during the 6-month treatment period of both Phase III studies, very similar 
percentages of patients reported mild or moderate hypersensitivity reactions.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 72/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One of the main focuses of safety assessment of a biosimilar product is based on immunogenicity. 
Anti-insulin antibodies and their potential effects on efficacy and safety were evaluated in the two 
efficacy and safety clinical studies in patients with T1DM and patients with T2DM. At baseline almost 
50% of T1DM patients and 25% of T2DM patients were AIA positive.  
The determination of the clinical significance of AIA in the investigated patient population was difficult 
due to the abundant pre-existing AIA that cross-react with SAR342434 and because of the concomitant 
basal insulin that cross-reacted in the anti-insulin antibody assay. Most of the AIA-positive patients 
were positive already at baseline. The Applicant classified the AIA responses as treatment-induced and 
treatment-boosted. Together, these subgroups form the group “treatment emergent” AIA-responder 
which was considered acceptable considering the difficulties in reliably detecting SAR342434-specific 
antibodies. 
In  study  EFC12619,  no  relevant  differences  between  study  arms  were  noted  in  either  treatment-
boosted or treatment-induced AIA. The total proportion of subjects with treatment-emergent AIA was 
comparable: 17.4% in the SAR342434 group and 17.5% in the Humalog group. In the SAR342434 and 
Humalog  groups,  89.7%  and  91.1%  of  AIA  were  cross-reactive  with  insulin  glargine,  88.0%  and 
90.3%  cross-reactive  with  human  insulin,  and  74.1%  and  71.9%  cross-reactive  with  insulin  glargine 
metabolite M1 (desArg, Arg(B31,B32)-insulin glargine). 
In  study  EFC13403,  the  percentages  of  patients  with  a  treatment-emergent  AIA  response  (i.e., 
treatment-boosted or treatment-induced AIAs) during the 6-month on-treatment period was higher in 
the  SAR342434  group  (46/245;  18.8%)  compared  with  the  Humalog  group  (36/248;  14.5%).  This 
difference  was  caused  by  more  patients  with  SAR342434  than  patients  with  Humalog  with  treatment 
boosted as well as treatment induced AIAs:  
• 
• 
Treatment-boosted  AIAs  were  found  in  12/60  (20.0%)  patients  in  the  SAR342434  group  and 
8/63  (12.7%)  in  the  Humalog  group.  The  median  peak  titre  was  12.00  in  the  SAR342434 
group and 16.00 in the Humalog group 
Treatment-induced AIAs were found in 34/185 (18.4%) patients in the SAR342434 group and 
28/185  (15.1%)  patients  in  the  Humalog  group.  The  median  peak  titre  was  2.00  in  both 
treatment groups. 
In T1DM patients, no difference was found in the incidence of treatment emergent AIA between the 
treatment groups. In T2DM patients the incidence was slightly higher in the SAR342434 group (18.8%) 
compared with the Humalog group (14.5%); patients with treatment boosted (20% and 12.7% in the 
SAR342434 and Humalog groups, respectively) and treatment induced (18.4% and 15.1%), 
respectively) AIAs have both contributed to this small imbalance. Over the 6-month period in both 
studies AIA titres were comparable between treatment groups and remained relatively low. No relevant 
differences were found between patients with treatment-emergent AIAs and those without treatment-
emergent AIAs regarding efficacy (change in HbA1c), insulin dosage, occurrence of hypoglycaemia, 
injection site reactions, hypersensitivity events and general AEs.   
Moreover, the 12-month (6 month controlled period and 6-month safety extension period) results in 
EFC12619 confirmed similar safety of SAR342434 and Humalog in T1DM subjects.  
Contrary to regulatory guidance for biosimilar products, the Applicant did not measure neutralizing 
antibodies. The Applicant justified this deviation from the biosimilar guideline by stating that glycaemic 
efficacy and effects on insulin dose are reliable indicators of neutralizing potency of antibodies.  This 
was accepted, as the clinical study results showed no difference in efficacy between SAR342434 and 
Humalog in T21DM and T2DM subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 73/81 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The size of the safety database and duration of exposure is considered appropriate for the evaluation 
of the general safety profile of Insulin lispro Sanofi. Safety and tolerability of Insulin lispro Sanofi and 
Humalog seem to be comparable and thus support biosimilarity of these two products.  
With  regard  to  immunogenicity,  the  differences  in  the  AIA  response  between  SARS342434  and 
Humalog  were  small  and  inconsistent.  Treatment-emergent  AIA  did  not  affect  efficacy  or  safety 
endpoints in either T1DM or T2DM subjects.  
In conclusion, the safety profile of Insulin lispro Sanofi is acceptable and not different to that of 
Humalog.  
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety concerns 
The applicant proposed the following summary of safety concerns in the RMP: 
Table 26. Summary of the Safety Concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Hypoglycaemia 
•  Hypersensitivity  
•  Oedema leading to congestive heart failure when insulin 
lispro is used concomitantly with thiazolidinediones 
Important potential risks 
•  Medication  errors  due  to  insulin  mix-up  (bolus  or  wrong 
basal insulin) and potential misuse of the pen 
•  Antigenicity 
•  Neoplasms 
•  None 
Missing information 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
No studies are planned with Insulin lispro Sanofi. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 27. Summary table of risk minimisation measures 
Safety concerns 
Routine risk minimisation activities 
Important identified risks 
Additional risk 
minimisation 
activities 
Hypoglycaemia 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Education and information to HCPs and patients through SmPC 
and PL. 
None 
Page 74/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SmPC: 
Section 4.3: Contraindication 
Section 4.4: Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 4.5: Interaction with other medicinal products and 
other forms of interaction 
Section 4.7: Effects on ability to drive and use machine 
Section 4.8: Undesirable effects 
Section 4.9: Overdose 
PL: 
Section 2: What do you need to know before you use Insulin 
lispro Sanofi -Do Not use Insulin lispro Sanofi 
Section 2: What do you need to know before you use Insulin 
lispro Sanofi - Warnings and precautions 
Section 3: How to use Insulin lispro Sanofi 
Section 4: Possible side effects - Common problems of diabetes 
Hypersensitivity  
Prescription only medicine. 
Education and information to HCPs and patients through SmPC 
and PL. 
None 
SmPC: 
Section 4.3: Contraindications 
Section 4.8: Undesirable effects 
PL: 
Section 2: What do you need to know before you use Insulin 
lispro Sanofi - Do not use Insulin lispro Sanofi 
Section 4: Possible side effects 
Prescription only medicine. 
Education and information to HCPs and patients through SmPC 
and PL. 
None 
SmPC: 
Section 4.4: Special warning and precautions for use 
PL: 
Section 2: What do you need to know before you use Insulin 
lispro Sanofi - Warnings and precautions 
Oedema leading 
to congestive 
heart failure 
when 
 insulin lispro is 
used 
concomitantly 
with 
thiazolidinediones 
Important potential risks 
Prescription only medicine. 
Education and information to HCPs and patients through SmPC 
and PL. 
SmPC: 
Section 4.2: Posology and method of administration 
None 
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Section 6.2: Incompatibilities 
Medication errors 
due to insulin 
mix-up (bolus or 
wrong basal 
insulin) and 
potential misuse 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 75/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the pen 
Section 6.6: Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
PL: 
Section 2: What do you need to know before you use Insulin 
lispro Sanofi - Warnings and precautions 
Section 3: How to use Insulin lispro Sanofi 
Prescription only medicine. 
Antigenicity 
Prescription only medicine. 
Neoplasms 
Prescription only medicine. 
Missing information 
None 
Not applicable 
None 
None 
Not applicable 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Humalog package leaflet (for package leaflet content) 
and to Toujeo full user testing (for package leaflet layout). The bridging report submitted by the 
applicant has been found acceptable. 
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Insulin lispro Sanofi (insulin lispro) is 
included in the additional monitoring list as a new biological product. 
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that 
this medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 76/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
3.1.  Therapeutic Context 
3.1.1.  Disease or condition 
Insulin lispro Sanofi (SAR342434) is an insulin lispro that has developed by the applicant as a 
biosimilar. The EU reference product Humalog is indicated for the treatment of adults and children with 
diabetes mellitus who require insulin for the maintenance of normal glucose homeostasis. Humalog is 
also indicated for the initial stabilisation of diabetes mellitus. The applicant is seeking approval for the 
same indications as those approved for Humalog. 
3.1.2.  Available therapies and unmet medical need 
In addition to insulin lispro, there are other rapid-acting insulins available such as insulin glulisine and 
insulin aspart.  
The reason for the development of a biosimilar product is not to fulfil an unmet medical need but to 
offer an alternative to the reference product. 
3.1.3.  Main clinical studies 
The pivotal study was PDY12704, a single-centre, double-blind, randomized, 3-way cross-over 
euglycaemic clamp study conducted under fasting conditions in 30 patients with type 1 diabetes 
mellitus (T1DM). The study compared the PK and PD of SAR342434 to Humalog 100 U/mL registered 
in the US and Humalog 100 U/mL registered in the EU, as well as the PK and PD between Humalog US 
and Humalog EU. This clamp study was considered pivotal for the demonstration of similar efficacy. 
Further supportive information for demonstration of biosimilarity between Insulin lispro Sanofi and 
Humalog was provided by two multinational, open-label, randomized, controlled Phase III studies in 
patients with T1DM (EFC12619) or patients with T2DM (EFC13403), with approximately 250 patients in 
each study arm in both studies. Both studies were 6-month parallel-group studies. The study in T1DM 
patients has additionally a 6-month safety extension period. The purpose of these studies was to 
compare efficacy and safety of SAR342434 to that of Humalog in a broad spectrum of diabetes 
population. As these studies are not formal requirements according to the CHMP Guideline on similar 
medicinal products containing recombinant human insulin, they are only considered as supportive for 
efficacy, and the specific focus of these studies is on the comparison of immunogenicity. 
3.2.  Favourable effects 
From  a  Quality  perspective,  the  applicant  performed  an  extensive  biosimilarity  exercise  with 
considerable  number  of  batches  using  a  statistical  approach  for  setting  similarity  ranges.  Relevant 
attributes  for  the  biosimilarity  studies  for  the  comparison  of  Insulin  lispro  Sanofi  to  both  EU  and  US 
Humalog  products  were  chosen.  The  overall  conclusion  of  this  exercise  indicates  that  the  products 
could be regarded as similar in terms of quality characteristics.  
From a non-clinical perspective similarity was overall demonstrated between SAR342434 and Humalog 
based  on  data  from  a  set  of  in  vitro  bioassays.  More  specifically  similarity  between  the  two  products 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 77/81 
 
 
 
 
 
was  shown  fort  insulin  receptor  binding,  kinetics  and  activation,  metabolic  activities  (inhibition  of 
lipolysis, stimulation of glucose uptake, and regulation of glucose 6-phosphatase gene expression) and 
binding  to  and  activation  of  the  IGF-1R  and  mitogenic  activity  were  demonstrated.  In  addition,  the 
toxicology/toxicokinetic studies also showed comparable results for both, SAR342434 and Humalog. 
From  a  clinical  perspective,  in  the  pivotal  Phase  1  PK/PD  study  in  patients  with  T1DM  the  point 
estimates [90% CIs] of treatment ratio for SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU for the primary PK parameters 
INS-Cmax  and  INS-AUClast  were  0.96  [0.88  to  1.04]  and  0.97  [0.94  to  1.00],  respectively,  indicating 
similar pharmacokinetics between SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU. The results for secondary PK endpoints 
also  supported  this  conclusion.  For  INS-AUC,  the  ratio  was  0.97  [0.94  to  1.00].  The  point  estimates 
[95%  CIs]  of  treatment  ratio  for  SAR342434  vs.  Humalog  EU  for  the  primary  PD  parameters  GIR-
AUC0-12h  and GIRmax were 1.06 [0.95 to 1.16] and 1.07 [0.98 to 1.17], respectively, indicating similar 
pharmacodynamic effect between SAR342434 vs. Humalog EU.  
In  the  Phase  III  studies  non-inferiority  in  change  in  HbA1c  was  demonstrated  as  the  upper  bound  of 
the  2  sided  95%  CI  of  the  difference  between  SAR342434  and  Humalog  was  below  the  pre-specified 
non-inferiority  margin  of  0.3%  in  both  studies:  in  study  EFC12619,  the  observed  LS  mean  change  in 
HbA1c  from  baseline  to  Week  26  in  the  SAR342434  group  was  −0.42%  and  the  Humalog  group 
−0.47%.  The  LS  mean  difference  between  the  SAR342434  and  the  Humalog  group  was  0.06%  (95% 
CI: −0.084 to 0.197). In study EFC13403, mean HbA1c decreased similarly from baseline to Week 26 
in the SAR342434 group (LS mean change −0.92%) and the Humalog group (−0.85%). The LS mean 
difference  between  the  SAR342434  and  the  Humalog  group  was  −0.07%  (95%CI:  −0.215  to  0.067). 
The inverse non-inferiority of Humalog over SAR342434 was also demonstrated in both studies as the 
lower  bound  of  the  2  sided  95%  CI  of  the  difference  between  SAR342434  and  Humalog  was  above 
−0.3% (95% CI: −0.215 to 0.067). 
Also  the  results  for  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  including  fasting  plasma  glucose  (FPG)  and  SMPG 
profiles, the proportion of subjects achieving glycaemic goals, and changes in insulin dose were overall 
similar for SAR342434 and Humalog in both studies. 
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
From the quality point of view it was noted that the glass syringe material used in the stability batches 
differing from that intended for the market. The applicant has initiated stability studies with a sufficient 
number of drug product batches in the glass syringes intended for marketing and has provided 
confirmation that the CHMP will be informed in case of any unexpected trends or out of specification 
results during these stability studies. 
In  the  non-clinical  evaluation,  at  day  29    ~1.7  –fold  higher  Cmax  and  ~1.4  –  1.2  fold  higher  AUC0-8h 
values were reported for Humalog EU –treated animals than those  of SAR342434 –treated animals at 
200 U/kg/day dose group rats. However, these findings are considered not to be of a clinical relevance 
as  there  were  no  differences  noted  in  the  human  pharmacodynamics  and  pharmacokinetic  data 
between SAR342434 and Humalog.  
From the clinical perspective secondary PD endpoints GIR-AUC0-2 and GIR-AUC4-12, the point estimates 
[95%  CIs]  of  treatment  ratio  for  SAR342434  vs.  Humalog  EU  95%  were  1.13  [0.99-1.29]  and  0.94 
[0.68-1.31], respectively, i.e. marginally outside the equivalence margin (0.80 to 1.25). This was not 
pursued further because GIR-AUC0-12h  and GIRmax, which are defined as the primary PD endpoints for 
rapid-  and  short-acting  insulins  in  Guideline  EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/32775/2005_Rev.  1,  demonstrated 
similar pharmacodynamic effect between SAR342434 and Humalog EU in study PDY12704.   
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 78/81 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.  Unfavourable effects 
There were no relevant differences in the overall rate of TEAEs, SAEs, treatment discontinuations due 
to AEs, laboratory findings, hypoglycaemic events, injection site nor hypersensitivity reactions between 
the  treatment  groups  in  any  of  the  studies.  The  adverse  events  captured  mirrored  those  already 
described in the SmPC for Humalog. 
The main safety concerns with all insulin-containing products are hypoglycaemia, and hypersensitivity 
reactions  and  the  incidences  of  these  events  were  similar  between  the  treatment  arms  in  the  clinical 
trials.  In  T1DM  patients,  the  percentage  of  patients reporting  at  least  one  severe  hypoglycaemia  was 
7.9%  in  the  SAR342434  group  and  7.5%  in  the  Humalog  group;  the  corresponding  figures  for  T2DM 
patients were 2.4% in the SAR342434 group and 1.6% in the Humalog group.  
Hypersensitivity  reactions  were  reported  in  13  T1DM  patients  (5.2%)  in  the  SAR342434  and  10 
patients  (3.9%)  in  the  Humalog  group,  and  in  10  T2DM  patients  (4.0%)  in  the  SAR342434  and  9 
patients (3.6%) in the Humalog group. 
In terms of antigenicity, at baseline, close to 50% of T1DM patients and about 25% of T2DM patients 
were AIA positive. Over the 6-month period in both studies, AIA titres remained relatively low in both 
treatment groups. The proportion of patients with treatment-emergent AIA (including incidence of AIA 
in  previously  AIA-negative  subjects  and  increase  in  titres  of  pre-existing  AIA)  was  similar  in  T1DM 
patients  regardless  of  study  arm.  Similarly,  no  difference  between  occurrence  of  AIA  was  noted 
between  study  arms  during  the  6-month  safety  extension  of  study  EFC12619  (T1DM)  when  the 
analyses  were  performed  using  a  threshold  of  at  least  4-fold  increase  in  AIA  titre.  Recalculations 
performed without applying any titre threshold demonstrated overall small differences in AIA response 
between  the  originator  and  SAR342434.  In  T2DM  subjects,  the  incidence  and  increase  in  AIA  was 
slightly  higher  with  SAR342434,  whereas  in  T1DM  patients  slightly  lower  with  SAR342434  than  with 
Humalog. 
No relevant differences were found between patients with treatment-emergent AIAs and those without 
treatment-emergent AIAs regarding efficacy, insulin doses, occurrence of hypoglycaemia, injection site 
reactions, hypersensitivity events and general AEs.  
The  12-month  results  (6  month  efficacy/safety  period  and  6-month  safety  extension)  of  study 
EFC12619 further support similar clinical safety of SAR342434 and Humalog in T1DM subjects. 
3.5.  Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
The number of severe hypoglycaemic events (rate per patient-year) was higher in SAR342434 group in 
both Phase III studies. However, this imbalance is explained by a single patient in both studies. 
Furthermore, the overall incidence of hypoglycaemic events was comparable between SAR342434 and 
Humalog groups. 
In T2DM patients, TEAE incidence with infections and infestations and within this SOC, nasopharyngitis, 
was slightly higher in SAR342434 treated patients compared with Humalog treated patients. However, 
the numerical difference is small, and is most likely due to random fluctuation and unlikely related to 
the IMP. 
Despite  regulatory  guidance  for  biosimilar  products,  the  applicant  did  not  measure  neutralizing 
antibodies.  This  was  justified  on  the  basis  that  the  clinical  effects  in  the  Phase  3  studies,  i.e.  insulin 
doses and glycaemic endpoints, were adequate to assess a potential neutralizing capacity of the AIAs.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 79/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.6.  Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
3.6.1.  Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The applicant provided a thorough comparative exercise in terms of quality, efficacy and safety 
parameters in order to support this biosimilar application.  
3.6.2.  Balance of benefits and risks 
When evaluating a biosimilar application, it is of importance that all parts of the comparability exercise 
point in the same direction, which is the case here. 
Demonstration of structural and functional similarity is the foundation of any biosimilar development. 
Analytical results from comprehensive biosimilarity testing indicate that the products could be regarded 
as similar.  
From a non-clinical perspective similarity of SAR342434 and Humalog has been shown in terms of in 
vitro functionality and of toxicological, toxicokinetic and local tolerance profiles. 
From the clinical point of view the demonstrated PK/PD similarity by the euglycaemic clamp study 
(PDY12704) is considered key for concluding similar efficacy.  
Demonstration of similar glycaemic control with similar insulin doses within the Phase III studies 
supports the favourable outcome of the pivotal clamp study. In addition, no relevant differences were 
noted in the incidence of adverse events, including hypoglycaemic events. 
As biosimilarity in terms of quality, non-clinical, clinical PK and PD, safety and efficacy has been 
demonstrated, the benefit-risk balance for Insulin lispro Sanofi is considered positive. 
3.7.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Insulin lispro Sanofi is positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Insulin lispro Sanofi is favourable in the following indication: 
“Treatment of adults and children with diabetes mellitus who require insulin for the maintenance of 
normal glucose homeostasis. Insulin lispro Sanofi is also indicated for the initial stabilisation of 
diabetes mellitus.” 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 80/81 
 
 
 
 
 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/351195/2017  
Page 81/81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
