EMA/453925/2014  
EMEA/H/C/000441 
EPAR summary for the public 
Insulatard 
human insulin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Insulatard. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Insulatard. 
What is Insulatard? 
Insulatard is a suspension for injection that contains the active substance human insulin. It is available 
as vials, cartridges (Penfill), or pre-filled pens (InnoLet or FlexPen).  
What is Insulatard used for? 
Insulatard is used to treat diabetes. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Insulatard used? 
Insulatard is given by injection under the skin in the thigh, the abdominal wall (at the front of the 
waist), the gluteal region (buttocks) or the deltoid region (shoulder). The injection site should be 
changed for each injection. The patient's blood glucose (sugar) should be tested regularly to find the 
lowest effective dose. 
Insulatard is a long-acting insulin. It can be given once or twice a day, with or without a fast-acting 
insulin (given at meal times), according to the doctor’s recommendation. The usual dose is between 
0.3 and 1.0 international units (IU) per kilogram body weight per day. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Insulatard work? 
Diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the blood glucose or 
when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Insulatard is a replacement insulin which is very 
similar to the insulin made by the pancreas. The active substance in Insulatard, human insulin, is 
produced by a method known as ‘recombinant technology’: the insulin is made by yeast cells into 
which a gene (DNA) has been introduced, which makes them able to produce insulin. 
Insulatard contains insulin mixed with another substance, protamine, in an ‘isophane’ form which is 
absorbed much more slowly during the day. This gives Insulatard a longer duration of action. The 
replacement insulin acts in same way as naturally produced insulin and helps glucose enter cells from 
the blood. By controlling the blood glucose, the symptoms and complications of diabetes are reduced. 
How has Insulatard been studied? 
Insulatard has been studied in four main clinical trials, which included a total of 557 patients with 
type 1 diabetes, when the pancreas cannot produce insulin (two studies involving 81 patients), or 
type 2 diabetes, when the body is unable to use insulin effectively (two studies involving 476 patients). 
In most patients, Insulatard was compared with other types of human insulin or insulin analogues. The 
studies measured the levels of fasting blood glucose or glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c, the 
haemoglobin in the blood that has glucose attached). HbA1c gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. Further studies were also carried out in 225 patients comparing injecting 
Insulatard using a syringe, or using a pre-filled pen (InnoLet or FlexPen). 
What benefit has Insulatard shown during the studies? 
Insulatard led to a decrease in the level of HbA1c, indicating that blood sugar levels had been 
controlled to a similar level to that seen with other human insulins. Insulatard was effective for both 
type 1 and type 2 diabetes, and when using a standard injection or one of the pre-filled pens. 
What is the risk associated with Insulatard? 
The most common side effect with Insulatard (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is hypoglycaemia 
(low blood glucose levels). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Insulatard been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Insulatard’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Insulatard? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Insulatard is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Insulatard, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Insulatard 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Insulatard on 7 October 2002.  
Insulatard  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Insulatard can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Insulatard, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2013. 
Insulatard  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
