Summary of Risk Management Plan for INTELENCE (Etravirine)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  INTELENCE.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of INTELENCE, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about INTELENCE’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
INTELENCE’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package Leaflet (PL) give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  INTELENCE  should  be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for INTELENCE should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
INTELENCE’s RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
INTELENCE  is  authorized  in  combination  with  a  boosted  protease  inhibitor  (PI)  and  other 
antiretroviral  (ARV)  medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus 
(HIV)-1  infection  in  ARV  treatment-experienced  adult  patients  and  in  antiretroviral  therapy 
(ART)-experienced pediatric patients from 2 years of age (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains etravirine (ETR or TMC125) as the active substance and it is given as an oral tablet (ETR 
25 mg, 100 mg, 200 mg).
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  INTELENCE’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
INTELENCE’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  European 
Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/intelence 
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks
Important risks of INTELENCE, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about INTELENCE’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:



Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;

The  medicine’s  legal  status  — the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed,  including  Periodic  Benefit-Risk  Evaluation  Report  /Periodic  Safety  Update 
Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of  INTELENCE is  not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of INTELENCE are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of INTELENCE. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the 
safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (eg,  on  the 
long-term use of the medicine).
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks None
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Not applicable.
II.C.
Postauthorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
INTELENCE.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan
There are no studies required for INTELENCE.
