European Medicines Agency  
Integrilin 
eptifibatide 
EPAR summary for the public 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/327260/2009 
EMEA/H/C/230 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Integrilin? 
Integrilin is a medicine that contains the active substance eptifibatide. It is available as a solution for 
infusion (drip into a vein) and a solution for injection. 
What is Integrilin used for? 
Integrilin is used to prevent a myocardial infarction (heart attack) in adults. It is used in the following 
groups: 
•  patients who have unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain that varies in intensity); 
•  patients who have already had a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction (a type of heart attack), with 
chest pain in the last 24 hours and with abnormalities on the electrocardiogram (ECG) or signs of 
heart problems in the blood. 
Integrilin is given with aspirin and unfractionated heparin (other medicines that prevent blood clots). 
The patients most likely to benefit from a treatment with Integrilin are those at high risk of myocardial 
infarction in the three to four days after the start of acute (sudden) angina. This includes patients who 
are having percutaneous transluminal coronary angiography (PTCA, a type of surgery to clear the 
arteries supplying the heart). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Integrilin used? 
Integrilin should be given into a vein by a doctor who has experience in the management of heart 
conditions. 
The recommended dose is a single injection of 180 micrograms per kilogram body weight given as 
soon as possible after diagnosis. This is followed by a continuous infusion of 2.0 microgram/kg per 
minute which is continued for up to 72 hours, until the start of surgery, or until discharge from the 
hospital, whichever occurs first. 
Patients who have moderate problems with their kidneys should receive a lower dose during the 
infusion. Integrilin must not be used in patients with severe kidney problems. If the patient undergoes 
a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI or angioplasty, a surgical procedure that is used to unblock 
narrowed coronary arteries), the treatment can be continued for up to 24 hours after surgery, with a 
maximum treatment duration of 96 hours. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Integrilin work? 
Integrilin is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This means that it helps to prevent blood clots from 
forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special cells in the blood called platelets sticking together 
(aggregating). The active substance in Integrilin, eptifibatide, stops the platelets aggregating by 
blocking a protein called glycoprotein IIb/III on their surface that helps make them sticky. Integrilin 
greatly reduces the risk of a blood clot forming and helps prevent another heart attack. 
How has Integrilin been studied? 
Integrilin has been compared with placebo (dummy treatment) in a study involving 11,000 patients 
who were in hospital and had signs that they may soon develop a heart attack, or who had already had 
a small heart attack. 
An additional study compared Integrilin with placebo in 2,000 patients who were having PTCA to 
remove a blood clot from the coronary arteries and insert a stent (a short tube that remains in the artery 
to stop it closing). 
In both studies, patients also received other medicines to prevent the blood clotting. The main measure 
of effectiveness was the number of patients who had a heart attack or who died within 30 days of 
treatment. 
What benefit has Integrilin shown during the studies? 
In the first study, Integrilin was more effective than placebo in preventing death or a heart attack 
during the 30 days after it was given. A similar benefit was seen in the second study. The main benefit 
was in the reduction in further heart attacks. 
What is the risk associated with Integrilin? 
The most common side effect with Integrilin (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is bleeding, which 
may be severe. For the full list of all side effects reported with Integrilin, see the Package Leaflet. 
Integrilin should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to eptifibatide or any of 
the other ingredients. It must not be used in patients who have bleeding problems or have a disease 
that may cause bleeding (such as stroke or severe high blood pressure), or in patients with severe liver 
or kidney problems. For the full list of restrictions, see the Package Leaflet. 
Why has Integrilin been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Integrilin’s benefits are 
greater than its risks when used to prevent early myocardial infarction. The Committee recommended 
that Integrilin be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Integrilin: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Integrilin on 1 July 1999. The marketing authorisation was renewed on 1 July 2004 and on 1 July 
2009. The marketing authorisation holder is Glaxo Group Ltd. 
The full EPAR for Integrilin can be found here. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
