SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion and scientific discussion on procedures 
which have been finalised before 1 October 2004. For scientific information on procedures after 
this date please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
Eptifibatide is the active substance of the medicinal product Integrilin. Eptifibatide is an anti-platelet 
agent  with  high  affinity  and  specificity  for  the  Glycoprotein  (GP)  IIb/IIIa  receptor  that  mediates 
platelet aggregation. Eptifibatide is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation and belongs to a new class of 
RGD  mimetics-  arginin  (R),  glycin  (G),  aspartic  acid  (D).  Eptifibatide  reversibly  inhibits  platelet 
aggregation by preventing the binding of fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor and other adhesive ligands 
to the GP IIb/IIIa receptors. Another product in this field is Reopro (abciximab) an antibody directed 
against the GP IIb/IIIa receptors. 
Platelets  and  fibrin  thrombi  are  observed  in  the  pathophysiology  of  unstable  angina  and  platelet 
deposition and aggregation may have a pivotal role also in the acute reocclusion of coronary arteries 
either  after  coronary  artery  reperfusion  with  thrombotic  agents  or  after  Percutaneous  Transluminal 
Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA). Therefore the approach to inhibit platelet aggregation independent of 
the nature of platelet agonist, such as RGD containing peptide, may be helpful in these pathologies. 
Integrilin  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  early  myocardial  infarction  in  patients  presenting  with 
unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction  with  the  last  episode  of  chest  pain  occurring 
within 24 hours and with ECG changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes. 
Patients  most  likely  to  benefit  from  Integrilin  treatment  are  those  at  high  risk  of  developing 
myocardial  infarction  within  the  first  3-4  days  after  onset  of  acute  angina  symptoms  including  for 
instance those that are likely to undergo an early PTCA (see also 5.1).  
Integrilin is intended for use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin. 
Integrilin is formulated as a sterile solution for intravenous (IV) injection in a single dose of 20 mg/10 
ml vial, and as a sterile solution for IV continuous infusion in a single dose of 75 mg/100 ml vial. The 
recommended dose is an intravenous bolus of 180 µg/kg administered as soon as possible following 
diagnosis, followed by a continuous infusion of 2 µg/kg/min for up to 72 hours (96 hours in patients 
undergoing coronary angioplasty). 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition and product development 
Composition: Integrilin is formulated as a buffered, sterile, aqueous solution for intravenous injection 
in a single dose of 20 mg vial of 10 ml, and for intravenous infusion in a single dose of 75 mg vial of 
100 ml. The solution is hypotonic. The ingredients included are citric acid monohydrate and sodium 
hydroxide. 
Containers:  The  primary  package  system  is  a  Type  I  glass  vial  with  grey  bromobutyl  closure  and 
aluminium seals. This package was found to be compatible with the formulation in the ongoing long-
term  stability  studies.  The  secondary  package  system  is  folding  carton  required  to  protect  the  drug 
from the light.  
Clinical trial formula: Early clinical trials were performed with the 2 mg/ml formulation, with sodium 
citrate dihydrate instead of sodium hydroxide. 
Development pharmaceutics: The active ingredient is a cyclic heptapeptid that has a molecular weight 
of  831.96.  It  is  soluble  in  water,  methanol  and  ethanol.  Preformulation  studies  showed  an  optimum 
stability in the pH range between 5 and 6, and a citrate buffer for a pH range of 5.0 to 5.5 was chosen. 
The  method  of  manufacture  is  dissolution  of  the  ingredients  in  water,  and  a  sterilisation  by  aseptic 
filtration.  A  terminal  sterilisation  by  heat  is  not  possible  with  this  active  ingredient.  The  final 
formulation is not oxygen-sensitive. It can be exposed to freeze-thaw conditions (3 cycles between -
20°C  and  room  temperature),  or  stored  for  up  to  45°C  for  3  days  before  use.  The  product  does  not 
1/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
need  to  be  protected  from  light  during  manufacture,  packaging,  distribution  and  administration  (no 
change after one day exposure), but is adversely affected after 10 days of light exposure. The product 
should be kept in its secondary package. The pH specification of 5.0-5.5 at the recommended product 
storage condition is justified by a stability study of batches prepared at the lower and upper pH limits.  
Manufacturing process: The vials are sterilised by dry heat and the stoppers by autoclaving. The drug 
substance is dissolved in 1M citric acid solution and diluted and adjusted for pH. In process control 
tests are performed on the bulk solution, which is then sterilised by filtration (0.22 µm membrane) into 
a collection vessel and then filled into vials. Membrane integrity tests are performed before and after 
filtration as an additional in process control measure. 
Active substance 
Eptifibatide is chemically synthesised and is a cyclic heptapeptide containing six aminoacids including 
one  cysteine  amide  and  one  mercaptopropinonyl  (desamino  cysteinyl)  residue.  An  EDMF  on  the 
active substance has been submitted. The proposed specification is acceptable.  
The retest period is 24 months when stored in a freezer less than -15°C, and the results of stability 
studies support this. 
Finished product 
Specifications of the medicinal product: The controls on the finished product are comprehensive and 
include:  clarity,  colour,  pH,  identification  /  quantification  of  the  active  substance,  particulate  matter 
etc. 
Stability of the medicinal product: Stability studies were performed under ICH conditions but with the 
30°C stress condition in place of the normal 40°C condition. An increase of 1% of the total level of 
impurities has been observed during the storage for 36 months at 5°C. In general, the results after 36 
months of storage show that the quality of the product is satisfactory.  
Shelf life: 36 months when stored at 2 to 8°C. Protection from light is required. 
In  vitro  drug  compatibility  studies  have  been  performed  with  Integrilin  and  Nitroglycerin,  Tissue 
Plasminogen  Activator,  Verapamil,  Metoprolol,  Heparin,  Lidocaine,  Midazolam,  Morphine, 
Dobutamine, Atropine, Furosemide (incompatibility) and Meperidine.  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects  
Pharmacodynamics 
The performed pharmacodynamic studies intended to confirm the role of platelet GP IIb/IIIa complex 
as a mediator of platelet aggregation in different models and to demonstrate the antithrombotic activity 
of eptifibatide.  
Among the different species tested, only the Cynomolgus monkey had platelet GPIIb/IIIa affinity for 
eptifibatide  identical  to  human.  Even  baboons  and  dogs,  which  were  sensitive  species,  had  a 
significantly lower GPIIb/IIIa affinity for eptifibatide.  
The basis for selecting doses related to therapeutic efficacy and hemorrhagic risk was provided in the 
baboon, using the ex-vivo inhibition of platelet agregation as surrogate endpoint. 
Seven pharmacodynamic studies were performed. One of them assessed the effects of eptifibatide on 
GPIIb/IIIa  receptor  binding  and  platelet  aggregation  (human  platelets  in  vitro),  whereas  the 
antithrombotic activity of eptifibatide was assessed in two experimental models of thrombosis in vivo 
in six studies (species: baboon and dog): two studies were performed in baboon in order to assess the 
prevention of occlusion in the extracorporeal circulation and four studies were performed in dogs  in 
order to assess coronary artery thrombosis. 
Eight  studies  that  were  performed  in  guinea  pig,  rat,  dog,  pig,  mouse  and  also  in  human  smooth 
muscle  cells  in  culture,  suggest  that  eptifibatide  is  devoid  of  significant  effect  on  Central  Nervous 
System, cardiovascular, renal, gastrointestinal symptoms and immunological properties. 
Two  additional  in  vitro  studies  (in  M21  human  melanoma  cells  and  in  Human  Umbilical  Vein 
Endothelial  cells)  were  performed  in  order  to  show  specificity  of  Integrilin  on  platelet  GP  IIb/IIIa 
2/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receptors. The studies were designed to compare the inhibition of cell adhesion induced by eptifibatide 
to  that  of  a  reference  substance  specific  of  integrins,  although  the  design  did  not  allow  direct 
comparison of eptifibatide concentration which inhibit platelet aggregation to the concentration which 
inhibits adhesion of these cells. 
Two  additional  studies  were  performed  on  the  ex-vivo  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation.  One  study 
was performed in the baboon and the other in the baboon and in the dog. The ex-vivo and in vivo data 
from  an  experimental  model  of  thrombosis  demonstrate  the  dose-dependent  and  rapidly  reversible 
effect  of  eptifibatide.  The  anti-thrombotic  and  anti-adhesion  activity  of  the  product  was  also 
demonstrated in the dog where eptifibatide exerted protective effects either on the reduction of flow 
after stenosis of the coronary artery or on the platelet number during cardiopulmonary bypass. In the 
dog, eptifibatide was also effective in a model of myocardial infarction, accelerating the rate of rt-PA-
induced thrombolysis and reducing the reocclusion time. 
Miscellaneous  safety  pharmacological  studies  performed  as  preliminary  of  eptifibatide,  have  been 
performed  in  rats  and  mice,  suggesting  that  the  compound  is  devoid  of  activity  in  a  wide  range  of 
pharmacological  tests  on  peripheral  and  central  nervous  system,  on  gastrointestinal  activity  and 
immunology.  Eptifibatide  did  not  cause  significant  lysis  of  human  blood  cells  nor  significant 
flocculation of plasma protein in human plasma. It is shown that eptifibatide did not affect myocardial 
contractility nor the cardiac metabolism in the isolated guinea pig heart and did not affect renal plasma 
flow and renal filtration in rats and dogs.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Eleven pharmacokinetic studies were performed: six of them were single dose and were performed in 
rat and monkeys, three were repeated administration and were performed in rat rabbit and monkey and 
two were in vitro studies in rat, rabbit, monkey and human plasma. 
In in vivo studies, eptifibatide was poorly bound to rat, monkey and human plasma proteins (12-24%). 
In male rats, the plasma half life is about 11-12 min. Eptifibatide was cleared by biliary excretion and 
ultimately, was eliminated mainly by urine, with a lesser amount in the faeces as carbon dioxide. A 
significant  amount  was  found  only  in  liver  and  kidney.  In  pregnant  rats,  the  highest  concentrations 
following intravenous (iv) administration were observed in kidney, bladder, liver and intestinal tract. 
Plasma and urine profile after iv administration in both rats and monkeys, showed that eptifibatide was 
extensively  metabolised  to  the  deaminated  product  and  at  least  3  more  polar  metabolites.  The  latter 
have not been tested for possible pharmacological activity. 
Most drug-derived radioactivity was rapidly eliminated into bile and then excreted via the urine in rats 
and  monkeys  and  about  8-14%  was  eliminated  in  faeces.  In  rats,  about  12%  of  an  iv  dose  resulted 
expired as carbon dioxide. 
Toxicology 
In  vitro  studies  testing  eptifibatide  as  an  antagonist  to  the  GP  IIb/IIIa  receptors  demonstrated  that 
platelets isolated from humans, non-human primates (Cynomolgus monkeys, baboon) and dogs, share 
a similar sensitivity to the receptor antagonists. Hence these preclinical data bear relevance to human 
especially the Cynomolgus monkey which was the animal species that was more useful in calculating 
a safety factor for human use (due to affinity for platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor similar to human). 
Single  dose  toxicity:  the  single  dose  toxicity  has  been  evaluated  in  Sprague  Dawley  rats,  in  albino 
New  Zealand  rabbits  and  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys.  Animals  of  both  sexes  were  administered  by 
intravenous infusion over 90 min and at several doses and were observed for 14 days. At the end of 
the observation period, terminal necropsy revealed no drug related gross pathological effects.  
Repeated  dose  toxicity:  a  14-day  continuous  intravenous  toxicity  study  and  a  28-day  continuous 
toxicity study with a 14-day recovery period were performed in the rat and the Cynomolgus monkey. 
The  single  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  performed  in  rats  and  monkeys  did  not  reveal  target 
organs  or  toxicological  signs  different  from  those  related  to  the  exaggerated  pharmacodynamic 
properties of eptifibatide, i.e. the anti-aggregatory action (haemorrhages). 
Reproduction  studies:  fertility  studies  have  been  performed  in  female  and  male  rats.  Maternal  and 
paternal  reproductive  parameters  were  unaffected.  The  foetal  weights  were  not  affected  by  the 
3/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment.  Teratology  studies  have  been  performed  in  female  pregnant  rat  and  rabbit.  The  uterine, 
foetal resulted unaffected by the treatment.  
Genotoxicity: the clinical use of eptifibatide is limited to short-term dosing, and it has been shown to 
be non-genotoxic in a standard battery of clastogenic and mutagenicity assays. 
Carcinogenicity potential: carcinogenicity studies were not conducted: the short elimination half-life, 
the lack of accumulation in tissues and the short human therapeutic schedule preclude the conduction 
of such studies. 
Local tolerance: eptifibatide did not cause vascular irritation after 15 min infusion in rabbits. 
Special  toxicity  studies:  it  was  found  not  to  be  antigenic  in  guinea  pig  nor  induced  delayed 
hypersensitivity  in  mice.  No  supplementary  tests  have  been  performed  for  neurotoxicity  and 
behavioural toxicity. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical database for this centralised application includes 20 clinical studies. Included among them 
are two phase III large-scale studies IMPACT II and PURSUIT. The proposed indication is supported 
mainly on the results of the PURSUIT study. In all studies, weight-adjusted intravenous administration 
of eptifibatide was chosen as an initial bolus injection followed immediately by continuous infusion to 
obtain a significant acute effect on platelet aggregation followed by maintenance or enhancement of 
effect  over  time.  In  most  studies,  eptifibatide  was  administered  in  combination  with  aspirin  and 
heparin. 
Clinical Pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology of eptifibatide has been evaluated in a total of 18 studies into which 565 
subjects (135 women and 430 men) were enrolled. These included 168 enrolled volunteers, 9 subjects 
with impaired renal function and 388 patients hospitalised for the treatment of coronary artery disease. 
Additional results have been submitted from one large-scale study (PURSUIT), which includes 10,948 
patients  with  UA  or  NQMI.  Most  Integrilin  administration  regimens  in  these  studies  included  an 
intravenous  bolus  followed  by  a  continuous  intravenous  infusion  up  to  96  hours.  Bolus  doses  have 
ranged from 20-250 µg/kg while infusion rates have ranged from 0.2-3.0 µg/kg/min.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism  of  action:  Eptifibatide,  a  synthetic  cyclic  heptapeptide  containing  six  amino  acids, 
including  one  cysteine  amide,  and  one  mercaptoproprionyl  (desamino  cysteinyl)  residue,  is  an 
inhibitor  of  platelet  aggregation  and  belongs  to  the  class  of  RGD  (arginine-glycin-aspartic  acid)-
mimetics. Eptifibatide reversibly inhibits platelet aggregation by preventing the binding of fibrinogen, 
von Willebrand factor and other adhesive ligands to the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptors. 
Pharmacodynamic effects: The pharmacodynamic effects of eptifibatide were evaluated in four studies 
which  correlate  eptifibatide  dose  and  plasma  concentrations  to  the  following:  a)  ex-vivo  platelet 
aggregation  induced  by  ADP  or  TRAP  b)  GP  IIb/IIIa  receptor  occupancy  using  a  Ligand-Induced 
Binding  Site  assay  and  c)  simplate  bleeding  time.  The  data  indicate  that  there  is  a  dose  dependent 
inhibition  of  ex  vivo  platelet  aggregation  and  a  dose  dependent  increase  in  platelet  occupancy  with 
eptifibatide  and  that  there  is  a  strong  relationship  between  concentrations  and  inhibition  of  platelet 
aggregation  or  platelet-receptor  occupancy.  There  is  variability  according  to  the  type  of  measure 
(aggregation  or  membrane  glycoprotein  sites),  the  anticoagulant  (citrate  sodium  or  PPACK)  or  the 
agonist (ADP or TRAP).  
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  eptifibatide  at  a  bolus  dose  of  180  µg/kg  immediately  followed  by  a 
continuous  infusion  of  2.0  µg/kg/min  has  been  demonstrated  in  the  PURSUIT  trial.    At  this  dosing 
regimen,  platelet  GP  IIb-IIIa  receptor  occupancy  (using  PPACK-collected  blood)  was  on  average 
>78%  immediately  after  the  bolus  and  generally  80%  during  the  continuous  infusion  (based  on 
PERIGEE data, a substudy of PURSUIT).  This degree of receptor blockade was associated with 90% 
inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  immediately  after  the  bolus  and  during  24-72  hours  of  continuous 
infusion.  The  degree  of  GP  IIb-IIIa  receptor  occupancy  and  the  degree  of  inhibition  of  platelet 
4/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aggregation  was  greater  for  blood  collected  in  sodium  citrate.  However,  the  very  low  Ca++ 
concentrations  associated  with  citrate  anticoagulation  have  been  shown  to  enhance  the  apparent 
inhibitory  activity  of  eptifibatide  and  therefore  data  obtained  using  PPACK-collected  blood  are 
considered more appropriate. Although platelet aggregation studies in the PERIGEE study (as well as 
PRIDE) used both ADP and TRAP (Thrombin Receptor Agonist Peptide) as agonists, the results using 
ADP are considered more appropriate since they show a better concordance with the degree of platelet 
GP IIb-IIIa receptor blockade. 
Regarding  the  simplate  bleeding  time,  there  is  a  dose  and  duration  -dependent  increase  in  healthy 
volunteers, which reaches approximately a 5-fold increase from baseline with a 2 µg/kg/min infusion. 
This  observation  is  also  generally  supported  by  data  from  earlier  studies,  which  also  showed  that 
eptifibatide  administered  alone  or  in  combination  with  heparin  had  little  or  no  effect  on  simplate 
bleeding time when given at low infusion rates (0.5 µg/kg/min) for short duration (90 minutes). The 
increase  in  bleeding  time  after  eptifibatide  administration  is  rapidly  reversible  on  terminating  the 
infusion.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers and in patients 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of eptifibatide were evaluated in healthy volunteers in three studies. 
These studies show that eptifibatide  plasma  concentrations exhibited a bi-exponential decline with a 
distribution  half-life  of  10-22  min  and  with  a  terminal  half-life  of  1.1-2.4  hours.  Eptifibatide  is  not 
extensively  distributed.  The  apparent  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  was  17-19  l  whereas  the 
central  volume  of  distribution  was  9  l.  Eptifibatide  is  poorly  bound  to  plasma  protein  (<39%).  The 
total clearance of eptifibatide is 136-165 ml/min. The mean renal clearance ranges from 32-44 ml/min 
and accounts for 25-30% of the total clearance. The pharmacokinetics of eptifibatide is linear since the 
area under the curves and steady concentrations increase in a dose proportional manner across a range 
of  IV  bolus  (90-180  µg/kg)  and  infusion  (0.5-2.0  µg/kg/min)  doses.  The  coefficient  of  variation  of 
clearance was 15-20%. 
Special patient groups 
(a) 
The pharmacokinetic data in special populations were obtained from some specific studies and a phase 
III  trial.  In  the  latter  study,  a  population  pharmacokinetic  approach  (NONMEM  program)  was 
implemented  to  determine  population  clearance  by  using  a  single  steady-state  concentration 
determined in 1725 evaluable patients. 
Age: The population pharmacokinetic study showed an inverse relationship of age and weight to the 
plasma clearance of eptifibatide. From 60 years of age, the model predicted a decrease in clearance by 
-5.3% for every decade. The slight trend of eptifibatide concentrations to increase with age does not 
necessitate adjusting the dose. 
Renal  impairment:  Results  of  comparative  study  in  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  (n  =  6 
patients; 47.6 ml/min < Clcr < 59.4 ml/min) and age matched normal volunteers (n = 7 subjects, 72.3 
ml/min < Clcr < 94.5 ml/min) did not demonstrate any significant difference between the two groups. 
In  the  population  pharmacokinetic  study,  the  model  predicted  a  decrease  of  4.6%  in  eptifibatide 
clearance  for  every  10  ml/min  fall  in  creatinine  clearance  from  72  ml/min.  Given  the  limited  data 
available  in  patients  with  low  creatinine  clearance,  eptifibatide  is  contra-indicated  in  patients  with 
creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min. 
Impaired  liver  function:  No  pharmacokinetic  data  are  submitted  in  patients  suffering  from  well-
defined hepatic diseases. Eptifibatide is contra-indicated in patients with clinically significant hepatic 
impairment.  
Paediatric use:  
(b) 
Safety and efficacy in children and adolescents < 18 years of age have not been established. Therefore, 
use in patients younger than 18 years of age is not recommended. 
Interaction studies:  
(c) 
In phase I  or phase II studies, the pharmacokinetic profile of eptifibatide indicated  no evidence of a 
pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  aspirin  and/or  heparin.  In  addition  alcohol,  amlodipine,  atenolol, 
5/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
atropine,  captopril,  cefazolin,  diazepam,  digoxin,  diltiazem,  diphenhydramine,  enalapril,  fentanyl, 
furosemide,  heparin,  lidocaine,  lisinopril,  metoprolol,  midazolam,  morphine,  nifedipine,  nitrates, 
warfarin and tobacco did not seem to affect eptifibatide clearance in the population pharmacokinetic 
study. Given the poor protein binding and the low therapeutic concentrations of eptifibatide there is no 
potential for drug interaction at the plasma protein binding sites. 
Pregnancy and lactation:  
d) 
No  clinical  studies  with  Integrilin  have  been  conducted  in  pregnant  women.  Therefore,  the  use  of 
Integrilin during pregnancy is recommended only if the benefit to the mother outweighs the potential 
risk  to  the  foetus.  It is not known whether Integrilin is excreted in human milk. Interruption of breast-
feeding during the treatment period is recommended. 
Clinical Experience 
The clinical experience with eptifibatide comprises 20 separate protocols, including one pivotal phase 
III  study  PURSUIT,  to  support  the  claim  that  eptifibatide  (Integrilin)  is  an  effective  adjunct  to 
standard therapies in the prevention of the consequences of acute coronary ischemic events associated 
with  unstable  angina  and  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction.  The  IMPACT  II  study  supporting  the 
first submission in the prevention of ischemic cardiac complications in patients undergoing PCIs was 
performed at a lower dosing regimen (bolus of 135 µg/Kg following by a continuos infusion of 0.5 µg 
/kg/min for 20-24 hours) and was considered as non-acceptable by the CPMP in September 1996.  
Efficacy 
Description of the main study (PURSUIT) with regard to UA/NQMI 
Design: This study was a 726-center, 27 country, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study: 
10,948 patients presenting with UA or NQMI were enrolled and among them 4680 were treated with 
the recommended dosing regimen of eptifibatide (180 µg/kg/2.0/µg/kg/min). 
Population: Patients could be enrolled only if they had experienced cardiac ischemia at rest (lasting ≥ 
10 min) within the previous 24 hours and had either ST segment changes or increased CK-MB above 
the upper limit of normal. 
Conventional antithrombotic therapy: 90% of patients received heparin that was administered iv or sc 
at the physician’s discretion. 93% of patients received ASA (75-325 mg once daily). The vast majority 
of  patients  received  acetylsalicylic  acid  (75-325  mg  once  daily)  and/or  un-fractionated  heparin  (iv 
bolus of 5,000 U followed by a continuous infusion of 1,000 U/h), which was administered iv or sc at 
the physician’s discretion. 
Primary pre-specified endpoint: The primary endpoint of the study was the occurrence of death from 
any  cause  or  new  myocardial  infarction  (evaluated  by  a  blinded  Clinical  Events  Committee,  CEC) 
within 30 days of randomisation.  
MI definition  
MI after enrollment was defined by one or more of the following:  
a) 
increase in CK-MB enzymes to a value greater than the upper normal limit and ≥ 3 % of total CK 
at the time of a known or suspected episode of myocardial ischemia and again 8 and/or 16 hours 
afterward, or  
b)  finding of new significant Q waves with duration ≥ 0.04 sec in at least two contiguous leads of an 
ECG obtained within 24 hours of a known or suspected episode of myocardial ischemia.  
The CEC reviewed for occurrence of MI all cases identified by a «trigger program», which continually 
searched the database for any evidence of potential MI according to the above definition (eg, elevated 
cardiac enzymes even moderately, notation of MI by independent core ECG laboratory), including all 
cases  identified  by  the  investigators.  These  cases  were  thoroughly  investigated  by  the  CEC,  which 
could have included requesting additional information from the site that might not have been available 
at the time the investigator completed the assessment of whether an MI had occurred. 
In particular, the CEC adjudication included a formalised interpretation of MI as defined by changes 
in CK-MB or total CK, even in the absence of other signs or symptoms. 
6/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments: Patients were randomised to one of three arms: 
•  placebo (n=4739),  
• 
• 
Integrilin 180 µg/kg bolus + 1.3 µg/Kg/Min continuous infusion (n=1487), or 
Integrilin 180 µg/kg bolus + 2.0 µg/Kg/ Min continuous infusion, (n=4722). 
The infusion was continued: until hospital discharge, until the time of coronary artery bypass grafting, 
or  for  up  to  72  hours,  whichever  occurred  first.  If  PCI  was  performed,  the  Integrilin  infusion  was 
continued for 24 hours after the procedure, allowing for duration of infusion up to 96 hours. 
Secondary endpoints  
Other  relevant  endpoints  (secondary  endpoints)  included  occurrence  of  death/MI  as  assessed  by  the 
investigators at 30 days, death/MI in subsets of the patients (for example stratified by age), at earlier 
time points (for example 96 hours, 7 days), and in patients undergoing PTCA, among others.  
A  follow-up  contact  was  to  be  arranged  for  6  months  after  enrollment  to  allow  assessment  by  the 
investigators of the long-term effects of treatment. 
Events beyond 30  days were not  adjudicated by the CEC, and MI was assessed by the investigators 
only in the interval after 30 days to 6 months. 
Safety endpoints: Safety was assessed by the evaluation of: 
a) 
b) 
c) 
bleeding  complications  (including  haemorrhagic  stroke),  serious  non-bleeding  adverse  events 
(including  non-haemorrhagic  stroke)  and  laboratory  data  collected  during  the  initial 
hospitalisation  
serious bleeding and non-bleeding adverse events reported at the hospital discharge and the 30 
day visit and  
occurrence of stroke between the 30-day visit and 6-month follow-up contact. The intensity of 
bleeding  was  mainly  assessed  according  to  the  guidelines  provided  by  the  TIMI  trials 
(Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction Trials):  
•  major  bleeding  was  defined  as  any  intracranial  bleeding,  or  any  other  bleeding  associated  with 
decrease in haemoglobin ≥ 5 g/dl (or in hematocrit ≥ 15 percentage points)  
•  minor bleeding was defined as: 
•  Spontaneous gross haematuria or haematemesis 
•  Spontaneous or non-spontaneous blood loss associated with decrease in haemoglobin  
•  3 g/dl and < 5 g/dl (or in hematocrit > 10 and < 15 percentage points) 
•  decrease in haemoglobin  ≥ 4  g/dl and  < 5  g/dl (or  hematocrit  ≥  12  but <  15  percentage  points) 
• 
with no bleeding site identified despite a search ;  
Insignificant bleeding was defined as any blood loss insufficient to meet the definitions above and 
by the number and nature of transfusions required. 
Efficacy results 
The  results  were.  analysed  in  the  «all  randomised»  (ITT),  «treated  as  randomised»  (including  all 
patients who received any portion of a treatment regimen)and «as treated» populations. 
The primary analysis was planned to be the «treated as randomised analysis». 
Of  the  10,849  patients  treated,  4,697  were  «treated  as  randomised»  in  the  placebo  group  and  4,680 
were «treated as randomised» in the eptifibatide 180/2.0 group.  
The 2 groups placebo and eptifibatide 180/2.0 were well balanced regarding all baseline variables. 
7/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compared  to  placebo,  Integrilin  administered  as  180/2.0  significantly  reduced  the  incidence  of  the 
primary endpoint events (table 1). This represents around 15 events avoided for 1000 patients treated: 
Table 1 
Incidence of Death/CEC-Assessed MI («Treated as Randomised» Population) 
Time 
Placebo 
Integrilin 
p-Value 
30 days 
743/4,697 
(15.8 %) 
667/4,680 
(14.3 %) 
0.034a 
a:  Pearson’s chi-square test of difference between placebo and Integrilin.  
Mortality  at  30  days  was  3.8%  (placebo)  versus  3.5%  (Integrilin).  Thus  results  on  the  primary 
endpoint were principally attributed to the occurrence of MI. 
The usual ITT analysis also showed statistical benefit. 
Secondary endpoints: 
Among them should be highlighted the following: 
•  The  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  endpoint  events  in  patients  receiving  Integrilin  appeared  early 
during treatment (within the first 72-96 hours). 
•  This reduction was maintained through 6 months on the combined endpoint.  
At 6 months, death or MI had occurred in 19.1 % of placebo-treated patients vs 17.8 % of eptifibatide-
treated patients (p = 0.079), using the CEC definition of MI during the first 30 days, and 13.6 % vs 
12.2 %, respectively (p = 0.028), using the investigator-assessed definition of MI throughout follow-
up. 
The  results  at  6  months  were  not  qualitatively  different  from  those  observed  at  30  days.  The 
significant effect of eptifibatide was on the MI component of the composite endpoint. There was no 
effect on all causes mortality (299/4680, 6.4% in the Integrilin group vs 289/4697, 6.2% in the placebo 
group). 
Although PTCA was a post randomisation event, it appears that for patients undergoing PTCA within 
72  hours  after  randomisation,  there  was  a  31%  relative  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  the  primary 
composite  endpoint  among  those  treated  with  eptifibatide  as  compared  with  placebo:  11.6%  versus 
16.7%,  p=0.01.  However,  most  of  the  Integrilin  benefit  occured  prior  to  PTCA.  Of  note,  there  was 
only  a  7%  relative  reduction  among  patients  who  did  not  undergo  early  revascularisation  (14.5% 
versus 15.6%, p=0.23). 
Post-hoc subgroup analysis:  
The  PURSUIT  study  was  designed  as  a  world  wide  clinical  trial.  The  two  largest  regions  North 
America and Western Europe contributed approximately 80% of the trial population. Special emphasis 
was made on analysis according to geographic region. Both subgroups were similar both in size (3,788 
patients  in  Northern  America  vs  3,665  in  Western  Europe)  and  in  the  incidence  of  events  in  their 
respective placebo arms (15.1% vs 14.9%).  
Although great caution should be brought to subgroup analysis, the greatest benefit appeared among 
North American patients. 
One  of  the  possible  explanations  could  be  difference  in  medical  practice  (i.e.  higher  rate  of  early 
revascularisation procedures in N America as compared to W. Europe). 
Safety results: 
a)  Bleeding.  
The incidence of major bleedings at 30 days in the Integrilin group was 10.8% versus 9.3% in the 
placebo group. The incidence for minor bleedings was 13.1% in the Integrilin group versus 7.6 % 
8/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in the placebo group. The incidence for serious bleeding was 16.6% in the Integrilin group versus 
13.8%  in  the  placebo  group  and  for  life  threatening  bleedings  was  1.9%  in  the  Integrilin  group 
versus 1.1% in the placebo group. Drug infusion was discontinued because of bleeding in 8% in 
the  Integrilin  group  versus  1%  in  the  placebo  group.  Intracranial  bleeding  was  extremely  rare 
(0.1% with eptifibatide and 0.06% with placebo).  
In  the  subgroup  of  patients  undergoing  PTCA  major  bleedings  were  observed  in  9.7%  of 
Integrilin patients versus 4.6% of placebo patients. 
b)  Non-Bleeding adverse events.  
In  PURSUIT,  there  was  no  difference  between  the  two  groups  for  serious  adverse  events.  For 
non-serious adverse events, only the incidence of fever was higher in the PURSUIT group (1.0% 
placebo versus 1.6% eptifibatide). In IMPACT II, the only difference between the two groups for 
serious  adverse  events  was  nausea/vomiting  that  was  slightly  higher  for  Integrilin.  For  non-
serious  adverse  events,  back  pain,  injection  site  reaction  and  hypotension  occurred  more 
frequently  in  the  Integrilin  group  than  in  the  placebo  group.  Of  potential  concern  among  these 
events  is  the  possible  excess  of  thrombocytopenia  observed  in  PURSUIT  and  in  IMPACT  II, 
0.24% versus 0.06% and 0.6% versus 0.1% respectively. 
The main issues addressed during the CPMP meeting of February 1999, were the following: 
1. 
• 
• 
• 
the  clinical  relevance  of  the  benefit  observed  with  eptifibatide  in  the  overall  population  of  the 
PURSUIT study was questionable in view of : 
the small difference in outcome between the two groups (15 non-fatal MI and/or all causes death 
avoided for 1000 patients treated) 
the definition of Myocardial Infarction (MI) (possible asymptomatic cardiac enzyme elevation); 
the  lack  of  benefit  (at  least  a  positive  trend)  for  all  cause  mortality  with  eptifibatide  at  1  and  6 
months  
2. 
sub-groups analysis that highlights inconsistency in the efficacy results : 
• 
• 
• 
• 
small benefit in the medically-managed population for UA/NQMI; 
small benefit in the Western Europe population; 
concerning the first issue the following  data  have been provided  and have  been considered  as 
acceptable: 
Consistency between diagnosis of MI by Investigators and by the CEC 
Table 2: 
Definition of MI 
Incidence of Death/MI at 30 Days 
Placebo 
Eptifibatide 
P value 
CEC 
Investigator & CEC adjudicated 
Investigator Assessed MI 
743 (15.8%) 
422  
476 
(  9.0%) 
(10.0%) 
667 (14.3%) 
338  
380  
( 7.2%) 
( 8.1%) 
0.034 
0.002 
0.001 
All investigator-identified  Myocardial  Infarctions (MIs) were reviewed by the CEC.  For each of the 
definition the subsequent 1 month and 6 month mortality data are provided. MI identified by the CEC 
alone  was  associated  with  at  least  2-fold  lower  mortality  compared  with  patients  for  whom  MI  was 
confirmed only by the Investigator or by the investigator and the CEC (Table 3). 
9/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: 
Incidence of Death at 1 & 6 Months 
Mortality 
(1) 
Investigator 
/ CEC 
Diagnosis 
of MI 
Investigator 
CEC 
1 month 
6 month 
NO 
NO 
YES 
YES 
NO 
YES 
NO 
YES 
9,366 
816 
167 
599 
1.7% 
7.2% 
24% 
22% 
3.8% 
12.6% 
26.3% 
27.7% 
Regarding CK-MB elevation, and in order to validate further the importance of all grades/sizes of MI, 
1-month and 6-month mortality data was based on peak CK-MB after randomisation. (Table 4) 
Both 1-month and 6-month mortality are proportional to peak CK-MB. For instance, 7.4% mortality 
rate at 1-month and 10.6% rate at 6-months when CK-MB>5N. 
Table 4:   
Incidence of Death at 1 & 6 Months 
Peak CK-MB 
1 Month 
6 Months 
≤  1 
x ULN 
> 1 – 2  x ULN 
> 2 – 3  x ULN 
> 3 – 4  x ULN 
> 4 – 5  x ULN 
> 5 
x ULN 
ULN = Upper Limit of Normal 
2.1% 
3.2% 
4.2% 
4.7% 
5.3% 
7.4% 
4.3% 
6.0% 
8.3% 
6.8% 
8.0% 
10.6% 
To further examine the validity of the CEC process a series of outcome analyses have been carried out 
using different definitions of MI (Table 5) based on CK-MB or CK levels at the time of the episode. 
This includes the definition of a MI (> 2x ULN & 3% of total CK).  CK-MB or CK levels reported are 
those  reported  at  the  time  of  a  known  or  suspected  episode  of  ischemia  that  was  adjudicated  as  an 
event (enrolment MIs are excluded).  
This analysis reveals a consistent treatment effect for eptifibatide, whatever definition of MI was used. 
There was an absolute 1.5% event reduction (vs placebo) in patients with an elevated CK or CK-MB, 
but no treatment effect in patients without an elevated CK or CK-MB by these criteria. 
10/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: 
Incidence of Death/MI at 30 Days 
Diagnostic Criterion of MI 
Placebo 
Eptifibatide 
CK-MB 
> 2 x ULN & > 3% of total CK 
487  
(10.3%) 
414  
(8.8%) 
All Others 
258  
(5.4%) 
258  
(5.5%) 
> 2 x ULN 
All Others 
Total CK 
> 2 x ULN 
All Others 
ULN = Upper Limit of Normal 
503  
(10.6%) 
429  
(9.1%) 
242  
(5.1%) 
243  
(5.1%) 
471  
(9.9%) 
397  
(8.4%) 
274  
(5.8%) 
275  
(5.8%) 
Kaplan-Meier curves for each separate end-point “death” and “MI” have been (based on treated as 
randomised population). Each of these analyses revealed a favourable treatment effect for eptifibatide. 
Subgroup analysis  
Since  the  power  of  the  study  was  based  on  the  overall  population  there  is  no  surprise  that  the 
advantage  observed  in  the  trial  population  was  no  more  apparent  in  some  subgroups.  However  the 
applicability of the PURSUIT trial results to the Western Europe population was a concern expressed 
by  several  Member  States  also  in  view  of  the  consistent  apparent  lack  of  effect  in  patients  not 
undergoing PTCA who were over represented in the European population.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pharmacological  experimentation  has  been  adequately  performed  to  demonstrate  the  antithrombotic 
effect  of  Integrilin  and  its  mechanism  of  action.  In  vitro  binding  and  anti-aggregatory  tests 
demonstrated  the  antiplatelet  activity  of  Integrilin.  In  vivo  pharmacology  studies  were  carried  out  in 
several animal species and models. 
Single and repeated dose toxicity studies, performed in rats and monkeys, did not reveal target organs 
or toxicological signs different from those related to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic properties of 
eptifibatide, i.e. the antithrombotic action (haemorrhages). 
Overall the toxicological programme is considered satisfactory. 
Efficacy 
•  The target population of PURSUIT well represented patients suffering from UA/NQMI. 
•  The  pre-specified  primary  endpoint  (combined  endpoint  non-fatal  MI  and/or  causes  death)  is 
considered as a hard endpoint. The timespan (30 days) is valid.  
•  The  results  show  a  reduction  of  death/CEC-adjudicated  MI  from  15.8%  (placebo)  to  14.3% 
(Integrilin). It represents around 15 events avoided for 1000 patients treated.  
11/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  All  degrees  of  enzyme  elevation  were  associated  with  an  increased  mortality  rate  at  1  and  6 
months.  The  maximal  effect  of  Integrilin  was  obtained  within  the  first  72-96  hours  and  was 
sustained within the following 6 months.  
•  There was no significant effect of eptifibatide on mortality at 1 month and 6 months.  
•  Since  the  power  of  the  study  was  based  on  the  overall  population  there  is  no  surprise  that  the 
advantage observed in the trial population was not apparent in some subgroups.  
•  However the applicability of the PURSUIT trial to the Western Europe population was a concern 
expressed  by  several  Member  States  also  in  view  of  the  consistent  apparent  lack  of  effect  in 
patients not undergoing PTCA who are over represented in the European population.  
Considering the above and the magnitude of the overall benefit (e.g. small difference between the two 
groups on the primary endpoint driven by the reduction of early MI incidence), the CPMP considered 
that high-risk patients could benefit more from the Integrilin treatment. 
Safety 
The major complication of Integrilin treatment is bleeding. 
Whatever  the  definition  of  bleedings  is,  there  were  more  bleeding  complications  in  the  eptifibatide 
group, with 10.8% versus 9.3% major bleedings and 13.1% versus 7.6% minor bleedings. Similarly, 
transfusions  were  more  common  in  the  eptifibatide  group  11.8%  versus  9.3%  in  the  placebo  group. 
However, intracranial bleeding was extremely rare (0.1% with eptifibatide and 0.06% with placebo).  
The  PTCA  population  was  exposed  to  increased  risk  of  major  bleeding:  9.7%  of  Integrilin  patients 
versus 4.6% of placebo patients 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The results of the PURSUIT study indicate a significant, though small, benefit of Integrilin in patients 
with  UA  or  NQMI  as  enrolled  in  PURSUIT  regarding  the  prevention  of  death  and/or  MI  (when 
considered  as  cumulative  endpoints).  However  there  was  a  lack  of  Integrilin  benefit  mortality  at  6 
months.  
This result is consistent with a recent meta-analysis published on the GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists 
(reference David F. Kong et al., Circulation 1998: 2829-35).  
Although  the  haemorrhagic  complications  are  the  major  safety  concern,  treatment  with  Integrilin 
reportedly did not increase fatal or non-fatal intracranial haemorrhage or haemorrhagic stroke. 
Based  on  the  available  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
benefit/risk  profile  of  Integrilin  for  the  prevention  of  early  MI  in  patients  presenting  with  unstable 
angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction is considered to be positive.  
Referral  of  the  application  to  the  EMEA  for  further  consideration  of  a  question  of  scientific  and 
technical nature in accordance with Article 10 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93  
On 11 May 1999 the European Commission informed the EMEA that in accordance with Article 10 
(3)  of  Council  Regulation  (EEC)  No  2309/93,  the  decision  making  procedure  had  been  suspended 
following the written observations on the  draft decision  submitted on  09 April 1999 to the Standing 
Committee,  which  in  the  opinion  of  the  European  Commission  raised  a  question  of  scientific  and 
technical  nature.  The  European  Commission  referred  the  application  back  to  the  EMEA  for  further 
consideration at the May 1999 CPMP meeting. 
The  question  related  to  the  wording  of  the  first  sentence  of  section  4.1  of  the  SPC  (Therapeutic 
indication):  “Integrilin  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  early  new  myocardial  infarction”.  Written 
observations  indicated  that  the  word  “new”  could  be  considered  as  confusing  by  the  potential 
prescribers since they could think that the product should not be used in the absence of a “previous” 
myocardial infarction. However, in the PURSUIT trial that is the basis of the Integrilin submission the 
majority  of  the  patients  did  not  present  in  the  distant  past  (e.g.history  of  the  patient)  or  in  the 
immediate past (e.g. at randomization) a myocardial infarction (68% and 55% respectively). Therefore 
the  CPMP  considered  that  the  wording  “Integrilin  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  early  new 
12/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
myocardial infarction” needed to be replaced with “Integrilin is indicated for the prevention of early 
myocardial infarction”.  
Following  transmission  of  the  CPMP’s  reply  to  the  European  Commission  on  20  May  1999,  the 
Standing Committee on Medicinal Products for human use recommended the revision of section 4.1 
(Therapeutic indication) of the SPC for Integrilin as following: 
“Integrilin  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  early  myocardial  infarction  in  patients  presenting  with 
unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction  with  the  last  episode  of  chest  pain  occurring 
within 24 hours and with ECG changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes. 
Patients  most  likely  to  benefit  from  Integrilin  treatment  are  those  at  high  risk  of  developing 
myocardial  infarction  within  the  first  3-4  days  after  onset  of  acute  angina  symptoms  including  for 
instance those that are likely to undergo an early PTCA (see also section 5.1).  
Integrilin is intended for use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin.” 
rather than the original description: 
“Integrilin is indicated for the prevention of early new myocardial infarction in patients presenting 
with  unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction  with  the  last  episode  of  chest  pain 
occurring within 24 hours and with ECG changes and/or elevated cardiac enzymes. 
Patients  most  likely  to  benefit  from  Integrilin  treatment  are  those  at  high  risk  of  developing 
myocardial infarction within the first 3-4 days after onset of acute angina symptoms including for 
instance those that are likely to undergo an early PTCA (see also section 5.1).  
Integrilin is intended for use with acetylsalicylic acid and unfractionated heparin.” 
6. 
ESPRIT trial 
Introduction 
The  MAH  applied  for  a  new  indication  in  patients  undergoing  non-urgent  PCI  with  intracoronary 
stenting for the prevention of death, MI, urgent revascularisation and the need for acute antithrombotic 
rescue  therapy.  A  new  dosage  has  been  developed  for  this  patient  population,  namely  a  double  IV 
bolus of 180 µg/kg with a continuous IV infusion of 2.0 µg/kg (180/2.0/180), instead of the currently 
recommended  dosage  (180/2.0).  This  application  is  supported  by  the  published  ESPRIT  study 
(Enhanced Suppression of Platelet GPIIb-IIIa Receptor with Integrilin Therapy).  
Percutaneous  coronary  intervention  (PCI)  has  become  a  dominant  approach  for  the  correction  of 
symptomatic  coronary  artery  disease,  and  the  widespread  use  of  intracoronary  stents  has  improved 
different outcomes in this setting. PCI with stenting reduces the need for repeat revascularisation at a 
later date. As a result of these technological advances and clinical findings, intracoronary stenting is 
used in approximately 70-80% of PCI cases worldwide. 
Platelets  play  a  critical  role  in  the  development  of  ischaemic  complications  following  PCI.  The 
disruption of the atherosclerotic plaque and deep vessel injury resulting from the mechanical dilation 
of  the  stenosed  coronary  artery  by  the  angioplasty  balloon  and  metallic  stent  stimulate  the  platelet 
cascade (adhesion, activation, and aggregation), leading to intracoronary thrombosis. The generation 
and release of the potent platelet agonists - thrombin, adenosine diphosphate (ADP), and thromboxane 
A2 - induces activation and conformational changes of the platelet GPIIb-IIIa receptors. This results in 
fibrinogen cross-linking and platelet aggregate formation. The end result of this process is a growing 
thrombotic mass composed of platelets, fibrin, and blood cell components that obstruct coronary blood 
flow.  
Six randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials of GPIIb-IIIa inhibitors as adjunct to PCI define our 
current  knowledge  regarding  the  role  of  such  compounds  in  this  setting.  These  trials  comprise  the 
positive EPIC, EPILOG, CAPTURE and EPISTENT trials carried out with abciximab (Reopro), and 
the questionable IMPACT II trial with carried out with eptifibatide. The most recent of these studies, 
EPISTENT, mainly conducted in a high-risk population (73%), directly and successfully addressed the 
13/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
issue  of  whether  the  addition  of  a  GPIIb-IIIa  receptor  inhibitor  improves  outcomes  in  patients 
undergoing intracoronary stenting during PCI. As a result, a major extension of the indication in PCI 
with stenting was granted through a Mutual Recognition Procedure for the reference drug Reopro. Of 
note, the Reopro studies were essentially performed in acute (high-risk) medical conditions (e.g. PCI 
or PTCA for unstable angina, MI…). 
Despite  the  promise  of  improved  clinical  outcomes  using  GPIIb-IIIa  inhibitors  during  PCI  and 
stenting, the use of a GPIIb-IIIa treatment strategy has not yet been uniformly adopted as the standard 
of care in the catheterisation suite. Several challenges appear to have limited universal adoption, most 
notably safety considerations (primarily bleeding), the optimal dose selection of a GPIIb-IIIa inhibitor 
during  PCI  and  the  perceived  lack  of  a  need  for  GPIIb-IIIa  inhibition  in  combination  with  a 
thienopyridine.  This  situation  prompted  an  additional  and  conclusive  evaluation  of  PCI  with 
intracoronary  stents  using  a  GPIIb-IIIa  inhibitor  in  addition  to  the  current  standard  pharmacological 
administration of heparin + aspirin (ASA) + a thienopyridine. This was the basis for the ESPRIT trial, 
focusing on non-urgent (elective) PCI performed on chronic stable or subacute conditions. 
Clinical aspects 
In addition to the data on the ESPRIT trial, the Applicant has submitted a comparative analysis of the 
methods  used  in  ESPRIT  versus  EPISTENT  (a  trial  carried  out  with  abciximab),  and  an  analysis  of 
published literature on cardiac enzyme elevation prognosis after PCI. 
The ESPRIT Study: 
Trial design 
The  ESPRIT  study  was  a  multicentre  (92  centres  USA/Canada),  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel 
group, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of eptifibatide therapy in non-urgent 
PCI  with  stent  implantation  in  native  coronary  vessels.  The  patient  population  represented  a  mix  of 
patients recovering from an ACS and those with stable coronary disease. ESPRIT applied to “routine” 
PCI performed under chronic stable or sub-acute  medical conditions, in accordance with the present 
state  of  the  art  (e.g.  with  stenting  and  ASA  plus  clopidogrel  or  ticlopidine  combination,  simplified 
regimen  of  unfractionated  heparin  with  short  duration  of  administration,  small  sheath  size  6  –  7 
French). All patients received an initial bolus of 60 UI/kg of unfractionated heparin adapted to a target 
ACT 200-300 sec and ASA (162-325 mg/day). Heparin infusion after PCI was strongly discouraged. 
An adjunctive thienopyridine therapy with either ticlopidin 250 mg bid or clopidogrel 75 mg qd was 
encouraged following stent implantation, according to common practice.  
An  independent  committee  called  the  Data  Safety  and  Monitoring  Committee  (DSMC)  was 
responsible for reviewing the progress of the trial at regular intervals to ensure patient safety and trial 
integrity. 
Choice of dose regimen 
The  eptifibatide  dose  regimen proposed for the  new indication  is the one  used in the  ESPRIT  study 
and  is  based  on  a  modelling  approach.  Early  preclinical  data  had  shown  that  80%  occupancy  of  the 
platelet  GPIIb/IIIa  receptor  population  (ROC  80)  was  required  to  establish  patency  and  prevent 
reocclusion. The human pharmacodynamic studies PRIDE and PERIGEE provided information on the 
relationship  between  the  ROC  80  and  the  plasma  concentration  in  patients.  Using  these  results,  a 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship was modelled, confirming that ROC 80 was achieved 
when  the  concentrations  exceeded  the  threshold  of  1650  ng/ml.  However,  the  single-bolus  regimen 
resulted  in  a  transient  decrease  in  drug  concentration  below  the  threshold  level  during  the  early 
administration  window, suggesting the  need  for  higher eptifibatide  concentrations  during the critical 
periprocedural period when device deployment occurs and the stimulus for thrombogenesis is greatest. 
A sub-study of PRIDE was then conducted with a 180/90 double bolus 10 or 30 minutes apart plus 2.0 
µg/kg infusion. The results showed that a larger second bolus would be needed. It was then predicted 
that the 180/2.0/180 regimen would give satisfactory results. 
14/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trial endpoints 
The  pre-specified  primary  objective  was  to  determine  whether  eptifibatide  was  able  to  reduce  the 
incidence  of  the  quadruple  clinical  composite  endpoint  of  death,  myocardial  infarction  (MI),  urgent 
target vessel revascularisation (UTVR) and thrombotic “bail-out” (TBO) GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor therapy 
assessed  at  48  hours,  compared  to  placebo.  The  key  secondary  efficacy  endpoint  was  a  triple 
composite endpoint (death, MI and UTVR) evaluated at 30 days. Other secondary endpoints included 
the quadruple composite at 30 days, the double composite death/MI at 48 hours and 30 days and the 
quadruple and triple composite endpoint as assessed by investigators (before adjudication) at 48h and 
30 days. The follow-up was limited to 30 days in the ESPRIT study. The independent Clinical Events 
Classification Committee (CEC) was responsible for adjudicating suspected endpoint events according 
to  pre-defined  criteria.  Events  identified  for  adjudication  were  as  follows:  ambiguous  CK-MB  core 
laboratory  data;  post-procedural  abrupt  closure  identified  on  the  CRF;  MI  identified  on  the  CRF; 
repeat PCI identified on the CRF; coronary artery bypass grafting identified on the CRF and episodes 
of ‘bail-out’ identified as thrombotic on the CRF.  
Details of the individual components of the efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
1.  death (all-cause mortality and the cause of death was not adjudicated) 
2.  myocardial infarction: identified as either “enzymatic“ or “adjudicated” 
• 
enzymatic  MI:  identified  by  the  CK/CK-MB  Core  laboratory  criteria  corresponding  to  at  least 
two  CK-MB  Core  laboratory  values  ≥  3  fold  the  upper  limit  of  “normal”  (with  at  least  a  25% 
increase  in  CK-MB  if  the  last  pre-randomisation  value  was  above  the  upper  limits  of  normal), 
within  24  hours  after  the  index  PCI  procedure.  Specimens  for  creatine  kinase  (CK)  and  creatine 
kinase-MB Fraction (CK-MB) were obtained within 4 hours before drug administration and at 6, 
12,  18,  and  24  hours  after  the  initiation  of  eptifibatide  administration  and  were  processed  by  a 
blinded core laboratory. Investigators were not given access to these results. The enzymatic MI was 
not adjudicated by the CEC. 
• 
adjudicated  MI:  investigators  were  encouraged  to  collect  the  following  information  when  they 
suspected  an  MI:  ischaemic  symptoms  (i.e.  chest  pain),  ECG  changes  and  cardiac  enzymes.  The 
validation  process  by  the  CEC  was  only  undertaken  in  one  of  3  situations:  i)  the  investigator 
reported an MI on the case-report form, ii) the patient was being reviewed for another event and the 
CEC noted that the patient had, in addition, an enzymatic MI, or iii) the patient did not meet the 
definition (i.e. two post-PCI enzymes > 3 ULN). This review resulted in a conclusion that either an 
event had (adjudicated MI) or had not occurred. The follow-up was limited to 30 days. 
3.  UTVR:  events  identified  by  the  Investigator  on  the  CRF  that  were  confirmed  by  the  CEC  as 
urgent and in the target vessel.  
4.  Adjudicated  TBO  GP IIb/IIIa  inhibitor  therapy:  episodes  of  ‘bail-out’  identified  by  the 
Investigator  as  thrombotic  on  the  CRF  (e.g.,  abrupt  closure,  no  reflow,  visible  thrombus)  and 
confirmed  as  thrombotic  by  the  CEC.  All  other  ‘bail-out’  usage  was  adjudicated  as  being  non-
thrombotic.  This  4th  individual  outcome  is  specific  to  the  ESPRIT  trial  when  compared  to  the 
previously mentioned trials with abciximab. 
Additionally, the study evaluated the safety profile of the double bolus regimen of eptifibatide in this 
setting,  in  particular  the  following  key  safety  endpoints:  incidence  of  bleeding  (GUSTO  and  TIMI 
classifications), serious unexpected adverse events, the occurrence of thrombocytopenia and the need 
for blood product transfusion. 
Statistical considerations 
The  sample  size  for  the  trial  was  based  on  the  key  secondary  efficacy  endpoint,  and  required 
approximately  1200  patients  per  treatment  group.  No  interim  efficacy  analysis  of  the  data  was 
planned, only two protocol-specified safety reviews (after 500 and 1400 enrolled patients). There was, 
however, the provision to  allow the DSMC to review the efficacy data, if necessary, to examine the 
risk/benefit  ratio  to  safeguard  patients’  welfare.  For  this  purpose,  the  protocol  defined  an  α  level  of 
0.0001 associated with each look at efficacy data. The final analysis would then be conducted at the 
15/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significance  level  of  α=  0.05  –  k  ×  (0.0001),  where  k  is  the  number  of  times  that  the  DSMC  sees 
efficacy results by treatment group. 
All  summaries  and  analyses  were  performed  on  the  intent-to-treat  population  i.e.  the  population  of 
patients  who  received  any  study  medication,  regardless  of  whether  PCI  or  coronary  stenting  was 
performed. All tests were two-sided and performed at α=0.05 significance level. Each of the endpoints 
was analysed via the use of a χ2 test without continuity correction. 
Results 
The ESPRIT study enrolled a total of 2064 patients, of which 72.8% were men with a mean age of 62 
years and a mean weight of 85.8 kg. Risk factors for cardiovascular disease (hypertension, diabetes, 
hypercholesterolemia, and smoking) were common and well balanced between the treatment groups. 
The patient population represented a mix of patients with both well established (previous history of MI 
31.6%,  PCI  23.4%  and  CABG  10.2%)  and  those  with  no  previous  history  of  coronary  vascular 
disease.  
Early stopping decision 
Due to the slow enrollment rate (approx. 50% of predicted), the DSMC decided to review the efficacy 
data with the intention of stopping the trial early in case of an overwhelming treatment benefit. Two 
tables were reviewed, one with 48-hour data and one with 30-day data, including the primary and key 
secondary composite endpoints, as well as the individual outcome components of these endpoints by 
treatment.  Statistical  significance  of  the  primary  endpoint  was  not  achieved  (p  =  0.0048  at  α  = 
0.0001). However, it was pointed out that the study was > 99% likely to have a positive outcome if 
taken  to  completion.  A  second  interim  efficacy  analysis  was  thus  planned  based  on  clinical 
considerations, in the belief that continuing a study with an overwhelming treatment benefit was not 
consistent  with 
the  protocol-defined  primary  endpoint 
Instead  of 
(D/MI/UTVR/TBO), the  DSMC opted  for  a composite endpoint of death and  MI  at  48  hours as  the 
primary endpoint for their efficacy analysis, since death and MI constitute irreversible clinical injury. 
It  was  also  decided  that  the  second  look  at  the  efficacy  data  would  be  planned  with  α=0.005  (as 
opposed to α=0.0001), to be more in line with stopping rules used for similar studies, especially since 
the new proposed composite endpoint (D/MI) was composed of ‘harder’ outcomes. 
the  DSMC’s  charter. 
Efficacy  
The trial was prematurely discontinued at 2,064 patients for alleged overwhelming efficacy based on 
an unplanned interim efficacy analysis. 
Overall, the trial showed a significant reduction in the quadruple endpoint at 48 hours. 
Placebo 
N = 1024 
Eptifibatide 
N = 1040 
% Reduction 
Relative/Absolute 
p-value 
0.0015 
69 (6.6%) 
37% / 3.9% 
108 (10.5%) 
Primary Endpoint 
(Death/MI/UTVR/TBO 
At 48 hours) 
Death 
MI  
  enzymatic (n) 
  adjudicated (n) 
UTVR 
TBO 
There  was  a  37%  relative  reduction  in  the  primary  composite  endpoint  in  patients  treated  with 
eptifibatide.  The  results  on  individual  outcomes  were  consistent  but  most  of  the  benefit  was  due  to 
reduction  in  the  incidence  of  MI  (5.4%  vs  9.0%),  especially  the  enzymatic  component  (80/92 
eptifibatide vs. 47/56 placebo), with a low contribution of clinical MI (i.e. CEC-adjudicated). Indeed, 
of the 127 enzymatic MIs detected at 48h, 87 were pure enzymatic elevations without any clinical or 
ECG data available in the CRF.  
1 (0.1%) 
56 (5.4%) 
47 
9 
6 (0.6%) 
10 (1.0%) 
2 (0.2%) 
92 (9.0%) 
80 
12 
10 (1.0%) 
22 (2.1%) 
41% / 0.4% 
55% / 1.2% 
51% / 0.1% 
40% / 3.6% 
0.3006 
0.0291 
0.5544 
0.0015 
16/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of enzymatic MI did not increase at 30 days (n= 127 as well), suggesting that the risk of 
elevated  enzyme  release  was  increased  in  the  context  of  the  procedure  (angioplasty).  As  expected, 
early death incidence was extremely low (overall 3 patients). Complementary analyses at 12h, 24h, 7 
days  and  30  days  demonstrate  that  the  treatment  benefit  with  eptifibatide  was  apparent  within  12 
hours.  The early treatment  benefit seems  to be  maintained through the 30-day observation  period of 
the study. 
Statistical significance was also achieved when considering the double combined endpoint (death/MI) 
favoured by the DSMC, as shown below: 
Death/MI 
48 hours 
30 days 
Placebo 
N = 1024 
94 (9.2 %) 
104 (10.2 %) 
Eptifibatide 
N = 1040 
57 (5.5 %) 
66 (6.3 %) 
% Reduction 
Relative/Absolute 
40% / 3.7% 
38% / 3.8% 
p-value 
0.0013 
0.0016 
Regarding the key secondary endpoint, a significant relative reduction of 35% was observed, as shown 
in the table below: 
Placebo 
N = 1024 
Death/MI/UTVR at 30 days  107 (10.4 %) 
Death 
MI  
    enzymatic (n) 
    adjudicated (n) 
UTVR 
6 (0.6 %) 
99 (9.7%) 
80 
19 
17 (1.7 %) 
Eptifibatide 
N = 1040 
71 (6.8 %) 
4 (0.4 %) 
64 (6.2 %) 
47 
17 
11 (1.1%) 
% Reduction 
Relative/Absolute 
35% / 3.6% 
34% / 0.2% 
36 % / 3.5% 
p-value 
0.0034 
0.5102 
0.0031 
36% / 0.6% 
0.2368 
It  should  be  noted however, that the reduction  observed with the  quadruple  composite  endpoint  and 
the triple composite endpoint of events as assessed by the investigators (before adjudication) were not 
statistically  significant  at  48h  or  30  days.  Overall  the  data  confirm  the  initial  results  that  no  major 
divergence is observed beyond the first 24 hours, where 90 % of the events corresponding to the main 
end point occurred. 
Long term follow-up data and data on the composite death/large MI 
Following CPMP concerns regarding the clinical relevance of the reduction in the incidence of post-
PCI  enzymatic  MI  and  death  based  on  a  1-month  follow-up,  the  MAH  provided  additional 
retrospective information on long-term (6-month and 1-year) follow-up, and on the incidence of the 
composite death/large MI (defined by increase in CK-MB > 5 ULN). These data were accrued mostly 
after the time the initial report was filed. Complete clinical data through 6 months and 12 months were 
available  for  1980  (95.9%)  and  1964  patients  (95.1%)  out  of  2064,  respectively.  In  addition,  vital 
status  (i.e.  whether  dead  or  alive)  on  2042  and  2024  patients  was  also  available.  Additional  data  on 
diabetic  patients  were  also  obtained,  including  whether  they  were  treated  with  diet  alone,  oral 
hypoglycaemic agents or insulin. 
The  following  table  compares  the  results  for  the  different  endpoints  at  various  time  points  post 
administration. 
17/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparative  incidences  of  identified  major  endpoints  at  48h,  D30,  6  months  and  1  year  in 
ESPRIT 
Total patients 
48h / D30 : n=2064 
6 mths : n= 2042 
1 yr : n= 2024 
Death/MI  
Placebo (n/%) 
48h / D30 : n=1024 
6 mths : n= 984 
1 yr : n= 976 
Eptifibatide (n/%) 
48h / D30 : n=1040 
6 mths : n= 1027 
1 yr : n= 1017 
% Reduction 
Relative/Absolu
te 
P value 
Death 
MI 
48h  94 (9.2) 
Day 30  104 (10.2) 
6 months  117 (11.5) 
1 year  126 (12.4) 
48h  2 
Day 30  6 
6 months  14 (1.4) 
1 year  20 (2.0) 
48h  92 (9.0) 
Day 30  99 (9.7) 
6 months  106 (10.4) 
1 year  109 (10.7) 
57 (5.5) 
66 (6.3) 
77 (7.4) 
83 (8.0) 
1 
4 
8 (0.8) 
14 (1.4) 
56 (5.4) 
64 (6.2) 
72 (7.0) 
74 (7.2) 
Death/ large MI as defined by an increase in CK-MB : 5 ULN 
48h   5.1%. Not 
available 
Day 30  5.5% 
6 months  Not available 
1 year  Not available 
Death/MI/(U)TVR  
Day 30 (TVR)  10.4% 
6 months (TVR until 
D30 /UTVR 
thereafter) 
187 (18.5%) 
3.4%  Not available 
3.7% 
Not available 
Not available 
6.8% 
146 (14.3%) 
40 (3.7)a 
38 (3.8) 
40 (4.1) 
43 (4.4) 
1 
2 
6 
6 
40  (3.6)b 
36 (3.5)c 
34 (3.4) 
35 (3.5) 
1.7%  
- 
1.8% 
35(3.6) 
1 year (id)  222 (22.1% ) 
178 (17.5%) 
(U)TVR  
6 months (id)  96 (9.7) 
1 year (id)  129 (13.1) 
88 (8.7) 
117 (11.7) 
8 (1.0) 
12 (1.4) 
0.0013 
0.0016 
0.0015 
0.001 
NS 
NS 
NS (0.187) 
NS (0.280) 
0.0015 
0.0031 
0.0047 
0.0040 
0.0528  
- 
0.048 
0.0034 
0.0072 
0.0068 
0.4676 
0.3505 
There is no significant effect on 1-year mortality (p=0.28), but a trend in favour of eptifibatide. The 
corresponding figures are  very low (20 placebo and 14 eptifibatide). Thus, as observed with the 30-
day data, the significance of the different composites is driven by the eptifibatide-induced reduction in 
MI.  Very  few  supplementary  MIs  occurred  between  48h  and  one  year,  and  new  incidences  were 
almost identical in each group [+15 between 48h and day 30 (7 placebo group and 8 eptifibatide, and + 
20 between day 30 and one year (10 in each treatment group). MIs identified beyond 30 days are not 
solely  enzymatic  any  longer,  but  were  linked  to  a  clinical  event.  However,  in  view  of  the  few 
supplementary MIs identified between day 30 and 1 year, this does not influence the overall results. It 
should be noted that the eptifibatide-induced absolute reductions in MI were similar at 48h, 30 day, 6 
month  and  one  year,  and  so  the  corresponding  relative  reductions  slightly  decrease  over  time  as  the 
number of occurrences slightly increases. 
Post-hoc subgroup analyses  
The  statistical  methodology  specified  in  the  protocol  did  not  include  any  analysis  of  subgroups. 
However a number of subgroup analyses were performed for the planned and post-hoc endpoints. The 
most salient observations are: 
•  Correlation between the observed peri-procedural CK-MB increase and the incidence of one-year 
clinical events: 
18/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17(56.7%)  of  documented  deaths  occurred  in  patients  without  peri-procedural  elevation  of  CK-
MB, and 13 (43.3%) of documented deaths occurred in patients with CK-MB elevation (4 out of 34 
with missing CK-MB values). 
Incidences  of  6-month  and  one-year  clinical  events  as  identified  by  investigators  on  CRFs  in 
ESPRIT: 
When  clinical  events  beyond  Day-30  (where  MI  were  computerised  assessments  of  increases  in 
CK-MB  >  3  ULN)  are  identified  by  investigators  as  clinical  MI,  no  endpoint  is  statistically 
significant  any  longer.  The  benefit  of  Eptifibatide  is  thus  restricted  to  the  prevention  of  peri-
procedural  increases  in  CK-MB,  as  assessed  at  48h.  Hence,  the  few  further  MI  that  occurred 
between one month and one year (10 in each treatment group) provided significant between-group 
differences at 6 months and 1 year, when CEC adjudicated the event (adjudication on the basis of 
enzymatic elevations only was possible), but no longer significant between-group differences at 6 
months  and  one  year,  when  considering  the  clinical  events  as  identified  during  the  6-  and  12- 
month follow-up by principal investigators in the CRFs. 
The patient population experiencing the greatest treatment benefit comprises the sickest 
• 
• 
patients, i.e. UA/NQMI, recent MI. 
Safety 
All  patients  enrolled  in  the  study  were  included  in  the  safety  analyses.  No  unexpected  side  effects 
were  reported.  Between-treatment  group  comparisons  were  performed  on  bleeding  rates  and 
transfusion  rates  using  a  χ2  test  without  continuity  correction.  No  formal  statistical  analyses  were 
planned for the other safety parameters. 
Bleeding  
As with other GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, the most common complication of eptifibatide administration was 
bleeding.  Regardless  of  the  definition  (TIMI  or  GUSTO),  there  were  about  3  times  more  major 
bleedings in the eptifibatide group (1.3 % vs 0.4 % in the control group). The most common site of 
major  bleeding  was  at  the  arterial  access  site.  The  incidence  of  intracranial  bleedings  appeared  low, 
with  a  total  number  of  3  (2  eptifibatide  vs  1  placebo).  Minor  bleedings  (TIMI  criteria),  including 
femoral  artery  access  and  haematuria,  were  2.4  %  in  the  eptifibatide  group  vs  1.8  %  in  the  placebo 
group. The number of patients requiring transfusion of red blood cells was very small (1.0 % placebo 
vs 1.4 % eptifibatide). 
98% of patients received a thienopyridine concomitantly, mainly clopidogrel (75 mg/d), and 53% of 
them  were  pre-treated  with  clopidogrel  before  entering  the  cath  lab,  of  which  88%  received  at  least 
300  mg  loading  dose.  A  post-hoc  analysis  requested  by  CPMP,  showed  that  48-hour  TIMI  major 
bleedings were higher in eptifibatide-treated patients who received a loading dose of clopidogrel prior 
to entry into the catheter laboratory [6 (1.3 %) eptifibatide vs. 1 (0.2%) placebo], compared with those 
who did not receive a dose at that time [3(0.7 %) eptifibatide vs. 2(0.5%) placebo]. The investigators’ 
assessment  of  GUSTO  for  both  frequency  and  severity  of  bleedings  paralleled  the  TIMI  results:  2 
(0.4%) eptifibatide vs. 2 (0.4%) control for pre-treated patients, compared to 2 (0.4%) eptifibatide vs. 
2 (0.4%) control for non pre-treated patients. However, the results were comparable for the frequency 
of TIMI minor bleeds, and the need for transfusions. 
Deaths 
The overall number of deaths within the 30-day follow-up period was 10 (0.4% eptifibatide and 0.6% 
placebo). 
Other  (non-bleeding)  serious  adverse  events  were  distributed  similarly  between  the  eptifibatide  and 
control patient groups. Thrombocytopenia of < 100,000/mm3 occurred in 13 patients, of which 11 (7 
eptifibatide vs. 4 in the control group) had moderate thrombocytopenia (50,000 to 100,000/mm3). Two 
patients in the eptifibatide group had profound thrombocytopenia (nadir platel count < 20,000/mm3). 
In  neither  case  was  a  platelet  transfusion  required  nor  were  there  any  clinical  sequaelae  of  the 
thrombocytopenia. Thrombocytopenia was rapidly reversed with simple discontinuation of drug. 
19/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion  
Efficacy 
No formal dose finding phase II studies were performed prior to the initiation of ESPRIT.  
The  primary  endpoint  is  different  from  the  primary  triple  composite  endpoint  (death/MI/urgent 
revascularization)  evaluated  at  30  days  used  in  other  clinical  trials  of  GP  IIb/IIIa  inhibitors  in  the 
setting  of  PCI  (EPIC,  EPILOG,  CAPTURE  and  EPISTENT  with  abciximab  and  IMPACT  II  with 
eptifibatide). Moreover the primary follow-up was shortened from 30 days to 48 hours, although the 
study had been powered on a 30-day evaluation. Regarding the individual components of the endpoint, 
the  TBO  component  is  rather  “soft”  and  may  depend  on  both  subjective  judgements  of  the 
investigators  and  available  facilities.  The  UTVR  component  is  also  a  “soft”  endpoint,  since  “urgent 
revascularization”  is  difficult  to  define  and  depends  on  local  use  patterns  and  available  facilities, 
although the double blind nature of the trial should balance their occurrence in both groups. The death 
component cannot contribute largely to the efficacy results due to the low incidence in these patients 
and  the  limited  sample  size  for  this  endpoint.  Moreover,  mortality  is  more  a  safety  issue  than  an 
efficacy issue in non-urgent PCI, since most deaths occurring after non-urgent PCI are related either to 
the  invasive  procedure  or  to  bleeding  complications  of  adjuvant  antithrombotic  treatment. 
Nonetheless, some patients may die from the consequences of iatrogenic thrombosis in the coronary 
artery, and the reduction of mortality at 48 hours can be disputed in such patients. 
The  MI  component  information  was  collected  through  2  different  ways.  The  adjudicated  MI, 
constitutes the hardest endpoint with clinical relevance, but its incidence was very low (12/92 placebo 
vs. 9/56 eptifibatide). The trial data showed that the significance of the several composite endpoints 
was  driven  by  the  eptifibatide-induced  reduction  in  purely  enzymatic  MI.  The  enzymatic  MI  was 
robustly  defined,  but  the  relevance  of  a  purely  enzymatic  MI  as  a  surrogate  for  clinical  MI  is 
questionable. Although some retrospective studies indicate that an enzyme rise after PCI is associated 
with  an  increased  risk  of  death  during  long-term  follow-up  (up  to  several  years),  this  correlation 
remains  to  be  established  for  Integrilin  in  the  context  of  PCI  with  stenting,  which  is  a  procedure 
known to increase the risk of elevated enzyme release. Indeed, the incidence of enzymatic MI did not 
increase at 30 days, suggesting that the risk of elevated enzyme release was increased in the context of 
the procedure (angioplasty).  
Thus,  the  applicant  has  clearly  demonstrated  the  ability  of  Integrilin  to  significantly  reduce  the 
amount of necrosis at the time of the procedure by around 50 %, regardless of the size of the necrosis. 
Almost all the benefit of eptifibatide therapy, consisting in a prevention  of PCI-induced procedural 
enzymatic increases, was observed at 48h without effect on mid-term events. One-year data showed 
no  additional  benefit  of  eptifibatide  when  compared  to  30-day  data,  but  confirm  that  there  was  no 
mid-term  deleterious  or rebound  effect. There is no  significant effect  on one-year  mortality but the 
results  point  in  the  right  direction  for  eptifibatide.  However,  the  mid-term  clinical  relevance  of  the 
new pathophysiological surrogate (enzymatic MI) is still controversial. 
The main findings of the ESPRIT trial are described in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
Safety 
The  lack  of  appropriate  dose-finding  studies  with  the  consequential  unnecessary  increased 
haemorrhagic risk in individual patients is addressed in the efficacy discussion. As expected, bleeding 
was  the  most  frequent  adverse  event.  Whatever  the  definition  (TIMI  or  GUSTO),  there  were  more 
major bleedings in the eptifibatide group (1.3%) than in the control group (0.4%), as reflected in the 
SPC. This is consistent with findings in other clinical studies with GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors. 
A  post-hoc  analysis  has  shown  that  the  frequency  of  TIMI  major  bleeds  were  higher  in  Integrilin-
treated patients who received a dose of a thienopyridine (mainly clopidrogel) before entering the cath 
lab as compared with those who did not receive a dose at this time (1.9% vs 0.4%). 
The incidence of non-bleeding events was low and occurred with similar frequency in both groups.  
The main findings of the ESPRIT trial are described in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
20/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of published literature 
A detailed evaluation of  the  published  literature  submitted by the MAH  has been  carried out by the 
Rapporteur. Since 1995, several studies have linked the peri-procedural CK-MB elevation (5-30% of 
cases)  with  a  subsequent  risk  of  cardiac  death.  The  corresponding  required  threshold  for  CK-MB 
elevation  varies  from  “only  minor”  to  >  5  ULN.  Other,  often  more  recent  studies,  do  not  find  any 
relationship between peri-procedural cardiac enzyme elevation and further mid-term clinical events, or 
define an at least 5 or 10 ULN threshold to observe these events.  
Of special relevance is the consensus document of the joint European Society of Cardiology and the 
American  College  of  Cardiology  committee,  which  clarifies  the  clinical  relevance  of  enzymatic 
elevations.  The consensus defines  an  MI as a “typical  rise  and  gradual fall (troponin)  or  more  rapid 
rise and fall (CK-MB)  of biochemical markers of  myocardial necrosis in at least 2 successive blood 
samples with at least one of the following:  
• 
ischaemic symptoms, 
•  development of pathologic Q waves on the ECG,  
•  ECG changes indicative of ischaemia (ST elevation or depression), or  
• 
coronary artery intervention (e.g. coronary angioplasty). ”  
The consensus highlights the fact that the term MI should not be used without further qualifications 
i.e.  location  of  MI,  infarct  size  as  assessed  by  the  amount  of  cell  loss  (quantification  of  enzyme 
elevation)  and  timing  of  the  necrosis  relative  to  the  timing  of  observation  (evolving,  healing  or 
healed).  This  implies  repeating  serial  measurements  in  order  to  observe  a  fall  following  the  rise  in 
cardiac  enzyme.  This  subsequent  fall  was  not  documented  in  the  submitted  ESPRIT  data,  probably 
due to practical reasons (early hospital discharge in this setting). 
The  consensus  specifically  states  that  this  new  definition  should  be  applied  in  the  frame  of  a  trial 
design  in  PCI,  and  that  the  reduction  of  infarct  size  should  be  documented.  Indeed,  it  states  that 
“analysis of the actual distribution of infarct sizes observed (area under the curve of biomarker or peak 
value)  is  more  appropriate  than  analysis  of  the  presence  or  absence  of  events  only”.  Finally,  the 
Consensus  document  does  not  recommend  any  threshold  of  CK-MB  increase  when  used  as  MI 
endpoint  in  clinical  trials,  but  describes  the  usual  ones  used  in  the  US  (CK-MB  >  3  ULN  in  the 
specific  frame  of  coronary  artery  interventions)  and  specifies  that  such  choices  still  need  to  be 
validated. 
Overall Benefit/Risk assessment 
The  ESPRIT  trial  has  demonstrated  that  Integrilin,  in  combination  with  standard  therapies 
(unfractionated  heparin,  aspirin  and  clopidogrel)  has  an  acute  effect  (first  48h)  in  the  prevention  of 
ischaemic complications of percutaneous angioplasty with intracoronary stenting in subacute or stable 
angina patients versus  placebo. This effect was accompanied with a low rate of major bleedings but 
more than 3-fold the rate observed in the placebo group. In view of the fact that the most significant 
individual outcome in the study, i.e. enzymatic MI, has not been validated and its relevance remains 
under debate, the CPMP is of the opinion that the trial findings are best presented in section 5.1 and 
4.8. 
7. 
Post-marketing safety updates 
Very rare cases of fatal bleeding have been reported; the majority involved central and peripheral 
nervous system disorders (cerebral or intracranial haemorrhages). Anaphylaxis, rash, application site 
disorders such as urticaria, haematoma and anaemia have been rarely reported 
21/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thrombocytopenia, including acute profound thrombocytopenia, has been  observed  during Integrilin 
administration.  Appropriate  recommendations  for  treating  such  patients,  icluding  the  monitoring  of 
platelet counts, have been included in the SPC.  
Immunogenic response or anti-bodies against Integrilin have been observed in isolated cases in naïve 
patients or in rare cases of patients re-exposed to Integrilin.  
22/22 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
