European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/43952/2008 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
INTELENCE 
International Nonproprietary Name: etravirine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000900 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 14 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 47 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 49 
Page 2 of 52 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Janssen-Cilag International NV submitted on 26 July 2007 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for INTELENCE, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 3 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 14 December 2006. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  - 
complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
The applicant applied for the following indication: “[INVENTED NAME], in combination with other 
antiretroviral  medicinal  products,  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus 
type 1  (HIV-1)  infection  in  antiretroviral  treatment-experienced  adult  patients,  including  those  with 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance”. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 27 July 2005 and 18 October 2006. The 
Scientific Advice pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
An application for marketing authorisation for etravirine in the United States was pending at time of 
submission of the application to the EMEA. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  
Co-Rapporteur:  Beatriz Silva Lima 
Pierre Demolis 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Accelerated Assessment procedure was not accepted by the CHMP on 19 July 2007. 
The application was received by the EMEA on 26 July 2007. 
The procedure started on 15 August 2007.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
12 November 2007. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
members on 12 November 2007.  
During  the  meeting  on  10-13  December  2007,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 13 December 2007. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
28 March 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 19 May 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  27-30  May  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 4 June 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list 
of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 16 June 2008. 
Page 3 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  23-26  June  2008  it  was  considered  no  longer  necessary  that 
outstanding  issues  are  addressed  by  the  applicant  during  an  oral  explanation  in  front  of  the 
CHMP. 
During the meeting on 23-26 June 2008, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
conditional Marketing Authorisation to INTELENCE on 26 June 2008. The applicant provided 
the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 24 June 
2008. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Infection  with  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  and  the  resulting  Acquired  Immunodeficiency 
Syndrome  (AIDS)  are  having  significant  human  impact.  As  of  December  2007,  an  estimated  33.2 
million  people  worldwide, 30.8  million  adults  and adolescents  and  2.5  million  children,  were living 
with HIV/AIDS. Approximately 50% of adults living with HIV/AIDS are women. An estimated 2.5 
million new HIV infections and 2.1 million AIDS-related deaths occurred worldwide during 2007. 
The  advent  of  combination  therapy  for  HIV  infection  in  1996  has  had  a  significant  impact  on  the 
natural  history  of  HIV  infection,  with  substantial  decreases  in  HIV-related  morbidity,  mortality  and 
use  of  health  resources  in  regions  of  the  world  where  an  effective  treatment  intervention  could  be 
implemented. Further improvements in therapy and outcome have been challenged by the emergence 
of  viral  resistance  to  the  antiretroviral  (ARV)  compounds  currently  marketed.  Resistance  to  these 
ARV  compounds  has  been,  and  is,  a  major  reason  for  therapy  failure  and  resistant  virus  has  been 
reported  in  both  treatment  naive  and  treatment-experienced  patients,  often  severely  limiting  the 
treatment  options  available.  As  a  result,  development  of  new,  potent,  safe  and  well  tolerated  ARV 
compounds  with  different  and  improved  resistance  profiles  is  needed  for  the  increasing  numbers  of 
patients infected with multi-drug resistant HIV. 
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) play an important role and are widely used 
in the treatment of HIV infection, most commonly in first line therapy. However, the effectiveness of 
the  current  NNRTIs  in  later-line  therapy  is  limited  by  a  low  genetic  barrier  to  the  development  of 
resistance, which allows the selection of virus with reduced susceptibility and extensive NNRTI cross-
resistance. Single mutations in the reverse transcriptase (RT) gene can lead to substantial reductions in 
susceptibility, often to all available inhibitors within the class. This broad cross-resistance within the 
class limits the sequential use after virologic failure of currently marketed NNRTIs. Also, therapeutic 
options  with  current  NNRTIs  are  limited  by  side  effects  such  as  rash,  central  nervous  system 
symptoms and hepatotoxicity. New agents with improved tolerability profiles and/or activity against 
NNRTI-resistant  isolates  would  therefore  offer  new  treatment  options  for  treatment-experienced 
patients as well as those with transmitted (primary) NNRTI resistance. 
Etravirine  is  a  compound  of  the  NNRTI  class,  thus  sharing  the  common  mechanism  of  action,  for 
which  effectiveness  in  viral  strains  which  are  resistant  to  other  drugs  in  the  class  is  claimed,  thus 
allowing  for  the  composition  of  salvage  combination  ART  for  HIV-infected  subjects  with  previous 
exposure and documented resistance to other drugs in the class.  
A  so-called  full  application  for  marketing  authorisation  has  been  submitted,  i.e.  a  complete  and 
independent/stand-alone  Marketing  Authorisation  Application.  The  applicant  did  request  an 
accelerated assessment of the application, however the CHMP did not accept this request as it was not 
possible  to  assume  that  the  product  will  be  of  major  public  health  interest  particularly  from  the 
viewpoint of therapeutic innovation. Etravirine could be expected to represent some advantages over 
other existing NNRTIs in view of its higher genetic barrier. Nevertheless, as it is not a representative 
of a new pharmacological class, the criteria for accelerated assessment were not considered to be met.  
Page 4 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the applicant’s application was a conditional marketing authorisation according to Article 
14(7) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 in conjunction with Commission Regulation (EC) 507/2006. 
Based on the assessment the CHMP concluded that the application meets the criteria for conditional 
marketing authorisation, for the following reasons: 
−  Etravirine  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection,  which  is  a  life  threatening 
condition,  therefore  the  application,  being  made  under  Article  3(1)  of  Regulation  (EC) 
726/2004, is in the scope of conditional marketing authorisation according to the Article 2(1) 
of Regulation (EC) 507/2006.  
−  Based  on  the  available  data  and  particularly  the  24-week  data  from  the  two  pivotal  trials 
(DUET-1 and DUET-2) the risk-benefit balance is considered positive as these studies have 
shown  that  etravirine  is  able  to  provide  an  adequate  virologic  response  in  antiretroviral 
experienced patients with viral strains harbouring NNRTI resistance. Additional clinical data 
is  needed  to  further  substantiate  the  durability  of  virologic  response  and  the  use  in 
combination  with  protease  inhibitors  other  than  darunavir/ritonavir,  respectively.  It  is 
considered that the applicant will be in a position to provide these data so that eventually the 
data package will become comprehensive. Although not representing a new pharmacological 
class,  etravirine  does  answer  an  unmet  medical  need  in  antiretroviral  experienced  HIV-
infected patients with limited therapeutic options, insofar as it represents an additional tool for 
controlling 
in  patients  harbouring  multi-resistant  strains.  The 
pharmacological properties of etravirine make it an important antiretroviral treatment option 
in  addition  to  recently  approved  compounds  representing  new  classes  of  antiretroviral 
medicinal products. From a public health perspective the benefit of allowing etravirine to be 
marketed without undue delay may outweigh the risks inherent in the fact that additional data 
are still required. The requirements for a conditional marketing authorisation according to the 
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) 507/2006 are therefore met. 
the  viral  replication 
INTELENCE is available in tablets containing 100 mg etravirine. The recommended dose in adults is 
200 mg (two 100 mg tablets) taken orally twice daily (b.i.d.), following a meal. 
The claimed indication at time of application read as follows: “[INVENTED NAME], in combination 
with  other  antiretroviral  medicinal  products, 
treatment  of  human 
immunodeficiency  virus  type 1  (HIV-1)  infection  in  antiretroviral  treatment-experienced  adult 
patients, including those with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) resistance.” 
indicated 
the 
for 
is 
The approved indication is: 
“INTELENCE,  in  combination  with  a  boosted  protease  inhibitor  and  other  antiretroviral 
medicinal  products,  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  type  1 
(HIV-1) infection in antiretroviral treatment-experienced adult patients (see sections 4.4, 4.5 
and 5.1). 
indication 
is  based  on  week 24  analyses 
from  2 randomised,  double-blind, 
This 
placebo-controlled Phase III trials in highly pre-treated patients with viral strains harbouring 
mutations  of  resistance  to  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  and  protease 
inhibitors,  where  INTELENCE  was  investigated  in  combination  with  an  optimised 
background regimen (OBR) which included darunavir/ritonavir (see section 5.1).” 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The medicinal product INTELENCE is presented as white to off-white, oval tablets containing 100 mg 
of  etravirine.  The  active  ingredient  is  present  in  an  amorphous  form.  Other  ingredients  include 
hypromellose,  ethanol,  methylene  chloride,  colloidal  anhydrous  silica,  croscarmellose  sodium, 
magnesium stearate, lactose monohydrate and microcrystalline cellulose.  
Page 5 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tablets  are  packaged 
The 
polypropylene closures lined with an induction seal. Silica gel pouches are added as desiccant. 
in  white,  high-density  polyethylene  bottles  with  child-resistant, 
Active Substance 
for 
etravirine 
chemical  name 
is  4-[[6-amino-5-bromo-2-[(4-cyanophenyl)-amino]-4-
The 
pyrimidinyl]oxy]-3,5-dimethylbenzonitrile.  It  is  a  white  to  slightly  yellowish  brown  powder  and  is 
classified as a BCS Class IV compound (i.e., a low aqueous solubility irrespective of pH, and low to 
intermediate  permeability).  Etravirine  may  exist  in  two  highly  crystalline  polymorphs.  During 
production one polymorph has been consistently produced and the crystallization of this polymorph is 
under control. The polymorphism is not considered as critical for the efficacy of the product. 
The chemical structure of etravirine has been confirmed using analytical data by elemental analysis, 
IR  absorption  spectroscopy,  UV  absorption  spectroscopy,  1H  and  13C  nuclear  magnetic  resonance 
spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. All data are consistent with the proposed structure. 
•  Manufacture 
Etravirine  is  manufactured  from  two  starting  materials  by  a  three  steps  process.  A  purification  is 
performed  at  each  step.  The  three  steps  have  an  impact  on  critical  quality  attributes  of  the  final 
etravirine drug substance and thus, are critical steps of the synthesis. Validation of the manufacturing 
process has been completed for three batches of the drug substance. 
Appropriate  specifications  have  been  adopted  for  the  starting  materials,  solvents,  reagents  and 
intermediates. All relevant impurities have been appropriately discussed and characterized. The levels 
of  the  impurities  are  supported  by  the  results  of  toxicological  studies  and  appropriate  specifications 
have been set. 
Stability studies have shown that etravirine is a stable compound and no degradation impurities have 
been detected under the tested storage conditions. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification include appropriate tests for appearance, identifications (HPLC and 
IR spectra), organic impurities, assay, residual solvents, heavy metals, residue on ignition and water. 
The  impurity  limits  are  acceptable  and  there  is  no  concern  in  relation  with  safety  or  efficacy.  The 
batch analysis data support the proposed acceptance limits.  
•  Stability  
Stability studies have been performed in accordance with the ICH requirements. The results of long-
term and accelerated stability studies show that etravirine drug substance is chemically and physically 
stable when stored for up to 24 months at 25ºC/60% RH and 30ºC/65% RH or for up to 6 months at 
40ºC/75% RH. The stability data justify the proposed retest period without special storage conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
As  etravirine  is  a  compound  with  low  aqueous  solubility,  the  manufacturer  improved  the  aqueous 
solubility,  and  as  such  also  the  bioavailability,  by  modifying  the  physical  state  of  the  drug  (to  the 
amorphous  state)  by  means  of  the  solid  dispersion  technology.  During  development  of  the 
formulation,  several  manufacturing  techniques  have  been  compared  in  order  to  improve  the 
bioavailability  and  reduce  tablet  size  at  the  same  time.  Clinical  trials  have  shown  that  better 
bioavailability was obtained by using tablets manufactured from spray-dried material. Therefore, spray 
drying  was  selected  as  the  preferred  manufacturing  technique  of  etravirine  solid  dispersions.  In 
addition,  formulation  studies  have  been  performed  to  identify  an  adequate  stabilizer  for  the  active 
Page 6 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substance in solid dispersions. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process starts with a spray-drying process in order to form the amorphous state of 
etravirine.  After  spray  drying  and  mixing  the  spray-dried  powder  with  various  inactive  ingredients, 
which are typical for an immediate release tablet formulation, the final solid dosage form was obtained 
through  compaction  and  compression.  The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  compendial  ones, 
only  lactose  is  from  animal  origin  but  for  this  excipient  no  TSE  risk  is  expected.  A  BSE/TSE 
compliance statement from the lactose monohydrate supplier is provided. 
All critical process parameters have been identified and controlled by appropriate in-process controls. 
The  manufacturing  process  demonstrates  to  be  reproducible  and  provides  a  finished  product  that 
complies with the in-process and finished product specifications. 
•  Product Specification 
The  proposed  specifications  for  the  finished  product  at  release  are  classical  for  this  pharmaceutical 
form  and  include  tests  for  identification,  dissolution,  uniformity  of  dosage  units,  water  content  and 
assay and related compounds by liquid chromatography. All methods have been validated according to 
the state of the art. Appropriate data have been presented to justify the release specifications for each 
quality characteristic that is controlled. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  according  to  the  ICH  requirements  on  three  batches  of  the  final 
commercial formulation. Twenty four months of stability data are provided for the 100 mg tablets lots 
stored at 25ºC/60%RH and 30ºC/75%RH and six months of stability data are provided for the 100 mg 
tablets  stored  at  40ºC/75%RH.  The  parameters  tested  include  appearance,  assay,  chromatographic 
purity,  water  content,  crystallinity,  dissolution,  and  microbiological  purity.  The  analytical  methods 
were identical to the methods used for release and are stability indicating. 
Additionally,  stability  studies  have  been  performed  under  stress  conditions  (photostability  study  at 
50ºC). In all cases the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the proposed shelf life 
for the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SmPC. No special storage 
conditions are required. In addition to this, also an in-use stability study was performed on 1 batch to 
support the daily use by the patient.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  INTELENCE  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The active substance is well characterised and documented. It is a poorly soluble substance that has 
been formulated as a solid dispersion before tabletting in order to overcome the solubility issues and to 
improve the bioavailability. 
The  excipients  are  commonly  used  in  these  types  of  formulations  and  comply  with  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements.  The  packaging  material  is  commonly  used  and  well  documented.  The  manufacturing 
process of the finished product has been adequately described. Stability tests indicate that the product 
under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the  proposed  shelf  life.  At  the  time  of  the 
Opinion no quality issues remained unresolved. 
Page 7 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A comprehensive nonclinical programme was conducted to evaluate pharmacology, pharmacokinetics 
and  toxicology  of  etravirine.  The  studies  were  conducted  considering  European  and  international 
guidelines.  Pivotal  non-clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  international  GLP 
guidelines. 
Etravirine has been used in 3 forms, initially in base-form and subsequently as the hydrogen bromide 
(HBr) salt. These forms are referred to as etravirine base and etravirine HBr, respectively. At a later 
stage of development, a spray-dried form of the base became available which is referred to as spray-
dried etravirine. The dose levels used in all studies are expressed as base equivalent. 
Several  aspects  of  the  nonclinical  programme  were  subject  to  central  scientific  advice:  (1)  the 
toxicology  studies  for  the  qualification  of  some  specified  impurities;  (2)  impurities  formed  in  the 
manufacture  of  etravirine;  (3)  1-month  bridging  toxicity  study  in  dogs;  (4)  the  submission  of 
carcinogenicity  study  reports  post-approval.  The  outcome  of  the  respective  advice  was  addressed  in 
the MAA dossier. 
Pharmacology 
The mode of action related to the antiviral activity as well as resistance aspects are also discussed in 
the section “Clinical Aspects, Pharmacodynamics”. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Etravirine  is  a  diarylpyrimidine  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  selected  for  its  high 
antiviral potency against wildtype and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-resistant HIV-1. 
The inhibition of enzymatic activity of recombinant wildtype HIV-1 reverse transcriptase by etravirine 
was characterized by an IC50 of 38.40 nM.  
Cocrystallization and molecular modelling studies suggested that etravirine is a flexible molecule able 
to  bind  in  the  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  binding  pocket  of  the  HIV-1  reverse 
transcriptase in multiple conformations. The flexibility of etravirine may increase its ability to adapt 
the  binding  to  HIV-1  reverse  transcriptases  containing  amino  acid  substitutions  associated  with 
resistance  to  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors,  which  may  explain  the  resilience  of 
etravirine  to  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  resistance-associated  mutations.  In  vitro 
studies  in  human  T-cell  lines  and  in  human  primary  cells  showed  that  etravirine  inhibited  wildtype 
laboratory  and  primary  HIV-1  isolates  of  different  origins  and  subtypes,  with  median  EC50  values 
ranging from 0.87 to 5.46 nM. Overall, etravirine showed an antiviral activity profile consistent with 
the mode of action as a non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor as measured by time of addition 
and multiplicity of infection experiments. 
In vitro selection experiments were performed to determine the rate of emergence of resistant viruses 
as well as the mutations associated with decreased susceptibility to etravirine upon selective pressure. 
Starting  from  wildtype  HIV-1  of  different  origins  and  subtypes,  experiments  performed  at  high 
multiplicity of infection, showed that the emergence of resistant strains was delayed or prevented at 
etravirine  concentrations  of  ≤  200  nM,  whereas  efavirenz  and  nevirapine  did  not  prevent  virus 
breakthrough. 
Etravirine  showed  in  vitro  antiviral  potency  against  56  of  65  HIV-1  mutant  strains,  each  having  an 
amino acid substitution at a position associated with resistance to non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors and including the most commonly found K103N and Y181C. Analyses performed on these 
site-directed mutants showed that there was limited cross-resistance between etravirine and efavirenz. 
Only  3  of  these  65  viruses  exhibited  a  loss  in  susceptibility  for  both  drugs.  Of note,  treatment  with 
nevirapine or efavirenz of subjects failing an etravirine containing regimen is not recommended. The 
Page 8 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination of the V179F with either the Y181C or Y181I was associated with the highest etravirine 
fold change in EC50 value. The antiviral activity of etravirine against HIV-1 viral strains with multiple 
amino  acid  substitutions  at  positions  associated  with  resistance  to  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase 
and/or protease inhibitors was comparable to that observed against wildtype HIV-1. 
The  antiviral  activity  of  etravirine  against  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  resistant 
HIV-1  was  assessed  using  a  panel  of  6171  HIV-1  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor-
resistant  recombinant  clinical  isolates.  Etravirine  exhibited  a  higher  antiviral  activity  on  a  larger 
proportion of viruses from this panel than the approved nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, 
having EC50 values equal to or below 10 nM for 83.2% of the viruses and EC50 values above 100 nM 
for only 2.0% of the viruses.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No inhibitions of the human DNA polymerases alpha, beta, and gamma were observed, indicating the 
specificity of etravirine for HIV reverse transcriptase. No antiviral activity of etravirine was observed 
against  bovine  diarrhea  virus,  hepatitis  B  virus,  hepatitis  C  virus,  herpes  simplex  virus  1,  herpes 
simplex  virus  2,  human  coronavirus,  influenza  virus,  moloney  murine  sarcoma  virus,  sindbis  virus, 
vaccinia virus, vesicular stomatitis virus, or yellow fever virus. 
A  series  of  in  vitro  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  was  conducted.  Etravirine  only  weakly 
interacted  with  glycine-1  transporter  binding  sites  (inhibition  constant  (Ki)  was  5.4  µM).  No 
interaction  of  the  compound  with  receptors  could  be  observed  in  any  other  assays  performed.  At 
concentrations of 1 and 10 µM etravirine was found to have inhibitory effects on nicotinergic nerve-
smooth muscle function, but was devoid of muscarinic effects. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No  relevant  treatment-related  effects  were  observed  on  ECG,  cardio-hemodynamic  or  respiratory 
parameters  in  dogs  after  the  administration  of  oral  doses  up  to  400  mg/kg.  No  relevant  effects  on 
neurobehavioral, motor activity or other body functions were seen in rats following oral administration 
of up to 80 or 500 mg/kg etravirine base or spray-dried etravirine. Dosing at 500 mg/kg led to a slight 
delay in righting reflex but behavioural and autonomic functions were unaffected and there were no 
other relevant effects.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
In vitro combination experiments showed that etravirine was not antagonistic with any of the approved 
antiretroviral compounds.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Animal pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in CD1, NMRI and CB6F1-nonTgrasH2-transgenic 
mice, pigmented Lister-Hooded,Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats, SPF albino or New Zealand white 
rabbits and Beagle dogs. With the exception of pigmented rats, all species and strains were the same as 
those used in the nonclinical pharmacology and toxicology studies.  
Analytical  methods  (LC-MS/MS)  have  been  adequately  validated.  Analysis  of  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicokinetic data from nonclinical studies was performed using non-compartmental methods. 
Absorption/Bioavailability 
Despite etravirine being classified as a compound with low to intermediate permeability in the in vitro 
Caco-2  model,  etravirine  was  poorly  absorbed  likely  because  of  low  solubility  and  dissolution  rate. 
Moreover oral absorption was highly variable. Spray dried formulation and food seemed to improve 
absorption. Following oral gavage administration, peak plasma concentrations were generally reached 
within  4  hours  in  all  species,  and  the  elimination  from  plasma  was  rapid.  Across  the  dose  range 
Page 9 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studied, plasma levels of etravirine increased less than dose proportionally, especially at the high dose 
levels,  probably  due  to  poor  solubility.  There  were  no  major  gender  differences.  In  all  species,  the 
systemic exposure decreased after repeated dosing, especially at doses where high exposure values are 
achieved in the first day of dosing, likely due to CYP activity induction, as shown in in vitro studies. 
The  recommended  clinical  dose  of  etravirine  for  treatment-experienced  HIV-infected  patients  is 
200 mg twice daily (formulation F060). At this dose level, the mean Cmax was 0.451 µg/mL and the 
mean  area  under  the  curve  (AUC0-24h)  was  7.4  µg.h/mL  in  HIV-infected  patients  after  8  days  of 
treatment. After comparison of these values with the highest doses and exposures achieved in animal 
species after repeated administration, the AUC ratio (animal/human) was 8 in dogs and was around 1 
in  mice,  female  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  rabbits  but  was  less  than  1  in  male  Sprague-Dawley  and 
Wistar rats. In general, the ratio was influenced by the physical form of the active substance and the 
duration  of  drug  administration  due  to  enzymatic  auto-induction,  which  reduced  exposure  upon 
repeated administration. 
Distribution 
Etravirine  was  bound  between  99.8%  and  99.9%  to  plasma  proteins  and  this  was  species  and 
concentration  independent.  Binding  was  of  the  same  extent  to  both  human  albumin  and  α1-acid 
glycoprotein. There were some weaknesses in the tissue distribution study in the rat. However it can 
be  concluded  that  concentrations of  radioactivity  in  all  tissues  were  higher than  in  blood  or plasma. 
Highest  concentration  (excluding  gastro  intestinal  tract)  were  associated  with  the  liver,  fat,  adrenal, 
kidney cortex and preputial gland, tissue to plasma concentrations ratios were 27, 11, 10, 8.6, and 6.7, 
respectively. Lowest concentrations were associated with bone, seminal vesicle and eye, the tissue to 
plasma concentration ratios were 1.1, 1.0, and 1.5, respectively. 
Metabolism/Excretion 
The  metabolism  of  etravirine  following  a  single  oral  administration  was  quantitatively  limited  in 
rodents,  dogs  and  humans.  In  human  liver  microsomes  (HLM),  CYP3A4  enzyme,  and  to  a  lesser 
extent also the CYP2C enzyme, played a major role in the biotransformation of etravirine. Etravirine 
inhibited CYP2C9 in HLM with an inhibition constant (Ki) value of 0.58 µM (0.25 µg/mL). Ex vivo 
induction studies in rodents showed that etravirine was an inducer of CYP3A and CYP2B isoenzymes 
and, to a lesser extent, of cytosolic glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity. Etravirine induced uridine 
diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferase (UDP-GT) activity in mice and to a lesser extent in rats. Ex vivo 
induction studies in dogs showed that etravirine had an inducing effect on CYP3A and possibly also 
on CYP2B and other CYP subfamily isoenzymes, however, to a much lesser extent than in rodents.  
In  all  animal  species  dosed  with  14C-etravirine,  TR  was  excreted  rapidly  via  the  faecal  route.  At 
24 hours after dosing 78% to 87% of TR was eliminated in mice, 84% to 93% in rats and 90% in dogs. 
At 48 hours after dosing, about 60%, 85% and 82% of the radioactive dose was excreted as unchanged 
etravirine in the faeces of mice, rats and dogs, respectively. Renal excretion was very limited (0.2% to 
0.6% of the radioactive dose) in all animal species and no or only very small amounts (< 0.03% of the 
radioactive  dose)  of  unchanged  etravirine  could  be  detected  in  urine.  The  excretion  was  virtually 
complete  at  96  hours  after  dosing  in  rodents  and  at  168  hours  after  dosing  in  dogs.  In  humans, 
excretion was almost complete at 168 hours after dosing with 93.7% of the administered dose excreted 
via the faeces and only 1.2% via the urine. Also in humans, 81.2% to 86.4% of the dose was excreted 
as unchanged etravirine in the faeces. 
In  animal  and  human  plasma  etravirine  accounted  for  nearly  all  radioactivity.  In  all  species,  as 
etravirine is poorly absorbed, radioactivity was very low in urine (and bile in rat) and no etravirine was 
detected. In faeces, radioactivity was abundant, likely due to etravirine which was not absorbed. Total 
radioactivity balance was complete in all species, including human. 
Toxicology 
Etravirine  was  studied  in  single  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  up  to  and  including  3  months  in 
Page 10 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mice,  6  months  in  rats  and  12  months  in  Beagle  dogs,  a  series  of  genetic  toxicity  studies  and 
reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  covering  fertility  to  postnatal  development.  In  all 
pivotal  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  plasma  levels  of  etravirine  have  been  determined.  Several 
formulations  of  etravirine  were  tested:  etravirine  base,  etravirine  HBr  salt  and  a  spray-dried  form 
corresponding  to  an  amorphous  form  containing  hydroxypropylmethylcellulose.  Most  of  the 
toxicological  studies  were  performed  using  etravirine  HBr  salt.  Since  the  spray-dried  form  was 
developed later in the programme, some of the toxicological studies were repeated using this form. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Acute toxicity studies in mice and rats did not show relevant effects following oral administration of 
etravirine  base  or  etravirine  HBr  in  PEG  400  vehicle  at  doses  up  to  1000  mg/kg.  In  dogs,  a  dose-
escalation  phase  up  to  160  mg/kg  was  followed  by  a  5-day  repeated  dose  phase  at  120 mg/kg/day 
using  tablets.  In  the  third  phase,  dogs  were  given  350  mg/kg/day  of  spray-dried  etravirine  in  an 
aqueous  suspension  by  oral  gavage  for  5  consecutive  days  in  fasted  or  fed  conditions.  No  relevant 
toxicity findings were observed. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
In oral repeat-dose in Wistar rats, etravirine base in PEG 400 vehicle was used in a 2-week study but 
subsequently  etravirine  HBr  formulated  in  PEG  400  was  used  in  1-,  3-  and  6-month  studies.  The 
changes seen in liver and thyroid (cellular hypertrophy with increase in organ weight) were consistent 
with  the  liver  enzyme  inducing  property  of  etravirine  and  are  considered  to  reflect  an  adaptive 
response to liver enzyme induction. The NOAEL in the 6-month study was 70mg/kg/day. 
In dogs, etravirine base in PEG 400 vehicle was evaluated by oral (gavage) administration in a 2-week 
and a 1-month study but subsequently etravirine HBr formulated in PEG 400 was used in 3-, 6- and 
12-month  studies.  The  spray-dried  form  was  tested  as  an  aqueous  suspension  in  dogs  in  1-  and  6-
month studies. Repeated dosing with spray-dried etravirine resulted also in liver changes (increases in 
transaminases, microgranuloma and minor inflammatory changes, and inspissated bile in gall bladder). 
The NOAEL in the 12-month study was 240 mg/kg/day. 
•  Genotoxicity 
The  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  tests  (Ames,  mouse  lymphoma,  human  lymphocytes  tests  and 
mouse bone marrow micronucleus) are detailed in Tables 1 and 2. All studies have shown etravirine to 
be free of genotoxic potential, with and without liver metabolic activation system.  
Table 1 
In vitro genotoxicity studies conducted with etravirine 
Assay 
Ames 
Bacterial 
Reversion 
(S9mix +/-) 
Mouse lymphoma 
cells  
Mammalian 
chromosome 
aberration 
(S9mix +/-) 
Indicator cells 
Salmonella typhimurium 
TA98, TA100, 
TA102, TA1535, 
TA1537 
Salmonella typhimurium 
TA98, TA100, TA1535, TA1537 
Escherichia coli 
WP2uvrA 
L5178Y TK+/- 
Human peripheral 
Lymphocytes 
Doses 
0 (vehicle), 5, 10, 25, 
50, 100, 250, 500 
µg/plate (Base) 
0 (vehicle), 3, 10, 33, 
100, 
333 µg/plate (Base) 
Up to 100 µg/mL 
vehicle 
(Base) 
Up to 100 µg/mL 
vehicle (Base) 
Results 
Negative 
GLP 
Yes 
Negative 
Yes 
Negative 
Yes 
Negative 
Yes 
Page 11 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
In vivo genotoxicity studies conducted with etravirine 
Assay 
Micronucleus 
Indicator 
cells 
Mouse/ 
NMRI BR 
Route of 
administration 
Oral/Gavage 
(single dose) 
Doses  
(mg/kg) 
0 (vehicle), 2000 
(HBr salt) 
Results 
GLP 
Negative 
Yes 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Long-term carcinogenicity studies are currently being evaluated (dosing completed, histopathology in 
progress) and the results will be provided by the applicant as post-approval commitment. The lack of 
the  carcinogenicity  data  was  considered  acceptable  by  the  CHMP  as  the  medicinal  product  does 
address  an  unmet  medical  need  and  is  intended  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  limited  treatment 
options. 
Dose range finding studies in the mouse and rat have been completed with etravirine HBr, formulated 
in  PEG  400,  given  by  oral  gavage,  or  spray-dried  etravirine  administered  via  the  diet.  The  use  of 
transgenic RasH2 mice has been explored in a dose range finding study, but it was decided to conduct 
a classical 2-year carcinogenicity study in CD1 mice.  
In  rats,  results  obtained  in  these  studies  were  comparable  to  the  one  obtained  in  repeated-toxicity 
studies.  Of  note  that  an  increase  in  PT  and  APTT  was  observed  in  males  without  concomitant 
bleeding. In mice, etravirine also induced liver hypertrophy as observed in the rats. However, in mice 
the  effects  on  the  coagulation  was  much  more  pronounced  compared  to  rats leading  to  hemorrhagic 
cardiomyopathy often associated with hemothorax and haemorrhages in several organs.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No relevant effects on male or female fertility were observed in a study performed with etravirine HBr 
in PEG 400 up to a dose level of 506 mg/kg/day. No relevant effects were observed in a study with 
spray-dried etravirine suspended in water and the NOAEL was roughly 500 mg/kg/day. In an embryo-
foetal  developmental toxicity  study  pregnant rats  were  dosed  with etravirine  HBr  in  PEG  400  up to 
1000  mg/kg/day  and  this  did  not  result  in  maternal  or  foetal  toxicity.  The  foetal  NOAEL  was 
1000 mg/kg/day and etravirine is therefore considered not to be teratogenic in the rat. In an embryo-
foetal  developmental  toxicity  study  etravirine  HBr,  formulated  in  alpha-tocopheryl  polyethylene 
glycol succinate (TPGS)/HPMC, was dosed in pregnant rabbits up to 750 mg/kg/day. Etravirine has 
shown  no  teratogenic  potential.  Therefore,  an  additional  study  was  conducted  using  spray-dried 
etravirine  suspended  in  water  and  at  doses  up  to  375  mg/kg/day.  The  maternal  NOAEL  was 
125 mg/kg/day  and  foetal  NOAEL  was  375  mg/kg/day.  No  adverse  effects  were  observed  in  a  pre- 
and  postnatal  development  study  in  the  rat  using  spray-dried  etravirine  at  dose  levels  up  to  500 
mg/kg/day. The maternal NOAEL was 500 mg/kg/day.  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
At high dose or exposure levels, Cmax and AUC values decreased after repeated administration due to 
metabolic  auto-induction.  At  the  recommended  clinical  dose  regimen  (200  mg  twice  daily)  in 
treatment  experienced  HIV-1  infected  subjects,  the  exposure  is  equivalent  to  a  Cmax  value  of 
0.45 µg/mL and an AUC0-24h of 7.4 µg.h/mL. The safety margin for etravirine, expressed on the basis 
of AUC, is close to or less than 1 in rodents but up to about 5 in dogs at the recommended clinical 
dose regimen. 
Page 12 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Local tolerance  
Etravirine was classified as “nonsensitizing” based on an in vivo guinea pig skin sensitization study 
and  was  also  found  to  be  unlikely  to  cause  skin  sensitization  in  a  mouse  local  lymph  node  assay 
(LLNA). Etravirine was also classified as “nonirritant” based on an in vivo rabbit skin irritation study. 
In  an  in  vitro  eye  irritation  assay,  etravirine  base  was  considered  as  a  “mild”  eye  irritant,  whereas 
etravirine HBr was considered as a “very severe” eye irritant. No effects were observed in an in vitro 
phototoxicity study. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Studies in juvenile animals were not conducted. The embryofoetal studies in rats have revealed some 
skeletal variants which have been attributed to a possible slower development. Since thyroid function 
may have been affected by etravirine in line to the liver enzyme induction effects, the possibility for a 
mechanistic  explanation  for  this  growth  retardation-related  effect  to  be  associated  to  the  reduced 
maternal thyroid function should be considered. 
Concerning  the  immunotoxicity  aspects,  there  were  no  relevant  effects  of  treatment  with  etravirine 
HBr  formulated  in  PEG  400  and  the  immune  response,  as  measured  by  IgM  production,  was  not 
affected by treatment. 
The  mechanistic  studies  conducted  with  etravirine  suggested  that  the  effect  of  etravirine  on  clotting 
times  and  clotting  factors  in  mice  is  mediated  via  a  vitamin  K  pathway  (Table  3).  The  underlying 
mechanism for the cardiac lesions can be explained by the severely disturbed coagulation resulting in 
interstitial  hemorrhagic  diathesis  within  the  myocardium  and  subsequent  muscle  degeneration  and 
inflammation. The mouse is thought to be more sensitive to develop hemorrhagic cardiomyopathy due 
to  a  higher  heart  rate  and  thinner  ventricular  and  atrial  wall,  relative  to  other  species.  The  exact 
mechanism of etravirine on the vitamin K pathway is not known. However, results obtained in clinical 
studies seem to show that etravirine is not affecting the coagulation parameters in patients.  
Table 3  Mechanistic studies in mouse with etravirine 
Route of 
Administration 
(Vehicle/ 
Formulation) 
Oral/dietary 
admixture (diet) 
Duration 
of 
Dosing 
6 Weeks 
Species/Strain 
No. and 
Gender/Group 
Mouse/CD1 
20M + 20F 
(main) 8M + 8F 
(satellite) 
Mouse/CD1 
20M + 20F 
(main) 8M + 8F 
(satellite) 
Oral/gavage 
(PEG 400) 
4 Weeks 
Doses (mg base 
equivalent/kg/day) 
0 (untreated diet), 0 
(untreated diet + 
Vitamin K1 sc), 
2320, 2320 (+ 
Vitamin K1 sc) as 
spray-dried 
etravirine (1:2:0.5 
active to polymer 
ratio) 
0 (vehicle), 0 
(vehicle + Vitamin 
K1 sc), 1000, 1000 
(+ Vitamin K1 sc) 
as etravirine HBr 
Page 13 of 52 
Noteworthy Findings 
-  Etravirine  alone:  1M  showed 
hemorrhagic  cardiomyopathy. 
No  haemorrhages  in  any  other 
organ.  ↑  APTT  +  PT  and  ↓ 
vitamin  K  dependent  factors  II 
and  VII.  These  effects  were 
more pronounced in males. 
-  Etravirine  with  Vitamin  K: 
normalization  of  coagulation 
times  and  clotting  factors  II 
and  VII.  Reduction  of  hepatic 
hemorrhagic necrosis.  
-  No  animals  with  hemorrhagic 
No 
in  any  other 
cardiomyopathy. 
haemorrhages 
organ.  
-  Etravirine alone: ↑ APTT + PT 
and  ↓  vitamin  K  dependent 
factors 
II  and  VII.  These 
effects  were  more  pronounced 
in  males.  No  effects  on  factor 
II and VII in females.  
-  Etravirine  with  Vitamin  K: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
normalization  of  coagulation 
times  and  clotting  factors  II 
and VII. Gavage administration 
of  etravirine  HBr  had  lower 
times 
impact 
compared 
dietary 
admixture.  
clotting 
with 
on 
APTT: activated partial thromboplastin time; F: female; M: male; PEG400: polyethylene glycol 400; PT: prothrombin 
time; sc: subcutaneous; ↑: increased; ↓: decreased 
The  impurities  R230187  and  R405793  were  qualified  above  their  specified  levels  and  they  were 
considered non-genotoxic in an Ames test and in a chromosomal aberration test and also non-toxic in a 
repeated  dose  (3  months)  toxicity  study.  The  impurity  R405792  was  tested  in  an  Ames  test  and 
considered non-mutagenic. Genotoxicity studies (in human lymphocytes or Chinese hamster V79 cells 
and  in  vivo  micronucleus  test)  conducted  on  2  intermediate  products,  T002615  and  T002327  were 
negative.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental exposure assessment (Phase I) as well as an environmental fate and effect analysis 
(Phase  II)  were  performed.  The  environmental  assessment  of  the  compound  in  the  terrestrial 
compartment included studies on aerobic degradation in soil, effects on soil microorganisms, effects 
on  terrestrial  plants,  acute  effects  to  earthworm  and  effects  on  survival  and  reproduction  of 
Collembola. In soil, the ratio of Predicted PEC/PNEC was below 1 (6.6 x 10-5). Because etravirine is 
highly adsorbed on soil (Koc 16.614 L/kg) and not readily biodegradable (DT50 in soil 587 days), an 
additional  sediment  dweller  test  is  currently  being  performed;  the  results  from  this  study  will  be 
provided as post-approval commitment. Zebra Fish in an early-life stage toxicity test was performed, 
and no toxic effects were noted. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The main clinical programme to support the present marketing authorisation application comprised the 
following studies: 
−  Two  identically  designed  Phase  III  pivotal  studies  to  support  the  claimed  indication,  C206 
(DUET-1)  and  C216  (DUET-2).  Both  are  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled 
studies  in  treatment-experienced  patients  with  genotypic  resistance  to  currently  available 
NNRTIs  with  a  duration  of  48  weeks.  The  results  of  the  primary  analyses  performed  at  24 
weeks are the basis for the present application. An uncontrolled rollover study (C217), where 
patients receive open-label etravirine, is ongoing. 
−  Two  controlled  Phase  IIb  studies  in  treatment-experienced  patients  claimed  to  support  dose 
selection (C203 and C223). 
An overview of the key elements of these studies is provided in Table 4. In addition, several Phase IIa 
proof-of-principle studies have been conducted, as well as exploratory Phase IIb studies. Finally, an 
extensive  number  of  Phase  I  studies  provided  data  on  pharmacokinetic  properties,  drug-drug 
interaction and safety/tolerability. 
The  clinical  development  was  consistent  with  many  aspects  of  the  applicable  guidelines,  and  in 
particular the CHMP guideline on the clinical development of medicinal products for the treatment of 
HIV infection (CPMP/EWP/633/02). Several aspects of the clinical programme were subject to central 
scientific advice, amongst others the investigation of viral resistance, the dose selection for Phase III 
studies, the overall design of the Phase III studies, the need for a study in renally impaired patients, 
and details of the drug-drug interaction programme. 
Page 14 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With  regard  to  the  paediatric  development,  a  dose-finding  Phase  I  study  in  treatment-experienced 
HIV-1 infected children and adolescents was ongoing at time of application. 
Table 4 
Summary  of  the  main  clinical  studies  supporting  dose-selection  and  efficacy 
evaluation 
Protocol  Design  
Treatment 
N 
Population  Study objectives 
Phase IIb 
C203 
C223 
/ Duration 
Randomized, 
double blinded 
(during the first 12 
weeks), placebo-
controlled, 2-stage 
dose escalating 
study 
/ 48 weeks with 
extension to 144 
weeks 
Randomized, 
active controlled, 
partially blinded 
study 
/ 48 weeks 
Phase III 
C206 
DUET-1 
C216 
DUET-2 
Randomized, 
double-blinded, 
placebo-controlled 
study 
/ 48 weeks with 
extension to 96 
weeks 
Combination 
therapy 
NRTI-, PI-, 
and NNRTI- 
experienced 
HIV-1 
infected 
patients 
Doseescalating 
(combination 
therapy: 
individually 
optimized ART) 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Safety 
(Efficacy 
not 
exploitable 
due to bias 
in viral load 
measure-
ment) 
Dose finding 
(combination 
therapy: at least 2 
ARV drugs [NRTIs 
and/or PIs and/or 
ENF]) 
Change in 
log10 
plasma 
viral load at 
Week 24 
HIV-1 
infected 
patients with 
NNRTI 
resistance 
and at least 
3 primary PI 
mutations 
57 
74 
43 
66 
80 
79 
40 
Etravirine 
(formulation TF035) 
400 mg bid 
Etravirine 
(formulation TF035) 
800 mg bid 
Etravirine 
(formulation TF035) 
1200 mg bid 
placebo 
Etravirine 
(formulation TF035) 
400 mg bid 
Etravirine 
(formulation TF035) 
800 mg bid 
Comparator: at least 
3 ARV drugs [NRTIs 
and/or PIs and/or 
ENF] 
Etravirine 
(formulation F060) 
200 mg bid 
placebo 
Etravirine 
(formulation F060) 
200 mg bid 
placebo 
304
308
295
296
HIV-1 
infected 
patients with 
at least 1 
NNRTI 
mutation 
and with at 
least 3 
primary PI 
mutations 
To show 
superiority of 
etravirine 
(combination 
therapy: 
darunavir/ritonavir 
+ OBR) 
Proportion 
of subjects 
with plasma 
viral load 
i.e. < 50 
copies / mL 
at week 24  
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
An extensive study programme has been performed to investigate the pharmacokinetics of etravirine. 
The  extent  of  this  programme  was  particularly  due  to  the  development  of  several  pharmaceutical 
formulations  in  order  to  achieve  an  adequate  bioavailability  of  etravirine,  a  substance  which  is 
characterised  by  its  low  solubility  and  low  permeability.  Consequently,  a  significant  number  of 
bioequivalence studies between the various intermediate formulations was conducted. 
Amongst  the  various  formulations,  the  following  were  of  particular  relevance  with  regard  to  the 
Page 15 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overall clinical development: 
−  PEG 4000-based capsule (TF002): early Phase I and Phase IIa studies; 
−  HPMC tablet using granulo-layering technology (TF035): late Phase I and Phase II studies; 
−  HPMC tablet using spray-drying technology (F060): pivotal Phase III studies and commercial 
formulation. 
It  is  noteworthy  that  despite  this  extensive  programme,  the  appreciation  of  the  full  pharmacokinetic 
profile  of  etravirine  in  the  commercial  formulation  remains  difficult,  even  with  the  bridge  of  the 
bioequivalence studies between the various formulations. Details are outlined below. 
Validated LC-MS/MS methods were developed for the determination of etravirine in human heparin 
plasma, following a liquid-liquid extraction. The range of quantification of the methods was 2.00 to 
5000 ng/mL. These analytical methods were fully validated, enabling to produce accurate and precise 
concentration results of the studied analytes. 
Non  compartmental  analysis  was  used  for  the  pharmacokinetic  analysis,  and  conventional 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  determined  (e.g.  Cmax,  tmax,  AUC,  t1/2,  Cmin).  Population 
pharmacokinetic  analyses were  performed  using  NONMEM; the  First  Order  Conditional  Estimation 
method  (FOCE)  with  the  INTERACTION  option  and  Ln  transformed  data  were  used  throughout 
model building and finalisation. 
•  Absorption  
Based on in vitro experiments, etravirine is thought to be absorbed via a passive transcellular diffusion 
mechanism. Moreover, etravirine is an inhibitor of P-gp with an apparent IC50 value of 24.2 µM.  
Etravirine is absorbed slowly, with median peak concentrations occurring at approximately 4.0 hour 
(2 to 6  hours  depending  on  the  formulation)  after  fasted  oral  administration.  The  absolute 
bioavailability  of  etravirine  has  not  been  determined  because  of  the  lack  of  an  intravenous 
formulation. 
The  effect  of  substances  altering  intra-gastric  pH  such  as  ranitidine  and  omeprazole  on  etravirine 
absorption  was  investigated  (study  C120).  Ranitidine  did  not  modify  etravirine  exposure  whereas 
omeprazole increased etravirine exposure. The effect observed with omeprazole was likely related to 
the inhibition of CYP2C19. Therefore, based on the results obtained with ranitidine, it was concluded 
that gastric pH did not significantly alter etravirine absorption 
Bioequivalence 
Of  the  various  bioequivalence  studies  performed,  studies  C141,  C228  and  C229  (sub-study)  were 
considered to be most relevant as they investigated one of the exploratory formulations used in several 
late Phase I and Phase II studies (TF035) and the final commercial formulation used in the Phase III 
studies  (F060).  All  these  studies  were  conducted  in  HIV-1  infected  patients.  Of  note,  no 
bioequivalence  study  was  performed  between  formulation  TF002  and  either  formulation  TF035  or 
formulation F060. However, given that TF002 was used only at an early stage of the development, for 
exploratory studies, such a bioequivalence study was not considered mandatory. 
Based on the available bioequivalence data, 200 mg b.i.d. of etravirine in the commercial formulation 
is expected to achieve a higher exposure (30 to 70% depending on the study) as compared to 800 mg 
b.i.d.  of  etravirine  in  formulation  TF035.  Given  the  supra-bioavailability  of  etravirine  in  the 
commercial  formulation  compared  to  this  exploratory  formulation,  the  extrapolation  of  some 
pharmacokinetic  studies  will  mandate  caution.  The  details  of  these  most  relevant  bioequivalence 
studies are described below. 
Page 16 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study C141 
This was a randomized, open-label, single-dose cross-over study to evaluate the relative bioavailability 
of  3  doses  of  etravirine  as  a  spray-dry  formulation  (F060)  compared  to  the  granulo-layered 
formulation (TF035) in 36 HIV-1 infected patients. Subjects were randomized in 3 parallel groups: 
−  Single  dose  of  100  mg  etravirine  as  formulation  F060  (test)  or  a  single  dose  of  800  mg 
etravirine as formulation TF035 (reference); 
−  Single  dose  of  200  mg  etravirine  as  formulation  F060  (test)  or  a  single  dose  of  1600  mg 
etravirine as formulation TF035 (reference); 
−  Single  dose  of  300  mg  etravirine  as  formulation  F060  (test)  or  a  single  dose  of  2400  mg 
etravirine as formulation TF035 (reference). 
All treatments were taken under fed conditions within 10 minutes after completion of a standardized 
breakfast. The washout period between treatments was 14 days. 
This study confirmed the improved bioavailability of the commercial formulation (F060) compared to 
the  exploratory  formulation  (TF035),  since  100  mg  etravirine  in  formulation  F060  gave  the  same 
exposure  as  800  mg  etravirine  in  formulation  TF035.  The  bioequivalence  was  no  longer  achieved 
when comparing 300 mg of etravirine in formulation F060 with 2400 mg of etravirine in formulation 
TF035  (AUClast ratio = 2.13).  The  test  formulation  F060  showed  a  more  than  dose-proportional 
increase  in  pharmacokinetic  parameters  with  increasing  doses  of  etravirine.  The  test  formulation 
TF035  showed  a  more  than  proportional  increase  in  exposure  between  800  mg  and  1600  mg.  No 
additional increase in exposure was observed with the 2400 mg dose. 
Study C228 
This  was  a  randomized,  open-label,  multiple-dose  cross-over  study  to  evaluate  the  relative 
bioavailability  of  etravirine  as  the  commercial  formulation  (F060)  compared  to  the  exploratory 
formulation TF035 in HIV-1 infected patients. The trial was originally designed to compare 100 mg 
etravirine b.i.d. in formulation F060 with 800 mg etravirine b.i.d. in formulation TF035, in each case 
for  7  days  with  an  additional  morning  intake  on  Day  8.  The  trial  medication  was  taken  under  fed 
conditions, within 10 minutes after completion of a standardized breakfast. The original protocol was 
amended  to  implement  an  additional  group  in  which  subjects  received  200  mg  etravirine  b.i.d.  in 
formulation F060 for 7 days with an additional morning intake on Day 8. 
The  pharmacokinetic  data  obtained  are  shown  in  Tables  5  and  6.  Contrarily  to  study  C141,  these 
results obtained after multiple-dosing did not confirm the bioequivalence between 100 mg etravirine in 
F060  and  800  mg  etravirine  in  formulation  TF035  when  administered  as  single-dose.  Moreover, 
100 mg  multiple-dose etravirine in formulation F060 gave about half exposure of that obtained with 
800 mg multiple-dose etravirine in formulation TF035. 
With the 200 mg multiple-dose etravirine in formulation F060, the etravirine exposure was about 70% 
higher than that obtained with 800 mg multiple-dose etravirine in formulation TF035. A greater than 
dose  proportional  increase  was  observed  between  the  100  mg  b.i.d.  and  the  200  mg  b.i.d.  dose  for 
etravirine in formulation F060. 
Page 17 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 
Pharmacokinetic  data  following  multiple  dose  administration  of  100  mg  etravirine 
b.i.d.  in  the  commercial  formulation  F060  or  800  mg  etravirine  b.i.d.  in  the 
exploratory formulation TF035 (study C228) 
Pharmacokinetics of etravirine 
mean ± SD, tmax median [range] 
100 mg etravirine 
Test (F060) 
800 mg etravirine 
Reference (TF035) 
LSmean ratio (90% CI), % 
Test/Reference 
N 
tmax, h 
Cmax, ng/mL 
AUC12h, ng.h/mL 
Day 1 
33 
4.00 [2.00 – 6.00] 
54.9 ± 54.0 
312 ± 331 
32 
4.00 [2.00 – 8.00] 
70.6 ± 72.7 
434 ± 437 
Day 8 
N 
tmax, h 
C0h, ng/mL 
Cmin, ng/mL 
Cmax, ng/mL 
AUC12h, ng.h/mL 
Css,av, ng/mL 
FI, % 
LSmean = least square mean; CI = confidence interval; SD = standard deviation 
Levels of significance: *p ≤0.05, **p ≤0.01, ***p ≤0.001. 
33 
4.00 [0.00 – 6.00] 
86.3 ± 84.5 
59.9 ± 63.8 
170.9 ± 99.9 
1284 ± 958 
107.0 ± 79.8 
125.2 ± 47.7 
32 
4.00 [0.00 – 6.00] 
148.8 ± 119.3 
125.8 ± 116.4 
318.8 ± 245.8 
2607 ± 2135 
217.3 ± 177.9 
94.9 ± 35.5 
- 
- 
81 (65 – 100) 
72* (59 – 88) 
- 
- 
- 
47*** (38 – 59) 
61** (50 – 75) 
54*** (44 – 65) 
- 
- 
Table 6 
Pharmacokinetic  data  following  multiple  dose  administration  of  200  mg  etravirine 
b.i.d.  in  the  commercial  formulation  F060  or  800  mg  etravirine  b.i.d.  in  the 
exploratory formulation TF035 (study C228) 
Pharmacokinetics of etravirine 
mean ± SD, tmax median [range] 
200 mg etravirine 
Test (F060) 
800 mg etravirine 
Reference (TF035) 
LSmean ratio (90% CI), % 
Test/Reference 
N 
tmax, h 
Cmax, ng/mL 
AUC12h, ng.h/mL 
Day 1 
27 
4.00 [3.00 – 8.00] 
125.9 ± 109.6 
745 ± 660 
32 
4.00 [2.00 – 8.00] 
70.6 ± 72.7 
434 ± 437 
Day 8 
N 
tmax, h 
C0h, ng/mL 
Cmin, ng/mL 
Cmax, ng/mL 
AUC12h, ng.h/mL 
Css,av, ng/mL 
FI, % 
LSmean = least square mean; CI = confidence interval; SD = standard deviation 
Levels of significance: *p ≤0.05, **p ≤0.01, ***p ≤0.001. 
27 
4.00 [2.00 – 8.00] 
235.9 ± 163.1 
184.7 ± 128.1 
451.3 ± 232.3 
3713 ± 2069 
309.5 ± 172.4 
95.3 ± 31.4 
32 
4.00 [0.00 – 6.00] 
148.8 ± 119.3 
125.8 ± 116.4 
318.8 ± 245.8 
2607 ± 2135 
217.3 ± 177.9 
94.9 ± 35.5 
- 
- 
197*** (159 – 245) 
191*** (154 – 236) 
- 
- 
- 
167** (137 – 204) 
167** (137 – 204) 
167*** (138 – 202) 
- 
- 
Although no bioequivalence was demonstrated with the 100 mg b.i.d. or the 200 mg b.i.d. dosing of 
etravirine  in  the  commercial  formulation  compared  to  the  800  mg  b.i.d.  dosing  of  etravirine  in  the 
exploratory  formulation  TF035,  the  range  of  exposure  to  etravirine  was  comparable  between  the 
200 mg b.i.d. dose of the commercial formulation and the 800 mg b.i.d. dose of formulation TF035 
after  multiple  dosing  in  HIV-1  infected  subjects.  Based  on  these  results,  the  200  mg  b.i.d.  dose  of 
etravirine administered as formulation F060 was selected for further clinical development, including 
the Phase III trials. 
Study C229 
This  is  an  ongoing  Phase  IIb,  open-label,  rollover  study  in  HIV-1  infected  subjects  to  evaluate  the 
long-term  efficacy,  safety,  and  tolerability  of  etravirine  administered  as  part  of  an  individually 
optimized ART. All subjects received etravirine at a dose of 800 mg b.i.d. in formulation TF035 until 
the new formulation F060 was available, after which all subjects were switched to etravirine at a dose 
Page 18 of 52 
 
 
 
 
of 200 mg b.i.d. (formulation F060). A sub-study to evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of etravirine 
at Week 4 of treatment with each formulation was conducted in a subset of subjects, enabling an intra-
subject  comparison  to  be  made  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  etravirine  with  the  earlier  formulation 
TF035 and the new formulation F060. 
The pharmacokinetic data obtained are shown in Table 7. In this study, the bioavailability of etravirine 
was  increased  by  30%  with  the  commercial  formulation  (200  mg  b.i.d.)  compared  to  the  TF035 
formulation (800 mg b.i.d.). The range of exposures was comparable with both formulations. 
Table 7 
Pharmacokinetic  data  following  multiple  dose  administration  of  200  mg  etravirine 
b.i.d.  in  the  commercial  formulation  F060  or  800  mg  etravirine  b.i.d.  in  the 
exploratory formulation TF035 (sub-study C229) 
Mean ± SD, tmax: Median (Range) 
Parameter 
Etravirine 800 mg b.i.d. 
TF035 
(Reference) 
15 
4.00 (2.00 – 9.00) 
346.3 ± 278.5 
309.7 ± 256.8 
629.0 ± 426.4 
469.3 ± 336.3 
5513 ± 3844 
78.59 ± 35.15 
N 
tmax, h 
C0h, ng/mL 
Cmin, ng/mL 
Cmax, ng/mL 
Css,av, ng/mL 
AUC12h, ng.h/mL 
FI, % 
N = maximum number of subjects with data. 
a Ratio based on LS means 
Etravirine 200 mg b.i.d. 
F060 
(Test) 
15 
3.00 (0.00 – 6.00) 
557.0 ± 421.9 
418.2 ± 325.2 
805.6 ± 524.2 
594.8 ± 418.5 
7115 ± 5018 
82.77 ± 45.70 
Ratio a 
(Test:Reference) 
- 
- 
1.32 
1.32 
- 
1.28 
- 
90% CI 
- 
- 
1.00 – 1.74 
1.04 – 1.68 
- 
1.00 – 1.64 
- 
Since the results of this study in terms of increase in exposure between the commercial formulation 
and the exploratory formulation TF035 differ from the ones obtained in study C228 (30% and 70%, 
respectively),  this  aspect  was  specifically  discussed  during  the  MAA  assessment.  An  attempt  was 
made  to  explain  this  difference  by  correlation  with  the  exposure  observed  in  individual  patients. 
Overall this difference was however not considered critical.  
Food effect 
The food effect on the bioavailability of etravirine, administered as the commercial formulation, has 
been investigated in two Phase I studies (C147 and C116) performed in healthy subjects. In addition, 
several studies have been performed to assess the food influence on etravirine absorption using other 
exploratory  formulations  of  etravirine.  All  these  studies  demonstrated  consistently  that  etravirine 
should  be  taken  after  a  meal  to  increase  its  bioavailability  (up  to  50%).  Accordingly,  the  SmPC 
recommends etravirine to be taken following a meal. 
•  Distribution 
Etravirine  is  extensively  bound  to  plasma  protein  (99%).  Etravirine  is  essentially  bound  to  human 
albumin  (99.60% at  a  physiological  concentration  of  4.3%) and  to  α1-acid  glycoprotein  (97.66%  to 
99.02%  at  physiological  concentrations  of  0.10%  to  0.20%).  The  etravirine  blood  to  plasma 
concentration ratio determined in man was approximately 0.7, indicating no accumulation in the red 
blood cells. 
A limitation of the data is that the distribution of etravirine into compartments other than plasma, like 
cerebrospinal fluid or genital tract secretions, has not been studied in humans. 
Page 19 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
Metabolism 
The most important Phase 1 metabolic pathway of etravirine in humans was hydroxylation followed 
by  a  glucuronidation.  Roughly  only  ca.  11  %  of  administered  etravirine  is  metabolised.  In  vitro, 
etravirine  was  shown  to  be  mainly  metabolized  by  CYP3A  and  CYP2C  (see  section  “Non-clinical 
aspects”).  
A cocktail study was performed in healthy subjects using the commercial formulation (study C174). It 
was shown that etravirine had no effect on the activity of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6. Moreover, etravirine 
was  shown  to  be  a  substrate  and  a  weak  inducer  of  CYP3A4,  as  well  as  a  substrate  and  a  weak 
inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. 
Excretion 
A clinical mass balance study, which investigated a single 800 mg dose of etravirine in an exploratory 
formulation (TF002) in male healthy volunteers, showed that 93.7% of the radioactivity was recovered 
in the faeces whereas only 1.2% was recovered in urine. 168 hours after administration 94.9% of the 
dose was recovered (mean, based on radioactivity). Unchanged etravirine accounted for the majority 
of the radioactivity in the faeces (about 80% of the administered dose); no unchanged etravirine was 
recovered in urine. 
The very high percent of etravirine recovered in faeces is likely related to the presence of an entero-
hepatic cycle or to a very low bioavailability of the compound. Consequently, the high percentage of 
etravirine recovered in the faeces is likely to reflect the poor bioavailability of etravirine. 
The  terminal  half-life  elimination  of  etravirine  is  high  (ca.  40  h)  likely  due  to  the  high  binding  to 
plasma proteins. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  available  clinical  data  following  single  and  multiple  administration  of  etravirine  in  healthy 
volunteers has limitations to allow for reliable conclusions with regard to dose proportionality of the 
commercial  formulation  since  these  studies  have  been  performed  with  exploratory  formulations. 
Based  on  these  data  the  rate  of  absorption  and  the  time  to  reach  steady-state  concentrations  (about 
7 days)  did  not  appear  to  be  influenced  by  the  dose  level  or  the  formulation  of  etravirine 
administered. The elimination half-life value was about 60 hours.  
Moreover, it is also difficult to fully appreciate dose proportionality from the pharmacokinetic studies 
performed  in  HIV-1  infected  patients.  A  particular  shortcoming  of  the  data  is  that  the  dose-
proportionality  of  etravirine  with  increasing  doses  was  not  investigated  in  HIV-1  infected  patients 
using the commercial formulation. Pharmacokinetic data with this formulation are only available from 
a sub-analysis in the phase III studies, however the small sample size of less than 20 patients in each 
group makes it difficult to draw reliable conclusion.  
The  CHMP  did  consider  these  limitations  as  unfortunate  due  to  the  resulting  difficulties  in 
understanding  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  the  compound  given  the  multiple  changes  of  the 
formulation. Therefore, the applicant was requested to further discuss the dose and time-dependency 
of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  etravirine  in  HIV  infected  patients.  In  conclusion,  it  seems  that  the 
pharmacokinetics of etravirine appear to be more than dose proportional. The pharmacokinetics after 
b.i.d.  administration  has  not  been  investigated  at  doses  exceeding  200  mg  b.i.d.  in  the  commercial 
formulation. 
No  time-dependent  pharmacokinetics  was  observed  in  either  the  pharmacokinetic  sub-studies  of 
DUET or in the main DUET trials using population pharmacokinetics over 24 weeks. 
Page 20 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Intra- and inter-individual variability 
Based on the PK population, etravirine appears to exhibit a large inter- (approximately 80%) and intra-
individual (approximately 40%) variability in pharmacokinetic parameters.  
•  Pharmacokinetics in target population 
Overall the etravirine exposure appears to be lower in HIV-1 infected patients than in healthy subjects 
(35  to  50%).  This  difference  might  be  related  to  a  difference  in  absorption.  This  information  is 
included in the SmPC. 
•  Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Since the renal elimination of etravirine is negligible, the pharmacokinetics have not specifically been 
explored in subjects with renal impairment. The lack of a clinical study with patients presenting renal 
impairment was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment the pharmacokinetic parameters Cmin and AUC 
are  slightly  decreased  (18%  or  less)  compared  to  control  subjects.  However,  the  variability  of 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  is  increased  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  compared  to  control 
subjects. No dose adjustment is recommended for etravirine in subjects with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) were not included in the clinical 
studies.  The  SmPC  in  section  4.2  contains  a  precautionary  statement  that  etravirine  is  not 
recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Others 
Due to the homogeneity of population enrolled in clinical studies, few data are available in elderly or 
from races different from the Caucasian one. A difference in treatment response was observed in Latin 
America and USA/Canada compared to the EU (trend for lower response in the EU population) that 
will  need  to  be  further  explored  with  the  additional  confirmatory  study  that  is  subject  to  the  post-
approval commitments. 
The population PK analysis has identified body weight and HBV/HCV-co-infection as factors altering 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  etravirine.  Lower  body-weight  as  well  as  hepatitis  B  and/or  C  co-infection 
appeared  to  increase  etravirine  exposure.  It  is  noteworthy  that  a  decrease  in  etravirine  clearance  by 
24%  was  observed  in  HCV  co-infected  patients  compared  to  not  HCV-infected  subject;  this  aspect 
will  need  to  be  further  explored  in  ongoing  and  planned  studies  (e.g.  the  additional  confirmatory 
study). 
The  SmPC  in  section  5.2  adequately  describes  the  current  knowledge,  particularly  the  decreased 
clearance in co-infected patients potentially leading to an increased exposure and altered safety profile 
of etravirine. 
A  paediatric  development of  etravirine  is  currently  ongoing  and  the  applicant  committed  to  provide 
study reports post-approval. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
An extensive study programme has been conducted to investigate the drug-drug interaction profile of 
etravirine.  Most  of  the  studies  that  provided  information  for  the  use  of  the  medicinal  product  in 
clinical  practice  were  conducted  using  either  the  commercial  formulation  (F060)  or  the  exploratory 
formulation  TF035.  The  rationale  for  extrapolating  the  interaction  data  obtained  with  formulation 
Page 21 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TF035  to  the  commercial  tablet  formulation  was  discussed.  A  few  studies  from  early  development 
stages were performed with the capsule formulation TF002. 
Mechanistic study 
A cocktail study was performed to evaluate the potential inhibitory/inducing effects of etravirine on 
the single dose pharmacokinetic of various CYP substrates. It was designed as open-label, 1-way, 2-
period, cross-over study using 200 mg etravirine b.i.d. in steady state, administered in the commercial 
formulation. The compounds of the cocktail were midazolam 0.025 mg/kg intravenously (CYP3A4), 
dextromethorphan  30  mg  orally  (CYP2D6),  caffeine  150  mg  orally  (CYP1A2),  omeprazole  40  mg 
orally (CYP2C19), and warfarin 10 mg orally (CYP2C9). 
The results confirmed that etravirine is a CYP3A4 inducer (steady-state). Moreover, it is a CYP2C9 
(steady-state) and a CYP2C19 (single dose and steady-state) inhibitor. These data are in line with the 
non-clinical data. 
Co-administration with antiretroviral compounds 
The design and the results of the interaction studies investigating the co-administration of etravirine 
with other antiretroviral compounds are summarized in Table 8. 
Table 8 
Pharmacokinetic  data  from  interaction  studies  investigating  the  co-administration 
of etravirine with other antiretroviral compounds 
Dose/Schedule 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of etravirine 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of Co-Administered Drug 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Co-Adm. Drug 
(Trial) 
Co-Adm. 
Drug 
Etravirine 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Co-Administration with Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors 
Didanosine 
(C157) 
400 mg q.d. 
16 days 
1.16 
(1.02-1.32) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
8 days 
(TF035) 
1.11 
(0.99-1.25) 
1.05 
(0.93-1.18) 
0.91 
(0.58-1.42) 
0.99 
(0.79-1.25) 
- 
Tenofovir 
disoproxil 
fumarate 
(C138) 
Tenofovir 
disoproxil 
fumarate 
(C177) 
300 mg q.d. 
16 days 
300 mg q.d. 
16 days 
800 mg b.i.d. 
8 days 
(TF035) 
200 mg b.i.d. 
8 days 
(F060) 
Co-Administration with Protease Inhibitors 
Unboosted Protease Inhibitors 
Ritonavir 
(C105) 
300 mg b.i.d. 
1 day 
400 mg b.i.d. 
1 day 
500 mg b.i.d. 
1 day 
600 mg b.i.d. 
5 days 
400 mg 
single dose 
(Day 4) 
(TF002) 
0.70 
(0.60-0.82) 
0.69 
(0.61-0.79) 
0.72 
(0.65-0.81) 
1.15 
(1.04-1.29) 
1.16 
(1.09-1.23) 
1.42 
(1.11-1.80) 
0.81 
(0.75-0.88) 
0.81 
(0.75-0.88) 
0.82 
(0.73-0.91) 
1.15 
(1.04-1.27) 
1.15 
(1.09-1.21) 
1.19 
(1.13-1.26) 
0.68 
(0.55-0.85) 
0.54 
(0.41-0.73) 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Ritonavir 
(C116) 
Saquinavir 
(C106) 
Indinavir 
(C111) 
100 mg 
single dose 
1200 mg 
single dose 
(Day 14) 
200 mg 
single dose 
(F060) 
900 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF002) 
1.00 
(0.89-1.12) 
1.03 
(0.91-1.17) 
0.96 
(0.88-1.04) 
0.98 
(0.90-1.06) 
- 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.54 
(0.34-0.86) 
0.48 
(0.29-0.80) 
- 
800 mg t.i.d. 
6 days 
1600 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
1.51 
(1.16-1.97) 
1.51 
(1.20-1.90) 
1.52 
(1.20-1.91) 
0.72 
(0.58-0.89) 
0.54 
(0.46-0.62) 
0.24 
(0.17-0.34) 
Page 22 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dose/Schedule 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of etravirine 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of Co-Administered Drug 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Etravirine 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Co-Adm. Drug 
(Trial) 
Co-Adm. 
Drug 
Atazanavir 
(C151) 
400 mg q.d. 
7 days 
Boosted Protease Inhibitors 
Atazanavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C151) 
300/100 mg qd 
7 days 
Darunavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C139) 
Darunavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C176) 
Darunavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C176) 
Lopinavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C122) 
Saquinavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C123) 
Tipranavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C161) 
600/100 mg 
b.i.d. 
8 days 
600/100 mg 
b.i.d. 
8 days 
600/100 mg 
b.i.d. 
8 days 
400/100 mg 
b.i.d. 
14 days 
1000/100 mg 
b.i.d. 
14 days 
500/200 mg 
b.i.d. 
16 days 
Fosamprenavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C117) 
700/100 mg 
b.i.d. 
ongoing regimen
Lopinavir/ 
Saquinavir/ 
Ritonavir 
(C145) 
400 mg. b.i.d./ 
800-1000 mg. 
b.i.d./ 
100 mg. b.i.d., 
14 days 
(TF035) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF035) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF035) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
16 days 
(TF035) 
100 mg b.i.d. 
8 days 
(F060) 
200 mg b.i.d. 
8 days 
(F060) 
1600 mg b.i.d. 
21 days 
(TF035) 
1600 mg b.i.d. 
21 days 
(TF035) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
16 days 
(TF035) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF035) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF035) 
1.47 
(1.36-1.59) 
1.50 
(1.41-1.59) 
1.58 
(1.46-1.70) 
0.97 
(0.73-1.29) 
0.83 
(0.63-1.09) 
0.53 
(0.38-0.73) 
1.30 
(1.17-1.44) 
1.30 
(1.18-1.44) 
1.26 
(1.12-1.42) 
0.97 
(0.89-1.05) 
0.86 
(0.79-0.93) 
0.62 
(0.55-0.71) 
0.66 
(0.52-0.84) 
0.67 
(0.52-0.86) 
0.56 
(0.40-0.78) 
1.26 
(1.17-1.35) 
1.23 
(1.16-1.31) 
1.13 
(1.05-1.23) 
0.68 
(0.57-0.82) 
0.63 
(0.54-0.73) 
0.51 
(0.44-0.61) 
1.03 
(0.98-1.09) 
1.06 
(1.00-1.13) 
1.02 
(0.89-1.17) 
1.81 a 
(1.56-2.11) 
1.80 a 
(1.56-2.08) 
1.67 a 
(1.38-2.03) 
1.11 
(1.01-1.22) 
1.15 
(1.05-1.26) 
1.02 
(0.90-1.17) 
1.15 
(0.94-1.41) 
1.17 
(0.96-1.43) 
1.23 
(0.98-1.53) 
0.85 
(0.62-1.05) 
0.80 
(0.49-1.07) 
0.92 
(0.15-1.68) 
0.63 
(0.53-0.75) 
0.67 
(0.56-0.80) 
0.71 
(0.58-0.87) 
1.00 
(0.70-1.42) 
0.95 
(0.64-1.42) 
0.80 
(0.46-1.38) 
0.29 
(0.22-0.40) 
0.24 
(0.18-0.33) 
0.18 
(0.13-0.25) 
1.14 
(1.02-1.27) 
1.18 
(1.03-1.36) 
1.24 
(0.96-1.59) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.62 
(1.47-1.79) 
1.69 
(1.53-1.86) 
1.77 
(1.39-2.25) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.84 
(0.74-0.95) 
0.85 
(0.61-1.19) 
0.89 
(0.69-1.15) 
0.82 
(0.70-0.96) 
0.87 
(0.62-1.21) 
0.87 
(0.67-1.12) 
0.76 
(0.54-1.08) 
0.87 
(0.60-1.28) 
0.88 
(0.57-1.37) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Co-Administration with Other Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors 
Efavirenz 
(C109) 
600 mg q.d. 
18 days 
0.83 
(0.73-0.93) 
0.59 
(0.52-0.68) 
900 mg 
single dose 
(Day 14) 
(TF002) 
Nevirapine 
(C109) 
200 mg q.d. 
7 days 
followed by 
200 mg b.i.d. 
11 days 
900 mg 
single dose 
(Day 14) 
(TF002) 
0.64 d 
0.45 d 
- 
- 
90 mg b.i.d. 
Co-Administration with Fusion Inhibitors 
Enfuvirtide 
(DUET-1 
[C206] 
and DUET-2 
[C216]) 
200 mg b.i.d. 
(F060) 
- 
(cid:81)c 
(cid:81)c 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Co-Administration with Integrase Strand Transfer Inhibitors 
1.04 
Raltegravir 
(0.97-1.12) 
(C179) 
400 mg b.i.d. 
4 days 
200 mg b.i.d. 
12 days 
(F060) 
1.10 
(1.03-1.16) 
1.17 
(1.10-1.26) 
0.89 
(0.68-1.15) 
0.90 
(0.68-1.18) 
0.66 
(0.34-1.26) 
Co-Administration with CCR5 Inhibitors 
Page 23 of 52 
 
 
 
 
Dose/Schedule 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of etravirine 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of Co-Administered Drug 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Co-Adm. Drug 
(Trial) 
Co-Adm. 
Drug 
Maraviroc 
(C181) 
300 mg b.i.d. 
10 days 
150 mg b.i.d. 
10 days 
Etravirine 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
1.05 
1.06 
1.08 
0.40 
0.47 
0.61 
(0.95-1.17) 
(0.99-1.14) 
(0.98-1.19) 
(0.28-0.57) 
(0.38-0.58) 
(0.53-0.71) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.77b 
(1.20-2.60) 
3.10b 
(2.57-3.74) 
5.27b 
(4.51-6.15) 
200 mg b.i.d. 
10 days 
(F060) 
200 mg b.i.d. 
10 days 
(F060) plus 
DRV 600 mg 
b.i.d. plus RTV 
100 mg b.i.d. 
NA = not applicable;  - = no information available; a In comparison to etravirine 100 mg b.i.d. (formulation F060) for 8 days; 
b Compared to maraviroc 150 mg b.i.d.; c Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis; d No formal statistical analysis was 
performed due to small sample size. 
The following conclusion can be drawn: 
−  The interaction studies performed with unboosted protease inhibitors are judged not relevant 
given that most protease inhibitors are currently used in the EU as boosted with ritonavir.  
−  Etravirine can  be  associated  with ritonavir-boosted  protease  inhibitors  with the exception  of 
tipranavir/ritonavir  which  induced  a  sharp  decrease  of  etravirine  exposure  (80%).  Although 
unfortunate, since both drugs are intended for salvage therapy, the CHMP acknowledged that 
a two-way interaction is difficult to overcome for this combination and that the investigation 
of a dose-adjustment for tipranavir/ritonavir and etravirine appears very difficult. In view of 
the sharp decrease in etravirine exposure, the SmPC in sections 4.4 and 4.5 discourages such 
co-administration. 
−  The  co-administration  of  etravirine  with  other  NNRTIs  is  not  recommended.  However,  this 
co-administration is not relevant in clinical practice. 
−  An  unexpected  but  limited  interaction  occurred  with  tenofovir  (increase  in  tenofovir 
pharmacokinetics;  decrease 
interaction  can  be 
considered  as  not  clinically  meaningful;  as  observed  with  other  ARV  compounds  the 
mechanism of interaction with tenofovir remains unclear.  
in  etravirine  pharmacokinetics).  This 
−  No interaction study has been performed with NRTIs other than didanosine. However, given 
that the renal elimination of etravirine is expected to be very limited no significant interaction 
is  expected  with  NRTIs.  As  regards  the  co-administration  with  NRTIs  known  to  be 
metabolized  by  glucuronidation  (abacavir,  zidovudin),  a  common  pathway  for  etravirine, 
based  on  a  drug-drug  interaction  with  the  uridine  diphosphate  glucuronosyl  transferase 
substrate raltegravir, no effect on uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase and therefore 
no clinically relevant effect on glucuronidation is expected.  
−  The interaction with maraviroc needs to be considered in clinical practice especially given that 
etravirine  will  be  used  in  combination  with  boosted  protease  inhibitors  already  known  as 
increasing the maraviroc exposure. 
Co-administration with other compounds 
The design and the results of the interaction studies investigating the co-administration of ertravirine 
with other compounds (except ARVs) are summarized in Table 9. 
Page 24 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Pharmacokinetic  data  from  interaction  studies  investigating  the  co-administration 
of etravirine with other compounds (except ARVs) 
Dose/Schedule 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of etravirine 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Mean Ratio (90% CI) 
of Co-Administered Drug 
PK Parameters 
with/without Co-Adm. Drug 
No Effect = 1 
Co-Adm. Drug 
(Trial) 
Co-Adm. 
Drug 
Etravirine 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Co-Administration with Drugs other than Antiretrovirals 
Atorvastatin 
(C164) 
40 mg q.d. 
4 days 
0.97 
(0.93-1.02) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
13 days 
(TF035) 
1.02 
(0.97-1.07) 
1.10 
(1.02-1.19) 
1.04 
(0.84-1.30) 
0.63 
(0.58-0.68) 
- 
- 
2-hydroxy 
atorvastatin 
Ethinylestradiol/ 
Norethindrone 
(C166) 
35 µg q.d./ 
1 mg q.d., 
21 days 
200 mg b.i.d. 
15 days 
(F060) 
Rifabutin 
(C156) 
300 mg q.d. 
14 days 
800 mg b.i.d. 
21 days 
(TF035) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.76 
(1.60-1.94) 
1.27 
(1.19-1.36) 
1.33 
(1.21-1.46)/ 
1.05 
(0.98-1.12) 
1.22 
(1.13-1.31)/ 
0.95 
(0.90-0.99) 
1.09 
(1.01-1.18)/ 
0.78 
(0.68-0.90) 
0.63 
(0.53-0.74) 
0.63 
(0.54-0.74) 
0.65 
(0.56-0.74) 
0.90 
(0.78-1.03) 
0.83 
(0.75-0.94) 
0.76 
(0.66-0.87) 
25-o-desacetyl 
rifabutin 
Sildenafil 
(C159) 
N-desmethyl 
sildenafil 
50 mg 
single dose 
(Day 14) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF035) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.85 
(0.75-1.00) 
0.55 
(0.40-0.75) 
0.83 
(0.74-0.92) 
0.43 
(0.36-0.51) 
0.78 
(0.70-0.87 
- 
- 
0.75 
(0.59-0.96) 
0.59 
(0.52-0.68) 
Clarithromycin 
(C171) 
500 mg b.i.d. 
13 days 
14-hydroxy 
clarithromycin 
Paroxetine 
(C165) 
Omeprazole 
(C120) 
20 mg q.d. 
7 days 
40 mg q.d. 
11 days 
Ranitidine 
(C120) 
150 mg b.i.d. 
11 days 
200 mg b.i.d. 
8 days 
(F060) 
800 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(TF035) 
100 mg 
single dose 
(Day 8) 
(F060) 
100 mg 
single dose 
(Day 8) 
(F060) 
1.46 
(1.38-1.56) 
1.42 
(1.34-1.50) 
1.46 
(1.36-1.58) 
0.66 
(0.57-0.77) 
0.61 
(0.53-0.69) 
0.47 
(0.38-0.57) 
1.05 
(0.96-1.15) 
1.01 
(0.93-1.10) 
1.07 
(0.98-1.17) 
1.06 
(0.95-1.20) 
1.03 
(0.90-1.18) 
0.87 
(0.75-1.02) 
1.33 
(1.13-1.56) 
1.21 
(1.05-1.39) 
1.05 
(0.90-1.22) 
1.17 
(0.96-1.43) 
1.41 
(1.22-1.62) 
0.94 
(0.75-1.17) 
0.86 
(0.76-0.97) 
- 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
R(-) Methadone 
(C158) 
S(+) Methadone 
Individual dose 
regimen ranging 
from 60 to 130 
mg/day 
100 mg b.i.d. 
14 days 
(F060) 
Digoxin 
(C180) 
0.5 mg 
single dose 
(Day 8) 
200 mg b.i.d. 
12 days 
(F060) 
NA = not applicable;  - = no information available.  
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.02 
(0.96-1.09) 
1.06 
(0.99-1.13) 
1.10 
(1.02-1.19) 
NA 
NA 
NA 
1.19 
1.18 
- 
(0.96-1.49) 
(0.90-1.56) 
0.89 
(0.83-0.97) 
0.89 
(0.82-0.96) 
0.89 
(0.81-0.98) 
Etravirine decreased plasma concentrations of drugs metabolized by CYP3A4 and could consequently 
lead to a loss of efficacy of concerned compounds in particular statins, sildenafil and clarithromycin. 
Results  showed  that  etravirine  can  be  co-administered  with  methadone.  Some  data  is  available  for 
rifabutin, however the need for further data will need to be discussed as a post-approval commitment. 
No interaction study with rifampicin has been performed. 
Overall, about half of the interaction studies have been performed with the TF035 formulation. Given 
that 200 mg BID of the commercial formulation will lead to an increased exposure as compared to the 
Page 25 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
800 mg  in  the  exploratory  formulation  TF035,  results  derived  from  studies  with  the  TF035 
formulation might not always describe the “worst case scenario” of the potential interaction.  
The  SmPC  in  section  4.5  adequately  describes  the  available  pharmacokinetic  interaction  data. 
Additional precautionary statements are included as appropriate. 
As part of the post-approval commitments, the applicant is requested to provide additional drug-drug 
interaction data from studies investigating the co-administration of etravirine with lopinavir/ritonavir 
tablets  (in  healthy  volunteers)  and  voriconazole,  respectively.  Furthermore,  specific  analysis  of 
interaction  data  is  requested  from  the  additional  confirmatory  study  (see  below)  to  substantiate  the 
findings for boosted lopinavir and boosted atazanavir in HIV-infected patients. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
In vitro, etravirine was shown to be mainly metabolized by CYP3A and CYP2C. Moreover, etravirine 
was  shown  to  be  a  substrate  and  a  weak  inducer  of  CYP3A4,  as  well  as  a  substrate  and  a  weak 
inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. Moreover, etravirine is a weak inhibitor of P-gp. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Etravirine is a non-nucleoside inhibitor of the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase, i.e. it belongs to the class of 
non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (NNRTIs).  The  HIV-1  reverse  transcriptase  (RT) 
produces  the  proviral  DNA,  which  further  integrates  into  the  host  cell  genome.  Etravirine  binds 
directly to the reverse transcriptase and blocks the DNA polymerase activities of reverse transcriptase 
by causing disruption of the enzyme’s catalytic site. No inhibition of the human polymerases alpha, 
beta  and  gamma  was  observed,  indicating  the  specificity  of  etravirine  for  the  HIV  reverse 
transcriptase. 
Details on the pharmacodynamic studies are presented in the section “Non-clinical aspects”. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Antiviral activity in vitro 
Several  in  vitro  studies  have  been  performed  to  characterize  the  mechanism  of  action  of  etravirine. 
The salient findings are: 
-  The etravirine EC50 values were in the nanomolar range for Wild Type HIV-1 strains and in 
the  micromolar  range  for  Wild  Type  HIV-2  strains.  On  Wild  Type  HIV-1,  the  antiviral 
activity is in between nevirapine and efavirenz, much better than nevirapine but slightly lower 
than efavirenz. However, it is of note that the compound is currently not developed for use in 
antiretroviral naïve patients. 
-  Etravirine was shown to inhibit replication of CCR5, CXCR4 and dual-tropic strains of wild 
type HIV-1 in different host-cells. 
-  Etravirine was shown to have an antiviral activity against HIV-1 from group M and group O, 
with  EC50  values  in  the  nanomolar  range  for  group  M  isolates  and  higher  values  (about 
20 nM) for the group O isolates. 
-  The EC50 of etravirine was increased (about 6 fold) in the presence of 50% human serum. 
In vitro resistance 
Selection  experiments  were  performed  in  the  presence  of  etravirine  to  characterize  the  rate  of 
emergence of resistant viruses and the mutations associated with decreased susceptibility to etravirine 
upon drug selective pressure. It was shown that: 
Page 26 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Emergence  of  resistance  for  wild-type  or  mutant  strains  was  delayed  in  the  presence  of 
etravirine compared to efavirenz or nevirapine. 
−  Emergence of resistance needed the selection of multiple mutations. 
−  The most frequently RT mutations emerging with etravirine were 
o  L100I, E138K, V179I, Y181C, and M230I from Wild Type HIV-1; 
o  L100I, E138G, V179I, and Y181C from Mutant HIV-1. 
The  delay  in  the  emergence  of  mutation  and  the  need  for  several  mutations  before  the  resistance  is 
observed, suggests an improved genetic barrier as compared to existing NNRTIs. 
Phenotypic  analyses  with  determination  of  EC50  and  FC  (fold  change  in  EC50)  values  on  clinical 
isolates harbouring a loss of susceptibility to at least 1 NNRTI showed that: 
−  The EC50 and FC values were much lower for etravirine compared to delavirdine, nevirapine 
and efavirenz, in line with a more potent antiretroviral activity of etravirine. 
−  The percent of isolates for which EC50 was ≤ 10 nM was much higher for etravirine than for 
other  NNRTIs.  Therefore, etravirine  showed  a  wider spectrum  of  antiretroviral activity  than 
the other NNRTIs. 
−  The activity of etravirine was consistently higher than that of other NNRTIs, even in isolates 
harbouring NNRTI RAMs. 
The antiretroviral activity of etravirine was assessed (by the measure of the FC value) against mutants 
harbouring single (n=65), double (n=40) and triple (n=21) NNRTI RAMs introduced by site-directed 
mutagenesis. A decrease in phenotypic sensibility was exhibited by: 
−  9/65 strains harbouring single RAM (Y181C/I/V/T, E138G/Q, K101A/P/Q) 
−  22/40  strains  harbouring  double  RAM  (V179F  +  Y181C  was  associated  with  the  highest 
increase in FC) 
−  15/21  strains  harbouring  triple  RAM  with  a  mutation  profile  frequently  associating  L100I, 
Y181C and K103N. These 15 strains exhibited cross-resistance to efavirenz. 
No decreased susceptibility to etravirine was found in viruses harbouring all major NRTI or PI RAMs. 
The measure of in vitro antiviral activity showed no evidence of antagonism between etravirine and 
any of the HIV-1 antiretroviral compounds tested. 
In vivo resistance 
Overall,  in  the  subjects  experiencing  virologic  failure  to the  etravirine  containing  regimen,  the  most 
frequently emerging NNRTI RAMs were: L100I, K103N, V179F, V179I, Y181C and Y181I. V179F 
was only observed in combination with Y181C. 
Less frequently emerging NNRTI RAMs were A98G, K101P, V108I, I135T, E138G, E138K, E138G, 
Y181F, Y181G, Y181S, Y181V, H221Y, L228H and M230L. 
Most of these mutations matched those identified in vitro i.e., L100I, E138K, E138G, V179I, Y181C, 
and M230I. 
A  univariate  analysis  was  performed  to  identify  baseline  phenotypic  and  genotypic  determinants  of 
decreased  virologic  response  to  etravirine  at  Week  24,  in  the  DUET-1  and  DUET-2  trials.  These 
analyses  were  done  in  the  subgroup  of  subjects  not  using  de  novo  enfuvirtide,  and  excluding  the 
subjects who discontinued for other reasons than virologic failure: 
−  Thirteen mutations were found at baseline to be associated with decreased virologic response 
to  etravirine:  V90I,  A98G,  L100I,  K101E,  K101P,  V106I,  V179D,  V179F,  Y181C,  Y181I, 
Y181V,  G190A,  and  G190S.  These  etravirine  RAMs  have  been  previously  described  as 
NNRTI-RAMs, with the exception of V090I and V106I. 
Page 27 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  was  shown  that  the  number  of  these  mutations  present  at  baseline  was  predictive  of  the 
virologic  response  and  that  the  virologic  response  was  lower  when  at  least  3  of  these 
mutations were present. 
−  The etravirine FC values increased with increasing numbers of etravirine RAMs and were a 
strong  predictor  of  virologic  response.  However,  based  on  the  available  data,  a  clear 
breakpoint for FC for etravirine was not established. While the clinical breakpoints might be 3 
and  13,  this  will  have  to  be  further  substantiated  in  ongoing/planned  studies  (including  in 
particular the additional confirmatory study). 
Overall, the extensive virologic analysis of in vitro and clinical data demonstrated that: 
− 
the resistance profile of etravirine is different from that of other NNRTIs (i.e. efavirenz and 
nevirapine), with a higher genetic barrier. More than a single mutation is necessary to give rise 
to  resistance  and  the  presence  of  the  mutation  K103N  alone  demonstrated  no  impact  on 
efficacy.  However,  as  part  of  the  post-approval  commitments,  the  applicant  will  further 
explore the influence of the K103N when associated with other etravirine RAMs. 
−  a  list  of  13  mutations  has  been  identified  (V90I,  A98G,  L100I,  K101E,  K101P,  V106I, 
V179D,  V179F,  Y181C,  Y181I,  Y181V,  G190A,  and  G190S).  The  virologic  response  to 
etravirine  has  been  shown to  significantly  decrease in  the  presence  of  at  least  3  of  these  13 
mutations at baseline. 
Although improved as compared to existing NNRTIs, it remains that the genetic barrier of etravirine is 
limited.  Etravirine  will  have  to  be  adequately  “protected”  with  active  components  within  adequate 
combination therapy regimens.  
Cardiovascular safety studies 
In two clinical Phase I trials, a thorough QTc trial (C178) and a Holter monitoring substudy (C153), 
the effect of etravirine on heart rate and rhythm was evaluated in healthy subjects: 
–  The thorough QT/QTc trial was a double-blind, double-dummy Phase I trial specifically 
designed  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  etravirine  on  the  QT/QTc  interval.  Healthy  subjects 
received 4 different 8-day treatments: 200 mg etravirine b.i.d., 400 mg etravirine q.d., 400 
mg  moxifloxacin q.d. (included as positive control), and placebo. Etravirine formulation 
F060  was  used.  The  data  of  this  trial  demonstrated  that  etravirine  does  not  prolong  the 
QT/QTc  interval  and  does  not  affect  other  ECG  parameters  in  healthy  subjects  at 
clinically relevant doses, 
–  The  Holter  monitoring  substudy  evaluated  the  effect of  8-day  once  daily  dosing  of  400, 
800,  and  1600  mg  etravirine  (formulation  TF035)  on  the  cardiac  rhythm.  Rhythm 
interpretation  by  the  cardiologist  revealed  no  clinically  relevant  treatment-emergent 
abnormalities. 
•  PK/PD relationship 
No  PK/PD  relationship  was  shown  based  on  the  available  data.  Some  statistical  analyses  suggested 
that etravirine AUC12h or  C0h was a significant predictor of virologic response, but these parameters 
were less predictive than other covariates tested like baseline viral load or enfuvirtide use. Moreover, 
no  PK/safety  relationship  has  been  observed.  Therefore  it  seems  not  relevant  to  at  this  stage  to 
recommend a therapeutic drug monitoring to follow etravirine efficacy or safety. Further data will be 
needed, like the exploration of the relationship between the PK of etravirine and the primary efficacy 
endpoint at week 48 in the DUET studies. 
Clinical efficacy  
Several  Phase  II  studies  and  two  Phase  III  studies  have  been  performed  during  the  clinical 
development. These include the following: 
– 
three Phase IIa proof-of-principle studies in treatment-naïve patients (C201 and C208) and in 
Page 28 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment-experienced patients (C207); 
three Phase IIb studies (C203, C209 and C223) in treatment-experienced patients; 
– 
–  one exploratory Phase II study (C227) in PI-naïve, NNRTI-experienced patients; 
– 
two roll-over studies derived from patients enrolled in Phase IIb studies (C211 and C229 for 
patients who were in the control arms and in the etravirine arms, respectively); 
two  Phase  III  studies  (C206  or  DUET-1,  and  C216  or  DUET-2)  in  treatment-experienced 
patients with evidence of NNRTI resistance. 
– 
The key elements of the studies most relevant for the present application are summarised in Table 4. 
For the pivotal Phase III studies, data are available for the whole population at 24 weeks; these studies 
are ongoing and further data will be provided post-approval. With regard to the Phase II programme it 
is of note that although the number of studies is high, the overall data set has significant limitations as 
outlined below for the studies relevant for the dose finding.  
•  Dose response studies 
The choice of the dose investigated in the Phase III studies was based on the following considerations: 
–  Based  on  the  results  of  studies  C203  and  C223,  which  were  both  performed  using  the 
exploratory  formulation  TF035,  the  800  mg  b.i.d.  dose  was  selected  for  further  clinical 
studies. 
–  Based  on  the  bioequivalence  studies  (see  section  “Clinical  aspects,  Pharmacokinetics”), 
800 mg  b.i.d.  with  formulation  TF035  was  considered  comparable  (or  inferior)  to  200  mg 
b.i.d. with the commercial formulation. 
Given the limitations of the Phase II studies as described below, the dose selection was not considered 
convincingly  substantiated.  It  was  noted  though  that  the  supra-bioavailability  of  the  commercial 
formulation  as  compared  to  the  TF035  formulation  does  suggest  a  potential  for  improved  dose 
response. Ultimately, the adequacy of the dose can only be appreciated with the results of the Phase III 
clinical studies.  
Study C203 
Study 203 was a randomized, double-blind (during the first 12 weeks), placebo-controlled, 3-arm trial 
in NRTI-, PI-, and NNRTI- experienced HIV-1 infected subjects, to evaluate the safety, tolerability, 
and efficacy of different doses (400 and 800 mg on stage 1; 800 and 1200 mg on stage 2) of etravirine 
b.i.d. (formulation TF035) in addition to an individually optimized antiretroviral therapy by means of 
a 2-stage dose-escalating design for 48 weeks (initial treatment period). 
Dose  escalation  was  performed  in  2  stages.  In  the  first  stage,  166  HIV-1  infected,  3-class  ART-
experienced  subjects  were  randomized  and  treated  with  either  placebo  or  etravirine  400  or  800  mg 
b.i.d. In the second stage, 74 subjects were randomized and treated with either placebo or etravirine 
800  or  1200  mg  b.i.d.  Stage  2  was  opened  for  enrollment  after  review  of  the  available  safety  and 
efficacy data when 120 subjects in Stage 1 had been treated for 4 weeks or discontinued earlier, and 
concurrence by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB).  
Overall,  240  patients  were  enrolled  (66  in  the  placebo  arm;  174  in  the  etravirine  arms).  Of  critical 
relevance  is  that  enfuvirtide  was  only  allowed  after  a  protocol  amendment  hence  its  use  was  more 
frequent in Stage 2 (39.2%) when compared with Stage 1 (14.5%). Also of importance is an imbalance 
that  was  observed  across  arms  (in  stage  1  and  in  stage  2)  regarding  the  use  of  sensitive 
lopinavir/ritonavir and enfuvirtide. 
During the conduct of the study, an issue with the correct measure of viral load was detected. Initially, 
plasma  viral  load  measurements  were  done  using  plasma  preparation  tubes  (PPT)  tubes  for  sample 
collection. During the conduct of the trial, data from other trials showed that these PPT tubes tended to 
yield  higher  HIV-1  RNA  levels  than  EDTA  tubes  for  HIV-1  RNA  within  the  50-400  copies/mL. 
Therefore, from April 2004 onwards, viral load was additionally determined on plasma samples from 
standard ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (EDTA) tubes at specific time points (Weeks 2, 4, 12, 24, 
Page 29 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48,  72,  96,  120  and  144)  and  a  possible  difference  in  viral  load  due  to  tube  type  was  explored. 
Consequently,  for  visits  that  occurred  before  this  date,  no  ‘standard  EDTA’  (further  referred  to  as 
‘EDTA’) data is available. For samples for which both results (PPT and EDTA) were available, the 
data showed that PPT results for plasma viral load were often higher than the corresponding EDTA 
value. This  PPT  bias  was most  apparent for  the response parameters  where  plasma  viral load  levels 
below 400 copies/mL were assessed. 
In Stage 1, no difference was noted between the treatment groups, either in the PPT analysis or the 
EDTA  analysis.  The  pair-wise  comparison  of  the  LS  means  of  the  etravirine  400  mg  b.i.d.  and 
etravirine  800  mg  b.i.d.  groups  was  not  statistically  significant  at Weeks  24  and  48.  Both  etravirine 
dose groups were not statistically significantly different from the placebo group at both time points. In 
Stage 2, a trend was noted to show an additional benefit of the 2 etravirine groups over placebo in the 
PPT  analysis.  An  additional  antiviral  effect  was  noted  for  the  etravirine  800  mg  b.i.d.  group  over 
placebo  (p=0.009)  in  the  EDTA  analysis  at  week  24.  Of  note,  there  were  only  11  subjects  in  the 
placebo group in Stage 2 and the trial was not powered to show statistical significance vs placebo. In 
subgroup analyses of Stage 1 where the potency of the PI component of the underlying ART was most 
compromised (e.g. subjects with more than 2 primary PI mutations or not using a sensitive PI in the 
underlying  ART),  an  additional  antiviral  effect  was  noted  for  the  etravirine  800  mg  b.i.d.  group.  It 
should  be  noted  that  the  response  rates  were  substantially  higher  with  the  EDTA  data  as  compared 
with the PPT data for all treatment groups. 
Overall, the CHMP concluded that the efficacy results of this study have been flawed by significant 
confounding  factors  (use  of  PPT  tube  for  the  viral  load  and  lack  of  consistency  with  a  re-test  with 
EDTA  tube,  significant  imbalances  [enfuvirtide  use,  sensitive  PI]  across  treatment  arms),  which 
preclude  any  reliable  interpretation  of  the  efficacy  data.  Therefore  this  study  was  not  considered  to 
provide any contribution to the dose selection. 
Study C223 
Study 223 was a randomized, controlled, partially blinded Phase IIb dose-finding study investigating 
etravirine  (400  and  800  mg  b.i.d.,  TF035  formulation)  in  HIV-1  infected  subjects  with  documented 
genotypic  evidence  of  resistance  to  currently  available  NNRTIs  and  with  at  least  3  primary  PI 
mutations. The design of the study was as follows: 
– 
– 
In the control group, the ART started at baseline was a standard of care regimen consisting of 
at least 3 approved drugs (NRTIs and/or PIs and/or ENF in any combination). 
In  the  etravirine  groups,  the  background  regimen  started  at  baseline  consisted  of  at  least  2 
approved  drugs  containing  NRTI(s)  (except  “new  abacavir”  which  was  excluded  to  avoid 
difficulties  in  determining  the  etiology  of  any  symptoms  of  rash  or  hypersensitivity)  and/or 
lopinavir/r and/or enfuvirtide in any combination. 
The therapy was selected by the investigator within the frame of the protocol and based on subject’s 
genotypic data and/or previous treatment history.  
The use of a boosted protease inhibitor in the OBT was not binding in this study; if however a boosted 
protease  inhibitor  was  to  be  used  in  the  etravirine  arms  then  this  was  lopinavir/ritonavir.  It  is 
noteworthy that the pivotal studies required the use of darunavir/ritonavir in the OBT (see below). 
The primary antiviral activity parameter was the change in log10 plasma  viral load at Week 24. The 
overall duration of the study was 48 weeks.  
The  population  enrolled  was  advanced  in  HIV-infection  with  a  mean  duration  of  infection  of  about 
15 years and more than 60% of patients classified in CDC class C, 50% of patients had CD4 cell count 
<100/mm3. In addition, the population was heavily experienced as illustrated by the genotypic analysis 
with a high level of resistance mutations to anti-retroviral drugs. The phenotypic analyses showed a 
resistance  to  the  NNRTIs  nevirapine and efavirenz  (whereas the strains  were  sensitive to etravirine) 
and to the PIs in particular lopinavir which is the only one allowed in the etravirine groups. Overall, 
the  population  enrolled  had  a  median  of  2  NNRTIs  mutations,  taking  into  account  the  extended 
NNRTI resistance associated mutations. 
Page 30 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The etravirine study arms showed important imbalances compared to the control arm: 
–  The use of enfuvirtide that was more frequent in the etravirine arms than in the control arm 
(approx 63% versus 54%). Moreover, whereas the “naïve use” represented approximately half 
of  the  total  use  of  enfuvirtide  in  the  control  arm,  this  proportion  was  much  higher  for  the 
etravirine arms (60% to 90%). 
–  The percentage of patients with a PSS 0 in the OBT was different between the etravirine arms 
and the control arm (16% versus 26% respectively). 
The results of this study are presented in Table 10. No statistical difference was observed between the 
two  etravirine  doses  tested.  The  viral  load  change  from  baseline  was  statistically  superior  with  both 
etravirine doses as compared to the control arm. However, compared to the control arm the etravirine 
arms  were  associated  with  an  approx  0.7  log  decrease  in  viral  load,  which  is  considered  limited 
particularly when considering a potential for overestimation given the imbalances in the study groups. 
Table 10  ANCOVA Model: LSmeans for the change in log10 viral load from baseline (NC=F) 
at Weeks 24 and 48 and pairwise comparison with control (ITT population) 
Difference 
With 
Control (SE) 
P-Value for 
comparison 
with controla 
Difference 
Between Dose 
Groups (SE) 
P-Value for 
dose 
comparisona 
LSmean (SE) 
-1.030 (0.1495) 
-1.194 (0.1446) 
-0.412 (0.1925) 
Treatment Group 
ITT Population 
Week 24 
Etravirine 400 mg b.id. 
Etravirine 800 mg b.id. 
Control 
Week 48 
-0.518 (0.2172) 
Etravirine 400 mg b.id. 
-0.657 (0.2160) 
Etravirine 800 mg b.id. 
Control 
- 
ap-value for pairwise comparisons (ANCOVA including ENF in the ART and treatment group as factors, and baseline CD4 
cell count and viral load as covariates. The interaction between treatment group and ENF in the ART was dropped because it 
was not significant at the 0.20 level). 
-0.886 (0.1556) 
-1.043 (0.1506) 
-0.368 (0.2004) 
-0.619 (0.2085) 
-0.782 (0.2075) 
- 
0.003 
< 0.001 
- 
0.018 
0.002 
- 
0.157 (0.1771) 
0.164 (0.1701) 
0.376 
0.337 
- 
- 
- 
- 
It  is  noteworthy  that  the  population  was  mainly  composed  of  heavily  pretreated  patients  at  an 
advanced stage of the disease, hence etravirine might have been the only active substance expected to 
significantly carry the antiviral activity, if only combined with NRTIs. Lopinavir/ritonavir was used in 
approximately  half  of  the  population;  the  same  applies  for  enfuvirtide.  This  could  explain  to  some 
extent  the  results  observed  in  the  etravirine  arms  in  this  study.  Of  note  that  lopinavir/ritonavir  was 
used despite being not active in the vast majority of patients treated by the combination. 
These  study  results  are  not  considered  to  impact  the  extrapolation  of  the  DUET  studies  results  to 
boosted  protease  inhibitors  other  than  darunavir/ritonavir,  such  as  lopinavir/ritonavir.  Nevertheless, 
further  reassurance  on  the  extrapolation  of  the  DUET  study  results  is  expected  with  the  additional 
confirmatory study. 
•  Main study(ies)  
Two Phase III randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trials were conducted to investigate the 
efficacy,  tolerability  and  safety  of  etravirine  as  part  of  an  antiretroviral  therapy  including 
darunavir/ritonavir  and  an  investigator-selected  optimised  background  regimen  (OBR)  in  HIV-1 
infected subjects with limited to no treatment options: 
–  Study  C206  (DUET-1),  conducted  in  Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,  France,  Mexico,  Panama, 
Puerto Rico, Thailand, USA, and Costa Rica; 
–  Study  216  (DUET-2),  conducted  in  Australia,  Belgium,  Canada,  France,  Germany,  Italy, 
Poland, Portugal, Spain, The Netherlands, UK, and USA. 
This duplication of the efficacy demonstration is of interest for the robustness of the analysis.  
Page 31 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS (FOR BOTH STUDIES) 
Study Participants  
The study population were HIV-1 infected with limited to no treatment options. The main inclusion 
criteria were  
–  age ≥ 18 years; 
–  plasma HIV-1 RNA > 5000 copies/mL; 
–  on a stable ART for at least 8 weeks at screening; 
–  at least 1 NNRTI resistance-associated mutation (RAM) either at screening or from historical 
genotype reports: A98G, L100I, K101E/P/Q, K103H/N/S/T, V106A/M, V108I, E138G/K/Q, 
V179I/F/G,  Y181C/I/V,  Y188C/H/L,  G190A/E/S,  P225H,  F227C,  M230I/L,  P236L, 
K238N/T, Y318F  (adapted from the IAS-USA list, update November 2005); 
–  3  or  more  documented  primary  PI  mutations  at  screening  (IAS-USA  list,  update  November 
2005). 
Main exclusion criteria were 
–  any currently active AIDS defining illness (Category C) with the following exceptions: Stable 
cutaneous Kaposi’s Sarcoma unlikely to require any form of systemic therapy during the trial 
period or Wasting syndrome due to HIV infection; 
–  chronic  hepatitis  B  and/or  C  with  aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST)  and/or  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) > 5 x upper limit of normal (ULN). 
Of note that subjects co-infected with chronic hepatitis B or C were allowed to enter the trial if their 
condition was clinically stable and was not expected to require treatment during the trial period. 
Treatments 
During the screening period (maximum of 6 weeks) current ART regimen to baseline was continued. 
With the start of the treatment period for at least 48 weeks, the following was administered: 
Etravirine group: 
–  Etravirine 200 mg b.i.d.: administered as 2 tablets b.i.d.; 
–  Darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg b.i.d.: administered as 2 tablets darunavir and 1 capsule 
ritonavir b.i.d.; 
–  OBR: at least 2 ARV drugs: NRTI(s) with or without enfuvirtide. 
Placebo group: 
–  Placebo: administered as 2 tablets b.i.d.;  
–  Darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg b.i.d.: administered as 2 tablets darunavir and 1 capsule 
ritonavir b.i.d.; 
–  OBR: at least 2 ARV drugs: NRTI(s) with or without enfuvirtide. 
De  novo  use  of  ENF  was  limited  to  a  maximum  of  40%  of  the  overall  trial  population.  There  was 
neither  restriction  on  the  total  number  of  ARVs  from  the  allowed  classes  nor  a  requirement  for 
sensitivity  towards  the  ARVs  in  the  OBR.  Investigators  were  however  encouraged  to  maximize  the 
use of sensitive ARVs in the OBR. 
Etravirine  or  placebo  and  darunavir/ritonavir  were  taken  orally  in  the  morning  and  in  the  evening 
immediately following a meal. Etravirine was administered in the commercial formulation (F060). The 
OBR was taken according to the manufacturer’s prescribing information. 
The treatment period was followed by a 4-week post-treatment follow-up period. 
Objectives 
Page 32 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  objective  was  to  show  the  superiority  of  etravirine  compared  to  placebo  as  part  of  an 
ART  containing  darunavir/ritonavir  and  a-selected  OBR,  in  the  proportion  of  subjects  with 
<50 copies/mL) at Week 24 in ARV-experienced HIV-1 infected subjects.  
Secondary objectives included virologic, immunologic and clinic response. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  an  undetectable  plasma  viral  load  i.e. 
<50 copies/mL at week 24 according the time to loss of virologic response (TLOVR) algorithm.  
A difference of 20% was assumed between the etravirine group and the placebo group in the situation 
whereno de novo enfuvirtide was used. The assumption was made that in subjects receiving DRV/rtv 
and de novo ENF, no added benefit of TMC125 could be demonstrated. 
Sample size 
Sample size calculations were based on the expected response rate at Week 24, also considering the 
impact of enfuvirtide use, as well as the significance level (5%, 2-sided). 
For  DUET-1,  1220  subjects  were  screened,  and  612  subjects  were  randomised  and  treated  (304 
etravirine, 308 placebo). For DUET-2, 954 subjects were screened, and 591 subjects were randomised 
and treated (295 etravirine, 296 placebo). 
Randomisation 
Eligible subjects were randomized to either the etravirine arm or the placebo arm in a 1:1 ratio. The 
randomization was stratified by: 
– 
the  intended  use  of  enfuvirtide  in  the  underlying  ART  (using  enfuvirtide  de  novo,  re-using 
enfuvirtide, or not using enfuvirtide), 
–  previous use of darunavir (yes, no), 
– 
screening plasma viral load (< or ≥ 30 000 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL). 
Blinding (masking) 
The study was conducted double-blinded. 
Statistical methods 
The  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population  was  defined  as  all  randomized  subjects  who  began  treatment, 
regardless of their compliance with the protocol. The ITT population was used as primary population 
for the entire analysis. 
An  on-protocol  efficacy  population  (i.e.,  ITT  subjects  with  no  major  efficacy-related  protocol 
violations),  and  the  on-protocol  pharmacokinetic  population  (i.e.  ITT  subjects  with  no  major 
pharmacokinetic-related protocol violations) were only used for analysis if they excluded at least 10% 
of the number of subjects in the ITT population. 
As  primary  analysis  method,  the  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  (CMH)  test  controlling  for  the 
stratification  factors  (use  of  ENF  in  the  underlying  ART,  previous  use  of  darunavir,  and  baseline 
plasma viral load) was applied to test the difference between the treatment groups at Week 24. 
The  primary  efficacy  parameter  is  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  undetectable  plasma  viral  load 
values  (<  50  copies/mL)  at  Week  24.  The  FDA  TLOVR  imputation  algorithm  was  used  in  the 
calculation of this proportion: 
–  2  consecutive  values  below  the  threshold  were  needed  to  count as  response.  Once  a  subject 
Page 33 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was a responder, 2 consecutive values above the threshold needed to be observed in order to 
be determined a non-responder (rebound). Once a subject was determined as a non-responder, 
following values below the threshold were not counted as a response. 
Intermittent missing values were imputed as response if the preceding value was a response 
and the missing value was followed by a response value. 
– 
–  Subjects who discontinued the trial were considered as non-responders after discontinuation. 
The  primary  analysis  was  done  when  all  subjects  had  been  treated  for  at  least  24  weeks  or 
discontinued earlier. All available data were included in the analysis. Additionally, an updated analysis 
will be performed once all subjects have been treated for 48 weeks. A final analysis of the trial will be 
performed  once  all  subjects  have  completed  the  optional  treatment  extension  period,  including  the 
follow-up  visit  (if  applicable).  A  pooled  analysis  for  efficacy,  safety  and  pharmacokinetics  will  be 
done (at Week 24 and at time points where the individual trials are also analyzed) combining the data 
of C206 with C216. 
Several DSMB analyses to describe the overall safety are being performed throughout the trial.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow  
The participant flow is outlined in Figures 1 and 2. 
Figure 1 
Patient flow in study C206 (DUET-1) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
Subjects 
screened 
N=1220 
Randomised 
N=615 
Allocated to placebo 
N=308 
Randomised and treated (ITT 
population) 
N=612 
Discontinued intervention 
N=43 
-virologic endpoint N=19 
-adverse event N=15 
-withdrew consent N=6 
-non compliant N=2 
-sponsor´s decision N=1 
N=265 
Completed N=1 
Ongoing N=251 
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
*
4
2
k
e
e
W
7
0
0
2
-
b
e
F
-
9
0
e
t
a
d
f
f
o
t
u
c
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Discontinued:  
N = 13 
-virologic endpoint N=10 
-other N=2 
-adverse event N=1
Page 34 of 52 
Excluded  
N=605 
-Not meeting Inclusion criteria N=582 
-Withdrew consent N=16 
-lost to follow-up N=4 
-Other reason N=2 
-AE/HIV related event N=1 
Randomised, not treated 
N=3 
-not meeting inclusion criteria N=1 
-other N=1 
-withdrew consent N=1 
Allocated to etravirine 
N=304 
Discontinued intervention 
N = 37: 
-virologic endpoint N=12 
-adverse event N=18 
-withdrew consent N=2 
-non-compliant N=2 
-lost to follow-up N=1 
-other N=1 
- ineligible to continue N=1 
N=267 
Completed N=1  
Ongoing N=261 
Discontinued:  
N = 5 
-virologic endpoint N=5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
Patient flow in study C216 (DUET-2) 
Subjects screened 
N=954 
Randomised 
N=593 
Excluded  
N=361 
-Not meeting Inclusion criteria N=331 
-Withdrew consent N=27 
-non- compliant N=1 
-Other reason N=2 
Randomised, not treated 
N=2 
-lost to follow up N=1 
-withdrew consent N=1 
Randomised and treated (ITT population)
N=591 
Allocated to placebo 
 N=296 
Discontinued intervention 
N=57 
-virologic endpoint N=35 
-adverse event N=12 
-withdrew consent N=6 
-non compliant N=2 
-ineligible to continue N=1 
-lost to follow-up N=1 
Allocated to etravirine 
N=295 
Discontinued  intervention
N = 44: 
-virologic endpoint N=17 
-adverse event N=20 
-withdrew consent N=3 
-non-compliant N=1 
-lost to follow-up N=2 
-other N=1 
N=239 
N=251 
Discontinued:  
N = 16 
-virologic endpoint N=14 
-withdrew consent N=1 
-other N=1 
Discontinued:  
N = 7 
-virologic endpoint N=7
N=223 Ongoing 
N=244 Ongoing 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
*
4
2
k
e
e
W
7
0
0
2
n
a
j
8
1
e
t
a
d
f
f
o
t
u
c
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Recruitment 
For study C206, the first visit was on 10 November 2005, and the last visit (relevant for the 24-week 
data) on 9 February 2007. 
For study C216, the first visit was on 31 October 2005, and the last visit (relevant for the 24-week 
data) on 18 January 2007. 
Page 35 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
Five protocol amendments were made during the conduct of the study (until the 24 week analysis).  
Protocol deviations were relatively rare and evenly distributed across study arms; they concern mainly 
forbidden medication during the treatment period and are not considered relevant for the final analysis. 
Baseline data 
Baseline and demographic data is displayed in Tables 11 and 12. 
Table 11  Demographic and baseline characteristics of subjects in study C206 (DUET-1) 
Placebo 
N = 308 
Etravirine 
N = 304 
All Subjects 
N = 612 
44 (14.3) 
264 (85.7) 
45.0 (18-72) 
70.0 (34-123) 
23.0 (13-40) 
189 (64.7) 
42 (14.4) 
35 ( 12.0) 
23 (7.9) 
3 (1.0) 
41 (13.5) 
263 (86.5) 
45.0 (18-67) 
71.0 (36-131) 
23.1 (15-40) 
187 (64.7) 
41 (14.2) 
39 (13.5) 
20 (6.9) 
2 (0.7) 
85 (13.9) 
527 (86.1) 
45.0 (18-72) 
70.6 (34-131) 
23.1 (13-40) 
376 (64.7) 
83 (14.3) 
74 (12.7) 
43 (7.4) 
5 (0.9) 
77,000.0 
(227-3,030,000) 
67,850.0 
(479-1,740,000) 
75,200.0 
(227-3,030,000) 
4.9 (2-7) 
4.8 (3-6) 
4.9 (2-7) 
109.0 (1-694) 
99.0 (1-789) 
106.0 (1-789) 
13.3 (5-26) 
13.4 (4-25) 
13.3 (4-26) 
Baseline Characteristics 
Demographic Data 
Gender, n (%) 
Female 
Male 
Age: median (range), years 
Weighta: median (range), kg 
BMIa: median (range), kg/m2 
Ethnic originb, n (%) 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Black 
Other 
Asian 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
Viral loada: 
median (range), copies/mL 
Log10 viral loada: 
median (range), copies/mL 
CD4 cell counta: 
median (range), 106 cells/L 
Duration of known HIV infectionc: 
median (range), years 
CDC Category, n (%) 
Category A 
Category B 
Category C 
59 (19.2) 
54 (17.5) 
195 (63.3) 
19 (6.2) 
12 (4.3) 
31 (11.1) 
69 (22.7) 
51 (16.8) 
184 (60.5) 
22 (7.2) 
12 (4.3) 
34 (12.1) 
128 (20.9) 
105 (17.2) 
379 (61.9) 
41 (6.7) 
24 (4.3) 
65 (11.6) 
HBV – HBsAg Positive, n (%) 
Active HCV infection, n (%) 
Hepatitis B and/or C co-infection 
N = number of subjects, n = number of subjects; a Baseline values were imputed with screening values if no data 
at baseline were available; b For ethnic origin: 31 subjects are not included in the denominator for race 
percentages because local regulations in some countries preclude collection of these data and are not in this 
table; c At the time of screening. 
Page 36 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12  Demographic and baseline characteristics of subjects in study C216 (DUET-2) 
Placebo 
N = 296 
Etravirine 
N = 295 
All Subjects 
N = 591 
271 (91.6) 
25 (8.4) 
45.0 (20-69) 
72.0 (45-137) 
22.9 (15-47) 
187 (75.7) 
35 (14.2) 
24 (9.7) 
0 
1 (0.4) 
276 (93.6) 
19 (6.4) 
46.0 (31-77) 
74.0 (41-115) 
23.4 (14-34) 
186 (76.5) 
31 (12.8) 
19 (7.8) 
5 (2.1) 
2 (0.8) 
547 (92.6) 
44 (7.4) 
46.0 (20-77) 
72.5 (41-137) 
23.2 (14-47) 
373 (76.1) 
66 (13.5) 
43 (8.8) 
5 (0.8) 
3 (0.6) 
61450.0 
(177-2,110,000) 
65300.0 
(977-7,030,000) 
64500.0 
(177-7,030,000) 
4.8 (2-6) 
4.8 (3-7) 
4.8 (2-7) 
108.0 (0-912) 
100.0 (1-708) 
105.0 (0-912) 
15.1 (5-26) 
14.5 (3-25) 
14.9 (3-26) 
Baseline Characteristics 
Demographic Data 
Gender, n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Age: median (range), years 
Weighta: median (range), kg 
BMIa: median (range), kg/m2 
Ethnic originb, n (%) 
Caucasian 
Black 
Hispanic 
Asian  
Other 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
Viral loada: 
median (range), copies/mL 
Log10 viral loada: 
median (range), copies/mL 
CD4 cell counta: 
median (range), 106 cells/L 
Duration of known HIV infectionc: 
median (range), years 
CDC Category, n (%) 
Category A 
Category B 
Category C 
71 (24.0) 
63 (21.3) 
162 (54.7) 
19 (6.4) 
20 (7.1) 
36 (12.8) 
57 (19.3) 
76 (25.8) 
162 (54.9) 
19 (6.4) 
20 (7.0) 
38 (13.3) 
128 (21.7) 
139 (23.5) 
324 (54.8) 
38 (6.4) 
40 (7.1) 
74 (13.1) 
HBV – HBsAg Positive, n (%) 
Active HCV infection, n (%) 
Hepatitis B and/or C co-infection 
N = number of subjects, n = number of subjects; a Baseline values were imputed with screening values if no data 
at baseline were available; b For ethnic origin: 101 subjects are not included in the denominator for race 
percentages because local regulations in some countries preclude collection of these data and are not in this 
table; c At the time of screening. 
The  population  enrolled  in  these  studies  were  heavily  pre-treated  and  at  an  advanced  stage  of  the 
disease (60% being classified in CDC category C, median viral load approx 4.8 log10 copies/ml and 
approx 100/mm3 median CD4). A limited number of women were included (<150) as well as patients 
with HBV and/or HCV co-infection (<150). Clade B accounted for about 95% of all clades at baseline 
and only a very small number of subjects had infection with other individual clades, thus precluding 
any valid efficacy analysis by clade. 
In line with disease status of the population, previous use of ARVs was extensive and well balanced 
between  the  etravirine  and  placebo  arms  of  both  studies.  Most  of  the  subjects  had  been  previously 
exposed to ≥3 PIs and ≥3 NRTIs. Previous use of enfuvirtide was reported for about 40% of subjects 
in  each  combined  treatment  group  (placebo  or  etravirine).  De  novo  use  of  enfuvirtide  during  the 
treatment period was reported for about 25% of subjects in each combined treatment arm. 
Mutations  at  codons  181  and  179  were  reported  at  baseline  for  over  30%  of  subjects,  with  no 
differences  between  the  studies.  Mutations  at  codons  101  and  103  were  present  in  about  20%  and 
35%, respectively, at baseline. FCs over 10 for etravirine were reported at baseline (in brackets) for 
viral strains with mutations 181V (30), 181I (83), 179F (23-41), 101P (18), 103H (13) and 190S (12). 
Baseline phenotypic sensitivity to at least 1 protease inhibitor was 77.5% of all subjects in DUET-1 
and 75% of all subjects in DUET-2. Overall sensitivity to darunavir was 63%, with similar distribution 
of FC <10 values for all single and combined treatment groups. The baseline phenotypic sensitivity to 
NRTIs  was  particularly  poor  as  assessed  through  virco®TYPE,  as  there  were  virtually  no  effective 
Page 37 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marketed  NRTIs  for  the  vast  majority  of  subjects.  As  this  finding  was  also  well  balanced  in  each 
combined treatment group, along with the reported baseline phenotypic sensitivity to PIs, over 50% of 
subjects in the placebo combined treatment arm were treated with combinations with low expectation 
of efficacy (darunavir/ritonavir + enfuvirtide or even darunavir/ritonavir at monotherapy). 
Numbers analysed 
The  primary  population  for  the  efficacy  analysis  was  the  ITT  population.  No  on-protocol  efficacy 
analysis  was  performed  because  less  than  10%  of  subjects  had  efficacy  related  major  protocol 
deviations. The primary analysis was conducted when all subjects were treated for at least 24 weeks or 
discontinued earlier. 
Study C206 (DUET-1): 
– 
In total, 612 subjects were randomized and treated, of which 308 were in the placebo group 
and 304 in the etravirine group.  
–  Thirteen  percent  of the  subjects  discontinued  the  trial  before  (or  at)  Week  24,  14.0%  in the 
placebo group and 12.2% in the etravirine group. 
–  At the analysis cut-off date (09-Feb-2007), 98 (16.0%) subjects had prematurely discontinued 
the  trial,  56/308  (18.2%)  in  the  placebo  group  and  42/304  (13.8%)  in  the  etravirine  group. 
Reaching a virologic endpoint and AE/HIV related events were the most common reasons for 
trial discontinuation in both treatment groups. The duration of exposure to the investigational 
medication was similar in both treatment groups, and treatment compliance was very good. 
Study C216 (DUET-2): 
–  591 subjects were randomized and treated in this ongoing Phase III trial, of which 296 were in 
the placebo group and 295 in the etravirine group. 
–  Seventeen percent of the subjects discontinued the trial before (or at) Week 24, 19.3% in the 
placebo group and 14.9% in the etravirine group. 
–  At the analysis cut-off date (18-Jan-2007) 124 (21.0%) subjects had prematurely discontinued 
the  trial,  73/296  (24.7%)  in  the  placebo  group  and  51/295  (17.3%)  in  the  etravirine  group. 
Reaching  a  virologic  endpoint  was  the  most  common  reason  for  trial  termination  in  both 
treatment  groups.  More  placebo  subjects  49/296  (16.6%)  discontinued  for  this  reason 
compared 
the  proportion  of  subjects 
discontinuing for AEs was 4.1% in the placebo group compared with 6.8% in the etravirine 
group. 
to  etravirine-treated  subjects  (8.1%),  whereas 
Outcomes and estimation 
The virologic response of patients in both studies is tabulated in Table 13. 
Page 38 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 
Summary  of  efficacy  response  at  Week  24 
(ITT population) 
in  studies  C206  and  C216 
Virologic Response Data (TLOVR) 
n (%) 
Viral Load < 50 copies/mL 
Non-Response Reason 
Virologic failure: 
Rebound (Loss of Response) 
   VL < 400 copies/mL at W24 
   VL ≥ 400 copies/mL at W24 
    Discontinued due to VF before W24 
Never suppressed (Not Responding) 
   VL< 400 copies/mL at W24 
   VL ≥ 400 copies/mL at W24 
    Discontinued due to VF before W24 
Death 
Discontinuation due to AE 
Discontinuation due to other reasons 
DUET-1 
Placebo  Etravirine
N = 304 
N = 308 
119 (38.6) 170 (55.9)  129 (43.6)  183 (62.0)  248 (41.1)  353 (58.9) 
Placebo  Etravirine  Placebo  Etravirine
N = 296 
DUET-2 
N = 295 
Pooled 
N=604 
N=599 
168 (54.5) 110 (36.2)  153 (51.7) 
14 (4.6) 
12 (3.9) 
11 (3.6) 
8 (2.6) 
3 (1.0) 
3 (1.0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
96 (31.6) 
156 (50.6)
44 (14.5) 
31 (10.1) 
51 (16.8) 
124 (40.3)
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.3) 
6 (1.9) 
13 (4.3) 
7 (2.3) 
7 (2.3) 
8 (2.6) 
9 (3.0) 
4 (1.4) 
5 (1.7) 
0 
144 (48.6) 
26 (8.8) 
113 (38.2) 
5 (1.7) 
4 (1.4) 
4 (1.4) 
6 (2.0) 
86 (29.2) 
7 (2.4) 
7 (2.4) 
0 
0 
79 (26.8) 
31 (10.5) 
47 (15.9) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.4) 
17 (5.8) 
5 (1.7) 
321 (53.1)  196 (32.7) 
21 (3.5) 
18 (3.0) 
3 (0.5) 
0 (0.0) 
21 (3.5) 
12 (2.0) 
8 (1.3) 
1 (0.2) 
300 (49.7)  175 (29.2) 
75 (12.5) 
57 (9.4) 
98 (16.4) 
237 (39.2) 
2 (0.3) 
6 (1.0) 
8 (1.3) 
10 (1.7) 
30 (5.0) 
11 (1.8) 
12 (2.0) 
14 (2.3) 
In both studies, the percent of patients achieving an undetectable viral load (<50 copies/ml) was higher 
in  the  etravirine  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (+ 20%  approximately).  This was  in  line  with  the 
assumptions when designing the studies. The difference in virologic response rate (17.3% and 18.4% 
in  DUET-1  and  DUET-2,  respectively)  was  mainly  due  to  a  higher  proportion  of  subjects  in  the 
placebo group (50.6% and 48.6%) as compared to the etravirine group (31.6% and 26.8%) that never 
reached a suppressed viral load by Week 24. In contrast, slightly more subjects in the etravirine group 
(4.3%  and  5.8%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (2.3%  and  1.4%)  discontinued  for  adverse  events  up to 
Week 24. 
The primary Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) controlling for previous use of darunavir (yes, no), and 
baseline plasma viral load (< 30000, ≥ 30000 HIV-1 RNA copies) for the between-group comparison 
on the TLOVR imputed virologic response (viral load < 50 copies/mL) data at Week 24 was done in 
the  two  enfuvirtide  strata  separately  because  the  p-value  of  the  interaction  (Breslow-Day  test)  was 
significant  in  both  studies  demonstrating  the  existence  of  a  statistical  interaction  between  use  of 
enfuvirtide and etravirine. The results are shown in Tables 14 and 15. 
Table 14  Primary efficacy analysis of study C206 (ITT population) 
De novo ENF 
Not de novo ENF 
Primary Statistical Analysis 
Response rate n (%) 
P-value vs placeboa 
ap-value for comparisons with placebo (Hochberg adjusted p-value) 
0.7935 
Placebo 
N = 79 
44 (55.7) 
Etravirine 
N = 74 
44 (59.5) 
Placebo 
N = 229 
75 (32.8) 
Etravirine 
N = 230 
126 (54.8) 
< 0.0001 
Table 15  Primary efficacy analysis of study C216 (ITT population) 
De novo ENF 
Not de novo ENF 
Primary Statistical Analysis 
Response rate n (%) 
P-value vs placeboa 
ap-value for comparisons with placebo (Hochberg adjusted p-value) 
0.3838 
Placebo 
N = 81 
55 (67.9) 
Etravirine 
N = 79 
58 (73.4) 
Placebo 
N = 215 
74 (34.4) 
Etravirine 
N = 216 
125 (57.9) 
< 0.0001 
In the “not de novo ENF” main subgroup, etravirine is shown (p<0.0001) to be statistically superior to 
Page 39 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  placebo  arm  at  Week  24  (54.8%  and  32.8%  in  the  etravirine  and  placebo  groups  of  DUET-1, 
respectively;  57.9%  and  34.4%  in  the  etravirine  and  placebo  groups  of  DUET-2,  respectively;).  Of 
note,  based  on  individual 48  weeks  study  results,  the  statistical  superiority  was  also achieved  in  the 
subgroup of de novo ENF in DUET 2 study. This will have to be further analysed within the pooled 
efficacy analysis to be provided.  
The results of secondary virologic response parameters at Week 24 are presented in Tables 16 and 17. 
The data are consistent with the one of the primary analysis. 
Table 16 
Secondary efficacy analysis of study C206 (ITT population) 
Secondary Statistical Analysis 
Specification 
CMH Test 
Viral Load < 400 copies/mL 
Response rate, n (%) 
P-value vs placeboa 
Decrease > 1.0 Log10 in Viral Load 
Response rate, n (%) 
P-value vs placeboa 
Logistic Regression Model 
Viral Load < 400 copies/mL 
Predicted response rate [95% CI] b 
Difference with placebo [95% CI] b 
P-value vs placebo (ENF strata) 
P-value vs placebo (overall) 
Decrease > 1.0 Log10 in Viral Load 
Predicted response rate [95% CI] b 
Difference with placebo [95% CI] b 
P-value vs placebo (ENF strata) 
P-value vs placebo (overall) 
De novo ENF 
Not de novo ENF 
Placebo 
N = 79 
Etravirine 
N = 74 
Placebo 
N = 229 
Etravirine 
N = 230 
58 (73.4) 
74 (83.8) 
100 (43.7) 
162 (70.4) 
0.1218 
< 0.0001 
66 (83.5) 
65 (87.8) 
112 (48.9) 
178 (77.4) 
0.4657 
< 0.0001 
75.2 [64.5;83.5] 
84.9 [75.0;91.3] 
43.3 [36.9;49.9] 
70.7 [64.4;76.3] 
9.7 [-3.0;22.3] 
0.1322 
27.5 [18.7;36.2] 
< 0.0001 
0.0001 
83.9 [74.1;90.4] 
88.0 [78.5;93.7] 
48.9 [42.4;55.3] 
77.4 [71.5;82.3] 
4.1 [-6.9;15.2] 
0.4619 
28.5 [20.1;37.0] 
< 0.0001 
0.0015 
N = number of subjects, n = number of observations; a p-value from CMH test (Hochberg adjusted p-value); b predicted 
estimates from logistic regression model with covariates baseline viral load and factors ENF and treatment and interaction 
term ENF* treatment 
Page 40 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17 
Secondary efficacy analysis of study C216 (ITT population) 
Secondary Statistical Analysis 
Specification 
CMH Test 
Viral Load < 400 copies/mL 
Response rate, n (%) 
P-value vs placeboa 
Decrease > 1.0 Log10 in Viral Load 
Response rate, n (%) 
P-value vs placeboa 
Logistic Regression Model 
Viral Load < 400 copies/mL 
Predicted response rate [95% CI] b 
Difference with placebo [95% CI] b 
P-value vs placebo (ENF strata) 
P-value vs placebo (overall) 
Decrease > 1.0 Log10 in Viral Load 
Predicted response rate [95% CI] b 
Difference with placebo [95% CI] b 
P-value vs placebo (ENF strata) 
P-value vs placebo (overall) 
De novo ENF 
Not de novo ENF 
Placebo 
N = 81 
Etravirine 
N = 79 
Placebo 
N = 215 
Etravirine 
N = 216 
63 (77.8) 
68 (86.1) 
96 (44.7) 
153 (70.8) 
0.2042 
< 0.0001 
69 (85.2) 
70 (88.6) 
106 (49.3) 
165 (76.4) 
0.6437 
< 0.0001 
78.4 [68.1;86.1] 
87.3 [78.2;92.9] 
43.7 [37.0;50.6] 
72.2 [65.7;77.8] 
8.8 [-2.8; 20.5] 
0.1365 
28.5 [19.5; 37.4] 
< 0.0001 
0.0001 
85.4 [75.9; 91.5] 
89.1 [80.2; 94.3] 
48.9 [42.2; 55.6] 
77.0 [70.9; 82.1] 
3.7 [-6.7; 14.1] 
0.4839 
28.1 [19.3; 36.8] 
< 0.0001 
0.0023 
N = number of subjects, n = number of observations; a p-value from CMH test (Hochberg adjusted p-value); b predicted 
estimates from logistic regression model with covariates baseline viral load and factors ENF and treatment and interaction 
term ENF* treatment 
With  regard  to  plasma  viral  load,  an  approximately  1  log  difference  in  viral  load  was  observed 
between etravirine and placebo in the subgroup of patients not using de novo enfuvirtide. 
The increase in absolute and % CD4 cell count was higher in the etravirine group than in the placebo 
group at all time points (see Table 18). 
Table 18  CD4 cell count at week 24 in studies C206 and C216  
Absolute (cells/µL) 
% 
C206 
Placebo  Etravirine
+ 64.4 
+ 2.6% 
+89.0 
+ 3.5% 
C216 
Placebo  Etravirine 
+ 65.5 
+ 2.9% 
+ 78.1 
+ 3.7% 
Of note, the results of statistical analyses regarding the mean increase in CD4 cells are different for 
DUET-1 and DUET-2. In both studies, the increase in CD4 cell is superior in the etravirine arm than 
in  the  placebo  arm  in  the  not  de  novo  enfuvirtide  use  subgroup.  Moreover,  in  DUET-1  but  not  in 
DUET-2, the increase was also significantly superior in the de novo enfuvirtide group (absolute value) 
and in the overall population. 
With  regard  to  clinical  endpoints,  in  line  with  the  virologic  response  the  number  of  patients 
experiencing an AIDS defining illness or death is higher in the placebo arm than in the etravirine arm, 
this is especially noticeable in the subgroup not using enfuvirtide de novo. 
Ancillary analyses 
A  sensitivity  analysis  was  performed  that  provides  further  robustness in  the  efficacy  demonstration. 
The same applies for the consistency of the analyses performed on the secondary endpoints.  
Page 41 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impact of baseline NNRTI genotype and phenotype on virologic response 
Various  analyses  have  been  performed  to  investigate  the  impact  of  genotypic  and  phenotypic 
parameters on the virologic response to etravirine. The results are summarised in the section “Clinical 
aspects, Pharmacodynamics”. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A  pooled analysis  of the efficacy  results  of  the  pivotal  studies  C206 and  C216 was  performed. The 
results of the primary efficacy statistical analysis of the pooled data are shown in Table 19. Like for 
the  individual  studies,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  interaction  (p  =  0.069,  Breslow  Day  test) 
between treatment and enfuvirtide hence the primary statistical analysis was performed separately in 
the two enfuvirtide strata (de novo ENF use and not de novo ENF use). 
Table 19  Primary  efficacy  analysis  of  the  pooled  data  of  studies  C206  and  C216 
(ITT population) 
Pooled DUET Trials 
De novo ENF 
Not de novo ENF 
Placebo 
N = 160 
61.9 % 
Etravirine 
N = 153 
66.7 % 
Observed response rates 
p-value vs placebo 
Hochberg adjusted p-value* 
*CMH test controlling for baseline viral load and previous darunavir use 
0.427 
Placebo 
N = 444 
33.6 % 
Etravirine 
N = 446 
56.3 % 
< 0.0001 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Available  data  from  other  controlled  or  uncontrolled  studies  is  of  limited  use  to  further  support  the 
efficacy  data  obtained  with  the  two  pivotal  studies.  However,  one  study  appears  to  be  relevant  for 
clinical  use  although  being  conducted  with  a  different  objective  than  the  pivotal  studies,  and  is 
therefore discussed below. 
Study  227  was  a  randomized,  active  controlled,  open  label  trial  to  investigate  the  efficacy  and 
tolerability of etravirine in HIV-1 infected subjects, who are PI-naïve and with documented genotypic 
evidence of NNRTI resistance from previous NNRTI use. The objective was to evaluate the antiviral 
activity  of  etravirine  800  mg  b.i.d.  (formulation  TF035)  as  part  of  an  ART  containing  two  NRTIs.  The 
comparator was an investigator-selected protease inhibitor in combination with two  investigator-selected 
NRTIs.  This  design  could explore the  potential  use  of  etravirine  as  a  PI  sparing  strategy  in  order  to 
delay the introduction of a protease inhibitor in the therapeutic management of patients with NNRTIs 
resistance. 
The  primary  endpoint  was  pproportion  of  subjects  with  plasma  HIV  1  RNA  levels  <  50  copies/mL  at 
24 weeks. However, for the patients who reached 12 weeks of treatment at time of study discontinuation, 
the week 12 virologic response was greater in the control-PI arm (-2.2 log10 copies/ml from baseline; 
n=53)  compared  to  the  etravirine  arm  (-1.4  log10  copies/ml  from  baseline;  n=40).  This  difference 
between  treatment  arms  was  statistically  significant.  Due  to  this  early  identification  of  suboptimal 
virologic  response  in  the  etravirine  treated  subjects,  the  recruitment  was  stopped  and  etravirine  treated 
patients were recommended to switch to an investigator-selected PI-containing ARV regimen. 
Due to these results it is important that etravirine should not be used in combination with only NRTIs 
in  patients  who  have  experienced  virological  failure  with  a  first  line  NRTI  +  NNRTI-containing 
regimen. The results are included in SmPC section 5.1 since they are considered clinically relevant, 
and  they  reinforce  the  indication  wording  in  SmPC  section  4.1  that  etravirine  is  to  be  used  with 
boosted protease inhibitors. 
Page 42 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
The  evaluation  of  the  safety  and  tolerability  profile  of  etravirine  is  based  on  data  from  healthy 
volunteers  and  HIV-1  infected  subjects  from  completed  trials,  as  well  as  data  from  HIV-1  infected 
subjects from ongoing trials.  
With regard to Phase I/IIa studies a total of 1093 healthy subjects and 144 HIV-infected subjects were 
enrolled.  One  healthy  subject  died  3  days  after  a  single  dose  of  etravirine.  The  cause  of  death  was 
considered  by  the  investigator  as  unknown,  possibly  cardiovascular,  and  doubtfully  related  to 
etravirine. 
In the multiple dose Phase I trials, 15.5% of healthy subjects (vs. 14.5% in placebo group) developed 
rash during treatment with etravirine. Three of the 4 grade 3 rashes occurred in a single-dose Phase I 
healthy subjects trial. The skin events were diagnosed as erythema multiforme (2 subjects) or atypical 
bullous  dermatitis  (1  subject)  and  were  rated  grade  3  in  severity.  Thereafter,  1  additional  grade  3 
morbilliform  rash  case  was  reported  in  a  multiple  dose  Phase  I  trial.  Skin  events  accounted  for  the 
highest  proportion  of  healthy  volunteers  who  discontinued  because  of  AEs  in  the  multiple-dose 
Phase I trial (5.3%) and there was an apparent trend for higher incidence of rash in women compared 
with men. 
The following describes the safety profile of etravirine particularly based on the data from the pivotal 
Phase III studies. 
•  Patient exposure 
In total, 1041 subjects were exposed to etravirine treatment across Phase IIb and III trials; 861 subjects 
for at least 24 weeks and 279 subjects for at least 48 weeks.  
In the pooled DUET trials, 548 (91.5%) subjects in the etravirine group and 556 (92.1%) subjects in 
the  placebo  group  were  treated  for  at  least  24  weeks.  The  median  duration  of  treatment  was  30.0 
weeks  for  etravirine  treated  subjects  and  29.1  weeks  for  placebo  control;  total  subject  years  of 
exposure was 357.7 for the etravirine subjects and 359.5 for placebo treated subjects. 
•  Adverse events  
The most common AEs (in at least 10.0% of the etravirine-treated subjects) observed with etravirine in 
the DUET trials were diarrhoea (15.0% vs. 20.4% in the placebo group), nausea (13.9% vs. 11.1%), 
and rash (individual term, 10.0% vs. 5.5%). 
Rash (any type), grouping all rash-related terms, was reported in 17.0% of subjects in the etravirine 
group compared to 9.4% in the placebo group.  
The most commonly reported ADRs of at least grade 2 reported with etravirine treatment (Table 20) 
were rash (any type), reported for 9.0% of etravirine-treated subjects and for 3.1% of placebo treated 
subjects,  diarrhoea  (5.2%  and  9.6%),  nausea  (4.7%  and  3.5%),  and  hypertriglyceridemia  (4.7%  and 
3.0%).  
Page 43 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20  Adverse drug reactions at least grade 2 in at least 2% of etravirine treated subjects 
(pooled DUET analysis) 
n (%) 
DUET 1 
DUET 2 
Pooled DUET 
Placebo 
N = 308 
Etravirine
N = 304 
Placebo 
N = 296 
Etravirine
N = 295 
Placebo 
N = 604 
Etravirine
N = 599 
31 (5.2) 
28 (4.7) 
18 (3.0) 
14 (2.3) 
9 (3.0) 
9 (3.0) 
9 (2.9) 
5 (1.6) 
9 (3.0) 
11 (3.6) 
8 (2.6) 
5 (1.6) 
25 (8.4) 
9 (3.0) 
5 (1.7) 
4 (1.4) 
22 (7.5) 
17 (5.8) 
10 (3.4) 
9 (3.1) 
58 (9.6) 
21 (3.5) 
15 (2.5) 
12 (2.0) 
33 (10.7) 
12 (3.9) 
10 (3.2) 
8 (2.6) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain 
Vomiting 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hypertriglyceridaemia 
Hypercholesterolaemia 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash (any type)# 
Nervous system disorders 
Neuropathy peripheral 
Headache 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Fatigue 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension 
N = Number of subjects; n = number of subjects with observations; # Grouped term including any type of rash 
11 (1.8) 
25 (4.1) 
19 (6.4) 
12 (4.1) 
18 (3.0) 
13 (2.2) 
5 (1.6) 
19 (6.2) 
6 (2.0) 
6 (2.0) 
9 (3.1) 
7 (2.4) 
8 (2.6) 
9 (3.0) 
9 (3.0) 
8 (2.7) 
32 (10.5) 
11 (3.6) 
13 (4.4) 
11 (3.7) 
13 (4.4) 
13 (4.4) 
22 (3.6) 
10 (3.3) 
24 (4.0) 
13 (2.2) 
10 (3.3) 
11 (3.6) 
19 (3.1) 
22 (7.5) 
9 (2.9) 
7 (2.3) 
7 (2.4) 
7 (2.3) 
6 (2.0) 
8 (2.7) 
28 (4.7) 
21 (3.5) 
17 (2.8) 
16 (2.7) 
20 (3.3) 
21 (3.5) 
17 (2.8) 
54 (9.0) 
Of the 1041 subjects treated with etravirine in the Phase IIb and III trials, 277 were treated for more 
than 48 weeks, with median treatment duration of 119.6 weeks. 
The incidence of AEs, including rash, tended to decrease with long-term dosing, except for psychiatric 
AEs which were similar in incidence in the 2 treatment phases (i.e. in the first 48 weeks and in the 
period  after  Week  48),  and  the  coronary  disorder  events  which  showed  a  higher  incidence  in  the 
period after Week 48 (3.2%) than in the first 48 weeks (1.8%). 
In the phase III rollover trial (C217), patients from the etravirine continued treatment arm had more 
nervous system disorders than patients from the etravirine de novo arm (23.1% vs 12.0%). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Skin events 
Rash was reported in the DUET trials with a higher incidence in the etravirine group compared to the 
placebo group (17.0% vs 9.4%) (p=0.0001 vs placebo;  Fisher’s exact test). Rashes during etravirine 
treatment mostly emerged during the first 4 weeks of treatment with a median time to onset of 12 days 
and resolved with continued treatment (median duration of 11 days). 
Eight  (1.3%) subjects in the  etravirine  group  developed  a  grade 3 rash  (none in  the  placebo  group). 
There  were  no  grade  4  rashes.  No  cases  of  erythema  multiforme,  SJS  or toxic  epidermal  necrolysis 
were observed in the etravirine group of the DUET trials. 
In addition to the cluster of grade 3 atypical rashes in one of the early Phase I trials, there was 1 case 
of SJS reported in the EAP and 1 case of erythema multiforme reported in Phase IIb trials. 
Forty-eight subjects enrolled in the DUET trials with history of rash were treated with etravirine. Of 
these, 9 developed mild to moderate rash while on etravirine, 1 subject developed grade 3 rash and 3 
Page 44 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinued as a result of rash. 
The  incidence  of  rashes  in  the  etravirine-treated  subjects  was  higher  in  patients  with  a  history  of 
NNRTI-associated rash compared to patients without such history (13.5% versus 8.8%, respectively, 
for  grade  2  rash,  and  2.7%  versus  1.0%,  respectively,  for  grade  3  rash).  Moreover,  permanent 
discontinuations of etravirine were also more frequent in subjects with history of NNRTI-associated 
rash compared to patients without such history (5.4% vs 2.0%, respectively). 
Regarding the low number of patients exposed to etravirine, a non significant result may be due to a 
lack of power in the logistic regression analysis, and an increase of the risk of rash in patients with a 
history  of  NNRTI-associated  rash  cannot  be  excluded  at  this  stage.  Moreover,  no  conclusion  may 
indeed be done in case of history of a severe skin reaction with an NNRTI (i.e. EM, SJS or TEN). 
A  precautionary  statement is  included  in  the  SmPC,  and  a  particular  survey  will  be  provided in  the 
PSURs. 
Neuropsychiatric events 
In the pooled DUET trials, neuropsychiatric AEs of interest were reported by 25.4% of subjects in the 
etravirine  group,  which  was  similar  to  the  incidence  in  the  placebo  group  (30.1%)  (p  =  0.0714  vs. 
placebo; Fisher’s exact test). 
In 2 (0.3%) subjects these symptoms were grade 3 in severity in the etravirine group compared with 12 
(2.0  %)  in  the  placebo  group.  There  were  no  grade  4  events  in  the  etravirine  group  (vs.  1  subject 
(0.2%) in the placebo group). In DUET trials, 1 (0.2%) subject discontinued etravirine therapy because 
of neuropsychiatric symptoms. 
Hepatic events 
In toxicology studies, the liver was identified as target organ following etravirine dosing in mice and 
dogs. 
In the pooled DUET trials, the incidence of hepatic events was comparable to placebo (5.3% vs. 5.1% 
in  the  placebo  group).  The  most  common  hepatic  AEs  in  subjects  that  initiated  treatment  with 
etravirine were related to increases in hepatic enzymes (3.5% vs. 3.0% in the placebo group). 
Hepatitis B and/or C co-infection: 
In order to collect safety data in HIV-1 infected subjects co-infected with hepatitis B and/or C virus, it 
was decided to allow recruitment of these subjects in the Phase IIb and DUET trials, if their condition 
was clinically stable and did not require treatment. 
There  was  a  trend  for  a  higher  incidence  of  hepatic  AEs  (SOC  hepatobiliary  disorders  and  related 
SOCs)  in  co-infected  subjects  treated  with  etravirine  (11.1%)  compared  to  not  co-infected  subjects 
(4.5%). This trend was not clear in the placebo group (5.9% vs. 5.2%). 
A  consolidated  analysis  of  Week  48  safety  data  showed  that  Grade  3  or  4  elevations  in  ALT  were 
observed  in  11.1%  of  co-infected  subjects  treated  with  etravirine  compared  to  7.5%  of  co-infected 
subjects in the placebo group. For AST, these values were 9.7% and 6.0%, respectively. The incidence 
of hepatic events tended to be higher in co-infected subjects treated with etravirine compared to co-
infected subjects in the placebo group. Therefore, hepatic monitoring for co-infected patients treated 
with etravirine is included in the Risk Management Plan. 
Pancreatic events 
Pancreatitis was reported in 4 (0.7%) subjects in the etravirine group and in 2 (0.3%) subjects in the 
placebo group. 
Page 45 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pancreatitis should be monitored. 
Cardiac events 
Coronary  artery  events  and  myocardial  infarction  in  particular,  were  closely  followed  in  the  DUET 
trials.  At  24  weeks,  cardiac  events  were  reported  infrequently  in  both  treatment  groups  (5.8%  in 
etravirine group vs 5.3% in placebo group). Three subjects in the etravirine group and 1 subject in the 
placebo  group  died  due  to  a  cardiac  event.  Grade  3  or  4  cardiac  events  were  reported  in  1.5%  and 
1.8% of the subjects in the etravirine and placebo group. Cardiac events were reported as an SAE in 
2.0% and 1.3% in the etravirine and placebo group. Permanent discontinuation of the investigational 
medication due to a cardiac event was reported in 0.5% and 0.3% of the subjects in the etravirine and 
placebo group. Three subjects in the etravirine group and 1 subject in the placebo group died due to a 
cardiac event. There were no consistent or clinically relevant changes over time in vital signs or ECG 
parameters, including QTc. 
During the assessment procedure, additional 48-week data on cardiac events from the DUET studies 
were provided. Cardiac events were reported in 7.0% of subjects in the etravirine group and in 7.3% of 
subjects  in  the  placebo  group.  Grade  3  or  4  cardiac  events  were  reported  in  2.0%  and  2.3%  of  the 
subjects  in  the  etravirine  and  placebo  group.  Cardiac  events  were  reported  as  an  SAE  in  2.8%  and 
2.0% of subjects in the etravirine and placebo group. Permanent discontinuation of the investigational 
medication due to a cardiac event was reported in 0.7% and 0.3% of the subjects in the etravirine and 
placebo group. Three subjects in the etravirine group and 1 subject in the placebo group died due to a 
cardiac event. None of these deaths was considered related to the investigational medication. 
A  difference  was  observed  between  etravirine  and  placebo  in  terms  of  frequency  of  occurrence  of 
coronary  events  in  the  Week  48  DUET  analysis:  Adverse  events  related  to  myocardial 
infarctions/ischemia were reported in 8 subjects (1.3%) in the etravirine group and 5 subjects (0.8%) 
in the placebo group. Incidence of coronary artery disorders: 11 subjects (1.8%) in the etravirine group 
and 8 subjects (1.3%) in the placebo group. 
Most  of  the  ECG  findings  were  considered  minor  and  not  clinically  relevant.  No  analysis  could  be 
made because of missing data such as medical history or symptomatology.  
The signal of coronary events observed during the development of etravirine is included as potential 
risk in the Risk Management Plan. 
Coagulation parameters 
Coagulation disturbances were documented in preclinical studies in rodents (mediated via a Vitamin K 
pathway).  In  the  pooled  48-week  safety  data  provided  during  the  assessment,  etravirine  was  not 
associated with an increased risk of coagulation disturbances. Taken together all available clinical data 
it is concluded that etravirine is not associated with an increased risk of coagulation disturbances in 
humans. 
Deaths 
A  total  of  51  subjects  died  during  the  entire  etravirine  clinical  development  program.  Of  these  51 
subjects, 10 subjects died during the screening phase before the start of investigational treatment. In 
the DUET trials, 8 subjects died during the screening period, before randomization. All 8 subjects died 
because  of  an  AE  in  the  SOC  infections  and  infestations,  i.e.,  pneumonia  (6  subjects),  sepsis  (1 
subject), and pneumococcal meningitis (1 subject). 
In the DUET trials, 23 subjects died due to AEs starting during the treatment period: 8 (1.3%) subjects 
in the etravirine group and 15 (2.5%) subjects in the placebo group. Three subjects of the etravirine 
group experienced fatal SAEs considered doubtfully related to etravirine : 
renal impairment and respiratory tract infection in one subject, 
– 
–  Mycobacterium avium complex infection in one subject and, 
Page 46 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
–  myocardial infarction in another subject. 
•  Laboratory findings 
The  most  common  treatment-emergent  grade  3  or  4 laboratory  abnormalities in the etravirine  group 
were  increases  in  pancreatic  amylase  (7.5%  vs.  7.9%  in  the  placebo  group),  triglycerides  (7.0%  vs. 
4.3%), total cholesterol (5.8% vs. 4.1%) and LDL cholesterol (5.2% vs. 5.4%). A trend for a higher 
incidence of grade 3 or 4 abnormalities in triglycerides and total cholesterol was seen in the etravirine 
group, while there was no substantial difference in the incidence of grade 3 or 4 abnormalities in LDL 
cholesterol and pancreatic amylase between the etravirine group and placebo group. 
Increased ALT and AST (grade 3 and 4) each led to permanent treatment discontinuation of 2 subjects 
(0.3%) in the etravirine group (none in the placebo group). No other laboratory abnormalities led to 
permanent discontinuation in more than 1 subject. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The safety profile of etravirine in children and adolescents has not been studied.  
The  safety  profile  of  etravirine  in  adults  above  65  years  old  has  not  been  well  established.  In  the 
DUET trials, 6 subjects aged >65 years and 53 subjects aged 56-64 years received etravirine. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the DUET studies the most common ADR leading to discontinuation was rash (any type) (2.0% in 
the etravirine group vs 0% in the placebo group). 
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing experience is available yet. 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table 21 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important Identified Risks 
Rash  
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Including close monitoring and 
appropriate documentation of 
spontaneously reported cases of 
severe skin reactions, through 
enhanced and standardised 
follow-up activities. 
Including a discussion on rash in 
each PSUR, with particular 
Page 47 of 52 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Listed in the Special warnings and 
precautions section of the SmPC (section 
4.4), including advice for caution. 
Rash, Erythema multiforme and Stevens-
Johnson syndrome are listed as an ADR in 
Section 4.8. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
attention to patients with a history 
of rash to NNRTIs. 
The Company will also participate 
in the ongoing European Regiscar 
study with the aim of further 
monitoring and characterising 
severe skin reactions in patients 
receiving INTELENCE. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Monitoring of hepatic events in 
co-infected subjects in ongoing 
and planned studies and routine 
PV monitoring. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Important Potential Risks 
Hepatotoxicity 
Pancreatitis 
Hyperlipidaemia 
Coronary artery 
disorders 
Development of 
drug resistance 
Hepatic steathosis, increased ALT/AST, 
cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatitis and hepatomegaly are listed as 
ADRs in Section 4.8. 
Pancreatitis, increase in amylase and 
lipase are listed as an ADR in Section 4.8. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Monitoring long-term safety 
through HAART Oversight 
Committee. 
Hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia 
and dyslipidaemia are listed as ADRs in 
Section 4.8. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Monitoring long-term safety 
through HAART Oversight 
Committee. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Collection of additional data from 
ongoing and planned clinical 
trials: (TMC125-C206, TMC125-
C216, TMC125-C217 and 
TMC125-C237). 
Myocardial infarction and angina pectoris 
are listed as an ADR in Section 4.8. 
Emergence of resistance (mutations) and 
effects of baseline resistance on virologic 
response are listed in Section 5.1.  
Important Missing Information 
Use in children and 
adolescents 
Monitor safety data from ongoing 
and planned clinical trials: 
TMC125-C126, C213 and C234 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
In-utero exposure is captured via 
the SAE reporting process and 
will be reported in the PSURs. 
Post authorisation in-utero 
exposure will also be captured 
within the US Antiretroviral 
Pregnancy Registry. The Registry 
will provide a 6-monthly report 
which will be discussed in the 
PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Use in pregnancy 
Use in elderly 
Section 4.2. indicates that insufficient data 
on safety and efficacy in children and 
adolescents are available. 
Listed in Section 4.2. 
Recommendation of use in pregnancy in 
SmPC (Section 4.6). 
Warning of use during lactation is listed 
in SmPC (Section 4.6). 
Listed in Section 4.2. 
Listed in the Special warnings and 
precautions section of the SmPC (section 
4.4).  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Page 48 of 52 
 
 
 
 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. Physicochemical aspects of the product have been 
investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  There  are  no  unresolved  quality  issues,  which 
have a negative impact on the benefit risk balance of the product.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  etravirine  is  a 
diarylpyrimidine  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  with  high  antiviral  potency  against 
wildtype and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor-resistant HIV-1. Being a flexible molecule 
it  is  able  to  bind  in  the  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitor  binding  pocket  of  the  HIV-1 
reverse transcriptase in multiple conformations. No inhibitions of the human DNA polymerases alpha, 
beta,  and  gamma  were  observed,  and  no  antiviral  activity  against  a  variety  of  other  viruses.  The 
secondary  pharmacodynamics  and  safety  pharmacology  program  revealed  that  etravirine  had 
inhibitory effects on nicotinergic nerve-smooth muscle function at micromolar concentrations, though 
it  was  devoid  of  muscarinic  effects.  No  other  relevant  effects  of  etravirine  on  in  vitro  and  in  vivo 
cardiovascular electrophysiological parameters respiratory parameters, neurobehaviour, motor activity 
or any other body functions, were found for the tested experimental conditions. 
From  a  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view,  comparison  of  exposures  achieved  in  animal  species  (after 
repeated  administration)  with  data  obtained  in  HIV-infected  patients  (treated  with  the  therapeutic 
dose) showed that the highest Cmax ratio (animal/human) was around 3 in mice and female rats, and 2 
in male rats and 13 in dogs. The highest AUC ratio (animal/human) was 8 in dogs and around 1 in 
mice, female rats and rabbits but less than 1 in male rats. In general, the ratio was influenced by the 
physical  form  of  the  active  substance  and  the  duration  of  administration  due  to  enzymatic  auto-
induction, which reduced exposure upon repeated administration in animals. 
Overall the toxicology studies revealed that the key target organs in rats were the liver, the thyroid and 
the coagulation system. Changes in the liver and thyroid were considered adaptive or rodent-specific. 
Dosing  etravirine  HBr  up  to  12  months  was  not  associated  with  target  organ  toxicity  in  the  dog. 
Dosing  spray-dried  etravirine  further  increased  exposure  in  the  dog  and  this  resulted  in  hepatic  and 
gall  bladder  changes  in  a  1-  and  6-month  study.  The  main  target  organs  in  the  mouse  after  gavage 
dosing  were  the  liver  and  the  coagulation  system  and  the  heart  as  a  secondary  target  to  changes  in 
coagulation (only after dietary dosing). All genotoxicity tests have not shown any genotoxic potential 
of  etravirine.  The  evaluation  of  long-term  carcinogenicity  studies  is  still  on-going,  and  data  will  be 
provided post approval. No relevant effects were observed in reproduction toxicity studies. Etravirine 
impacts  the  vitamin  K  pathway  although  the  exact  mechanism  is  not  known;  clinical  data  does 
however not suggest that etravirine is affecting the coagulation parameters in patients. 
In conclusion, the nonclinical programme is considered adequate to support the use of etravirine in the 
proposed therapeutic indication with specific aspects being sufficiently addressed in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics as well as the Risk Management Plan. 
Efficacy 
Etravirine is a representative of the class of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI). 
The drug-drug interaction profile of etravirine has been extensively studied. Given that the compound 
has inducer (CYP3A4) and inhibitor (CYP2C9, CYP2C19, PgP) effects, the sense of the interaction is 
difficult to predict.  
Due to significant limitations of the efficacy demonstration provided by the phase II studies, the dose 
selection  (200  mg  b.i.d.  with  the  commercial  F060  formulation)  is  not  considered  convincingly 
substantiated.  However,  the  adequacy  of  the  dose  is  ultimately  appreciated  with  the  results  of  the 
Page 49 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase III studies.  
These two Phase III studies, DUET-1 and DUET-2, have shown that etravirine is able to provide an 
adequate  virologic  response  in  heavily  treatment-experienced  patients  with  viral  strains  harbouring 
NNRTI  resistance.  In  the  “not  de  novo  ENF”  main  subgroup,  etravirine  is  shown  to  be  statistically 
superior to the placebo arm at Week 24 (p<0.0001). Several aspects of the study design deserve to be 
underlined: 
– 
In both treatment arms patients were receiving darunavir/ritonavir, which is a rather unusual 
scenario since one of the components of the OBT is pre-defined.  
–  The  existence  of  a  statistical  interaction  between  enfuvirtide  “naïve  use”  and  etravirine  was 
anticipated.  The  results  showed  that  any  significant  benefit  of  etravirine  was  not  observed 
when enfuvirtide was used de novo.  
–  The  studies  were  powered  to  detect  a  20%  difference  in  term  of  percentage  of  responders 
(<50 copies/ml)  over  the  placebo  arm.  This  design  is  quite  challenging  for  the  efficacy 
demonstration of etravirine, insofar as its added contribution is to be shown in combination to 
two potent antiretroviral drugs (i.e. darunavir/ritonavir and enfuvirtide)  
–  To allow for the assessment of the durability of the virologic response and of the emergence of 
resistance as well as for the assessment of the long term safety, the study duration has been 
extended from 48 weeks to 96 weeks.  
As  regards  the  extrapolation  of  the  data  derived  from  the  DUET  studies  to  the  combined  use  of 
etravirine with other boosted protease inhibitors than darunavir/ritonavir, it is important that, based on 
the  available  pharmacokinetic  interactions,  darunavir/ritonavir  has  been  shown  to  significantly 
decrease  the  etravirine  exposure  (approx  40%)  and  Cmin  (approx  50%).  Such  an  interaction  is  more 
noticeable  with  tipranavir/ritonavir  but  much  less  marked  with  other  boosted  protease  inhibitors. 
Therefore, at the exception of the combined use of tipranavir/ritonavir, the extrapolation of the DUET 
studies to the combined use of other boosted protease inhibitors appears reasonable. Nevertheless, to 
provide  reassurance  of  the  combined  use  of  etravirine  with  boosted  protease  inhibitors  other  than 
darunavir/ritonavir, the CHMP requested the conduct of a dedicated confirmatory study post approval 
as part of the specific obligations of the conditional marketing authorisation. 
The available resistance data showed that the presence of the mutation K103N solely did not appear to 
affect  the  response  in  the  etravirine  group.  However,  certain  analyses  are  requested  to  further 
substantiate  whether  K103N  in  combination  with  other  NNRTI  mutations  influences  the  virologic 
response  to  etravirine.  This  is  critical  in  the  perspective  of  the  use  of  etravirine  in  NNRTIs 
experienced  patients,  given  that  most  patients  will  be  expected  to  have  viral  strains  harbouring  the 
K103N NNRTI-signature mutation. 
Moreover, for a proper use of etravirine, it is important to take into account that its virologic response 
will be lost if 3 or more among the 13 identified resistance associated mutations are present at baseline 
(i.e  the  so  called  etravirine  RAMs:  V90I,  A98G,  L100I,  K101E/P,  V106I,  V179D/F,  Y181C/I/V, 
G190A/S).  Although  improved  as  compared  to  that  of  existing  NNRTIs,  the  genetic  barrier  of 
etravirine is limited. Its use will need to be adequately “protected” by active components within the 
antiretroviral combination therapy. 
Safety 
The use of etravirine is associated with rash as an identified risk, which is not unexpected for this class 
of antiretroviral compounds.  In the Phase III trials rash (any type), combining all rash-related terms 
reported during treatment and/or follow-up, was reported in 17.0% of subjects in the etravirine group 
compared to 9.4% in the placebo group which is significantly higher. The scarcity of the safety data in 
patients  with  history  of  cutaneous  reaction  with  NNRTIs  [<10%  (n=48)]  mandates  caution  in  the 
future  use  of  etravirine  in  such  patients.  Attention  of  prescribers  is  being  alerted  on  this  issue  by  a 
specific warning in the SmPC.  
The  most  common  treatment-emergent  grade  3  or  4 laboratory  abnormalities in the etravirine  group 
were  increases  in  pancreatic  amylase  (7.5%  vs  7.9%  in  the  placebo  group),  triglycerides  (7.0%vs 
Page 50 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3%),  total  cholesterol  (5.8%  vs  4.1%)  and  LDL  cholesterol  (5.2%  vs  5.4%).  These  laboratory 
findings  should  be  monitored  on  a  long-term  because  of  the  cardiovascular  risk,  further  analysis 
should be provided. 
Pancreatic events should be monitored. 
Overall, the pooled analysis of Week 48 safety data from the DUET studies is reassuring as regards 
the long term safety of the compound, the 96 weeks data are awaited to give further reassurance.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management 
plan, the CHMP considered that the proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed 
these. 
•  User consultation 
A user consultation for the proposed package leaflet has been performed in HIV infected patients. No 
weaknesses of the package leaflet were identified. Overall, the test was considered acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
The benefit of etravirine is demonstrated by the efficacy results in the two pivotal studies, DUET 1 
and  DUET  2,  in  which  etravirine  adequately  demonstrated  virologic  response  in  a  difficult  to  treat 
patient population. The combinations investigated in these studies were challenging for etravirine and 
will need to be further explored within the pooled 48 weeks efficacy analysis. 
Overall,  up to  now, the  poor  genetic  barrier  of  NNRTIs  (a single  mutation (K103N)  could  induce  a 
high level of resistance) and cross resistance between NNRTIs, did not allow the rescue of a patient 
failing  an  NNRTI  containing  regimen  by  another  NNRTI.  Given  its  pharmacodynamic  properties 
(improved  genetic  barrier  and  difference  in  the  resistance  pattern  of  the  compound  as  compared  to 
existing  NNRTIs)  etravirine  could  be  explored  in  patients  failing  NNRTI  therapy.  Beyond  the 
pharmacodynamic claims, the applicant has provided an acceptable demonstration of the benefit of the 
compound in such context, patients being selected on the very basis of NNRTIs resistance. 
The use of etravirine with boosted protease inhibitors other than darunavir/ritonavir is currently based 
on  extrapolation.  The  applicant  committed  to  perform  an  additional  confirmatory  study  aimed  at 
providing further reassurance on the extrapolation of the DUET clinical results to the combined use of 
etravirine with boosted protease inhibitors other than darunavir/ritonavir. The protocol of this planned 
study will need to be agreed with the CHMP before the study starts.  
Risks 
Etravirine shares with existing NNRTIs the class effect of cutaneous skin reaction. The scarcity of the 
safety data in patients with history of rash to NNRTIs mandate caution in the use of etravirine in such 
patients. Contrarily to efavirenz (another NNRTI) no psychiatric adverse events have been observed so 
far in phase III studies.  
Other  concerns  have  been  identified  that  will  need  to  be  monitored  through  the  risk  management 
programme,  notably  hepatotoxicity,  pancreatitis,  hyperlipidaemia,  and  coronary  artery  disorders. 
Development of resistance is also part of the Risk Management Plan.  
Page 51 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance 
Based on the available data, and in particular the phase III studies, the CHMP considers that etravirine 
has  demonstrated  to  be  able  to  provide  an  adequate  virologic  response  in  antiretroviral  experienced 
patients  with  viral  strains  harbouring  NNRTI  resistance,  and  that  these  benefits  outweigh  the  risks 
identified or anticipated with the use of etravirine.  
The CHMP considered the criteria for a conditional marketing authorisation according to Article 14(7) 
of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 in conjunction with Commission Regulation (EC) 507/2006. Based 
on  the  assessment  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  application  meets  the  criteria  for  conditional 
marketing authorisation, for the following reasons: 
−  Etravirine  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection,  which  is  a  life  threatening 
condition,  therefore  the  application,  being  made  under  Article  3(1)  of  Regulation  (EC) 
726/2004, is in the scope of conditional marketing authorisation according to the Article 2(1) 
of Regulation (EC) 507/2006.  
−  Based  on  the  available  data  and  particularly  the  24-week  data  from  the  two  pivotal  trials 
(DUET-1 and DUET-2) the risk-benefit balance is considered positive as these studies have 
shown  that  etravirine  is  able  to  provide  an  adequate  virologic  response  in  antiretroviral 
experienced patients with viral strains harbouring NNRTI resistance. Additional clinical data 
is  needed  to  further  substantiate  the  durability  of  virologic  response  and  the  use  in 
combination  with  protease  inhibitors  other  than  darunavir/ritonavir,  respectively.  It  is 
considered that the applicant will be in a position to provide these data so that eventually the 
data package will become comprehensive. Although not representing a new pharmacological 
class,  etravirine  does  answer  an  unmet  medical  need  in  antiretroviral  experienced  HIV-
infected patients with limited therapeutic options, insofar as it represents an additional tool for 
in  patients  harbouring  multi-resistant  strains.  The 
controlling 
pharmacological properties of etravirine make it an important antiretroviral treatment option 
in  addition  to  recently  approved  compounds  representing  new  classes  of  antiretroviral 
medicinal products. From a public health perspective the benefit of allowing etravirine to be 
marketed without undue delay may outweigh the risks inherent in the fact that additional data 
are still required. The requirements for a conditional marketing authorisation according to the 
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) 507/2006 are therefore met. 
the  viral  replication 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns; 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of INTELENCE in the therapeutic indication  
“INTELENCE,  in  combination  with  a  boosted  protease  inhibitor  and  other  antiretroviral 
medicinal  products,  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  human  immunodeficiency  virus  type  1 
(HIV-1) infection in antiretroviral treatment-experienced adult patients (see sections 4.4, 4.5 
and 5.1). 
indication 
is  based  on  week 24  analyses 
This 
from  2 randomised,  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled Phase III trials in highly pre-treated patients with viral strains harbouring 
mutations  of  resistance  to  non-nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  and  protease 
inhibitors,  where  INTELENCE  was  investigated  in  combination  with  an  optimised 
background regimen (OBR) which included darunavir/ritonavir (see section 5.1).” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the conditional marketing authorisation. 
Page 52 of 52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
