12 October 2023
EMA/578551/2023 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s)
Active substance(s): prasterone
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSR/S/0044
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Scientific conclusions
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report for the non-interventional imposed PASS final study 
report for the medicinal product(s) mentioned above, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows: 
Intrarosa (prasterone) is removed from the additional monitoring list as the condition to the marketing 
authorisation has been fulfilled. This relates to the non-interventional PASS - Drug Utilisation Study 
(DUS) to describe the baseline characteristics, utilisation patterns of EU postmenopausal women 
initiating treatment with Intrarosa and to assess whether EU prescribers abide by the contraindications 
stated in the EU SmPC.
Therefore, the statement that this medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this 
will allow quick identification of new safety information, preceded by an inverted equilateral black 
triangle, is removed from the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet.
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to introduce a change to the list of local representatives.
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC.
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for the results of the study for the medicinal product(s) 
mentioned above, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of these medicinal 
product(s) is unchanged, subject to the proposed changes to the product information.
The CHMP is of the opinion that the terms of the marketing authorisation of the medicinal product 
mentioned above should be varied.
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
EMA/578551/2023
Page 2/2
