23 July 2015 
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
INTUNIV 
International non-proprietary name: GUANFACINE 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003759/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 5
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 6
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8
2.2.2. Active  substance .............................................................................................. 8
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 10
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 12
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 13
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 13
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 13
2.3.1. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 13
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 15
2.3.3. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 18
2.3.4. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 23
2.3.5. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 24
2.3.6. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 25
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 26
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 26
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 26
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 31
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 33
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 34
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 35
2.5.1. Dose response studies and main clinical studies .................................................. 35
2.5.2. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 47
2.5.3. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 54
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 54
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 65
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................... 67
2.7. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 67
2.8. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 74
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 74
2.9.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 74
2.9.2. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 75
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 75
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 84
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 2/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
5-HT 
ADHD 
API 
ASMF 
AUC 
BOLD 
cDNA 
Cmax 
CNS 
CYP450 
DDD 
DILUTION 
DOSEai 
DT50 
EC50 
ECG 
EFD 
FDA 
Fpen 
GC 
GCP 
GI 
GLP 
GMP 
HDPE 
HEK-293S 
HERG 
HPLC 
i.p. 
i.v. 
IC50 
IR 
IPC  
Kd 
Ki 
Koc 
Kow 
LC-MS/MS 
LDPE 
LPS 
MAA 
MRHD 
MRI 
mRNA 
NADPH 
NMT 
NOAEL/NOEL 
MS 
OECD 
PBT 
PCTFE 
PEC 
P-gp 
Ph.Eur. 
5-Hydroxytryptamine 
Attention deficit/ hyperactivity disorder 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Active Substance Master File 
Area Under the Concentration-time Curve 
Blood oxygenation level dependent 
Complementary deoxyribonucleic acid 
Maximum value of the concentration time curve 
Central nervous system 
Cytochrome P450 
Defined daily dose 
Dilution factor 
Maximum daily dose consumed per inhabitant 
Degradation half-life (Time for 50% degradation) 
50% effective concentration 
Electrocardiogram 
Embryofetal development 
Food and Drug Administration 
Market penetration factor 
Gas chromatography 
Good Clinical Practice 
Gastro-intestinal 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
High density polyethylene 
Human Embryonic Kidney 293 cells 
Human Ether-a-go-go-Related Gene 
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
Intraperitoneal 
Intravenous 
Concentration which results in 50% inhibition 
Infra-red spectrometry 
In-process control 
Adsorption coefficient 
Dissociation constant 
Normalised partition coefficient 
Octanol-water partition coefficient 
Liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry 
Low density polyethylene 
Lipopolysaccharide 
Marketing authorization application 
Maximum recommended human dose 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
Messenger ribonucleic acid 
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide Phosphate 
Not more than 
No-observed adverse effect level/No-observed effect level   
Mass spectrometry 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
Persistence, Bioaccumulation, Toxicity 
Polychlorotrifluoroethene  
Predicted Environmental Concentration 
P-glycoprotein 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 3/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pKa 
PNEC 
PSD 
PVC 
RH 
RTT 
QTc 
s.c. 
SH 
SmPC 
t1/2 
TCL 
USP 
WASTEWinhab 
WKY 
Negative base - 10 logarithm of the acid dissociation constant 
The Predicted no effect concentrations 
Particle size distribution 
Polyvinyl chloride 
Relative Humidity 
Relative retention time 
Corrected QT Interval 
Subcutaneous 
Spontaneously hypertensive 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Half-life 
Thin-layer chromatography 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Amount of wastewater per inhabitant per day 
Wistar Kyoto 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 4/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd. submitted on 3 March 2014 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for INTUNIV, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 April 2013. The eligibility to the centralised procedure under Article 
3(2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was based on demonstration of significant therapeutic 
innovation. 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD) in children and adolescents 6 to 17 years old for whom stimulants are not suitable, not tolerated 
or have been shown to be ineffective. 
Intuniv must be used as a part of a comprehensive ADHD treatment programme, typically including 
psychological, educational and social measures. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated that 
GUANFACINE was considered to be a known active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical 
and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Not applicable 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0265/2013 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0265/2013 was completed. 
The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance for the PIP P/0265/2013. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 5/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Licensing status 
INTUNIV has been given a Marketing Authorisation in USA on 2 September 2009 and Canada 5 July 2013. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Johann Lodewijk Hillege  Co-Rapporteur: Piotr Fiedor 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 3 March 2014. 
•  The procedure started on 26 March 2014.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 June 2014. The 
Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 June 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 10 July 2014 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
•  During the meeting on 24 July 2014, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 January 
2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 2 March 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 12 March 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan.  
• 
The summary report of the GCP inspection carried out at the following sites: Germany (2 
investigator sites) and UK (Sponsor and CRO) between 9 of July to 1 of August 2014 in relation to 
the trial SPD503-316 was issued on 25 November 2014.  
•  During the CHMP meeting on 26 March 2015, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 21 May 2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 10 June 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 11 June 2015 the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
adopted the PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 23 June 2015, outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant 
during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
•  During the meeting on 23 July 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to INTUNIV.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 6/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is a heterogeneous neurobehavioral disorder characterized by a 
persistent pattern of developmentally inappropriate inattentiveness, impulsivity, and hyperactivity.  The 
diagnosis of ADHD is made by a healthcare professional who applies either ICD or DSM criteria (American 
Psychiatric Association 2013).  Symptoms of ADHD lasting at least 6 months that cannot be accounted for 
by another psychiatric disorder must be shown to interfere with age-appropriate functioning in at least 
2 settings (e.g., social, academic, or occupational). Based on DSM criteria, there are 3 ADHD 
subtypes:  hyperactive/impulsive, inattentive, and combined subtype.  Very high rates of coexisting 
psychiatric disorders are seen in association with ADHD, and almost two-thirds of children with ADHD 
have at least 1 additional impairing diagnosis. Depending on the ADHD subtype, sex, and the presence of 
comorbid disorders, individuals with ADHD may differ considerably, even within a particular age cohort. 
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders of 
childhood and, consequently, prevalence rates have been extensively investigated.  The worldwide 
prevalence of ADHD in children is approximately 5%.  No significant differences in ADHD prevalence rates 
between North America, Europe, and other parts of the world were detected in this meta-regression 
analysis involving 102 studies and 171 756 subjects. 
The exact aetiology and pathophysiology of ADHD is unknown; however, it is widely believed that an 
imbalance in dopaminergic, noradrenergic, and other neurotransmitter systems in the brain contribute to 
the behavioural sequelae that characterize this disorder. Extensive pre-clinical and clinical research 
suggests that neurotransmitter deficits, genetics, environment, and perinatal complications may all be 
contributing factors.  It has been hypothesized that the mechanism of action of effective medications in 
ADHD is to increase levels of neurotransmitters (specifically norepinephrine and/or dopamine, or their 
precursors) at the synapse either by facilitating release, decreasing reuptake, or by binding and activating 
the post-synaptic receptor. 
Currently, there are both non-pharmacological and pharmacological options (including stimulants and 
non-stimulants) for the treatment of ADHD.  Although limitations exist with the use of either stimulant or 
non-stimulant medications, such as the potential for side effects, failing to treat ADHD is associated with 
economic burden and also carries potential risks. These risks may include a higher probability of 
underachievement in school, low self-esteem, problems with peer interactions, and involvement with 
crime and substance abuse. Physicians and parents should consider the benefits and risks associated with 
treating ADHD compared with foregoing treatment. 
About the product 
Intuniv is a prolonged-release tablet formulation of guanfacine hydrochloride designed for once-a-day 
oral administration. Guanfacine HCl is a selective alpha2–adrenergic agonist. Its mechanism of action in 
ADHD is not fully understood; however, non-clinical data suggest it acts by stimulating 
alpha2A-adrenoreceptors located in the locus coeruleus (midbrain), which projects to the prefrontal 
cortex and modulates the effects of noradrenergic neurons and noradrenaline on the pyramidal neurons 
in the prefrontal cortex. These regions are known to play a major role in attention, organization, and 
planning, along with impulse control. Deficits in these domains may be implicated in the symptoms 
associated with ADHD. The modulating effect of guanfacine HCl on the noradrenergic tonus of the 
pyramidal cells in the prefrontal cortex may restore these deficits.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 7/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Guanfacine HCl is not a central nervous system stimulant. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as prolonged release tablets containing guanfacine hydrochloride 
equivalent to 1mg, 2mg, 3mg, and 4mg guanfacine as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: hypromellose 2208, methacrylic acid-ethylacrylate copolymer, lactose 
monohydrate, povidone, crospovidone type A, microcrystalline cellulose, silica colloidal anhydrous, 
sodium laurisulfate, polysorbate 80, fumaric acid, glycerol dibehenate, indigo carmine aluminium lake 
(E132) (3 and 4 mg tablets), iron oxide yellow (E172) (3 and 4 mg tablets). 
The product is available in PCTFE/PVC/alu blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active  substance 
General information 
The chemical name of guanfacine hydrochloride is 
N-(Diaminomethylidene)-2-(2,6-dichlorophenyl)acetamide Hydrochloride and it has the following 
structure: 
The structure of guanfacine hydrochloride was proven by the results from spectroscopy (NMR, MS, UV, 
and IR) and elemental analysis (EA). The IR and UV spectra were found identical to the Guanfacine HCl 
reference standard. 
The active substance is a white to off white crystalline hygroscopic powder sparingly soluble in water.  
The active substance has a non-chiral molecular structure.  
References to polymorphism of guanfacine hydrochloride have been found in patent literature. X-ray 
powder diffraction studies of active substance demonstrate that the same polymorphic form is obtained. 
Polymorphism is controlled by manufacturing process conditions.  
For one of the supplier, the information on the active substance is provided according to the Active 
Substance Master File (ASMF) procedure. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The active substance is sourced from two suppliers and manufactured by three manufacturing sites. The 
active substance is synthesized in three main steps using commercially available well defined starting 
materials with acceptable specifications. A description of the synthesis of one of the starting materials , 
including a complete discussion on the carry-over of impurities, reagents and residual solvents into the 
final active substance, was provided. Based on the information provided, the choice of starting material 
was considered satisfactory. Similar synthetic routes are used by all the manufacturers but different 
solvents and reagents are used and therefore related substances and impurity profile of the active 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 8/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substance is slightly different for the two suppliers. However in view of the related substance and impurity 
levels observed, the active substance qualities from both sources are considered equivalent. 
The reprocessing and recovery procedures used by the active substance manufacturers have been 
adequately described and are considered acceptable. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. The 
characterisation of the active substance and its impurities is in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances.  
The active substance is packaged in a PE bag which complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC for one 
supplier or EC 10/2011 for the other supplier. Primary bag is placed in a polyethylene-aluminium bag. 
Between the two bags a drying agent (silica bags) is placed. HDPE drums are used as outer container. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for: appearance, identity (IR, HPLC), assay (HPLC), 
impurities (HPLC), guanidine HCl content (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), loss on drying (USP), residue on 
ignition (Ph. Eur.), heavy metals (USP), and particle size distribution (laser diffraction). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines.    
For one supplier, batch analysis data on four production scale batches of the active substance are 
provided. For the other supplier, batch analysis data on three production scale batches of the active 
substance for each manufacturing site are provided. The results are within the specifications and 
consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
For one active substance supplier, stability data were provided on three production scale batches of active 
substance from the proposed manufacturer stored in the intended commercial package for 9 months 
under long term conditions at 25 ºC / 60% RH and 30°C/65%, and for up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines.  
The following parameters were tested: appearance, identification, LOD, purity by HPLC, guanidine HCl 
content and assay. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability 
indicating. 
All results were within specification limits. The stability results indicate that the active substance 
manufactured by the proposed supplier is sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed 
retest period in the proposed container. 
For the other active substance supplier, stability data on sixteen production scale batches of active 
substance from the proposed manufacturers stored in the intended commercial package for up to 60 
months under long term conditions at 25 ºC / 60% RH and for up to 6 months under accelerated 
conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: appearance, identification, water content, purity by HPLC, 
guanfacine HCl content (TLC) and assay. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and 
were stability indicating. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 9/86 
 
 
 
 
 
All results were within specification limits. The stability results indicate that the active substance is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period in the proposed container. 
Photostability studies have been performed as part of analytical method validation studies. Results 
indicate that the active substance is not light sensitive.   
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to develop a prolonged-release tablet formulation of 
guanfacine hydrochloride designed for once-a-day oral administration. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 2.1.1 above and in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
Aspects related to the paediatric use of the product such as safety of excipients in children, patient 
acceptability, risk of chewing, compatibility with food and/or drinks have been satisfactorily discussed. 
The objective of the early formulation development studies was to design matrix tablet formulations by 
the selection of functional excipients that would optimize the active substance release from the dosage 
form over the pH range of the gastrointestinal tract. Guanfacine, a weakly basic active substance, has pH 
dependent solubility and exhibits higher solubility at acidic pH conditions than at basic pH conditions. The 
range of release profiles was achieved through the selection of the nature and the level of the functional 
excipients to be used in the formulation  
The manufacturing process development studies for the matrix tablet formulations focused on direct 
compression. Thus, in addition to the prolonged-release functional excipients, the formulations studied 
included various tablet diluents designed for direct compression applications. The excipient grade 
selections were based on the compatibility of the particle size distributions reported for the two excipients 
used as diluents. 
Three 1 mg tablet formulations were evaluated in a Phase I study designed to compare the bioavailability 
and pharmacokinetic profile of the prolonged-release formulations to that of a 1mg immediate-release 
commercial product (TENEX). The conclusions of this study were that the three experimental formulations 
had prolonged-release characteristics as compared to the immediate-release reference formulation. The 
formulation with the medium release profile had the most favourable prolonged-release characteristics 
based on the rate and extent of absorption and thus was selected as the basis for further development of 
the finished product. 
Along with the original 1mg dose, 2mg, 3mg and 4mg doses were developed. This work entailed the 
formulation blend development and the selection of tablet size and tablet shape for each of the dose 
strengths. The desired manufacturing scheme was to have two direct compression powder blends, with 
minor tablet colour dye modifications, as needed, for dose differentiation. One common blend was 
developed for the 1 mg and 2 mg doses and a second for the 3 mg and 4 mg doses. 
In order to accommodate reasonable tablet sizes for the various doses, active substance concentration 
was increased for all strengths power blend.   
Representative batches of the 1mg, 2mg, 3mg and 4mg dose tablets were evaluated for dissolution in a 
comparative manner to batch selected during Phase I study. The results indicated that the reformulated 
powder blends produced tablets with similar dissolution profiles to the Phase I clinical batch, based on the 
f2 similarity metric.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 10/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Except for Phase I Study, the formulation used during clinical studies is the same as that intended for 
marketing.  
The dissolution and bioequivalence studies results provided fully supports the transfers of the 
manufacturing process from the different manufacturing sites and the change in manufacturing process. 
However, it was not considered acceptable that no dissolution studies at all have been performed at pH 
1.2 and at pH 4.5. The CHMP recommended to perform dissolution studies at pH 1.2 (by applying a 
sample neutralisation procedure) and at pH 4.5 for representative drug product batches, i.e., for one 
batch per strength (1, 2, 3, and 4mg) manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site utilizing proposed 
process.  Dissolution results for the aforementioned studies should be provided within 6 months after 
Community Decision. 
An active substance overage is used to compensate for manufacturing losses and was considered 
justified. 
Description of the development of the proposed dissolution method is provided. The choices made for 
establishing initial dissolution method have been described including a rationale for the apparatus, 
dissolution media, use and choice of surface active agents, rotation speeds and sink conditions. The 
discriminatory power of the dissolution method is considered to be demonstrated. 
The primary packaging is a blister strip comprised of 2 layers, a clear thermoformable rigid film which is 
laminated with PCTFE and a PVC backing to which a push-through aluminium foil is adhered. The blisters 
are contained in cardboard cartons. The primary packaging materials comply with EC requirements. The 
choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the 
intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of four main steps: excipient screening, blending and sieving/milling 
of the active ingredient with excipients followed by direct compression and packaging.  The product is 
manufactured using conventional manufacturing techniques but the manufacturing process is considered 
a non-standard process due to the low amount of active substance per unit and the prolonged release 
characteristics. The blending step is considered critical for uniformity of dosage unit and for modified 
release characteristics as it is a matrix releasing product.  The in-process controls are adequate for this 
type of manufacturing process and pharmaceutical form. 
The process validation for the guanfacine HCl prolonged-release tablets was performed on production 
scale batches utilizing a matrix approach that was considered acceptable. All batches met the set 
acceptance criteria or specifications. Holding time used for bulk tablet was also validated. Based on the 
data provided the process is considered validated.  
It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of 
intended quality in a reproducible manner.  
Product specification  
The finished product release and shelf-life specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage 
form: appearance, identification (HPLC-UV), content uniformity (Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), impurities 
(HPLC), dissolution (USP dissolution apparatus 2 and HPLC-UV), microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.).  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines.    
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 11/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Impurities present at higher level than the qualification threshold according to ICH Q3B were qualified by 
toxicological and clinical studies and appropriate specifications have been set. 
Given the manufacturing process (direct compression), a limit for polymorphic form in the finished 
product is not considered necessary. 
The absence of hardness, friability and water content testing in the finished product specifications was 
considered justified. 
Batch analysis results are provided for two pilot scale batches and one production scale batch per strenght 
confirming the consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended 
product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data of 2 pilot scale and 2 production scale batches of finished product for each strength stored 
under long term conditions for up to 48 months at 25 ºC / 60% RH and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of 
medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary 
packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for appearance, assay, related substances, dissolution and microbiological quality. 
The analytical procedures used are stability indicating.  
No significant difference was observed between the stability results of the full-scale batches and the 
stability results of the pilot-scale batches. All stability results comply with shelf-life specifications. 
As only two production scale batches of each strength are included in the stability studies, the CHMP 
recommended performing finished product stability studies on an additional production scale batch of 
each strength at long term and accelerated conditions. 
In addition, forty guanfacine HCl prolonged-release tablets of each strength were exposed to light as 
defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. Results 
showed that prolonged-release tablets are not light sensitive. 
Based on available stability data, a shelf-life of 48 months without any storage conditions was granted 
and stated in the SmPC. 
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The selection of functional excipients that would optimize the 
active substance release from the dosage form over the pH range of the gastrointestinal tract was 
described. Aspects related to the pediatric use of the product such as safety of excipients in children, 
patient acceptability, risk of chewing, compatibility with food and/or drinks have been satisfactorily 
discussed. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product 
quality characteristics such as dissolution, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 12/86 
 
 
 
 
 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant 
to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a 
satisfactory way. Data has been presented to give reassurance on TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation:  
- to perform dissolution studies at pH 1.2 (by applying a sample neutralisation procedure) and at pH 4.5 
for representative finished product batches, i.e., for one batch per strength (1, 2, 3, and 4mg) 
manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site utilizing the bin blending process at both 55kg and 
300kg scale for guanfacine hydrochloride prolonged release tablets. The dissolution results for the 
aforementioned studies should be provided within 6 months after Community Decision 
- to perform finished product stability studies on an additional production scale batch of each strength at 
long term and accelerated conditions 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.   Pharmacology 
Guanfacine is a moderately potent ligand for the human form of the α 2A-adrenoceptor with 15 to 20 fold 
binding selectivity for human α 2A-adrenoceptors over the α 2B- and α 2C-subtypes.  
Various behavioural models in rats and primates suggest that guanfacine may improve cognitive and 
behavioural performance by an action at postsynaptic α 2A-adrenoceptors in the frontal cortex. These 
findings include: Dose-dependent (0.3 or 0.6 mg/kg, i.p.) reduction of impulsiveness and hyperactivity of 
male spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats and improved sustained attention in SH rats with its 
maximum effect at 0.3mg/kg, i.p.; Improvement of the performance of male, wild-type control mice in 
the delayed alternation task (1 mg/kg, i.p.); Dose dependent improvement of spatial working memory in 
young adult female monkeys (0.1 – 0.7mg/kg, i.m.); and improvement of visuomotor associative 
learning in monkeys (0.001 or 0.1mg/kg, i.m.).  
The cognitive effects of guanfacine were abolished by co administration of the selective α 2-adrenoceptor 
antagonist idazoxan (0.1mg/kg, i.m.). 
Taken together these data support the development of guanfacine for the treatment of ADHD in children. 
Yet, it is also noted that the effects may be age-dependent. Improvement in memory and retention 
(0.001mg/kg, i.p.) have been demonstrated in normal, young, Wistar rats using the Morris water maze, 
but the same model showed no effects in adult rats. Also, improvement of spatial working memory was 
dose-dependent in young adult female monkeys, but in aged monkeys an effect was observed at low and 
high doses, but not at intermediate doses. 
Guanfacine is extensively metabolised, both in humans and in animals (see pharmacokinetics section). No 
information is provided on the primary pharmacological activity of relevant human metabolites. 
Additional information on the main human metabolite 3-hydroxyguanfacine sulfate should be provided by 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 13/86 
 
 
 
 
 
the Applicant. If drug interactions leading to increased levels of the intermediate metabolite 
3-hydroxyguanfacine are suspected additional information on this metabolite is warranted as well. 
The affinity of guanfacine (10-7, 10-6, 10-5 M) for a wide range of receptors, ion channels, ancillary binding 
sites, transporters and enzymes has been determined in vitro using radioligand binding techniques. For 
those receptors/sites where guanfacine displaced ≥ 50% of the specific binding, a more comprehensive 
radioligand displacement analysis was performed. The results suggest that for most of the investigated 
receptors, ion channels and enzymes no relevant pharmacological action is expected, but agonist activity 
at the 5-HT2B receptor could be clinically relevant. Consequently, valvulopathy was included as a potential 
risk in the RMP. 
The published literature shows that relatively low doses of guanfacine are analgesic, anticonvulsant, 
antinociceptive, possibly anxiolytic and sedative. The sedative properties are mediated via 
α 2A-adrenoceptor activation at dose levels similar to those where the primary pharmacological effects are 
induced. 
Experimental data demonstrate a clear hypotensive action of guanfacine, which is manifested as a 
lowering of systolic and diastolic blood pressure with a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance that 
may or may not be accompanied by a reduction in heart rate. Hypotension and potentially bradycardia 
are, therefore, predicted side effects for the use of guanfacine in the treatment of ADHD. 
In an in vitro hERG channel study, no relevant inhibition of IKr could be shown up to 1 µg/mL. In 
telemetered dogs no significant effects on arterial blood pressure, QRS duration, QT, QTcF, or QTcQ 
intervals were observed, but there was a pronounced bradycardic effect after 0.5 or 1.5 mg/kg. The lack 
of ECG effects contrast with those reported for the 52 week repeated dose toxicology study as described 
in the FDA Summary Basis of Approval (SBA) for Tenex. In this study increase of QTc was reported. The 
main human metabolite 3-hydroxyguanfacine sulfate is not expected to affect cardiac conductance, but if 
drug interactions leading to increased levels of the intermediate metabolite 3-hydroxyguanfacine are 
suspected additional information on this metabolite is warranted.  
In various animal models, contradictory effects of guanfacine on respiration were reported.  
The Applicant concludes that the literature evidence suggests that guanfacine is unlikely to have any 
adverse effect on respiration at therapeutic dose levels. However pharmacokinetic data are not available 
for the cited studies and the doses were not really high, thus, also in view of the conflicting data, it is 
difficult to conclude on the relevance for humans. 
Radioligand binding studies and experimental studies in vivo suggest that guanfacine treatment could 
increase urine and sodium output, by a centrally-mediated mechanism. 
Direct inhibitory actions on gastric emptying and intestinal motility are relevant at the therapeutic doses 
and possibly related gastrointestinal adverse events (e.g. abdominal discomfort, diarrhoea, constipation) 
are described in the current prescribing information for guanfacine products. 
In vitro studies in mouse macrophages suggest that guanfacine potentially may augment cell-mediated 
immune response through increased IL-12 secretion. In contrast, in various in vivo models in rats and 
rabbits anti-inflammatory properties were shown. 
Studies in rats and mice showed a decrease in basal metabolic rate reductions in food intake, weight gain, 
and food conversion efficiency associated with hypothermia. In mice severe glucosuria was shown, 
suggesting it may be one of the mechanisms that is responsible for the weight loss observed in mice after 
guanfacine administration. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 14/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Various effect on the adrenal system were shown, including an inhibititory effect on carbachol-stimulated 
synthesis of [14C]catecholamines, possibly by suppression of tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Also in SH rats 
a ~20% decrease of pretreatment values of catecholamine secretion rates and a ~60% reduction of 
adrenal plasma flow rate was shown. Since α 2A-adrenoceptors are present in the human adrenal gland 
along with the α 2B- and α 2C-adrenoceptors, these findings may be clinically relevant to guanfacine’s 
hypotensive properties. 
Results from a pharmacodynamic interaction study in SH rats indicate that combination of sub-effective 
doses of guanfacine and d-amphetamine do not improve ADHD-related behaviours. It is not clear whether 
combination of effective doses would lead to further improvements. It also unknown whether these 
results can be extrapolated to combination of guanfacine with other psychostimulants, for instance the 
more widely used methylphenidate. Nevertheless, these data are of minimal relevance for this MAA, since 
currently only guanfacine monotherapy is applied for. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Analytical methods 
The methods of analysis of guanfacine in rat, mouse and dog plasma in applicant-sponsored studies were 
based upon liquid-liquid extraction followed by LC-MS/MS c.q. UPLC/MS/MS. Full validation reports were 
provided.  
Absorption and kinetics after a single dose 
In  male  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys,  absorption  of  total  drug  related  material,  as  determined  by  liquid 
scintillation counting after oral administration of a single [14C]-radiolabelled dose of 1 mg/kg guanfacine 
was fast, with plasma Tmax of 0.5 to 2 h. In rats, a second plasma peak at 8 h suggested enterohepatic 
circulation. Based on recovery of radiolabel in urine, absorption in the rat was at least 37%, in the dog 
81%  and  in  the  monkey  61%.  Biotransformation  was  fast:  in  all  three  species  at  Tmax  about  4-5% 
consisted of unchanged parent compound.  
In male and female dogs, after a single oral dose of 0.3 - 3 mg (non-labelled) guanfacine/kg, absorption 
of unchanged parent compound was fast with Tmax of 1-2 h, except for the high dose females (10 h). No 
evidence  of  sex  related  differences  was  observed,  AUC  values  increased  approximately  dose 
proportionally, the mean elimination half-life was about 1 h to 3.5 hr.  
 Limited absolute bioavailability data were reported for guanfacine in animal and human. Based on the 
amount recovered in the urine, at least 78%, 77%, and 37% of the dose was absorbed in human, dog, 
and rat, respectively. 
Repeated dose toxicokinetics in mice, rats and dogs  
In mice, at achieved dietary doses for 14 days of 0.4, 1.2 and 8.4 mg/kg/day in males and 0.6, 1.2 and 
18.8 mg/kg in females, systemic exposure at the lowest doses increased approximately dose related.  At 
the  high  dose  level,  less  than  proportional  increase  of  systemic  exposure  suggested  saturation  of 
absorption.  Due  to  differences  in  achieved  doses,  no  conclusions  regarding  time-related  changes  in 
exposure could be drawn. No gender comparison was possible, since the females consumed higher doses.  
In rats, at achieved dietary doses for 14 days of 0.4  to 4 mg/kg/day, systemic exposure increased with 
increasing dose levels. At the lowest doses, dose proportionality and difference in exposure between day 
1 and 14 could not be assessed due to lack of quantifiable plasma concentrations. At the highest dose, 
systemic  exposure  to  guanfacine  was  about  2-3  fold  higher  on  day  14  compared  to  day  1  of  dietary 
administration and systemic exposure to guanfacine was higher in females compared to males. A second 
repeated dose dietary study in male rats also suggested increase of exposure (factor 1.5) between days 
4 and 94. Comparison of systemic exposure in rats treated by dietary and gavage administration suggests 
that dietary administration results in much lower bioavailability. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 15/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Rat gavage toxicokinetic studies showed no consistent gender differences at low doses, but at higher 
doses, female rats had higher exposure than male rats. In these studies, in general, exposure in rats to 
guanfacine increased more than dose proportional.  
In  rat  juvenile  toxicity  studies  with  (gavage)  administration  periods  of  postnatal  day  7  to  59  or  98, 
exposure decreased from day 13 to day 53 or 96. Exposure during the first week of administration was not 
studied. Considering the young age during the first treatment week and the decreasing exposure between 
day 13 and the end of each study, it could be expected that exposure during this first week may have been 
higher than on day 13. 
In dogs, systemic exposure to guanfacine after single and 14 days repeated oral (capsule) dosing at doses 
of 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg/day, increased approximately dose proportionately. A possible trend towards an 
increase in systemic exposure on Day 14 compared to the first dose, was not consistently observed across 
all dose levels and between sexes. There were no consistent sex related differences. 
Distribution 
According to literature data, plasma protein binding data in the rat and man is similar: 20-30%. However, 
the value for humans may be incorrect since in the same report also a protein binding value of 64% is 
mentioned  for  man.  The  reliability  of  the  reported  values  for  rats  cannot  be  assessed  either.      The 
applicant provided satisfactory data concerning  plasma protein binding in the relevant laboratory species  
during the procedure.   
The whole blood to plasma ratio of radioactivity after administration of [14C]-guanfacine in rats, monkeys 
and dogs is about 0.60, indicating that the radioactivity did not distribute significantly to red blood cells. 
This  is  based  on  estimates  of  radioactivity,  consisting  only  for  a  small  part  of  unchanged  parent 
compound. Measurements of unchanged guanfacine in red blood cells are not available for laboratory 
animals.  
A  published  study  describing  the  distribution  of  [14C]-guanfacine  after  single  and  repeated  oral 
administration of 2 mg/kg/day in male albino rats showed wide distribution of radioactive material in the 
tissues, with at the first sampling point (2 h) the highest levels in kidney and liver, followed by lung. Due 
to timing of sampling points, peak levels may have been missed. This may explain why a lag-time of 
distribution to brain tissue (reported in literature, of interest in view of its central site of action) was not 
observed. The range of sampled tissues was limited. Concentrations in intestinal tract, bone marrow and 
thyroid,  pigmented  tissues  (eye)  and  female  reproduction  organs  of  non-pregnant  females,  were  not 
studied. According to published information, high levels in intestinal tissues after IV administration in rats 
indicate biliary excretion. 
Repeated  oral  dosing  for  1  or  2  weeks  only  increased  the  concentrations  slightly.  In  view  of  the  fast 
biotransformation of guanfacine in the rat most detected radioactivity may have consisted of metabolites. 
However,  published  information  indicates  that  the  parent  drug  may  be  the  major  constituent  of  the 
radioactivity  in  the  rat  brain.  Also  in  the  rat  foetus  most  radioactivity  consisted  of  unchanged  parent 
compound.  In  adult  rat  liver  the  relative  concentration  of  unchanged  parent  compound  compared  to 
metabolites  was  higher  than  in  plasma.  This  points  to  a  relatively  high  uptake  of  unchanged  parent 
compound into tissues from the circulation and/or slower degradation of material after absorption into 
tissues.  
A published study in pregnant rats (GD17, single dose of 2 mg/kg[14C]-guanfacine) supplemented the 
overall distribution study in male rats with data in brain, liver, blood and placenta of pregnant female rats, 
in foetal brain and liver and in amniotic fluid. The concentration in amniotic fluid lagged behind the peak 
in maternal blood. Although overall exposure of the foetus was much lower than that of the dam, and 
disappearance of radioactivity from all tissues mirrored that in maternal blood, the concentration in foetal 
brain was relatively high and only little lower (early time points) or even higher (late time points) than 
that in the maternal brain. According to other published information, after a single oral dose of 5 mg/kg 
[14C]-guanfacine  in  pregnant  rats  (GD18),  high  levels  of  radioactivity  occurred  in  foetal  lungs  and 
intestine, but radioactivity was not observed in foetal blood or amniotic fluid. During the procedure the 
applicant clarified  the differences in results between the published studies  in a satisfactory manner. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 16/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
In vitro 
Rabbit  liver  microsomes,  but  not  pig  or  human  liver  microsomes,  catalysed  the  formation  of 
N-hydroxyguanfacine,  only  in  presence  of  NADPH.  Microsomes  from  all  three  species  catalysed  the 
reverse N-reduction of N-hydroxyguanfacine to guanfacine, in the presence of NADPH. No in vitro data on 
other metabolites in rabbits were available. Not any in vitro data for other laboratory species used in the 
major toxicity studies were provided. 
A series of in vitro metabolism and pharmacokinetic interaction studies in human in vitro test systems 
were provided. For summary and conclusions from these studies see the Clinical AR.  
In vivo 
In vivo metabolism data in rat, dog and monkey after a single dose, showed that in all three species, 
[14C]-guanfacine was degraded quickly to a large number of metabolites.  
At Tmax in the rat, unchanged parent drug in plasma represented less than 5% of the total radioactivity, 
a  sulfate  conjugate  of  a  hydroxy-guanfacine  represented  34  %  of  the  radioactivity,  and  a  sulfate 
conjugate  of  a  dihydroxy-guanfacine  represented  13  %  of  the  radioactivity.  Ten  other  radioactive 
components were identified in plasma at this time point. In a published rat study, two glucuronides and 
a sulfate accounted for most of the radioactivity at a slightly later time point, and smaller amounts of 
mercapturates  and  of  OH-guanfacine  were  found.  In  addition  to  oxidation  and  sulfation,  epoxidation, 
glucuronidation, cysteine conjugation, acetylation, hydration, dealkylation, methylation may play a role 
in the rat.  
In the dog, similar biotransformation reactions as in the rat are plausible, but in addition also evidence of 
dehydrogenation  was  noted.  Unchanged  parent  drug  accounted  approximately  7  to  8%  of  the 
radioactivity  in  the  1  and  4  hour  pooled  plasma  samples,  two  major  metabolites  were  guanfacine 
dihydro-diol (22 to 36% of the radioactivity) and a sulfate conjugate of a hydroxyguanfacine (24 to 33% 
of the radioactivity).   
In  the  monkey,  unchanged  guanfacine  represented  7.5%  of  the  total  radioactivity  AUC,  major 
metabolites were hydroxyguanfacine sulfate (66% of the radioactivity AUC), guanfacine-2H (8.7% of the 
AUC). Fifteen other radioactive components with lower concentrations were detected in plasma. 
According to published information, radioactivity in tissues (brain, liver, foetus) consists for a larger part 
of unchanged parent compound than radioactivity in plasma.  
The major circulating metabolite in man is sulfate conjugate of 3-hydroxyguanfacine.  This metabolite is 
also present at sufficient levels in the laboratory animals (rat, dog) used for safety studies.  
There is no information whether any of the above mentioned metabolites may be pharmacodynamically 
active.   
Excretion 
Excretion of radiolabelled material after a single oral dose of 1 mg [14C]-guanfacine/kg was investigated 
in two male rats, dogs and monkeys. In a period of 72 h rats excreted most (56 %) of the radioactive dose 
in faeces, and less (37 %)  in urine. In 72 h, dogs and monkeys excreted most of the dose (77 % and 61% 
respectively) in urine and only small amounts (3 and 6% respectively) in faeces. Most of the dose was 
already excreted in the first 24 hrs after administration. In rats and monkeys, high recovery indicated 
almost complete excretion over the 72 hr study period. A lower recovery (80 %) in dogs suggested that 
excretion was not complete during this period. Excretion in bile was not investigated. In the rat, plasma 
profiles suggested enterohepatic circulation. In monkeys and dogs only little material was excreted in 
faeces and no plasma peaks suggesting enterohepatic circulation were observed. 
According to a publication, low amounts are excreted in rat milk. 
Metabolites in excreta 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 17/86 
 
 
 
 
 
In rat and monkey urine, parent compound accounted for only a very small part of the total radioactive 
dose.  About  32%  of  the  total  radioactive  dose  was  excreted  in  dog  urine  as  the  unchanged  parent 
compound. In rat faeces, unchanged parent compound accounted for about 6% of the dose and all other 
components were present in smaller quantities. In dog faeces, all components including parent compound 
accounted  for  <  1%  of  the  dose.  In  monkey  faeces,  no  parent  compound  was  detected  and  the 
component accounting for the highest part of the dose, about 3%, was probably 3-hydroxyguanfacine.  
Overall, metabolites in urine and faeces of rats, dogs and monkeys were consistent with the metabolic 
pathways suggested by the metabolites found in plasma. Most of the excreted metabolites were present 
in  minor  quantities,  with  the  exception  of  about  32%  of  the  dose  excreted  as  unchanged  parent 
compound in dog urine. It can be concluded that metabolism in dogs is less extensive than in rats and 
monkeys. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions  
In  a  juvenile  rat  study,  in  which  guanfacine  was  administered  from  day  7  to  59  in  combination  with 
methylphenidate, exposure of both guanfacine and methylphenidate on day 13 and day 53 was higher 
than with each compound alone. 
2.3.3.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Two acute dosing studies are submitted by the applicant, showing that high doses of guanfacine elicits 
glucosuria and leads to poor condition of the animals in general, presumably due to exaggerated 
pharmacology. Further, effects on eye are seen with high doses in rat and mice. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeated dose studies with guanfacine in mouse, rat and dog from different sources (literature, Tenex 
SBA (1986) and studies directed by applicant) have been submitted by the applicant.  
Treatment of animals with guanfacine clearly affected food consumption and body weight. Decreases in 
BW are found in mouse and rat at exposure levels that are below human exposure levels. However, in dog 
the BW decrease was only seen at exposure levels 2-3 times above human exposure levels. In the clinic, 
rather an increase in BMI is observed. Increase in blood glucose levels was rather an acute finding. In the 
long term studies a decrease in glucose levels was seen in animals. This decrease in glucose was also 
observed in some small clinical studies with an alpha 2 agonist in diabetic patients, which led to the effect 
that some patients even could decrease the dose of antidiabetic drugs and insulin. It seems that an acute 
response to alpha 2A adrenergic receptor agonists appears to ameliorate over time. Thereby, the 
pancreatic findings in animals appear to be relatively diverse and not exclusively observed in treated 
animals. In addition, findings are often not observed in recovery groups. No deleterious changes were 
seen in the endocrine part of the pancreas. 
Guanfacine administration to animals revealed toxicological effects in organs and functional systems, 
which are summarized and discussed below: 
Heart: In dogs (52 weeks), treatment of guanfacine resulted in increase of incidence and intensity 
notched T-wave (0.3 mg/kg/day) and prolongation QT-interval (1.0 mg/kg/day). The dose of 0,3 
mg/kg/day corresponds to exposure levels of 18,57(m) and 38,21 ng.hr/mL in (f) and Cmax values of 5.56 
(m) and 9.69 (f) ng/mL below clinical exposure and Cmax.  Though the applicant raises the argument that 
it may not have been corrected for heart rate. An effect on heart rate, blood pressure and QT-interval is 
also observed in clinical studies. Furthermore, the Applicant states that Ki for 5-HT2B is 100 fold higher 
than for the adrenergic receptor. Yet, considering the actual plasma exposure and the EC50 values 
measured for guanfacine at the 5-HT2B receptor the difference is rather small. A potential clinical relevant 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 18/86 
 
 
 
 
 
activity of guanfacine at this receptor cannot be excluded (see for details in secondary pharmacology 
section). Therefore, heart functioning, and more specific prolongation of QT interval,  will be monitored in 
patients treated with guanfacine and included in the RMP. 
Immune system & coagulation parameters: In general, hematocrit, hemoglobulin and red blood cells 
were decreased due to treatment. Atrophic and anemic spleen (1,0 mg/kg/day, 52 weeks) and mall and 
contracted thymus & Lymph Nodes (3.0mg/kg, 90 days) were seen in dogs, below clinical exposure 
levels. Male mice (dosed 10 mg/kg/day, 78 weeks) had lymphopenia (low WBC levels) and levels of 
several types of white blood cells were affected in rat, but not always in both sexes. In clinical studies a 
few participants showed a marked decrease in white blood cells. This could possibly reflect idiosyncratic 
immune mediated effects which should be monitored post-marketing and reported in the PSURs.  
Liver: Liver biomarkers in blood, like bilirubin and ALT are increased in the male dogs dosed 3.0 
mg/kg/day guanfacine for 52 weeks slightly higher exposure then clinical. Microscopic effects seen in 
dogs start already at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg/day (90 days) in dog (moderate fatty change), corresponding 
to exposure levels of 63,26 (m) and 82,15 ng.hr/mL (f) in dog, below clinical exposure levels.  Increases 
in bilirubin and ALT are seen at a higher dose, at exposure levels slightly higher than human exposure 
levels.  
Intestines affected in rat: Intestine shows diffuse dilatation & wall thickening( (5 mg/kg/day, 102 weeks, 
below clinical exposure levels.) and submucosal oedema and inflammation at higher doses in short term 
studies. An increase in GI tract minimal or moderate adverse events associated with guanfacine has been 
observed in the clinical programme.  
Kidney: Changes in kidney biomarkers in rat like - increased creatinine & blood urea nitrogen levels (also 
in dog) and decreased total protein & albumin levels 1 mg/kg/day) in rat were seen in short term studies, 
below clinical exposure levels.  In the long-term (dog and rat) decreased levels of cations were found in 
urine. Microscopically symptoms started at relative high doses.  Relevance in human in not so likely since 
these effects have not been reported in clinical study. 
Eye: An increase in corneal opacity is seen in mice (10 mg/kg/day for 78 weeks) and corneal clouding in 
rat at low dose (0.5 mg/kg/day for 102 weeks or 10 mg/kg/day for 26 weeks). Stromal inflammation in 
eye and infiltration of inflammatory cells in the cornea were seen in rat at higher doses. No coneal 
clouding was observed in humans. Blurred vision was occasionally noted in patients, but this seems 
unrelated to the corneal clouding seen in animals.   
Spermatogenesis: Several dogs treated for 90 days with 10 mg/kg/day guanfacine showed affected 
spermatogenesis: vacuolar changes of spermatogenic cells (1m) &  reduction of spermatogenesis in 
testes (1m) and spermatophagic granuloma epididymis (1m).Male fertility in rat was effected at the 
lowest dose of 8 mg/kg/day  (see reproductive toxicity studies). Therefore  adverse effects on male 
fertility  were  included in the SPC. 
Genotoxicity 
In vitro genotoxicity: No mutagenic potential has been shown in two in vitro genotoxicity tests (Ames test 
and  chromosomal  aberration  test)  with  guanfacine,  in  absence  or  in  presence  of  rat  liver  metabolic 
activation system S-9. However, it is not clear whether all human relevant metabolites were formed using 
rat-S9. Therefore the applicant is requested to discuss to which extent the provided genotoxicity tests are 
of relevance, paying special attention to formation of metabolites in humans and by S-9 mix.  
In the in vitro chromosomal aberration test, sporadic increases in the frequency of numerical aberrations 
were observed, primarily in the presence of S-9, following treatment with pure and impure guanfacine 
hydrochloride.  The  increases  were  small  and  were  not  well  reproduced  between  experiments.  As  the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 19/86 
 
 
 
 
 
assay is not specifically designed to detect numerical chromosome aberrations, these findings were not 
considered biologically relevant. 
In vivo genotoxicity tests performed for registration of TENEX and assessed by the FDA did not indicate 
mutagenic potential of guanfacine. 
Carcinogenicity 
Only descriptions of previous studies with guanfacine in the FDA SBA were provided by the applicant in 
the first place. The applicant stated that Clinical and post-marketing data analysis for guanfacine, which 
has been available to the public in various formulations for 24 years with an exposure of approximately 3 
million person years, do not provide any indication of a carcinogenic risk.  
In addition the applicant provided an assessment document from the FDA for registration of TENEX, which 
contained the assessments of two carcinogenicity studies. The carcinogenic potential of guanfacine was 
evaluated in a 78 weeks study in mice and a 102 weeks study in rat. A significant increased incidence of 
adenomas of the pancreatic islet in the high dose treated rats was reported.  
Further to the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considered that insufficient information was 
available to assess the carcinogenic potential of guanfacine. The Applicant was requested  to review the 
available data relevant for assessing the risk for carcinogenic potential of guanfacine, especially with 
respect to pancreatic islet adenoma’s, since these were present with an increased incidence in high dose 
males in a carcinogenicity study described in the FDA SBA for Tenex. It appeared that the increased 
incidence noted in this study can probably be explained by the increased survival leading to increased 
exposure times. The lack of any effect in females or in mice and the lack of any carcinogenic potential of 
other α2 AR agonists (clonidine, lofaxedine) gave further reassurance that the signal in the rat 
carcinogenicity study is unlikely to be of relevance for humans. The lack of any guanfacine-related 
tumorigenicity was also supported by post-marketing experience with Intuniv in the US, although   limited 
to 5 years. , in these patients is in support of this conclusion. Therefore this issue was considered as 
resolved by the CHMP and Routine monitoring of tumorigenicity after MA were considered sufficient as 
post-marketing surveillance  
During  the  procedure  the  Applicant  reviewed  the  available  data  relevant  for  assessing  the  risk  for 
carcinogenic potential of guanfacine, especially with respect to pancreatic islet adenoma’s, since these 
were present with an increased incidence in high dose males in a carcinogenicity study described in the 
FDA SBA for Tenex. It appears that the increased incidence noted in this study can probably be explained 
by the increased survival leading to increased exposure times. The lack of any effect in females or in mice 
and the lack of any carcinogenic potential of other α2 AR agonists (clonidine, lofaxedine) gives further 
reassurance that the signal in the rat carcinogenicity study is unlikely to be of relevance for humans. 
Although the post-marketing experience with Intuniv in the US is still limited to 5 years, a lack of any 
guanfacine-related tumorigenicity in these patients is in support of this conclusion. Routine monitoring of 
tumorigenicity after MA was considered sufficient as post-marketing surveillance.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
In reprotoxicity studies guanfacine was administered via oral gavage. In bridging toxicokinetic studies 
animals were treated with guanfacine via dietary administration. Therefore, no proper toxicokinetic data 
is  available  for  the  fertility,  EFD  and  PPND  studies  presented  by  the  applicant  in  the  dossier. 
Consequently,  extrapolation  to  humans  and  predicting  the  clinical  relevance  is  difficult.  However, 
considering the whole package of available toxicokinetic data, it is plausible that exposure at maternal / 
foetotoxic doses in the animal studies was within the therapeutic range in humans or at most only slightly 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 20/86 
 
 
 
 
 
above.  So  it  is  unlikely  that,  if  toxicokinetic  data  would  have  been  available,  exposure  margins 
significantly higher than a factor 1 or 2 would have been found. 
Fertility studies with Guanfacine 
No effect on fertility was observed in male and female mice at the highest dose tested 2.0 mg/kg/day 
(NOAEL)  estimated  around  clinical  exposure  levels.  Fertility  in  female  rat  (Tenex  SBA,  1986)  was 
unaffected when tested up to 16 mg/kg/day, but male fertility was affected at the lowest dose tested (8 
mg/kg/day). These findings  were included in the SPC.  
Embryonic and Foetal development studies with Guanfacine 
Studies evaluating embryonic and foetal development in mice and rabbit (literature) and in rat and rabbit 
(Tenex  SBA,  1986)  have  been  submitted  by  the  applicant.  Due  to  decreased  BW  in  dams  and 
malformations / teratogenicity (specific for mouse strain) in offspring the NOAEL for F0 and F1 is 0.5 
mg/kg/day in mice. Due to BW decrease in mothers and a case of oligodactily in pups, NOAEL for F0 and 
F1 was the lowest tested dose of 0.5 mg/kg/day (literature). In the TENEX study the NOAEL was the 
lowest tested dose of 1.0  mg/kg/day.  Comparison based on mg/m2  suggests  that effects are seen at 
doses similar to human doses. Due to decreased BW in dams and foetotoxicity in offspring the NOAEL for 
F0 and F1 is 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg/day respectively (TENEX SBA, 1986).  
Overall,  teratogenicity  has  been  observed  in  mice  after  treatment  with  clinically  relevant  doses  of 
guanfacine.  In  rats  and  rabbits  no  teratogenic  effects  were  observed.  Foetal  toxicity  observed  was  in 
presence of maternal toxicity. The evaluation of adversity of the effects is hampered due to presence of 
maternal  toxicity  already  at  low  doses.  Therefore,  adverse  effects  in  humans  cannot  be  ruled  out. 
Currently there is no or limited data regarding use of guanfacine during pregnancy published. In animals, 
potential strain specific teratogenicity is observed in mice and foetotoxicity in rat and rabbit. All effects 
seen in EFD studies were in the absence of proper toxicokinetic data. Preclinical findings and the lack of 
information  on  use  of  guanfacine  in  human  during  pregnancy  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  Guanfacine 
should not be  recommended during pregnancy. This  was reflected in the SmPC.  
Peri and Post natal development studies with Guanfacine 
Studies  evaluating  effect  of  guanfacine  treatment  upon  pre  and  post-natal  development  in  mice 
(literature) and rat (Tenex SBA 1986) were submitted. In both studies, the NOAEL was the lowest dose 
tested, thus 0.5 mg/kg/day for the literature study and 2.0 mg/kg/day for the TENEX study. Dams treated 
with the high dose had a lack of milk, which was regarded as a sympathomimetic action of the drug in the 
dams, which  was reflected in the SmPC.  
Juvenile studies with guanfacine 
 A  7  weeks  and  a  90  days  study  with  guanfacine  only  and  a  combination  study  with  guanfacine  and 
methylphenidate in juvenile rat were submitted. Justifications for the choice of the test species found in 
the study reports only refer to general statements such as that the rat is generally accepted by regulatory 
authorities, that the laboratory has experience with this species and that guanfacine has been studied in 
the  rat  before.  However,  in  view  of  differences  in  pharmacokinetics  between  laboratory  species  and 
humans,  it  can  be  questioned  if  the  rat  has  been  the  optimal  choice.  In  the  rat  guanfacine  is  rapidly 
metabolised and most of the parent compound has disappeared from circulation within half an hour. The 
slower clearance in humans and the prolonged release formulation proposed for Intuniv would lead to a 
significantly different exposure profile of guanfacine in humans. Thus, a drawback of the use of rat as test 
species  is  the  rapid  clearance  leading  to  relatively  low  plasma  levels  during  a  large  part  of  the  day. 
Nevertheless Cmax levels in the high dose animals exceeded human Cmax levels. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 21/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Guanfacine administration from d7-d59 showed BW decrease and related symptoms as delay in sexual 
maturation and increased activity (ambulatory activity, increased max. times on rotarod). Other changes 
were also observed in repeated dose toxicity studies in adult animals. 
Guanfacine  administration  from  d7-d97  resulted  in  resistance  to  dosing,  agitation,  tenseness  and 
vocalisation in females animals at the end of the study. In addition, starting from day 80, animals showed 
abnormal behaviour 1,5-3 hr post-dose such as intermittently standing still, inactivity, unsteady gait, 
fixed gaze, etc.. From day 92 on, these symptoms were noted for even longer periods post dose, up to 5 
hr.  During  recovery,  no  treatment-related  effects  were  observed.  Above  described  symptoms  are 
contradictory  with  the  observed  increased  ambulatory  activity  and  increased  times  on  the  rotarod, 
observed on d44-52  in the shorter juvenile toxicity study (d7-d59). These findings might be related to the 
neuropharmacological  properties  of  guanfacine,  which  may  potentially  affect  neurodevelopmental 
processes in early phases of brain development leading to changes in neuropharmacological response and 
behavioural  outcome  at  later  stages  in  life.  This  was  further  discussed  by  the  Applicant    during  the 
procedure. 
The  design  of  the  juvenile  study  does  not  fully  reflect  the  developmental  phase  of  the  patients  to  be 
treated. Whereas exposure in the rat juvenile study encompasses the period of highest monaminergic 
transmitter receptor expression (including alpha 2 A receptors), the intended age group in humans does 
not. Therefore, in theory, in the rat study neurodevelopmental processes may have been affected, that 
possibly would not be affected in humans when exposure starts at the age of 6. Furthermore, behavioural 
signs may also occur when rats are exposed at later stages without exposure at these early phases in life. 
This suggests that the observations are mostly direct pharmacological effects. The finding in the juvenile 
toxicity study that the incidence and intensity of the behavioral signs increased during the late stages of 
the study may reflect a particularly sensitive period in these animals. The nature of the symptoms are also 
remniscent  of  overdose  symptoms  in  pediatric  patients.  This  too  gives  the  impression  that  the 
observations are rather exaggerated pharmacological symptoms. 
Although definitive answers on neurodevelopmental perturbations cannot be derived from the juvenile 
study, the behavioural symptoms that were observed were sufficiently discussed.  
The  NOAEL  for  juvenile  toxicity,  based  on  BW  decrease  in  the  90  days  study,  is  0.3  mg/kg/day 
corresponding to exposure of 9.81 (m) and 11.1 (f) ng.hr/mL at day 13 and 4.70 (m) and 5.55 ng.hr/mL 
(f) at day 96 of age), which is below clinical exposures. Higher dosages could not be achieved however, 
due to dose limiting reductions in body weight seen in the DRF study. Body weight decrease, however, is 
not  reflecting  clinically  outcome  in  humans,  as  the  opposite  is  observed  in  children,  which  show  an 
increase in body weight gain. 
Combining  guanfacine  with  methylphenidate  resulted  in  higher  exposures  to  guanfacine  and 
methylphenidate as compared to administration of both compounds alone, which was also reflected in the 
magnitude  of  pharmacological  and  some  toxicological  responses  recorded.  Combination  treatment 
resulted in exaggeration of symptoms of treatment with guanfacine and methylphenidate alone. Next to 
the symptoms described for the therapies alone vocalisation and irritable behaviour was noted, shorter 
ulna  length  and  slower  balano  preputial  separation  were  seen.  Also  WBC  count  and  number  of 
lymphocytes, eosinophils and basophils were increased in females.  For combination treatment the NOAEL 
is 0.3 mg/kg/day guanfacine and 16 mg/kg/day methylphenidate corresponding with exposure levels to 
guanfacine of 5.4 (m) and 9.09 (f) ng.hr/mL and to methylphenidate of 159 (m) and 331(f) ng.hr/mL on 
day 53 of age. 
Other toxicity studies 
The lack of local tolerance studies, antigenicity studies and phototoxicity studies is agreed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 22/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunotoxicity  
Changes in white blood cell parameters are reported. Incidental changes in WBC count are also seen in 
the clinical trials. Furthermore, in some studies spleen, thymus or lymph nodes were affected. Immune 
mediated idiosyncratic reactions should be monitored and reported in the PSURs. 
Dependence 
The  Applicant  reviewed  the  non-clinical  and  clinical  literature  relevant  to  the  dependence  potential  of 
guanfacine. There are no data on self-administration of guanfacine, however, a considerable amount of 
data is available for clonidine, another well-known adrenergic α2-agonist. The data on clonidine show that 
clonidine  may  induce  self-administration  in  drug-naïve  animals,  but  the  pattern  is  distinct  from 
amphetamine, cocaine, pentobarbital and morphine. In rats, clonidine variably substituted for opiates. 
These data show that clonidine may have some dependence potential, but the potential is considered to 
be low and the characteristics are different from well-known drugs of abuse. 
Withdrawal studies mainly focussed on hemodynamic effects and guanfacine has been compared with 
clonidine.  Whereas  clonidine  treatment  may  result  in  rebound  effects  after  withdrawal,  guanfacine 
generally does not. 
Other  studies  showed  that  clonidine  and  guanfacine  may  reduce  withdrawal  symptoms  after  ethanol, 
opiate or diazepam withdrawal, but guanfacine was apparently less potent in this respect than clonidine.  
The post-marketing experience with Intuniv in the USA does not indicate dependence potential, while 
during several decades of use as an antihypertensive drug, guanfacine has not emerged as a drug of 
abuse. 
Taken together, it appears that the risk for dependence potential can be considered low. It is agreed that 
there is no need for additional non-clinical studies investigating dependence potential. 
Impurities 
Based on the provided study data and general toxicological considerations, the specified impurities are 
qualified up to the proposed limits. 
2.3.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Table 1 Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): guanfacine 
CAS-number (if available): 29110-47-2 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation  potential  –  log 
Kow 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
OECD107 
Result 
log Kow = 1.8 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT: N 
for 
relevant 
Result 
conclusion 
log Kow 
ready biodegradability 
DT50, parent 
1.8 
Waived, see OECD 308 study 
DT50, water = 8.7/11 d (l/l) 
DT50, sediment =  123/250 d (l/l)  
DT50, system = 15/17 d (l/l) 
0.78 µg/L (daphnia) 
NOEC 
CMR 
Not investigated 
guanfacine is considered not PBT, nor vPvB 
Conclusion 
not B 
values 
l=lake, 
DT50 
corrected to 12°C. 
Conclusion: P 
T 
Potentially T 
Page 23/86 
Bioaccumulation 
Persistence 
Toxicity 
PBT-statement 
Phase I  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Value 
0.035 
Calculation 
PECsurface water, default Fpen  
Other  concerns  (e.g.  chemical 
class) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Test protocol 
OECD 106 
Unit 
µg/L 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold 
(Y/N) 
Results 
Koc sludge = 485, 435 L/kg 
Koc  soil = 723, 441, 1180 L/kg 
Remarks 
sludge (n=2) 
soil (n=3) 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Aerobic 
Transformation 
Sediment systems 
and 
in 
Anaerobic 
Aquatic 
OECD 301 
OECD 308, parent 
DT50 water = 4.1/5.1 d (l/l) 
DT50 sediment = 58/118 d (l/l) 
DT50 system = 6.9/7.9 d (l/l) 
Sediment  shifting  >10%  at 
or after 14 days 
at 
values 
l = lake,  
DT50 
20°C; 
Significant  shifting 
sediment 
to 
observed 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type  
Algae, Growth Inhibition Test / 
Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata 
Daphnia  magna.  Reproduction 
Test  
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity Test 
/ Pimephales promelas  
Activated  Sludge,  Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
Phase IIb Studies 
Sediment dwelling organism / 
Chironomus riparius 
Test protocol 
Endpoint  value  Unit 
Remarks 
OECD 201 
NOErC 
3.78 
µg/L 
growth rate 
OECD 211 
NOEC 
0.78 
µg/L 
length 
OECD 210 
NOEC 
0.94 
µg/L 
OECD 209 
NOEC 
2.8 
µg/L 
OECD 218 
NOEC 
112 
mg/kg 
hatching; 
Ri = 3 
Unclear if sonication 
affected  stability  of 
guanfacine  
value  normalised  to 
10% o.c.  
Considering the provided data, the CHMP concluded that Intuniv was not expected to pose a risk to the 
environment. 
2.3.5.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Major non-clinical concerns were raised during the procedure concerning the carcinogenic potential of 
guanfacine as well as the uncertainties on the juvenile toxicity testing. 
The Applicant was requested to review the available data relevant for assessing the risk for carcinogenic 
potential of guanfacine, especially with respect to pancreatic islet adenoma’s, since these were present 
with an increased incidence in high dose males in a carcinogenicity study described in the FDA SBA for 
Tenex. It appeared that the increased incidence noted in this study can probably be explained by the 
increased survival leading to increased exposure times. The lack of any effect in females or in mice and 
the lack of any carcinogenic potential of other α2 AR agonists (clonidine, lofaxedine) gave further 
reassurance that the signal in the rat carcinogenicity study was unlikely to be of relevance for humans. 
The lack of any guanfacine-related tumorigenicity was also supported by post-marketing experience with 
Intuniv in the US.  Therefore this issue was considered as resolved by the CHMP and routine monitoring 
of tumorigenicity after MA were considered sufficient as post-marketing surveillance  
As Intuniv is indicated for children, juvenile toxicity studies with guanfacine were considered pivotal in 
this application. In the juvenile rat, guanfacine was rapidly metabolised and most of the parent compound 
had disappeared from circulation within half an hour. The slower clearance in humans and the prolonged 
release  formulation  proposed  for  Intuniv  would  lead  to  a  significantly  different  exposure  profile  of 
guanfacine in humans. Cmax levels were, however still considerably in excess of human Cmax values. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 24/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, despite these limitations, data from the juvenile toxicity performed suggested a potential to 
affect  neurodevelopmental  processes  in  early  phases  of  brain  development.  Although  such  an  effect 
cannot be excluded for the rat juvenile study, it is considered less likely that this would occur in children 
exposed from the age of 6 years, as the neurodevelopmental periods in the rat study and the age range 
in the intended patient population do not share the early developmental phases. As in other studies in the 
literature behavioural effects were reported when dosing was initiated at later stages, the observations 
are probably direct pharmacological effects. The finding in the juvenile toxicity study that the incidence 
and  intensity  of  the  behavioral  signs  increased  during  the  late  stages  of  the  study  may  reflect  a 
particularly  sensitive  period  in  these  animals.  The  nature  of  the  symptoms  are  also  remniscent  of 
overdose symptoms in pediatric patients This supported also that the observations may have been  rather 
exaggerated  pharmacological  symptoms.  Although  definitive  answers  on  neurodevlopmental 
perturbations  could  not  be  be  draw  from  the  juvenile  study,  the  CHMP  considered  that  behavioural 
symptoms that were observed were sufficiently discussed. 
Further to the review of the non-clinical data, the CHMP considered also that further data were needed to 
characterise the pharmacological activity of metabolites.  The MAH committed to further evaluate the 
pharmacological activity of the main metabolite 3-hydroxy guanfacine sulfate.   
Furthermore, although the affinity for the receptor is much lower for the 5-HT2B receptor than for the α2A 
receptor, plasma concentrations of guanfacine after a maximal therapeutic dose are similar to EC50 
values seen for guanfacine in functional in vitro assays evaluating the 5-HT2B receptor. Consequently, 
these data suggest there is a potential risk for developing valvulopathy.  
In addition conflicting data and data gaps lead to uncertainty in the long-term cardiovascular safety with 
respect to the potential to induce QTc prolongation. The possibility of involvement of metabolites in a QTc 
prolongation liability may need to be considered if drug interaction leading to increased levels of 
metabolism intermediates is suspected. 
ADME data, although limited, suggested approximately similar exposure to both metabolites in rats and 
to the most important metabolite, M13, in dogs. Since no proper AUCs were determined, this is no more 
than an rough estimate. Nevertheless, based on these data, it is concluded that most likely, exposure to 
the most important human metabolites has been similar to or lower than that in humans. So in the toxicity 
studies, like for the parent compound, there is no exposure margin for the major human metabolites.  
Requesting more data of improved quality would probably not result in a significantly different conclusion. 
Therefore, this was considered acceptable by the CHMP 
Only literature data (mice) and summary data from the FDA SBA (rats and rabbits) on the reproductive 
toxicity were available. There are no or only very limited reported data on the use of guanfacine during 
pregnancy in humans. Potential strain specific teratogenicity is observed in mice, foetotoxicity in rat and 
rabbit. All effects seen in EFD studies were in the absence of proper toxicokinetic data. Preclinical findings 
and the lack of information on use of guanfacine in human during pregnancy lead to the conclusion that 
Guanfacine should not be used during pregnancy. This was reflected in the SmPC. 
2.3.6.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP considers that the non-clinical issues have been sufficiently addressed during the procedure. 
Overall, the non-clinical data were considered appropriate to support the proposed clinical use of 
guanfacine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 25/86 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Applicant claimed that clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Analytical methods 
The analytical methods used for determination of guanfacine in human plasma by the different facilities 
are well validated. The requested inter-laboratory analysis of the analytical methods was not performed 
and the applicant indicated that such analysis would not be possible for one out three analytical sites.  
Plasma samples for incurred sample reanalysis for guanfacine were performed at Advion and Cedra, 
demonstrating incurred sample reproducibility for guanfacine. However, incurred sample reanalysis were 
not performed at Shire facility and the reliability of the analytical methods used at Shire has not been 
discussed as requested. As indicated in the PKWP document EMA/618604/2008 Rev. 6, one of the 
methods to indicate that the analytical methods is reproducible, is by interstudy comparison of the 
pharmacokinetic data. Across study comparison showed that pharmacokinetic parameters were 
comparable using samples analysed by all three analytical sites. Therefore, the absence of cross 
validation between the three analytical sites and the absence of incurred sample reanalysis at the Shire 
facility can be accepted 
Absorption  
As predicted in vitro, absorption of guanfacine in vivo was complete.  The absolute bioavailability of 
immediate release guanfacine is 80%. Relative bioavailability of Intuniv as compared to immediate 
release guanfacine is 58%. Peak plasma concentrations are reached at 6 hrs. Administration of 
guanfacine with high fat meal resulted in 75 and 40% increase in Cmax and AUC, respectively. This 
significant food effect could be clinically significant, because many of the important adverse effects of 
Intuniv occurred in a dose-related manner. However, for the main Phase 3 studies in children with ADHD 
(SPD503-316, SPD503-312, and SPD503-315), the protocols did not provide specific instructions 
regarding food intake other than not to administer the drug with a high-fat meal Thus, it was agreed that 
Intuniv should not be taken with high fat meals. 
Bioequivalence 
The three different manufacturing sites utilizing different manufacturing processes, i.e. PII, SUMI/Owings 
Mills and DSM, were used during development programme. Based on the bioequivalence studies 
submitted, tablets manufactured at PII site are considered bioequivalent with tablets manufactured at 
SUMI/Owings Mills site, and tablets from SUMI/Owings Mills are bioequivalent with tablets from DSM, the 
final manufacturing site. The lack of  direct bridging data for PII and DSM site is of little concern 
considering all comparative pharmacokinetic studies. However, tablets manufactured at PII site were 
used in the food effect study SPD503-104 and, shown below, there is a significant food effect and many 
important adverse events occur in the dose related manner. Based on this, it was necessary to know what 
is the food effect for the tablets from each blend manufactured at the final DSM facility. In the response, 
the applicant substantiated that the two manufacturing processes used PII and DSM site can be 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 26/86 
 
 
 
 
 
considered as similar without any impact on the quality of the product and therefore a food effect study 
with a tablet manufactured at DSM site is no longer considered necessary.  
The applicant confirmed that the batches used in studies 113 114, 114 and 1209A3111, are manufactured 
at SUMI site. Tablets from SUMI site were shown to be bioequivalent with tablets from DSM site, the final 
manufacturing site, and thus this issue was considered as resolved by the CHMP.  
Distribution 
Consistent with its lipophilicity and high permeability, guanfacine is largely distributed to the tissues with 
an apparent volume of distribution of 6.3 kg/L. According to literature, plasma protein binding of 
guanfacine is 70% and it is independed of drug concentration. 
Elimination 
Excretion 
Based on the publication of Carchman et al, it can be concluded that biotransformation of guanfacine 
accounts for about 50% in the drug elimination, with a firs-pass of 20%. The total clearance of guanfacine 
was high, i.e. 414 ml/min (24 l/h), of which approximately 50% was renal. The ratio of renal clearance to 
creatinine clearance was 2.9 and 2.2 after oral and iv administration, respectively, indicating active 
secretion. Based on study SPD503-109 in 52 healthy volunteers, the elimination half-life was reported to 
be approximately 18 hrs. 
Metabolism 
The lack of a mass-balance study was considered as a significant deficiency in the dossier. The applicant 
identified 3-hydroxy guanfacine sulfate (M13) as a major circulating metabolite, representing a mean of 
61% of the plasma radioactivity. However, it is unknown if this metabolite is active. This should be 
evaluated. Also in turn,  an inhibition of sulfation of 3-OH guanfacine could lead to a substantial exposure 
to 3-OH-guanfacine, which pharmacological activity is unknown. Therefore, although in general phase II 
metabolites are not pharmacologically active, the applicant should evaluate that this holds also for 
3-hydroxy guanfacine sulfate (M13), which represents substantial (60%) plasma radioactivity. The 
applicant should also investigate which enzymes are involved in the formation of 3-hydroxy guanfacine 
sulfate (M13) and discuss potential drug interactions that may affect the formation of this metabolite. If 
relevant interactions are anticipated, drug interactions affecting these pathways should be investigated in 
vivo. Increased exposure of the intermediate, 3-hydroxy guanfacineis not expected because 3-hydroxy 
guanfacinecan be metabolised by various pathways including sulaphatases and glucuronidases. If the 
sulphate conjugate contributes to the pharmacological activity, the elimination pathway of this metabolite 
should be investigated and potential interactions should be discussed. These studies could be performed 
as a post-approval commitment.  
Consequences of possible genetic polymorphism 
CYP3A4, the major metabolizing enzyme, is not associated with clinically important genetic variability.  
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality 
Pharmacokinetics of guanfacine appeared to be dose proportional between 1 and up to the maximal 
recommended daily dose of 7 mg in the target population. In healthy volunteers, dose-proportional 
increase in Camx and AUC was demonstrated up to 4 mg, which was the highest dose tested in healthy 
adults. Thus, the pharmacokinetics of guanfacine can be considered as similar in children (aged 6 to 12) 
and adolescent (aged 13 to 17) ADHD patients, and healthy adult volunteers.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 27/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Time dependency 
A formal evaluation of time-dependency, where the Ctrough values are measured over several days at 
steady state, were not provided. When comparing an extent of exposure at Day 14 and at Day 28, it 
seems that no auto-inhibition or auto-induction occurs.  
Inter- and intra-subject variability 
Intra- and inter-subject variability for the Cmax and AUC in healthy volunteers, children and adolescents 
is moderate. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population (children and adolescents) 
Fixed dose: After a single and multiple dosing, Cmax and AUC were 35 and 25-30% higher, respectively, in 
children than in adolescents. CL/F in children was considerably lower than in adolescents. Higher 
exposure in children was most likely attributed to their lower body weight.  
Weigh-based dose: In adolescents, following administration of 0.12 mg/kg dose, Cmaxss and AUCss,  were 
increased in the higher weight groups i.e. >50-70 kg and >70-90 kg vs. 30-50 kg group. Clearance 
decreased as weight increased. This difference was especially pronounced for the heaviest weight group 
(70-90 kg) as compared with the lowest weight group (30-50 kg). The mean maximal dose administered 
to the highest weight group was 9 mg, which explains higher exposure in this group. However, according 
to the proposed posology, the maximal daily dose for children weighing 58.5 kg and above is 7mg, which 
is expected to result in lower exposure.  
Special populations 
A population PK analysis were performed to evaluate the influence of different covariates on 
pharmacokinetics for guanfacine. 
The model predicted that food significantly increases plasma exposure of guanfacine. This is conflicting 
with the applicant’s conclusion on the food effect where similar exposure to guanfacine was seen at 
steady state under fasting conditions and after non high-fat meal. The predicted by the model food effect 
might have been overestimated including the data from study SPD503-203, in which a prototype 
formulation C was used for which guanfacine exposure is expected to be higher. Inclusion of this study 
possibly might have accounted for the high and unexpected variability for predicted CL/F, V /F, and ka. 
The applicant however did not address this issue and no changes were applied to the model. This issue is 
considered not resolved but it won’t be further pursued. It should be noted however that for this reason 
and the fact that only four studies were included in the model building, the PK model is of a limited value 
and further re-evaluation of the model would be needed before its use in the future.   
Gender and race 
Gender and race were not found to be significant covariates in the PK model. 
Weight 
The model supported weight-based dosing with the exceptions of relatively heavy 6 year olds (40 kg) and 
12 year olds (70 kg), which were expected to have lower plasma exposure, and of lightweight 12 years old 
expected to have higher plasma exposure. The applicant concluded that this finding is due to the higher 
variability caused by  the limited number of subjects at  the extremes of the age and weight ranges. This 
should not be an issue since patients are individually titrated based on effect. The exposure to guanfacine 
applying the dose recommendation as indicated in section 4.2 of the SPC, highly overlaps between 
different weight ranges, which support the cut-off point for these weight ranges. 
Renal impairment 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 28/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the newly submitted mass-balance study with guanfacine prodrug, it was estimated that renal 
excretion is the major elimination pathway (80% of the radioactivity) with parent drug representing 30% 
of the urinary radioactivity, which is lower than initially estimated (50%).  Based on the publication by 
Kirch et al 1980, there was a significant reduction in cumulative urinary excretion and renal clearance of 
guanfacine as the renal function decreased, though total body clearance of guanfacine was only slightly 
diminished. The elimination rate constant and elimination half live were however comparable between the 
three groups, which suggests increased hepatic elimination of the drug, though the metabolites profiles 
were not reported. There was however no clear trend towards difference in plasma exposure in  as  the 
renal function decreased. This finding could be attributed to the parallel renal and metabolic routes of 
elimination minimizing the effects of diminished renal function but also to the low number of subjects 
available for plasma analysis. Although the data on guanfacine plasma exposure is inconclusive, 
considering that dosing should be individualized according to the therapeutic needs and response of the 
patient (section 4.2), it can be agreed with the applicant’s proposal that the dose reduction may be 
necessary in subjects with severe renal impaired, but also in subjects with an end stage renal disease or 
requiring dialysis.   
Hepatic impairment 
Hepatic metabolism accounts for at least 50% in the drug elimination and therefore it is expected that 
hepatic impairment will result in marked increase in guanfacine exposure. Since it is not expected that 
guanfacine would be used in children and adolescents with impaired liver function and since dosing is to 
be individualized, it is agreed with the applicant’s proposal that the dose reduction may be necessary in 
subjects with impaired renal function. However, the dose reduction should concern all degrees of hepatic 
impairment and not only severe. 
Elderly 
Guanfacine is not indicated for the use in elderly.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro interactions 
Influence of other drugs on pharmacokinetics of guanfacine 
P-gp: Guanfacine was shown to be a drug with a high permeability that is transported through the Caco-2 
cell monolayers by the passive pathway. Guanfacine was not considered a substrate for the P-gp pump. 
Therefore, interactions at P-gp level can be excluded. 
Cytochrome P450: Assays in both pooled microsomes and Supersomes confirmed the major involvement 
of CYP3A5 in guanfacine metabolism.  In vivo, a significant interaction with strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
inducer was shown (see below). Involvement of other CYP isoenzymes, if any, is thought to be 
insignificant.  
Considering that metabolism accounts for more than 50% in the drug elimination, the in vitro studies 
identifying transporters involved in hepatic uptake are necessary and the applicant committed to perform 
such studies post-approval. In addition, when a candidate transporter has been identified, an in vivo 
study with a strong inhibitor/inducer of the transporter at the site of interest is recommended, if feasible 
(see chapter 5.2.4.of the EMA guideline on drug-drug interactions). Renal excretion is the major 
elimination pathway (80% of the radioactivity) with parent drug representing 30% of the urinary 
radioactivity, based on the newly submitted mass-balance study.  Guanfacine was found to be a substrate 
for OCT2 transporter and OCT2- mediated uptake of guanfacine (Li et al 2014) and the genetic 
polymorphism of OCT2 has been described in the literature (Yoon et al. 2013). However, at the worst case 
scenario, an inhibition of OTC2-mediated transport of guanfacine would result in 30% increase in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 29/86 
 
 
 
 
 
guanfacine exposure, which is not considered clinically relevant. Therefore, in vivo interactions with OCT2 
inhibitor or in vivo evaluation of OCT2 genetic polymorphism are not warranted. For the same reason, 
interactions with drugs that may decrease or increase the renal elimination of guanfacine are not 
expected to result in a clinically relevant increase in guanfacine exposure.  
Effect of guanfacine on pharmacokinetics of other drugs 
P-gp: At clinically relevant concentrations, guanfacine was not shown to be an inhibitor of p-gp mediated 
transport of other drugs. 
CYP inhibition: Guanfacine is not considered to be a reversible inhibitor of CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and 
hepatic 3A4/5. No conclusion on time depended inhibition (TDI) of CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and hepatic 
CYP3A4/5 can be made, as the pre-incubation time of 15 min is considered too short. In the time 
dependency experiments, at least 30 min of pre-incubation and IC50 shifts calculations are preferred. The 
applicant will re-evaluate TDI of CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and hepatic 3A4/5 as a post-approval 
commitment. 
Guanfacine is not considered to be a reversible or mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP2C8 at clinical 
concentrations. Inhibition data towards CYP2B6 and it will be provided in as a post-approval commitment.  
No conclusion on inhibition of intestinal CYP3A4 can be made as the highest concentration used i.e 3.5 µM 
was below maximal expected intestinal exposure  to guanfacine of 10 µM. The applicant will perform the 
inhibition studies towards intestinal CYP3A4, in line with the guideline on drug-drug interaction 
recommendations (e.g. inclusion of strong inhibitor, maximal intestinal exposure of the drug,i.e.10 µM, 
pre-incubation time of at least 30 min together with IC50 shift calculation is recommended in case of TDI) 
as  post-approval commitment. 
Transporters: The Applicant will provide inhibition information for the transporters BCRP, OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1 andOAT3 for the parent drug as a post-approval commitment. The lack of 
inhibition studies for BSEP, MRP2 and MATE1 and MATE2 has been justified.  
CYP induction: No conclusion on guanfacine induction potential towards CYP enzymes can be made  as the 
design of the CYP induction study is not considered adequate i.e the incubation period of 2 days used in 
the study is considered too short as evident from failed or weak responses from the control inducers 
assays. Incubation time of 3 days is recommended. The applicant will conduct such a study as 
post-approval commitment.  
UGT inhibition: Guanfacine and 3-hydroxy-guanfacine, at clinically relevant concentrations have no 
potential for clinically significant UGT-mediated drug-drug interactions. There was no sign of an 
interaction with valproic acid. However, the literature indicates that guanfacine increases plasma 
concentration of valproic acid. Plasma valproate levels rapidly increased when guanfacine was 
co-administered decreased by 41% after guanfacine was tapered and discontinued*. The authors 
proposed that the mechanism behind this interaction may involve competition at the level of hepatic 
glucuronidation, although shifts in protein binding cannot be ruled out. The proposed wording in section 
4.5 of SmPC to monitor plasma levels of valproic acid when co administered with guanfacine and to 
consider a dose adjustment of either one, was agreed by the CHMP. 
In vivo interactions 
Ketoconazole:  Co-administration  with  strong  CYP3A4  inhibitor,  ketoconazole,  resulted  in  2  and  3  fold 
increase in guanfacine Cmax and AUC, respectively. Adequate dosing instructions have been described 
when moderate and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors are co-administered with Intuniv. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 30/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Rifampin: Co administration with CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, resulted in 50 and 70% decrease in Cmax 
and  AUC  respectively.  According  to  section  4.5,  an  increase  of  Intuniv  dose  should  be  considered. 
Adequate dose recommendation is provided when Intuniv is co-administered with CYP3A4 inducers. 
Methylphenidate:  No  pharmacokinetic 
interaction  was  observed  between  guanfacine  and 
methylphenidate.  This  is  expected  considering  different  elimination  pathways  of  the  drugs  i.e 
methylphenidate is not metabolized by the CYP450, nor methylpenidate is an inducer nor inhibitor of the 
cytochrome P450 system.  
Lisdexamfetamine  dimesylate:  When  coadministered  with  lisdexamfetamine  dimesylate,  guanfacine 
Cmax increased by 19%, while the AUC remained unchanged.  However, this observed slight increase in 
guanfacine  Cmax  when  co  administered  with  lisdexamfetamine  dimesylate  is  not  considered  to  be 
clinically significant. 
In conclusion, the following remaining PK  issues which need to be addressed in post-authorisation studies 
are as below: 
In  order  to  identify  the  transporter  involved  in  hepatic  uptake,  the  MAH  should  perform  and  provide 
results of in vitro studies identifying transporter involved in hepatic uptake considering that metabolism 
accounts for more than 50% in the drug elimination.  
In  addition,  when  a  candidate  transporter  has  been  identified,  an  in  vivo  study  with  a  strong 
inhibitor/inducer of the transporter at the site of interest is recommended, if feasible (see chapter 5.2.4. 
of the EMA guideline on drug-drug interactions) 
 In order to identify if guanfancine is an inhibitor of CYP enzymes and drug transporters, the MAH  should 
re-evaluate, conduct and provide the results of a Time Dependent Inhibition study for the following: 
- CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 and hepatic 3A4/5;  
- CYP2B6; 
- Intestinal CYP3A4, in line with the guideline on drug-drug interaction recommendations (e.g. inclusion 
of strong inhibitor, maximal intestinal exposure of the drug,i.e.10 µM, pre-incubation time of at least 30 
min together with IC50 shift calculation is recommended in case of TDI); 
- Transporters BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, OAT1, OAT3. 
In order to identify if guanfancine can induce CYP enzymes, the MAH should re-perform the CYP induction 
study in line with the current EMA guideline on drug-drug interaction. 
 In  order  to  evaluate  the  pharmacological  activity  of  3-hydroxy  guanfacine  sulfate,  the  MAH  should 
evaluate the pharmacological activity of 3-hydroxy guanfacine sulfate by in vitro assays. If 3-hydroxy 
guanfacine sulfate shows pharmacological activity in vitro, the enzyme involved in its formation should be 
identified. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Based on a review of published findings in rodents and higher species, the applicant states that: 
[guanfacine, like the other α2-adrenoceptor agonists, is sedative]…[this potential side-effect in man is 
entirely consistent with guanfacine’s known pharmacology as a moderately potent and selective 
α2A-adrenoceptor agonist.] No studies in healthy volunteers were performed by applicant to study effects 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 31/86 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
of guanfacine on the central nervous system (CNS). The applicant refers to a published study by Kugler et 
al (1988) who measured EEG’s, subjective well-being, cognitive performance, plasma noradrenaline 
levels and effects on blood pressure in 24 healthy students before and after 2 doses of guanfacine (1.0 
/2.0mg) or clonidine (0.15 /0.3mg) with a 2-hour interval. Effects on blood pressure were reported to be 
similar, but guanfacine had less suppressive effects on plasma noradrenaline, self-reported wellbeing, 
measures of cognitive performance and EEG activity. Regarding effects on cognitive performance, the 
figure below shows mean results for guanfacine (grey columns) and clonidine (black columns) for: (1) the 
ZVT (‘Zahlen Verbindings Test’, Oswald 1978) which tests time needed for sorting of 24 randomly 
arranged numbers, (2) the PAT (‘Pauli Adding-up Test’, Arnold 1961): time needed for adding 2 numbers, 
and (3) the RTD (‘Reaction Time Test’, Mierke 1956): proportion of correct recognition of color signal 
within 0.8 seconds. In this study, limited information is available regarding statistical testing of change of 
performance within treatments. Regarding guanfacine, improvement of RTD-performance was significant 
(p<0.005) at the first post-dose measurement as compared to baseline. The possible improvement of 
PAT-performance at the third post-dose measurement tested non-significant as compared to baseline. 
Mean (sd) ZVT-response times were: baseline: 26.6±7.5; period 1: 21.9±8.8; period 2: 24.2±9.4; 
period 3: 20.6±5.8; period 4: 20.9±3.3. 
A dose-response study in 31 ADHD-patients 13-17 years of age showed decreased systolic and diastolic 
blood  pressure,  but  a  (rebound)  increase  of  approximately  5-7  mmHg  with  a  maximum  at  5  days 
post-dose.  At  1,  3,  and  5  minutes  after  standing  up,  blood  pressure  decreased  in  a  dose-dependent 
fashion.  Also  a  dose-dependent  slowing  of  heart  rate  was  shown,  lowering  pulse  to  a  minimum  of 
approximately 50 bpm at 4 hours post-dose and onwards. 
A  thorough-QT  study  was  performed  to  assess  the  risk  of  arrhythmia  associated  with 
guanfacine-treatment.  A  total  of  58  healthy  adult  volunteers  were  treated  with  immediate-release 
guanfacine up to 6 mg twice daily and 8 mg once daily (day 6), placebo and active control moxifloxacin 
400mg. A QT-interval prolongation of >10ms was included in the confidence bounds of guanfacine at 12 
hours post dose. A similar comparison was performed using individually collected heart-rate correction 
factors.  Using  those  corrections,  guanfacine  was  not  associated  with  clinically  relevant  QT-interval 
prolongation. 
In post-hoc analyses of time-points beyond 12 hours post-dose, QT-intervals at time points through 24 
hours  were  assessed.  In  those  analyses  the  corrected  QT-intervals  included  a  10  ms  prolongation  as 
compared to placebo in the 95%-confidence interval, both using the fixed ‘Friderica’-correction and the 
individually  ascertained  correction  factors.  The  applicant  considers  these  post-dose  prolongations: 
‘…reflective  of  changes  in  autonomic  tone  occurring  as  a  result  of  decreasing  systemic  guanfacine 
concentrations following 6 days of high dose guanfacine.’ 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 32/86 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  data  were  submitted  regarding  pharmacodynamic  interactions  with  other  medicinal  products  or 
substances. Also, no data were submitted regarding genetic differences in PD response. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The three different manufacturing sites utilizing different manufacturing processes, i.e. PII, SUMI/Owings 
Mills  and  DSM,  were  used  during  development  programme.  Based  on  the  bioequivalence  studies 
submitted, tablets manufactured at PII site are considered bioequivalent with tablets manufactured at 
SUMI/Owings Mills site, and tablets from SUMI/Owings Mills are bioequivalent with tablets from DSM, the 
final  manufacturing  site.  The  lack  of  direct  bridging  data  for  PII  and  DSM  site  is  of  little  concern 
considering  all  comparative  pharmacokinetic  studies.  However,  tablets  manufactured  at  PII  site  were 
used in the food effect study -104 and, shown below, there is a significant food effect and many important 
adverse events occur in the dose related manner.  The applicant clarified during the procedure what the 
food effect is for the tablets from each blend manufactured at the final DSM facility. 
  The applicant clarified that the batches used in studies 113 114, 114 and 1209A3111, are manufactured 
at SUMI site. Tablets from SUMI site were shown to be bioequivalent with tablets from DSM site, the final 
manufacturing site, and thus this issue was considered as resolved by the CHMP.  
At the moment, it is unknown whether any pharmacologically active or toxic metabolites are formed in 
humans.  If  such  metabolites  are  formed  in  humans,  enzymes  contributing  to  main  formation  and 
elimination pathways of these metabolites should also be identified. This will be further investigated by 
the company as a pharmacokinetics study is requested accordingly and is part of the pharmacovigilance 
plan in the risk management plan.   
According to section 5.2 of the SmPC, the pharmacokinetics of guanfacine is similar in children (aged 6 to 
12) and adolescent (aged 13 to 17) ADHD patients, and healthy adult volunteers. However, in healthy 
volunteers, after multiple dosing, AUC and Cmax increased in a dose-proportional manner up to 3 mg 
dose  and  more  than  dose-proportional  between  3  and  4  mg  dose,  based  on  study  1209A311.  The 
applicant is asked to discuss this further. During the procedure the applicant was requested to further 
evaluate dose-proportionality up to the highest, 7 mg, dose in children and adolescents using PK model.  
Weight was found to be the main predictor of guanfacine pharmacokinetics in the PK model. The model 
supported weight-based dosing with the exceptions of relatively heavy 6 year olds (40 kg) and 12 year 
olds  (70  kg)  which  were  expected  to  have  lower  plasma  exposure,  and  of  light  weight  12  years  old 
expected  to  have  higher  plasma  exposure.  This  finding  was  explained  by  the  applicant  during  the 
procedure. The applicant was asked to reanalyse the data with the refined model. In addition, it was not 
clear what the cut-off points for different weight groups in posology were based upon. The exposure to 
guanfacine applying the dose recommendation as indicated in section 4.2 of the SPC, highly overlaps 
between different weight ranges, which supported the cut-off point for these weight ranges. 
Interactions,  CYPs  mediated  and  transporter  mediated,  should  further  be  elucidated.  This  will  be 
investigated as post-approval measures commitments.  
Effects of guanfacine on vital functions were sufficiently studied in the past. Lowering of blood pressure 
and  heart  rate  by  guanfacine  is  considered  to  be  related  to  the  mechanism  of  action  and  may  be 
hazardous in treated patients regarding risk of syncope and falls. This was considered as the CHMP as a 
major safety concern (see section on safety assessment). 
Regarding the 12-hours post-dose measurement of effects on cardiac conductivity the following can be 
concluded:  the  10ms  QT-interval  prolongation  cut-off  was  included  in  the  95%  confidence  bounds  of 
guanfacine-treatment  associated  prolongations  at  12  hours  post  dose  when  calculated  using  the 
Fridericia,  but  not  the  individually  ascertained  correction  factors.  Regarding  individual  ECG-derived 
correction  factors,  as  outlined  in  the  guideline  (Topic  E14:  The  Clinical  Evaluation  of  QT/QTc  Interval 
Prolongation and Pro-arrhythmic Potential for Non-Antiarrhythmic Drugs), ECG-measurements may be 
inaccurate  during  rapid  heart-rate  changes  due  to  the  ‘QT/RR  hysteresis  effect’.  As  guanfacine  has  a 
pronounced  effect  on  heart  rate,  possibly  including  rapid  heart  rate  changes,  that  effect  may  induce 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 33/86 
 
 
 
 
 
overcorrection by using individually ascertained correction-factors, possibly obscuring a clinically relevant 
true prolongation of the QT-interval. Therefore the Fridericia-corrected QT-intervals are considered more 
reliable, by not overcorrecting for heart-rate (-variability). As Fridericia-corrected QT-intervals include 
the 10ms prolongation at 12 hours post-dose, guanfacine may be associated with risk of arrhythmia. The 
12-hour time point falls well after Tmax of guanfacine immediate release that was used in the study. The 
effect  may  be  more  pronounced  using  prolonged-release  guanfacine  that  is  subject  to  the  current 
application.  
In the post-hoc analyses of the thorough QT-study, QT-interval prolongations were confirmed for later 
(i.e. >12 hours) post-dose time-points using both fixed (‘Fridericia‘) and individually derived correction 
factors. This finding suggests 24 hour post-dose rebound-prolongation of QT-intervals, with associated 
risk of arrhythmia. Applicant states that in the 12-24 hour post-dose timeframe, actual QT-intervals were 
decreasing, indicating reduced risk of TdP. However, this explanation is considered contradictory to the 
justification  of  use  of  (fixed  or  individual)  correction  factors  at  earlier  time-points  that  reduce 
QT-intervals, thereby suggesting low risk of arrhythmia. In the final discussion the applicant disqualifies 
both the fixed correction factor and the individually derived correction factors.  The applicant discussed 
also  satisfactorily  possible  subgroups  of  patients  with  enhanced  vulnerability  for  adverse  effects  of 
guanfacine due to genetic differences. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The three different manufacturing sites utilizing different manufacturing processes, i.e. PII, SUMI/Owings 
Mills and DSM, were used during development programme. There is a significant food effect for the tablets 
manufactured at PII site. Since there is no bioequivalence study between PII and the final manufacturing 
DSM site, the food effect for the tablets from each blend manufactured at the final DSM facility was further  
evaluated during the procedure and this issue was considered as resolved by the CHMP. 
The metabolism of guanfacine in humans as well as interaction potential was further elucidated during the 
procedure.  
Weight was found to be the main predictor for guanfacine pharmacokinetics in the PK model. The model 
supported weight-based dosing with the exceptions of relatively heavy 6 year olds (40 kg) and 12 year 
olds  (70  kg)  which  were  expected  to  have  lower  plasma  exposure,  and  of  light  weight  12  years  old 
expected to have higher plasma exposure. The applicant was asked to reanalyze the data with the refined 
model. In addition, the applicant was asked to model the exposure to guanfacine in the different weight 
groups according to the proposed posology, as it was not clear what the cut-off points for different weight 
groups in posology were based upon.  
The effects of guanfacine in healthy volunteers regarding blood pressure and heart rate are detected both 
for immediate (decrease) and rebound (increase) effects. These effects are dose-dependent and can be 
linked to the mechanism of action of guanfacine on vascular tone and heart action. These findings suggest 
risk  of  syncope,  falls,  and  accidents.  Risk  of  accidents  may  be  more  pronounced  in  children  and 
adolescents diagnosed with ADHD, who a priori may be accident-prone due to symptomatology of the 
underlying disorder. These risks may be serious, and are confirmed in the safety-analysis of the clinical 
treatment studies. This was considered to be a major objection by the CHMP during the procedure (see 
section 3: ‘Clinical safety’).  
In the course of the procedure, the applicant  provided an overview on the current treatment options with 
the  knowledge  available  so  far  on  the  mechanism  of  action  of  methylphenidate  and  amphetamine 
(classified as stimulants) and atomoxetine (classified as non-stimulant) and elaborated on the advantage 
of  the  availability  and  implications  of  having  different  treatment  options  for  ADHD.  It  is  claimed  that 
SPD503 does not act on presynaptic dopamine and norepinephrine transporters, however it does act on 
presynaptic α2 adrenoreceptors (α 2A, α 2B, α 2C) through which it exerts a sedative effect. The main 
effect on ADHD is believed to be through direct stimulation of post-synaptic α 2A receptors, which should 
lead to improved prefrontal cortical regulation of attention, behaviour and emotion. Some proof for this 
MOA is provided from data in spontaneously hypertensive rats and the publication of Bedard et al, 2015 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 34/86 
 
 
 
 
 
about changes in right midcingulate cortex/supplementary motor area and left posterior cingulate cortex 
in ADHD subjects. 
The issues pertinent to the Pharmacokinetic aspects of intuniv were clarified during the procedure.  
The CHMP was of the view that the available information in the scientific literature as well the PK data 
collected in the clinical trials were sufficient to support the application for  Intuniv in the treatment of 
ADHD from a clinical pharmacology perspective. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies and main clinical studies 
Summary of main efficacy results 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Altogether, the clinical development plan included 13 phase 2-3 studies with guanfacine in children and 
adolescents with ADHD. These included: 
-  5 primary efficacy studies 
o  2 short-term dose-response studies (301, 304) 
o  2 short-term flexible dose studies (312, 316) 
o  1 randomised withdrawal study (315) 
-  8 supportive studies 
o  3 long-term open label extension studies 303, 305, 318(ongoing) 
o  1 placebo controlled (PC) study in children with ADHD and oppositional symptoms (307) 
o  2 studies (1 PC) of guanfacine in combination with psychostimulants (313, 205) 
o  1 PC study with guanfacine administered either in the morning or in the evening (314) 
o  1  PC  study  with  the  aim  to  assess  effect  of  guanfacine  compared  with  placebo  on 
cognitive tasks  (206) 
The design of the pivotal studies are summarised in the table below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 35/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Design of the pivotal studies 
Study ID/ 
year 
No. of 
study 
centres
/ 
location
s 
Desig
n 
Study 
Objectiv
e  
Stud
y 
Poso
- 
logy 
Subjs by 
arm 
entered/co
mpl. 
Durati
on 
301/ 
2003 
48/US 
R,DB, 
PG,PC 
Safety 
and 
Efficacy  
304/ 
2004 
51/US 
R,DB, 
PG,PC 
Efficacy  
Dose-response studies 
2mg 
3mg 
4mg 
Place
bo 
1mg 
2mg 
3mg 
4mg 
Place
bo 
87/58 
86/55 
86/49 
86/53 
62/45 
65/47 
65/38 
66/40 
66/41 
316/ 
2001-2013 
58/U
S, 
Cana
da EU 
R,DB
, 
PG, 
PAC 
Efficacy  
Flexible Dose studies 
1-7mg 
Placebo 
Atomoxetin
e 40-100mg 
115/90 
111/92 
112/87 
312/2001-2
013 
52/U
S 
R,DB
, 
PG,P
C 
Efficacy  
1-7mg 
Placebo 
157/105 
157/102 
3wk 
titrat. 
2wk 
maint. 
3wk 
taper 
3wk 
titrat. 
3wk 
maint. 
3wk 
taper 
4-7 wk 
opt 
6 wk 
maint 
2 wk 
tapr. 
7 wk 
opt 
6 wk 
maint 
2 wk 
tapr. 
Randomised withdrawal study 
315/2010-2
013 
58/US, 
Canada, 
EU 
RW,D
B, 
PG,PC 
Maintenan
of 
ce 
efficacy 
157/72 
159/49 
1-7m
g 
Place
bo 
13 wk 
open 
26 wk 
rand. 
With. 
2 wk 
tapr. 
Primary  
Endpoint 
Diagno
sis 
Incl. 
criteria 
Gende
r 
M/F 
Mean 
Age 
(Rang
e) 
257/88 
10.5 
(6-17) 
ADHD 
DSMIVT
R 
233/89 
10.5 
(5-17) 
ADHD 
DSMIVT
R 
ADHD-RS-
IV 
(investigat
or) 
ADHD-RS-
IV 
(investigat
or) 
249/88 
10.8 
(6-17) 
ADHD 
DSMIVT
R 
ADHD-RS-
IV  
(investigat
or) 
202/11
0 
14.5 
(13-17
) 
ADHD 
DSMIVT
R 
ADHD-RS-
IV 
(investigat
or) 
396/13
0 
10.7 
(6-17) 
ADHD 
DSMIVT
R 
Proportion 
Tx failures 
R=Randomised; DB=Double Blind; PG=Parallel Group; PC=Placebo Controlled; PAC=Placebo and Active Controlled; 
RW=Randomised Withdrawal 
As the table indicates, the pivotal studies included 2 short-term (5 weeks+ 3 weeks taper) dose response 
(1-4  mg)  studies,  2  short-term  (13  weeks  +  2  weeks  taper)  flexible  dose  (1-7mg)  studies,  and  1 
randomised withdrawal study with a 26 randomised withdrawal phase. Included patients were at the age 
range  of  6-17,  except  study  312  which  included  only  adolescents  (13-17).  In  addition,  patients  were 
required  to  meet  DSM-IV-TR  criteria  for  a  primary  diagnosis  of  ADHD.  Oppositional  Defiant  Disorder 
(ODD) was a permitted comorbid disorder. 
One study (study 316) included an active controlled arm. Two of the studies included EU centers (studies 
316 and 315).  In addition to the primary endpoint, an ADHD symptom rating scale (ADHD-RS-IV), 3 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 36/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies  included  a  functional  measure  (studies  312,  316,  and  315),  which  is  a  requirement  in  ADHD 
studies, i.e. it is required to demonstrate improvement not only on ADHD symptoms but also on social 
functioning, as dysfunctioning (in school, family or in social situations) is an integral part of the ADHD 
diagnosis. 
Results  with  respect  to  patients  disposition  showed  high  dropout  rate,  especially  in  the  randomised 
withdrawal study (52% in the active arms and 67% in the placebo arm). The most frequent reason for 
dropout in the guanfacine arm was treatment failure (30% out of the total of 52%) and most occurred in 
the first month of treatment. 
The following table summarise the primary efficacy results from the main studies.  
Table 3. Summary of primary efficacy ADHD-RS-IV for the ITT population 
Responders*  Difference 
from placebo 
(95%CI) 
Not provided 
Study 
Tx groups 
N 
Baseline 
ADHD-RS-IV 
(SD) 
Change 
from 
baseline 
(SD) 
Dose-response studies 
301 
2mg 
3mg 
4mg 
Placebo 
84 
38.1 (9.3) 
-15.4 (12.8) 
36.1 (10.1) 
-15.8 (13.0) 
36.8 (8.7) 
-19.0 (13.7) 
38.4 (9.2) 
-8.9 (12.9) 
82 
81 
78 
304 
1mg 
57 
41.7 (7.81) 
-20.4 (14.0) 
2mg 
3mg 
4mg 
63 
39.9 (8.74) 
60 
39.1 (9.22) 
63 
40.6 (8.57) 
-18.0 (14.9) 
-19.4 (14.6) 
-20.9 (11.9) 
-12.2 (13.0) 
Placebo 
63 
39.3 (8.85) 
Difference 
from 
placebo 
(95%CI) 
Effect size 
6.5 (2.5 , 
10.5) 
0.5 
6.9 (2.9,10.9) 
0.5 
10.1 (6.0, 
14.2) 
0.8 
NA 
8.2 (3.4,13.1) 
0.6 
5.8 (0.9,10.7) 
0.4 
7.2 (2.3,12.1) 
0.5 
8.7 (4.4,13.1) 
0.7 
NA 
73.7% 
69.8% 
75.0% 
81.0% 
57.1% 
Flexible Dose studies       
316 
1-7mg 
114 
43.1 (5.5) 
-23.9 (12.4) 
AtomoxetinePlacebo 
112 
43.7 (5.9) 
-18.6 (11.9) 
43.2 (5.6) 
-15.0 (13.1) 
111 
312 
1-7mg 
155 
39.9 (5.57) 
-25.7 (10.1) 
Placebo 
157 
40.0 (6.11) 
-19.5 (12.6) 
-8.9 (-11.9, 
-5.8) 
0.7 
-3.8 
(-6.08,-0.7) 
0.3 
NA 
64.3% 
55.4% 
42.3% 
6.2 (3.7,8.7) 
0.5 
NA 
66.9% 
45.8% 
Randomised withdrawal study 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
% Tx failure  Difference 
from placebo 
(95%CI) 
Page 37/86 
16.6% (-0.1 ; 
33.3) 
12.7% (-4.0 ; 
29.4) 
17.9% (1.5 ; 
34.3) 
23.9% (8.3 ; 
39.5) 
NA 
21.9% (9.2 ; 
34.7) 
13.0% (0.0 ; 
26.0) 
NA 
21.1% (10.3 ; 
31.9) 
NA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
315 
1-7mg 
150 
43.5 (6.3) 
9.6 (11.5) 
Placebo 
151 
43.5 (6.3) 
15.9(14.2) 
-6.3 
(-9.2,-3.4) 
0.5 
NA 
49.3% 
64.9% 
-15.6% (-26.6 ; 
-4.5) 
NA 
R=Randomised; DB=Double Blind; PG=Parallel Group; PC=Placebo Controlled; PAC=Placebo and Active Controlled; 
RW=Randomised Withdrawal 
* In study 304 response was defined as ≥ 25% reduction from baseline in the ADHD-RS-IV score. In the flexible dose 
studies (312 and 316), response was defined as a ≥30% reduction from baseline in the ADHD-RS-IV total score and a 
CGI-I of 1 or 2.  
Results for the PP population were consistent with those for the ITT population. 
Mean effect sizes in the short-term studies were, Study 301: 0.4; Study 304: 0.5; Study 316: 0.7; Study 
312: 0.5. Overall effect size was 0.5. This effect size seems smaller than the one usually seen for MPH. A 
meta-analysis of 62 randomized studies of MPH in children and adolescents Schachter et al (2001) found 
effect sizes of 0.8 for teacher’s ratings and 0.5 for parents ratings. In a meta-analysis of 8 randomized 
studies of MPH in adolescents Smith et al (2000) found a mean effect size of 0.9. These effects are larger 
than  the  mean  effect  size  of  0.5  found  for  Guanfacine  in  this  dossier.  However,  the  effect  size  of 
guanfacine (0.7) in study 316 is larger compared to the effect size of atomoxetine (0.3). 
The  difference  in  responders  between  guanfacine  and  placebo  is  in  the  range  13%-24%  across  the 
short-term trials, which is acceptable. However, the CHMP noted that the responder’s definition was not 
provided á priori in the study protocols.  
Furthermore, the results across all pivotal studies   showed an inconsistent effect in adolescents. In the 
mixed age group studies (301, 304, 316 and 315), no effect in adolescents was demonstrated leaving 
study  312  as  the  only  study  where  an  effect  in  adolescents  was  demonstrated.    The  company  was 
requested to clarify this point and was able to provide a number of plausible reasons, including doses that 
are too low (in the fixed dose studies), small samples, and high placebo response (studies 316 and 315). 
These explanations and the fact that similar efficacy to that obtained in children was demonstrated in the 
adolescents  study  (312);  a  mean  effect  size  identical  to  the  effect  obtained  in  children  (0.5)  and  a 
comparable  difference  from  placebo  in  responder  rate  (21%),  sufficiently  support  the  efficacy  of 
guanfacine in adolescents with ADHD. Furthermore the applicant provided some additional reassurance 
with data on long-term efficacy in adolescents generated in the ongoing open label study INTUNIV-318. 
The mean change from baseline after month 6, 12 and 18 in the ADHD-RS-IV total score was comparable 
between children and adolescents, despite the fact that baseline scores in the children were higher. The 
proportions of adolescents who were rated as normal to borderline mentally after 6, 12 and 18 months 
were  respectively  72.2%,  76,3%  and  87,0%  and  were  higher  than  the  proportions  in  the  respective 
children groups . All together these preliminary long term data provided some reassurance that a long 
term effect of  guanfacine on ADHD could be expected and that this might translate into a reasonable 
proportion of subjects being defined as “normal or borderline mentally ill”.  This may be considered as a 
relevant achievement in the management of ADHD adolescents. 
Results by ADHD subtypes (inattentive or combined)  were presented in the fixed dose studies (301 and 
304). The results showed that the effect was larger and statistically significant only for the combined 
subtype but not for the inattentive subtype. Importantly, this was not due to smaller numbers in the 
inattentive subtype but to smaller effect size. This suggested that sedative effects contribute to  the effect 
of Guanfacine.   
 To address this issue the Applicant provided analyses stratified for the patients who did or not report 
sedation as an AE (for fixed dose studies 301 and 304 and flexible dose studies 312 and 316).  
In the pooled data from studies 301 and 304 the effect size in the subgroup with sedative AEs was smaller 
than in the subgroup without sedative AEs (0.17 vs 0.49 respectively). The Applicant explained this as 
probably due to the high placebo response in this subgroup. While this was acknowledged by the CHMP as 
a plausible explanation, there were some reservations expressed with respect to the fact that the high(er) 
placebo response in the subgroup with sedative AEs may support the hypothesis that (at least part of) the 
effect is due to sedation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 38/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, additional analyses do not support this hypothesis. Drop outs in the two subgroups (with and 
without sedative AEs) were similar. The proportion of responders increases with time while sedative AEs   
occurred mainly in the first weeks of treatment.  
In addition, the data from the randomized withdrawal study 315 was analysed according to sedative AES. 
The groups were balanced in the sense that 54.7% with sedative AEs were randomized to INTUNIV and 
53.6%  were  randomized  to  the  placebo  group.  The  analysis  on  the  primary  endpoint  i.e.  cumulative 
treatment failure rate (≥50% increase (worsening) in ADHD-RS-IV Total Score and a ≥2 point increase 
(worsening)  in  CGI-S  compared  with  respective  scores  at  2  consecutive  visits)  showed  that  in  the 
subgroup with sedative AEs there was a higher but not statistically significant treatment failure rates in 
the placebo treated vs INTUNIV treated subgroup (66.7% vs 53.7%); in the subgroup without sedative 
events  the  difference  was  again  in  favour  of  INTUNIV  but  also  not  statistically  significant  (62.9%  vs 
44.1%).  Also  the  treatment  effect  sizes  were  comparable  between  the  subgroup  with  and  without 
sedative AEs (0.47 and 0.51 respectively).  
The additional data show that an efficacy on ADHD symptoms has been observed also in the subjects 
without reported sedation and also no clear temporal relationship between efficacy and reporting of this 
AE. This suggests that efficacy may be achieved at least partially via a different mechanism of action, 
although   contribution of sedation to the reduction on the symptom scale cannot be completely excluded.  
Effects on the inattentive and hyperactive subscales were also shown to be of similar magnitude which 
was also in favour of a true effect on the core symptoms of ADHD rather than the results of sedation only.   
In study 316, a significant effect was obtained in both continents (EU and N. America) while in study 315 
(the randomised withdrawal study) only results in the EU were statistically significant.  This is mainly due 
to a larger placebo response among N. American patients. In any case, results presented in this dossier 
do not seem to be driven by positive results in the N. American study population and hence there was no 
reason for concern in this respect. 
With regard to the effect on functioning, the analysis on the data from studies 312 and 316 showed a 
numerical  trend  for  improvement  relative  to placebo  on  the  WFIRS  P  Global  score,  Family  score,  and 
School  and  Learning  score  in  both  the  subgroup  with  and  without  sedative  AEs.  The  higher  scores 
observed in the subgroup without sedative AEs indicate that sedation has a negative effect on functioning, 
which is not unexpected.  
Results on the functioning measure are presented in the table below.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 39/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Summary of secondary efficacy WFRIS (measure of functioning) 
Study 
Tx groups 
N 
Baseline 
WFIRSP 
Change from 
baseline (SE) 
Difference from placebo 
(95%CI) 
Learning 
&school   
Family 
Learning 
&school   
Family 
Learning 
&school   
Family 
Flexible Dose studies 
1-7mg 
316 
114 
1.39 
1.41 
Atomoxetine 
112 
1.40 
1.48   
Placebo 
111 
1.37 
1.44 
312 
1-7mg 
155 
1.29 
1.01 
Placebo 
157 
1.30 
0.91 
Randomised withdrawal study 
-0.64 
(0.5)  
-0.58 
(0.5) 
-0.42  
(0.5) 
-0.57  
(0.7) 
-.62 (.6) 
-0.22 (-0.36 ; 
-0.08) 
-0.21 (-0.36 ; 
-0.06) 
-0.50 
(.6) 
-0.41 
(.6) 
-0.37 
(0.6) 
-0.16 (-0.31 
;-0.02) 
-0.09 (-0.24 ; 
0.06) 
-0.12 (-0.25 ; 
0.02)  
-0.06 (-0.19 ; 
0.08) 
-0.46 
(0.6)   
-0.31 
(0.6) 
315 
1-7mg 
150 
0.74 
0.73 
0.24   
0.24 
Difference from placebo 
(95%CI) 
-0.14 (-0.26 ; 
0.01)  
-0.08 (-0.20 ; 
0.05) 
Placebo 
151 
0.68 
0.70 
0.38   
0.31 
R=Randomised; DB=Double Blind; PG=Parallel Group; PC=Placebo Controlled; PAC=Placebo and 
Active Controlled; RW=Randomised Withdrawal 
As the table indicates, statistically significant results with respect to functioning were only observed in 
study 316 but not in studies 312 and 315.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
Study 307 was a randomized, double-blind, multi-center, flexible-dose, placebo-controlled, 
dose-optimization study in children aged 6-12 years with symptoms of oppositionality and a diagnosis of 
ADHD (n=217). The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of guanfacine on oppositional 
symptoms, as measured by the change from baseline score on the oppositional subscale of the CPRS-R:L.  
Results show statistically significantly (p≤0.05) greater mean reductions at endpoint from Baseline 
(indicating improvement) in oppositional subscale of CPRS-R: L scores in the guanfacine group compared 
to placebo (10.9 points vs. 6.8 for guanfacine vs. placebo, respectively) and the effect size was 0.6 
(p<0.001). These reductions represent a percentage reduction of 56% vs. 33% for guanfacine vs. 
placebo, respectively. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses AND meta-analysis) 
N/A 
Supportive studies 
Several randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled supportive studies were conducted.  
•  Study 206 (n=182) was designed to assess the effect of guanfacine (1, 2, and 3mg) on cognitive 
function, in children and adolescents aged 6-17 years diagnosed with ADHD.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 40/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  showed  that  cognitive  functioning  such  as  reaction  time  and  sustained  attention  did  not 
improve significantly following treatment with Guanfacine compared with placebo. 
Although this was a safety study intended to demonstrate that Guanfacine has no adverse effects on 
cognitive  functioning,  results  reinforced  the  need  to  further  evaluate  the      effect  on  cognitive 
functioning of guanfacine.  
•  Study  313  was  an  add-on  of  guanfacine  (1,  2,  3,  and  4mg/day)  when  co-administered  with 
long-acting psycho-stimulants in partial responders (6-17). Suboptimal response was defined as an 
ADHD-RS-IV total score of ≥24 and a CGI-S score 
3 at screening and baseline. The results showed 
that patients treated with add-on guanfacine improved more on the ADHD-RS-IV compared to those 
treated with add-on placebo (20.7 (12.6) points vs. 15.9 (11.8); difference: 4.9 95% CI 2.6 , 7.2)). 
No age differences were observed with respect to response to the ADHD-RS-IV. The study did not 
include a measure of functioning.  
The result of this study suggested that the efficacy on the symptoms of ADHD in this group of partial 
responders is slightly lower than in the pivotal studies, which is expected. However no efficacy on 
functional measures was demonstrated.  
•  Study 314 was designed to assess morning vs. evening administration of guanfacine (1, 2, 3, and 
4mg/day)  in  children  aged  6-12  years  with  a  diagnosis  of  ADHD.  Results  showed  a  statistically 
significant  improvement  following  in  both  morning  and  evening  administration  and  no  difference 
between the 2 times of administration. The effect on the ADHD-RS-IV was 9.6 points with a 95% CI: 
(12.5, 6.7).  
Results  on  the  functioning  scale  (the  WFIRS-P)  showed  significantly  greater  improvement  in  the 
guanfacine arms compared to placebo for both morning and evening administration on the WFIRS-P 
Global score (change from baseline in placebo arm 0.20 (0.39) and in combined active arms (morning 
and evening) 0.36 (0.45); the difference was 0.16 (0.07, 0.25)) and in domain subscale scores for 
Family,  Learning  and  School,  Academic  Performance,  Behaviour  in  School,  Social  score,  and  Risk 
score. 
The results of this study suggest that the efficacy on the symptoms of ADHD is not dependant on time 
of  administration  (morning  or  evening).  In  addition,  this  study  provides  some  support  regarding 
efficacy on functioning. Only children (6-12) were included and hence the results do not contribute to 
resolving the doubts regarding efficacy in adolescents. 
•  Studies  303  and  305  were  long-term  open-label  extension  studies  of  Studies  301  and  304/205, 
respectively, in which long-term efficacy of up to 2 years was assessed. Maximum dose was 4mg/day. 
A total of 240 subjects (6-17) were enrolled and included in the Safety Population of study 303 and 42 
subjects completed the study. A total of 262 subjects were enrolled in study 305 and 60 subjects 
completed the study. Although retainment in treatment over time (~20% at 2 years) raised some, 
uncertainties the results suggested that efficacy is maintained in the long-term in those patients who 
continue treatment.   
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 41/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title: A phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, randomized-withdrawal, long-term 
maintenance of efficacy and safety study of extended-release guanfacine hydrochloride in children and 
adolescents aged 6-17 with Attention-deficit/Hyperactivity disorder 
Study identifier 
SPD503-315 
Design 
Phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized-withdrawal, multicenter 
Open-label phase 
Duration of dose optimization period: 
Duration of dose maintenance period: 
Double-blinded randomized-withdrawal phase (optimal dose of 
SPD503 or matching placebo) 
Duration of maintenance period: 
Duration of dose-taper period: 
7 weeks 
6 weeks 
26 weeks 
2 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups  Placebo 
SPD503 
Superiority 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Treatment 
failure 
Key secondary 
endpoint 
Time to 
treatment 
failure 
Database lock 
08 July 2013 
Results and Analysis 
Placebo, 15 weeks, 157 subjects 
1-4 mg/day SPD503 for children aged 6-12 
years, 1-7 mg/day SPD503 for adolescents 
aged 13-17 years; 15 weeks, 157 subjects 
Treatment failure defined as all subjects who 
met the following 2 treatment failure criteria at 
2 consecutive study visits: 
During the double-blind 
randomized-withdrawal phase and compared 
with respective scores obtained at the 
double-blind baseline visit (Week 13/Visit 13), 
the treatment failure criteria are 
1. ≥50% increase (worsening) in 
ADHD-RS-IV total score 
2. ≥2-point increase in CGI-S score 
3. Subject discontinued treatment for any 
reason 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis 
Randomized full analysis set (FAS), defined as all subjects who were 
randomized and received at least 1 dose of investigational product during the 
double-blind randomized-withdrawal phase 
Week 13 (Visit 13) to Week 39 (Visit 23) 
Treatment 
Number of subjects 
Failed treatment 
SPD503 
150 
Placebo 
151 
Number (%) of subjects 
95% CI for percentage of 
treatment failures 
57.3, 72.5 
98 (64.9) 
74 (49.3) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Difference in treatment failures from placebo 
95% CI 
p-value 
41.3, 57.3 
-15.6 
-26.6, -4.5 
0.006 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 42/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Notes 
The primary efficacy analysis was performed on the treatment failure rates 
during the double-blind randomized-withdrawal phase for the randomized 
FAS. 
Percentages are based on the number of subjects in each treatment group. 
The overall treatment failure rates are the cumulative treatment failure rates 
at Week 36/Visit 23. 
The p-value is based on Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistic comparing the 
treatment groups with age group (6-12 and 13-17 years) and country as 
stratification factors and evaluated at 0.05 significance. 
Key secondary analysis 
Randomized FAS 
Week 13 (Visit 13) to Week 39 (Visit 23) 
Placebo 
151 
Treatment 
Number of subjects 
Median time to treatment 
failure (days) 
95% CI 
p-value from log rank test 
For all randomized subjects time to treatment failure was analyzed using a 
logrank test stratified by age group and country. 
218 
118, Non calculable 
SPD503 
150 
56 
44, 97 
0.003 
Title: A Phase 3, Randomised, Double-blind, Multicentre, Parallel-group, Placebo- and 
Active-reference, Dose-optimisation Efficacy and Safety Study of Extended-release Guanfacine 
Hydrochloride in Children and Adolescents Aged 6-17 Years With Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity 
Disorder 
Study identifier 
Design 
SPD503-316 
A Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, multicenter, parallel-group, 
placebo-controlled, dose-optimization, efficacy and safety study, which 
included an active reference arm (STRATTERA) 
Duration of main phase: 
Dose-optimization Period: 4 weeks for children 
aged 6-12 years and 7 weeks for adolescents 
aged 13-17 years. 
Dose-maintenance Period: 6 weeks at optimal 
dose. 
Dose Taper: 2 weeks. 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
 Not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:   Not applicable 
Superiority 
SPD503 
STRATTERA 
Placebo 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
ADHD-RS-I
V 
Key 
Secondary 
endpoint 
CGI-I 
1-4mg/day for children aged 6-12 years, 
1-7mg/day for adolescents aged 13-17 years; 
10-13 weeks double-blind treatment; 
115 randomized subjects 
0.5-1.4mg/kg/day for subjects <70kg at 
baseline, 40-100mg/day for subjects ≥70kg at 
baseline; 
10-13 weeks double-blind treatment; 
112 randomized subjects 
Maximum 4-7mg/day; 
10-13 weeks double-blind treatment; 
111 randomized subjects 
Change from Baseline for the 
Attention-deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Rating 
Scale-IV (ADHD-RS-IV) total score at Visit 15 
(Week 10 children aged 6-12 years and Week 
13 adolescents aged 13-17 years) using last 
observation carried forward (LOCF)  
Improvement in Clinical Global 
Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) analyzed by 
country and age group at Visit 15 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 43/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key 
Secondary 
endpoint 
WFIRS-P 
Change from Baseline in Weiss Functional 
Impairment Rating Scale-Parent (WFIRS-P) 
for the Learning and School and Family 
Domains at Visit 15 (LOCF) 
Database lock 
04 June 2013 
Results and Analysis  
Full Analysis Set (FAS) 
Baseline Visit (Visit 2/Week 0) to Visit 15 (Week 10/13) 
Treatment group  Placebo 
SPD503 
STRATTERA 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subjects 
Change from 
baseline mean 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Standard 
deviation 
ANCOVA analysis 
of LS mean 
change from 
baseline 
111 
-15.0  
114 
-23.9  
112 
-18.6  
13.1 
12.4 
11.9 
Comparison 
groups 
SPD503 compared 
with placebo  
Difference 
in LS means 
95% CI  
Effect size  
P-value 
-8.9 
-11.9, -5.8 
0.76 
<0.001 
STRATTERA 
compared with 
placebo 
-3.8 
-6.8, -0.7 
0.32 
0.017 
Notes 
LS mean and standard error, effect size, and p-value were based on type III 
sum of squares from an ANCOVA model for the change from Baseline (Visit 
2/Week 0), including treatment group, age group, and country as fixed 
effects, and baseline value as a covariate. 
Analysis description  Key Secondary analysis  
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Full Analysis Set (FAS) 
Visit 15 (Week 10/13) 
Treatment group  Placebo 
111 
Number of 
subjects 
Improvement in 
CGI-I at Visit 15 
95% CI 
Cochran-Mantel- 
Haenszel analysis 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
SPD503 
STRATTERA 
112 
112 
44.1% 
67.9% 
56.3% 
34.9, 53.4 
Comparison 
groups 
59.2, 76.5 
SPD503 compared 
with placebo 
47.1, 65.4 
STRATTERA 
compared with 
placebo 
12.1 
23.7 
Difference 
in % 
improved 
95% CI 
P-value 
11.1, 36.4 
<0.001 
-0.9, 25.1 
0.024 
Notes 
Improvement includes CGI-I categories ‘very much improved’ and ‘much 
improved.’ No improvement includes all other categories. P-value is based on 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistic comparing the respective treatment group 
to placebo with country and age group included as stratification factors. 
Analysis description  Key Secondary analysis  
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Full Analysis Set (FAS) 
Baseline Visit (Visit 2/Week 0) to Visit 15 (Week 10/13) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 44/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Notes 
Number of 
subjects 
Mean change 
from baseline at 
Visit 15 in 
WFIRS-P 
Learning and 
School Domain 
Scores 
Standard 
deviation 
ANCOVA analysis 
of LS mean 
change from 
baseline 
Treatment group  Placebo 
SPD503 
STRATTERA 
100 
103 
100 
-0.378 
-0.610 
-0.571 
0.5489 
0.6695 
0.6367 
Comparison 
groups 
SPD503 compared 
with placebo 
STRATTERA 
compared with 
placebo 
-0.16 
-0.22 
Difference 
in LS means 
95% CI 
Effect size 
P-value 
-0.36, -0.08 
0.42 
0.0030 
LS mean and standard error, effect size, and p-value were based on type III 
sum of squares from an ANCOVA model for the change from Baseline (Visit 
2/Week 0), including treatment group, age group, and country as a fixed 
effect, and baseline value as a covariate. 
-0.31, -0.02 
0.32 
0.026 
Analysis description  Key Secondary analysis  
Treatment group  Placebo 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
106 
SPD503 
STRATTERA 
109 
105 
-0.387 
-0.596 
-0.507 
0.6091 
0.7706 
0.6893 
Number of 
subjects 
Mean change 
from baseline at 
Visit 15 in 
WFIRS-P Family 
Domain Scores 
Standard 
deviation 
ANCOVA analysis 
of LS mean 
change from 
baseline 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Notes 
Comparison 
groups 
SPD503 compared 
with placebo 
STRATTERA 
compared with 
placebo 
-0.09 
-0.21 
Difference 
in LS means 
95% CI 
Effect size 
P-value 
-0.36, -0.06 
0.38 
0.006 
LS mean and standard error, effect size, and p-value were based on type III 
sum of squares from an ANCOVA model for the change from Baseline (Visit 
2/Week 0), including treatment group, age group, and country as a fixed 
effect, and baseline value as a covariate. 
-0.24, 0.06 
0.16 
0.242 
Title: A phase 3, double-blind, randomized, multi-center, placebo-controlled, dose-optimization study 
evaluating the safety, efficacy, and tolerability of once-daily dosing with extended-release guanfacine 
hydrochloride in adolescents aged 13-17 years diagnosed With Attention-deficit/Hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD) 
Study identifier 
SPD503-312 
Design 
Phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, multicenter; subjects 
were stratified by weight group and randomized 1:1 to treatment or placebo. 
A subject’s optimal dose was a tolerated dose at which a ≥30% reduction from 
baseline in ADHD-RS-IV score was reached and a CGI-I score of 1 or 2. 
Duration of dose optimization period: 
7 weeks at 1 to 7 mg/day 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 45/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Treatments groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Duration of dose maintenance period: 
Duration of dose tapering period: 
Superiority 
Placebo 
SPD503 
6 weeks at optimal dose 
2 weeks 
Primary 
endpoint 
Key 
secondary 
Key 
secondary 
ADHD-RS-IV 
CGI-S 
WFIRS-P 
Placebo, 15 weeks, 157 subjects 
SPD503 up to 7 mg/day, 15 weeks, 157 
subjects 
Change in the ADHD – rating scale-IV total 
score from baseline (Visit 2) to Week 13 
The clinical global impressions – severity 
(CGI-S) score 
The learning and school domain and family 
domain of The Weiss Functional Impairment 
Rating Scale – Parent Report (WFIRS-P) 
Database lock 
20 June 2013 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description  Primary analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Full analysis set (FAS) defined as all subjects who were administered at least 
1 dose of investigational product during the study 
Baseline visit (Visit 2/Week 0) to Week 13 (Visit 13) 
Treatment 
Number of subjects 
Primary endpoint:  Change 
from baseline mean 
Standard deviation 
Change from baseline LS mean 
-25.7 
10.09 
-24.552 
-19.5 
12.63 
-18.527 
SPD503 
157 
Placebo 
155 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Mixed model repeated 
measures (MMRM) analysis 
Comparison 
groups 
Difference in LS 
means 
95% CI 
Effect size 
P-value 
SPD503 compared with 
placebo 
-6.2 
-8.7, -3.7 
0.52 
<0.001 
Notes 
LS Mean, standard error, effect size, and p-value are based on repeated 
measures analysis for the change from baseline scores at Visits 3 to 13 
(Weeks 1-13), with an unstructured covariance structure, random subject 
effect, treatment (2 levels), time (11 levels), treatment group-by-time, and 
weight group (4 levels) as fixed effects and including baseline and 
baseline-by-time as covariates.  A negative difference in LS Mean (SPD503 - 
placebo) indicates a positive effect of active treatment over placebo. 
Analysis description  Key secondary analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
FAS 
Last on-treatment assessment (LOTA) is the last valid assessment obtained 
after baseline while on investigational product and before first dose taper. 
Treatment 
Number of subjects 
Key secondary endpoint: 
CGI-S value at the LOTA 
Number of subjects (%) 
SPD503 
154 
Placebo 
155 
Normal/borderline mentally ill  56 (36.1) 
Mildly ill or greater 
99 (63.9) 
p-value 
78 (50.6) 
76 (49.4) 
0.010 
Notes 
The p-value is based on Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistic comparing the 
treatment groups with weight included as a stratification factor. 
Analysis description  Key secondary analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
FAS 
Baseline visit (Visit 2) to Week 13 (Visit 13) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 46/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Treatment 
Number of subjects 
Key secondary endpoint: 
Mean change from baseline to Week 
13 in WFIRS-P Learning and School 
Domain Scores  
Standard deviation 
Change from baseline LS mean 
Mixed model repeated measures 
(MMRM) analysis 
Placebo 
101 
-0.448 
SPD503 
97 
-0.565 
0.6107 
-0.46 
Comparison 
groups 
Difference in LS 
means 
95% CI 
Effect size 
P-value 
0.6784 
-0.57 
SPD503 
compared with 
placebo 
-0.12 
-0.25, 0.02 
0.22 
0.104 
Notes 
LS Mean, standard error, effect size and p-value are based on repeated 
measures analysis for the change from baseline scores at Visits 9, 11, and 13 
(Weeks 7, 9, and 13), with an unstructured covariance structure, random 
subject effect, treatment (2 levels), time (3 levels), treatment group-by-time, 
and weight group (4 levels) as fixed effects and including baseline and 
baseline-by-time as covariates 
Analysis description  Key secondary analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
FAS 
Baseline visit (Visit 2) to Week 13 (Visit 13) 
Treatment 
Number of subjects 
Key secondary endpoint: 
Mean change from baseline to Week 
13 in WFIRS-P Family Domain Scores 
Standard deviation 
Change from baseline LS mean 
Mixed model repeated measures 
(MMRM) analysis 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Notes 
Placebo 
101 
-0.342 
SPD503 
105 
-0.415 
0.5780 
-0.31 
Comparison 
groups 
Difference in LS 
means 
95% CI 
Effect size 
P-value 
0.6029 
-0.37 
SPD503 
compared with 
placebo 
-0.06 
-0.19, 0.08 
0.11 
0.408 
LS Mean, standard error, effect size, and p-value are based on repeated 
measures analysis for the change from baseline scores at Week 13 (Visit 13), 
with an unstructured covariance structure, random subject effect, treatment 
(2 levels), time (3 levels), treatment group-by-time, and weight group (4 
levels) as fixed effects and including baseline and baseline-by-time as 
covariates. 
2.5.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Five pivotal studies as well as 5 supportive studies provided evidence regarding efficacy in this dossier. 
The pivotal studies include 4 short term studies of which 2 were dose response studies (with dose groups 
of 1/2/3/ and 4 mg/day and lasting 5/6 weeks) and 2 flexible dose studies (with doses 1-7mg/day and 
lasting 13 weeks). In addition a randomised withdrawal study was conducted which included a 26 weeks 
randomised withdrawal phase and with flexible dosing ranging between 1-7mg/day. All pivotal studies 
were randomised, double blind, and placebo controlled. One of the short-term studies included, in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 47/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
addition to placebo, an active control arm: Atomoxetine. All included children and adolescents (6-17; one 
study (312) included only adolescents) with a diagnosis of ADHD according to DSM-IV.  
Primary efficacy in all studies was the ADHD-RS-IV, which measures clinical symptoms of ADHD. This 
scale is established and validated for the purpose of measuring severity of ADHD symptomatology.  In 
addition, 3 out of the 5 pivotal studies included a functional scale (the WFIRS) that monitors functional 
improvement following treatment, in addition to the monitoring of symptomatic improvement. The 
diagnosis of ADHD includes not only the symptoms of inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity but also 
requires that these symptoms are accompanied by and are causing impairment in school performance 
and social functioning. Therefore it is expected that successful treatment will address not only 
symptomatic improvement but also alleviate impairment in functioning. Such improvement needs to be 
demonstrated in clinical trials for ADHD medication1.   
A GCP compliance finding in study 315 (the randomised withdrawal study) led to the exclusion of 23 
subjects from   the efficacy analysis. The company notified all Competent Authorities and Ethics 
Committees in those Member States where the study was on-going of this serious breach of GCP   
A routine GCP inspection of study 316 revealed GCP issues in a site of this study. As a result, post hoc 
sensitivity analyses were performed to exclude this site from the primary and key secondary efficacy 
variables, and summaries of treatment-emergent adverse events. The results, inference, and conclusions 
from each of these analyses with the Site excluded are similar to those with the entire analysis set 
included in the analysis and hence none of these changes affect the overall study conclusions. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
All pivotal studies showed statistically significant results in favour of guanfacine against placebo on the 
primary endpoint, the ADHD-RS-IV symptoms scale, with mean effect sizes 0.5 and % responders higher 
than placebo by 13%-24% (21-22% in the flexible dose studies). 
In addition, the effect of Guanfacine on this scale was numerically higher than for atomoxetine, even 
though the study was not powered to test superiority over atomoxetine. Specifically, the mean difference 
between placebo and Intuniv on the ADHD-RS-IV varied between 6.5 points (95% CI: 2.5 – 10.5) and 
10.1 points (95% CI: 6.0 – 14.2) compared to a mean difference between placebo and atomoxetine of 3.6 
(95% CI: 0.3 - 6.9).   The proportion of responders in the active arms vs. placebo across the studies was 
higher by 13%-24% for guanfacine and by 13.1% for atomoxetine. 
In the fixed dose studies there was a trend for a dose-response relationship, with the 4 mg dose providing 
better response compared to the lower doses. The exception was the relatively high response in the 1 mg 
dose compared to the 2 and 3 mg dose in study 304. This may be due to the fact that this dose group was 
restricted to patients weighing <110lb, hence mainly children (6-12) were included, suggesting that 
dose/kg was relatively high for this group.  
The randomised withdrawal study also provides statistically significant support for efficacy on the ADHD 
symptoms scale with 16% (5% ; 27%) less relapses in patients who continued treatment on guanfacine 
compared to those who were switched to placebo.  
Major concerns regarding the efficacy of guanfacine were raised during the assessment.  These included 
the lack of efficacy in adolescents, the possibility of symptoms correction being predominantly due to 
sedation rather than a direct symptomatic effect, and the lack of effect on functioning. These concerns 
were however addressed satisfactorily during the procedure as explained below.     
1 Guideline on the clinical investigation of medicinal products for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD); EMEA/CHMP/EWP/431734/2008 Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use (CHMP). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 48/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
The concern regarding lack of efficacy in adolescents compared to children between the age of 6 and 12  
was eventually resolved as the company was able to provide a variety of plausible reasons for failure to 
show efficacy in adolescents, which included: too low doses in the fixed dose studies, small samples, and 
high placebo response in studies 316 and 315. In addition, efficacy was demonstrated in the specifically 
designed adolescents study (study312). In addition the applicant provided data on long-term efficacy in 
adolescents generated in the ongoing open label study SPD503-318. The mean change from baseline 
after months 6, 12 and 18 on the ADHD-RS-IV total score was comparable between the children and 
adolescents groups, despite the fact that baseline scores in the children were higher. The proportions of 
adolescents who were rated as normal to borderline mentally ill at 6, 12 and 18 months were respectively 
72.2%, 76,3% and 87,0% and were higher than the proportions in the children groups for the respective 
times. This is not surprising, since a similar effect with a different baseline score is expected to lead to a 
higher proportion of adolescents falling into the category “normal or borderline mentally ill” as compared 
to children. These preliminary long term data provided some reassurance that a sustained effect of 
INTUNIV on ADHD could be expected in adolescents and that this may translate into a reasonable 
proportion of subjects being defined as “normal or borderline mentally ill”. However, the lack of a placebo 
control arm restricts the validity of these results. 
The question whether efficacy may in fact be due only to the sedating effect of guanfacine rather than a 
direct effect of guanfacine on the core symptoms of ADHD was carefully discussed.  In support of the 
sedation-efficacy hypothesis is the fact that sedation was a common AE in the short term studies (49% in 
guanfacine vs. 28% in placebo) and that these events led to study discontinuation in almost 12% of all 
guanfacine-treated patients, suggesting that these symptoms were severe. Furthermore, study results 
showed that efficacy among patients with inattentive subtype ADHD is consistently lower than efficacy 
among patients with combined subtype ADHD, suggesting that sedation may be an important element in 
influencing efficacy through reduction of hyperactivity. This was not due to the smaller numbers in the 
inattentive subtype but to a smaller effect size, in turn suggesting that sedative effects – also frequently 
reported as adverse events - may contribute to the effect of Guanfacine.  
On the other hand, effects on the inattentive subscale of the ADHD-RS-IV were in the same order of 
magnitude as effects on the hyperactive subscale, which is not supportive of the sedation hypothesis 
(although this may be due to sedation lowering hyperactivity, which in turn allows for improvement in 
attention).  The Applicant also provided analyses stratified for patients who did and who did not report 
sedation as an AE (for fixed dose studies 301 and 304 and flexible dose studies 312 and 316). The 
additional data show that efficacy on ADHD symptoms have been observed also in subjects without 
reported sedation. Additional data also show no clear temporal relationship between efficacy and 
reporting of sedation as an AE. These results suggested that efficacy may be achieved at least partially via 
a different mechanism of action than that of involved in sedation. However, the contribution of sedation 
to the reduction on the symptom scale could not be completely excluded.  
The uncertainties raised during the procedure with respect to the questionable effect of guanfacine on 
functioning, also in connection with the mechanism of action of guanfacine which causes sedation and the 
nature of the disease were also discussed by the CHMP . Only one instrument used in this dossier, the 
WFIRS, addressed directly functioning and the results with respect to this instrument are inconsistent 
since out of the three studies in which this measure was used (studies 312, 316, and 315) only one 
showed significant results (study 316).  The argument by the company, that effect on functioning was not 
demonstrated for atomoxetine in study 316, was noted by the CHMP. The company argued also that the 
WFIRS may not be a sensitive measure, which was also supported by the absence of a significant effect 
for atomoxetine in study 316. The CHMP considered that WFIRS may indeed be an insensitive and 
unreliable measure, not only across studies, but also with time as suggested by the fact that the effect 
seemed stronger in weeks 7 and 9 of study 312 than at study end (week 13). However, while lack of 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 49/86 
 
 
 
 
 
sensitivity of the WFIRS may explain the failure to show an effect on functioning, the lack of evidence for 
such effect remains. The additional analyses provided in subgroups with and without sedative AEs could 
not provide data to conclude and resolve this uncertainty. The company further argued that in assessing 
the effect of guanfacine on functioning, not only WFIRS should be taken into account but also CGI and 
CPRS/CTRS. However, the CPRS/CTRS (Conner’s Parent/teacher Rating Scale) is a rating scale designed 
to evaluate DSM-IV ADHD symptoms but not functioning. With respect to CGI, this was not considered as 
an optimal suitable measure in this case as this is a global measure of the patients’ condition that may be 
influenced by either symptoms, functioning or both. Therefore, improvement on this scale may equally 
reflect improvement on symptoms and/or improvement in functioning and it is not possible to disentangle 
the two and hence to ascertain whether an effect on this measure is indeed reflecting an effect on 
functioning.      
The CHMP considered that although there were methodological weaknesses in the way functioning had 
been assessed in the studies and that functioning had been inconsistently shown, failure of some studies 
with guanfacine to prove a clinically significant improvement had to be interpreted with caution. This 
concurred as well with the input from the SAG psychiatry experts who highlighted in particular the 
methodological difficulties pertinent to the measurement of functioning in psychiatric disorders and in 
ADHD in particular, and that symptomatic improvement might  be considered as a first step towards 
recovery and therefore as a clinical significant improvement  in itself.  
Additional expert consultation 
In the course of the evaluation procedure, the CHMP identified the need for expert input and thus 
psychiatry SAG meeting was convened including also patient representatives. The parents of two ADHD 
patients and a young adult affected by ADHD participated in this meeting as well as expert physicians.  
The positions of the group on the following questions are summarized below:  
Question 1 
Bearing  in  mind  that  no  improvements  were  observed  in  functioning  in  school/family,  the 
SAG  is  asked  to  discuss  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  efficacy  of  Intuniv  on  symptoms  only, 
also taking into consideration that it may be the result of sedation rather than a true effect on 
the core symptoms of ADHD. 
The SAG acknowledged that ADHD treatment is multifaceted and that the reduction of symptoms is to be 
considered as a first step in the management of the disorder. In psychiatric disorders in general, symptom 
reduction is of importance to minimize burden of the disorder and to enable the patient to recover in 
his/her functioning level. Therefore, the observed efficacy on symptoms of ADHD, even though seemingly 
modest, has been considered by the SAG as clinically relevant in itself. 
In light of the methodological difficulties pertinent to the measurement of functioning in psychiatric 
disorders and in ADHD in particular, the failure of some studies with guanfacine to prove a clinically 
significant improvement has to be interpreted with caution. This is due the lack of both evaluated and 
comprehensive assessments of functioning in psychiatric disorders. Given the fact that the ICF of the 
WHO, which shall describe function levels, has a high variety domains, which mix symptoms and 
impairment/functioning, this issue remains unresolved for clinical trials in children and adolescents with 
psychiatric disorders. Methodological assessment of function in psychiatric disorders is a complex and yet 
unresolved issue. Therefore, a failure in WFRIS cannot be interpreted as a failure of improvement of 
functioning in general. There are indeed different types of impairment and disabilities and none of them 
can be considered as a satisfactory measure of the effect of a drug on the functioning of these patients. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 50/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Social impairment for example is a function of the child but also of his/her environment (e.g. safe 
environment, parenting style, tolerance of the environment for the disorder). 
There is some evidence to support that sedation is mostly prevalent at the start of the treatment and that 
guanfacine may work on some ADHD domains outside its sedative effects. For example, the lack of 
temporal relationship observed in the trials between the sedation SAEs and the effects on core symptoms 
of ADHD would not be consistent with a simple sedative effect of the medication.  
 With regard to sedation, the group considered that this is a very significant AE which appears not to be 
well defined especially in the case of ADHD, where symptomatic improvement and sedation are difficult to 
disentangle. Patient representatives expressed also serious concerns over the reported risk of sedation. 
In particular, evening sedation may not be acceptable for some patients and their families as evening is 
a time for family life and after school activities (see also question 2). On the other hand, sedation may be 
beneficial for some patients with sleep problems, as from the clinical perspective, sedation may help in 
some cases to manage symptoms such as agitation  
Question 2 
The SAG is asked to discuss the implications of the observed safety concerns in terms of the 
risk of bradycardia, hypotension, somnolence, sedation, syncope, accidents and increases in 
BMI of Intuniv in  its clinical (long term) use. The SAG should also discuss the feasibility of 
measures intended to minimize those safety concerns. 
Overall, the SAG pointed out that safety is of concern with this medicinal product and that caution should 
apply as for every medication intended for children. This is especially true if a clinical trial detect any 
signals for specific assessments to assure patients safety (e.g. QT prolongation). 
Sedation/Somnolence 
Sedation is of significant concern and appears not to be well defined especially in case of ADHD (See Q1). 
Patient  representatives  and  physicians  were  concerned  about  the  implications  in  terms  of  cognitive 
impairment and neurocognitive development when using a sedative drug in children.  
In light of the results of the trials, sedation should be closely monitored during the first few weeks of 
treatment with guanfacine and parents/patients should be informed about the risk of both sedation and 
somnolence.  Gradual  adjustment  of  the  dose  should  also  be  recommended  to  try  and  minimise  this 
AE.Sedation may also lead to accidents.  The related risks of accident (e.g. bicycle, car)  were also of 
significant concern for patient representatives as for physicians and the SAG considered that this should 
be  further  assessed  by  the  applicant  in  a  prospective  manner.  This  is  especially  of  importance  for 
adolescents who may be active participants in traffic as car drivers etc. A recent study (Dalsgaard S et al., 
The Lancet, Feb 2015) has shown that patients with ADHD have higher than expected mortality rates (5.8 
vs  2.21)  and  that  68.4%  of  deaths  were  due  to  unnatural  causes  (homicide,  suicide,  accident,  or 
undetermined) of  which  77.8%  were  due  to  accidents.To  date,  there  is  no  data  assessing  executive 
functioning  of  ADHD  patients  treated  with  guanfacine  vs.  ADHD  patients  not  treated  or  treated  with 
approved medication.  
Therefore, specific warnings in the labelling as well as a comprehensive post marketing programme would 
be needed to better characterise this serious AEs (e.g. specific questionnaires, neuropsychological testing 
to differentiate between symptom reduction and true sedation) and to provide adequate risk minimisation 
measures.   
Overall, the group felt that sedation was not very clearly described and should be further investigated and 
controlled. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 51/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular effects 
Cardiovascular effects are also of serious concern and increase in the QTc in particular.  
Blood pressure and heart rate should be measured at the start of the treatment and periodically during 
the course of the treatment. 
With regard to QTc increase, it should be mandatory to assess a detailed cardiovascular history both at 
personal and family level (e.g. sudden deaths, syncope). This detailed medical history together with a 
comprehensive paediatric examination would then allow physicians to apply clinical judgement whether 
or  not  an  ECG  should  be  performed  and  at  which  frequency.  Some  of  the  SAG  experts  would  even 
advocate, that in addition to the family being asked about sudden death/syncope, all patients have a 
pre-treatment  ECG  and  at  a  time  when  steady  state  levels  are  achieved  in  the  clinical  long  term 
prescription, or when the patient develops any cardiac or related-neurological symptoms.  
Label warnings are also advised with respect to interaction with other drugs known to increase the QT 
(about 20% children with ADHD are treated also with second generation antipsychotics that could impact 
on QTc prolongation).     
BMI 
There is a signal that guanfacine may increase the BMI, even more in patients who have already a BMI at 
the border to obesity. This is of concern as ADHD is associated with obesity and therefore the product may 
increase this risk further.   
Once weight is put on, it may be difficult to lose. With respect to weight gain, the SAG was therefore of the 
opinion  that  patients  on  guanfacine  need  to  have  their  BMI  and  metabolic  parameters  (cholesterol, 
glucose, triglycerides) assessed before the start of the treatment and at least annually in the long term 
use,  or  sooner  if  there  any  significant  symptoms  related  to  weight  gain  or  any  sudden  increase  in 
weight.  Diet advice is needed as well to minimise this risk. 
Further data using the corrected BMI (for age and gender) are needed to better estimate this AE. The 
relationship between weight gain and sedation should also be further investigated. 
Question 3 
The  SAG  is  asked  to  discuss  whether  there  is  a  subset  of  patients  within  the  scope  of  the 
applicant’s proposed indication that would  benefit the most from treatment by  Intuniv e.g. 
patients  with  ADHD  who  have  problems  with  insomnia,  sleep  or  appetite  disturbances  or 
suicidal  thoughts  as  well  as  in  the  case  of  insufficiently  effective  and/or  intolerance  for 
typical first line (i.e. methylphenidate and atomoxetine) treatment. 
The SAG considered that there is no specific ADHD population that can be described in details or would 
benefit exclusively from guanfacine as first line treatment. In general, effect sizes of guanfacine seem to 
be moderate. Therefore, if a medication in children and adolescents with ADHD is indicated, treatment 
with stimulants has to be considered as fist line treatment due the high efficacy. However, the group 
agreed that although stimulants are considered, in therapeutic guidelines and in clinical practice, to be the 
first choice for pharmacological treatment for ADHD, the use of guanfacine should not necessarily be 
restricted to second or third line treatment. There may be cases indeed where stimulant would not be the 
most appropriate treatment due for example to specific clinical features of the patients (e.g. comorbidities 
such as tics, weight loss or insomnia) or clear contraindications of stimulants.  
The group pointed out that it would be important to measure prescription rates if the drug is approved as 
they do not expect guanfacine to take a prominent place in the therapeutic arsenal.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 52/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Similar advice as to other ADHD drugs with respect to the validation of the diagnosis, the decision about 
treatment (together with the parents and the patients), and continuous treatment monitoring by a 
specialist (e.g. a child and adolescent psychiatrist) should be incorporated in SmPC. 
Question 4 
4. The SAG is asked to discuss the observed efficacy of Intuniv in adolescents as compared to 
children, and whether it could support the use of Intuniv in this population. 
The SAG noted that less adolescents than children were studied in the clinical programme. Aside from 
study 312, studies were not powered to detect efficacy in the subgroup of adolescents. In study 312 an 
effect of guanfacine was shown on symptoms. With regard to the relevance of data on functioning, the 
group had the same views as for functioning assessment in children (see question 1).  
The clinical presentation of ADHD in adolescents would be expected to shift from hyperactivity to 
inattention, which is well described in studies. Bearing this in mind, the group considered that efficacy in 
adolescents has been shown in the dedicated study 312. As higher doses were used in study 312, the SAG 
considered that an appropriate dosage seems to be relevant for effects. Therefore, further studies should 
be conducted to further define the appropriate dosage in adolescents. The SAG also underlined that in 
their opinion there would be no pharmacological or clinical rationale for stopping the medication at the 
age of 12. 
During the oral explanation, patients representatives were invited to  express their views on on the 
following aspects: 
-  As a patient / carer and your expectations with regard to ADHD medication how much do you feel 
Guanfacine would meet these expectations in terms of symptom relief and improvement in daily life? 
It would be good to hear your perspective on both of these aspects. 
As a patient / carer what are your major concerns about the main risks that have been seen so far with the 
clinical use of guanfacine (i.e. sedation, weight gain and cardiovascular safety concerns). To what extent 
would the concerns in your view potentially limit its use by patients”. 
As  a  general  principle,  patients  representatives  are  expecting  from  an  ADHD  medication  to  help 
children/adolescents to develop in a postive way, especially socially -wise  and ultimately  to have a better 
quality of life. They considered the effects on symptoms as  a first step towards revovery. It was indeed 
acknowledged that symptom relief may help to improve the way the ADHD children/adolescent interacts 
with its environment, thereby improve their self-perception and give them a chance to move on towards 
recovery. Moreover patient representatives highlighted that, according to them, the second step should 
be an improvement on functioning at school, home and in the daily activities.  
Sedation was perceived by the patient representatives as a very important safety issue. In particular they 
expressed  concerns  that  sedation  may  stigmatise  even  further    ADHD  patients  and  thereby  reinforce 
exclusion  from  their  environnement,  especially  from  their  peers  at  school.  Also  concerns  were  raised 
about the risk that sedation may interfere with the afterschool family life and with any extra curriculum 
activities in general. 
Last  they would like to be reassured that despite the occurence of sedation, ADHD  children/adolescent 
would be able to acquire properly all of the cognitive skills that are key to any child development. The 
CHMP welcomed the  contribution of the patients and concurred in particular with their concerns about the 
potential consequences of sedation on the cognitive development of ADHD children and adolescents. In 
order to investigate the long term safety (especially effects on neurocognitive function) of Intuniv in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 53/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and Adolescents Aged 6- 17 Years with ADHD, the CHMP requested the MAH to conduct a 
post-authorisation safety study.  
Overall, the consulted patient representatives could see a potential use of guanfacine for some patients 
but they were advocating for a close medical support and monitoring from their physician if they were to 
accept to give this drug to their children/adolescents.  
SAG Experts  highlighted also that, the clinical management of ADHD patients should be based on a  
multidisciplinary approach and this was duly reflected in the therapeutic indication by the CHMP. 
2.5.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The clinical efficacy data submitted were considered satisfactory and supportive of the indication of 
guanfacine for the treatment of treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children 
and adolescents 6 to 17 years old for whom stimulants are not suitable, not tolerated or have been shown 
to be ineffective. 
Treatment with guanfacine resulted in an improvement in ADHD symptoms (on hyperactive symptoms 
and to a lesser extent on inattentive subtypes) in children and in adolescents. The results suggested that 
although contribution of sedation to the reduction on the symptom scale could not be completely 
excluded, efficacy of guanfacine may be achieved, at least partially, via a different mechanism of action.  
The effect on functioning was inconsistently shown, but, taking into account the methodological 
difficulties to show a functional improvement in ADHD and taking also into consideration experts’ view, 
the symptomatic effect observed with guanfacine was considered by the CHMP as clinically meaningful.  
Overall, the CHMP concluded that the available clinical data demonstrated an effect of guanfacine on the 
symptoms of ADHD.The CHMP stressed also that guanfacine, like other medicines authorised for the 
treatment of ADHD, must only be used as part of a comprehensive treatment programme, typically 
including psychological, educational and social measures.  The CHMP acknowledged the differences in 
display of the information contained in the SmPC of Intuniv compared to the other ADHD medications 
which have been authorised so far at national level. In particular, the wording of the therapeutic indication 
for intuniv is focused on the targeted population and on the multidisciplinary approach of the clinical 
management.  
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Similar to other α-2 adrenergic compounds such as clonidine, safety-profile of guanfacine is characterised 
by undesirable side-effects such as (orthostatic) hypotension, bradycardia, hypno-sedation, fatigue, and 
headache. These unwanted effects were shown to be very common and limit tolerability. After 
discontinuation, in particular after abrupt cessation of treatment, rebound hypertension and tachycardia 
may occur.  
The responses of the applicant clarified methods of collection of safety-data. In particular comparison of 
the standard-ascertainment (i.e. single question to tap undesirable effects) versus the standardised 
questionnaire (SSEQ) tapping specific domains was outlined satisfactory. For some domains of adversity 
the SSEQ was shown to be more sensitive, for the most frequent adverse effect (somnolence, sedation 
and fatigue), sensitivity appears similar.  
Patient exposure 
The safety-population was defined as all subjects who used at least one dose. The applicant performed 17 
studies in ADHD-patients 6-17 years (Prolonged-release-formulation: n=2411) and 14 studies in healthy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 54/86 
 
 
 
 
 
adult volunteers (Prolonged-release-formulation: n=486) as part of the development programme. Most 
studies used the Prolonged-release formulation, in 5 studies other formulations were used (n=156).  In 
patients, up to 7 mg/day dose titration was used and up to 9 mg/day forced dose-escalation. One further 
safety study was conducted in paediatric patients with anxiety disorders. A further long-term (2 year) 
study is currently on going.  
Of the total of 2411 exposed patients, 1718 were 6-12 years of age and 693 were 13-17 years old. Mean 
duration of exposure was 142 days, median exposure-time 70 days. A total of 336 patients were exposed 
360 days or more, of which 101 were exposed more than 720 days. 1468 patients were exposed to the 
high dose levels (>0.09 mg/kg) with a mean duration of about 74 days, median 35 days. 
For the long-term studies 643 patients were exposed for a mean duration of 242 days (median = 150 
days). A total of 136 patients were treated 270-720 days and 66 for more than 720 days. A total of 382 
patients were exposed to high dose-levels (>0.09 mg/kg) with a mean duration ≈ 160 days, median ≈ 85 
days treatment duration.   
In healthy volunteers, dose-by-weight exposures were not summarised. 296 subjects received a single 4 
mg dose, the mean single dose was 3.2 mg. 
Table 5. Numbers of exposed subjects 
Subjects exposed 
High dose levels (>0.09 mg/kg) 
Healthy volunteers 
All patients 
    Fixed dose 
    Randomized 
    Long-term 
495 
2411 
513 
1419 
643 
Unknown 
1468 
164 
641 
382 
In the long-term studies 9 patients aged 6-12 years old were exposed to guanfacine 1 mg for more than 
90 days. 81 were exposed to 2 mg >90 days, 133 to 3 mg, and 113 were exposed to 4 mg or more for >90 
days. A total of 84 patients 6-12 years old were exposed for 360 days or more, of whom 58 were exposed 
to 3 or 4 mg. 
For patients 13-17 years of age these numbers were: 1 patient exposed to 1 mg for >90 days, 18 patients 
to 2 mg, 28 to 3 mg and 55 patients 13-17 years of age were exposed to 4 mg or more for more than 90 
days. A total of 28 patients 13-17 years old were exposed for 360 days or more, of whom 24 to 3 or 4 mg. 
In the long-term studies, duration of exposure to higher recommended dose-levels was very limited due 
to discontinuations, with a mean duration ≈ 74 days (median ≈ 35 days). To allow assessment of safety 
in the paediatric population, in particular assessment of 12-month exposure, a sufficient number of 
patients exposed to high recommended dose-levels is mandatory. According to ICH Topic E1 on 
Population Exposure (The Extent of Population Exposure to Assess Clinical Safety), the requirement is of 
100 patients to be exposed for at least 1 year. The submitted data include safety results regarding 1 year 
exposure for only 84 patients 6-12 years old and 28 patients 13-17 years old. Only 82 patients (58 
children and 24 adolescents) were exposed to 3 or 4 mg of guanfacine for more than one year. Therefore 
safety of long-term exposure to guanfacine, in particular to the higher doses, cannot be reliably assessed, 
while ADHD-treatment typically requires long-term treatment.  
Regarding discontinuations, it is noted that in guanfacine-treated patients both discontinuations in 
general and discontinuations due to AE’s were twice as frequent as compared to the active comparator 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 55/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
atomoxetine. Discontinuations due to AE’s were more than six times the rate in placebo-treated patients, 
even higher for the 4 mg dose-group.    
The Applicant justified the high (61.8%) withdrawal in the long-term studies with “difficulties and 
inconveniences associated with long-term study participation”. Although that undoubtedly played a role, 
it may have been enhanced by unsatisfactory treatment results associated with guanfacine-tolerability, in 
particular due to somnolence and sedation.  
Adverse events 
In the overall pool, rates of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE’s) were higher in 
guanfacine-treated patients as compared to placebo- or atomoxetine-treated patients, in particular 
regarding severe TEAE’s (8.8% versus 1.7% (placebo)/ 1.8% (atomoxetine), TEAE’s related to 
investigational product (73.2% versus 36.7% (placebo)/ 55.4% (atomoxetine), and TAE’s leading to 
study discontinuation (10.8% versus 1.3% (placebo)/ 4.5% (atomoxetine)), see table below.  
Table 6. rates of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE’s) in the overall pool 
There were no meaningful differences by age-group for rates of TEAE’s. 
Regarding TEAE’s occurring with a frequency of 5% or more in any treatment-group in the overall pool, 
frequencies for all TEAE’s, and for total number of TEAE’s classified as ‘severe’ were as shown in the table 
below:  
Table  7.  TEAE’s  occurring  with  a  frequency  of  5%  or  more  in  any  treatment-group  in  the 
overall pool 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 56/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The TEAE that was most frequently considered by the investigator to be related to the investigational 
product was somnolence (guanfacine: 39.4%; placebo: 9.7%; atomoxetine: 16.1%). Sedation was also 
frequently  considered  to  be  related  to  treatment  (guanfacine:  10.0%;  placebo:  1.8%;  atomoxetine: 
1.8%). 
Regarding  the  most  frequent  TEAE  of  somnolence,  a  dose-response  relationship  was  observed  in  the 
randomized  pool.  A  dose-response  relationship  was  also  observed  for  the  TEAE  ‘sedation’  and  for 
‘dizziness’. TEAE frequencies did not markedly differ between age-groups. 
In  healthy  (adult)  volunteers,  headache  was  reported  by  16.8%  of  guanfacine-treated  subjects, 
somnolence by 12.0% and dizziness by 10.9%. All events were dose-proportionate. 
Regarding TEAE’s rated by investigators as ‘severe’, nervous system disorders were observed in 4.6% of 
patients  treated  with  guanfacine  (placebo:  0.5%;  atomoxetine:  0.0%),  primarily  severe  somnolence 
(2.7%;  placebo:  0.1%;  atomoxetine:  0.0%).  Severe  treatment-emergent  psychiatric  disorders  were 
observed in 1.4% of guanfacine-treated patients (placebo: 0.2%; atomoxetine: 0.9%). 
Premature discontinuations 
TEAE’s  leading  to  study  discontinuation  occurred  in  10.8%  of  guanfacine-treated  patients  (placebo: 
1.3%; atomoxetine: 4.5%), in particular nervous system disorders (guanfacine: 5.4%; placebo: 0.4%; 
atomoxetine: 1.8%), especially somnolence (guanfacine: 2.5%; placebo: 0.0%; atomoxetine: 1.8%). 
For somnolence, treatment discontinuations were dose-proportionate with a maximum of 6.0% dropout 
due to somnolence in the 4 mg dose-group. A similar trend was observed for sedation, associated with 
5.3% study-discontinuations in the 4 mg dose-group and hypotension associated with 1.3% dropout with 
4 mg guanfacine. Treatment-emergent psychiatric disorders resulted in premature study discontinuation 
in 2.1% of guanfacine-treated patients (placebo: 0.2%; atomoxetine: 0.9%). 
In the overall pool, premature discontinuations (irrespective of reason specified) occurred in a total of 
44.3% of guanfacine-treated patients versus 32% of placebo-treated patients. Among patients treated 
using atomoxetine (n=112) 20.5% did not complete the study. In the long-term studies a total of 61.8% 
of  enrolled  patients  dropped  out.  Discontinuations  attributed  to  AE’s  occurred  in  12.9%  of  patients 
enrolled in long-term studies. 
A total of 11.8% of patients in the short-term studies discontinued study participation due to a sedative 
event. 
Overall,  psychiatric  TEAE’s  occurred  in  21.7%  of  guanfacine-treated  patients  (placebo:  11.9%; 
atomoxetine: 22.3%). Psychiatric TEAE’s with highest incidences were irritability (6.3%; placebo: 2.8%; 
atomoxetine:  2.7%),  affect  lability  (2.1%,;  placebo:  1.3%;  atomoxetine:  0.9%),  anxiety  (1.7%; 
placebo:  1.2%;  atomoxetine:  6.3%),  aggression  (1.5%;  placebo:  1.1%;  atomoxetine:  1.8%),  and 
depression  (1.0%;  placebo:  0.8%;  atomoxetine:  2.7%).  Suicidal  ideation  occurred  in  0.5%  of 
guanfacine-treated  patients  (placebo:  0.3%;  atomoxetine:  0.0%).  In  5  studies  the  Columbia-Suicide 
Severity Rating Scale was administered. Analyses of these assessments revealed no results that suggest 
a  different  risk  of  suicidal  behaviour  in  guanfacine-treated  patients  as  compared  to  placebo-treated 
patients. 
Among the patients treated using guanfacine for anxiety disorder, safety profile was similar to the profile 
in ADHD-patients. A total of 8 guanfacine-treated patients (no placebo-treated patients) discontinued due 
to TEAEs.  TEAE’s leading to discontinuation with multiple occurrences were fatigue (n=2) and (postural) 
dizziness (n=3). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
There were no deaths in the clinical studies. In the overall pool, serious TEAE’s were observed in 2.0% of 
guanfacine-treated patients (placebo: 0.8%; atomoxetine: 0.0%). Syncope occurred in 16 
guanfacine-treated patients (0.7%; placebo: 0.2%; atomoxetine: 0.0%). All patients recovered with 
either unchanged dose or after withdrawal of guanfacine. In the long-term studies syncope occurred in 7 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 57/86 
 
 
 
 
 
patients (1.1%). Among 441 healthy (adult) volunteers, 4 subjects reported SAE’s including 2 syncope’s. 
Among healthy volunteers enrolled in the QTc-study 5 subjects reported SAE’s including 3 syncope’s. 
Hypotension, including orthostatic hypotension, was reported in 5.7% of guanfacine-treated patients 
(placebo: 0.7%; atomoxetine: 0.9%), including 4 patients in whom hypotension was rated as ‘severe’ 
(none in the placebo and atomoxetine groups). Pallor was reported in 10 guanfacine-treated patients 
(0.4%), none in the placebo and atomoxetine groups. 
As a reference regarding syncopes, at the optimisation visit, mean (sd) supine pulse of 
guanfacine-treated patients had dropped -6.5 (11.9) bpm (placebo: +0.8 (10.8); atomoxetine: +1.7 
(11.6)) as compared to baseline. Mean supine systolic blood pressure had dropped -3.5 (9.6) mmHg 
(placebo: -0.7 (8.0); atomoxetine +1.1 (7.6) mmHg) and mean diastolic blood pressure had dropped 
-3.0 (8.5) mmHg (placebo: -0.6 (7.6); atomoxetine: +2.6 (8.7) mmHg). Largest decreases in 
guanfacine-treated patients were pulse -75 bpm (standing pulse, optimisastion visit), systolic blood 
pressure -66 mmHg (seated, maintenance visit), diastolic blood pressure -61 mmHg (seated, 
maintenance visit). 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
In the overall pool, injury, poisoning or procedural complications occurred in 10.4% of guanfacine-treated 
patients  (placebo:  7.1%,  atomoxetine:  1.8%).  Contusion  occurred  in  1.7%,  skin  laceration  in  1.4%, 
excoriation in 1.2%, joint sprain in 1.0%, sunburn in 0.8%, fall in 0.4%, and head injury in 0.4%. 
The occurrence of hypotension in almost 6% of guanfacine-treated patients, and syncope in 16 patients 
(0.7%) is of serious concern. Syncope is a serious risk associated with falls, accidents and physical 
trauma in children and adolescents. In published literature, syncopes were also reported in patients 
receiving guanfacine-treatment for Tourette’s syndrome (King et al, 2006). Similar to somnolence and 
sedation, low pulse and blood pressure and syncope may be associated with the anti-adrenergic 
mechanism of action of guanfacine. Syncope may be related to (postural) hypotension due to decreased 
vascular tone, or may be mediated via adrenergic CNS-pathways. Syncope may increase risk of falls and 
(traffic-) accidents. Regarding reported frequencies of injury, poisoning or procedural complications, it is 
noticed that the risk in atomoxetine-treated patients is low (1.8%) which may be associated with 
reduction of ADHD-symptoms, possibly lowering the risk of accidents towards the level observed in the 
general (child and adolescent) population. The risk in the placebo-group (7.1%) may in some degree 
reflect the level of risk associated with ADHD-symptomatology, which is higher as compared to the 
general population. The guanfacine-treatment associated risk (10.4%) is increased as compared to 
placebo. It is questioned whether guanfacine-induced somnolence and sedation may result in a net 
increase of risk of accidents, beyond the a priori increase associated with the underlying disease.  
Rebound /withdrawal /dependence 
No pre-clinical testing for abuse-potential was performed.  There were 2 reports of abuse or misuse in the 
study programme and 5 reports from post-marketing surveillance. As part of the program, abrupt 
cessation of treatment was studied as compared to dose-tapering in healthy adult volunteers. That study 
revealed slightly higher increase in (systolic) blood pressure after abrupt cessation (14/6 mmHg) as 
compared to tapering (9/8 mm) and more TEAE’s in that group, in particular more dry mouth, nose 
congestion, fatigue, dizziness, headache and pharyngeal pain.  
In paediatric ADHD-studies post-dose increases up to 10 mmHg systolic blood pressure were observed. In 
a long-term randomised withdrawal study a small guanfacine-cessation associated blood pressure 
increase was shown of 3.2 (±8.69) mmHg systolic and 1.2(±8.56) mmHg diastolic blood pressure.  
A diagnosis of ADHD is known to increase risk of substance abuse irrespective of treatment. Regarding the 
psychotropic effects of guanfacine, in particular the hypno-sedative effects, this product may be prone to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 58/86 
 
 
 
 
 
abuse including overuse, divergence and dependence in this a priori susceptible target population. This 
risk is confirmed by the listed reports of abuse or misuse. No pre-clinical or clinical testing of 
abuse-potential has been performed. Rebound effects other than cardiovascular effects were not 
evaluated. Use of guanfacine in the vulnerable paediatric ADHD population, outside the controlled 
environment of the study-programme, may include a higher risk of abuse as compared to this risk in the 
study programme. However, the applicant provided adequate justifications to support low abuse potential 
for guanfacine. 
Central nervous system: cognitive effects 
A randomized, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled, dose-optimization study (n=182) was 
performed to assess the effect of guanfacine on cognitive function, safety, tolerability, and efficacy of 
guanfacine 1- 3mg in children and adolescents aged 6-17 years diagnosed with ADHD (study 206). Effects 
of 6.5 weeks treatment were studied using the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery 
(CANTAB) Choice Reaction Time (CRT) test 2, 5, and 8 hours post-dose (primary endpoint), the Digit 
Symbol Substitution Task/Coding Test (DSST/Coding), and the Spatial Working Memory (SWM). Also the 
Permanent Product Measure of Performance (PERMP) math test was administered at several hours 
post-dose. There were no meaningful differences as compared to placebo in (subscales of) tests or 
subgroups of patients. PERMP results showed significant improvement in the guanfacine-group as 
compared to placebo, especially in patients 6-12 years of age. The primary efficacy-outcome in this study 
(ADHD-RS-IV) showed statistically significant improvement of ADHD-symptoms in 6-12 year old, but not 
in patients 13-17 years old. In this study, somnolence was reported in 41.3% of all patients treated using 
guanfacine (placebo: 22.8%). Sedation was reported in 7.4% (placebo: 5.3%), and both fatigue and 
irritability in 5.0% (placebo: 0%, 0%). Overall sedative events were reported in 48.8% of patients 
treated with guanfacine and 28.1% of patients treated with placebo. As a part of the safety assessment, 
the Pictorial Sleepiness Scale [PSS] was administered (self- and observer-rating, home and classroom) at 
several hours post-dose. Home assessments both self-rated and observer-rated, showed greater 
sleepiness in the guanfacine-treated group as compared to the placebo-group at the 12-hours post-dose 
evaluations at most visits. There were no dose-related trends but effects were more noticeable in the 
6-12 year olds as compared to the 13-17 year olds.  
The high incidence of hypno-sedative events and the detected sleepiness-effect in guanfacine-treated 
patients as compared to placebo-treated patients suggests effects on functions that require clarity of 
consciousness. In ADHD-patients symptoms of impulsivity and inattention may impair cognitive 
performance a priori, and hence treatment-associated reduction of those symptoms may enhance 
performance. In sum, the net result of ADHD-treatment using a hypno-sedative agent on cognitive 
function may be difficult to predict. This is in accordance with the study by Kugler et al, discussed in 
section 2.2.3, that suggest that the effects of guanfacine on cognitive performance differ for different 
tests. The validity of discrete cognitive tests, conducted in a highly controlled setting, for the prediction of 
long-term cognitive development was not considered satisfactory enough and the CHMP requested the 
applicant to perform a PASS to evaluate long-term cognitive development in ADHD patients treated with 
guanfacine. 
Laboratory findings 
The applicant reported no notable laboratory changes and no relevant differences between 
treatment-groups. However, increased blood glucose levels >160 mg/dL were observed in 14 patients 
(0.9%) treated using guanfacine (placebo: 0.1%, atomoxetine: 0.0%), while increased glucose was 
measured at baseline in only 3 guanfacine-treated patients (0.1%; placebo: 0.0%, atomoxetine: 0.0%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 59/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding haematology, in the case listings several cases of neutropenia appear in terms of absolute cell 
counts and percentage relative to total lymphocytes, among patients treated with guanfacine. As 
examples, patient 153-0004 had on day 50-54 of guanfacine-treatment a neutrophil count of 0.36 
(normal range 1.65-8.15) and patient 009-0012 had a count dropping to 0.34 at day 50-56 of treatment 
using guanfacine. Patient 002-0007 had a neutrophils count of 0.18 at day 57-63 of treatment. In the 
overall pool, counts below 1.5 (moderate neutropenia) were slightly more frequent in patients using 
guanfacine (2.8%; placebo: 1.9%, atomoxetine: 2.1%). During the procedure the applicant specified  the 
proportions of patients with very low counts (severe neutropenia)  and the issue  was considered as 
solved by the CHMP.   
Cardiac effects 
Cardiovascular effects were: lowering of blood pressure and pulse, and prolongation of QT-intervals. 
Effects on blood pressure are discussed in the section on serious adverse events (above).  
A dose-dependent decrease in heart rate / pulse was observed, together with a dose-dependent 
prolongation of the QT-interval. In the overall pool, mean heart rate decreased 9.05 bpm (placebo: 1.06 
bpm decrease, atomoxetine: 3.26 bpm increase). A total of 213 patients (10.8%) had a decrease of heart 
rate to a count of ≤50bpm at any time during guanfacine-treatment (placebo: 0.8%, atomoxetine: 
1.0%). 
Corrections were performed for the heart-rate associated prolongation of the QT-interval 
(Fridericia-correction, Bazett-correction). In the overall population, mean (SD) prolongation of 
QT-interval was 19.58 ms (26.704), median (min, max) prolongation was 19.00 ms (-90.3, 115.3). After 
Fridericia-correction prolongation was mean (SD) 3.96 ms (14.63) and median (min, max) 3.67 ms 
(-59.0, 66.0). After Bazett-correction prolongation was mean (SD) -4.95 ms (18.85) and median (min, 
max) -3.90 ms (-59.0, 66.0).  
An on treatment QT-interval ≥480 ms was observed in 15 patients (0.8%) exposed to guanfacine, but not 
in patients exposed to either atomoxetine or placebo. After Fridericia-or Bazett-correction there were no 
intervals ≥500 ms. 
In the overall pool, an on-treatment QT-interval prolongation ≥60 ms from baseline or more was 
observed in 276 patients treated using guanfacine (14.0%, placebo: 1.2%, atomoxetine: 0.0%). After 
Fridericia-correction a QT-interval prolongation ≥60 ms was observed in 5 patients using guanfacine 
(0.3%), and after Bazett-correction a QT-interval prolongation ≥60ms was observed in 7 patients using 
guanfacine (0.4%).  
In the short-term fixed-dose study pool a dose-dependent decrease of heart rate and QT-interval 
prolongation was observed among guanfacine-exposed patients. In this pool a population-correction of 
QT-intervals was also performed. 
In the short-term fixed dose pool, there were 3 guanfacine-exposed patients (0.7%) with 
population-adjusted QT-intervals ≥450ms, and no patients with QTcP ≥500ms. There were no QTcF 
prolongations ≥60ms and 1 patient (0.2%) with a QTcB prolongation ≥60ms. There were QTcF-interval 
prolongations between 30 and 60 ms showed a dose-response effect. 
There were 5 patients with Fridericia-corrected QT-interval prolongations of 60ms or higher, which 
indicates impaired repolarisation and risk of arrhythmia due to guanfacine-treatment. Though the 
fixed-factor Fridericia correction-method may overestimate QT-intervals in case of lowered heart rates, 
the >60 ms prolongations are considered to be worrying. 
Endocrinological adverse reactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 60/86 
 
 
 
 
 
No safety concerns regarding endocrine function were identified, concerns regarding growth hormone and 
sex hormones were raised by the CHMP during the procedure and were satisfactorily adressed by the 
applicant. 
Long-term safety 
Mean BMI increased in the course of the long-term studies from 20.0 at baseline to 21.8 at month 24 (2.2 
points mean increase in study completers) for patients who completed the 24-month study (all dose 
groups, n=60). This increase reflects a mean BMI percentile of 52.3% at baseline, and 62.4% at month 
24 as compared to the age-matched population. 
As BMI is known to be a predictor for weight-associated health problems in children and adolescents, the 
increase of 2.2 points over a 2-year treatment period is considered to be of serious concern. In published 
literature, a case was reported of a 9.53kg weight increase after a four-weeks guanfacine-treatment 
period (Khan et al, 2012). During the evaluation procedure the applicant was requested to elaborate on 
the risk of weight-associated adversity in long-term ADHD-treatment using guanfacine. In particular, the 
applicant submitted data regarding the proportion of patients with severe increases in BMI (>3 or 4) 
following 1 or 2 years of treatment who shift to the >85 or >95 percentile on normal BMI-for-age charts, 
coming from normal weight or slight overweight, i.e. the proportion of patients who become overweight 
or obese as a result of treatment.   
Long-term cognitive effects of treatment using guanfacine were not evaluated. In view of the 
hypno-sedative adverse events and increased sleepiness reported in the trials, impaired learning ability 
(memory impairment), compromised school performance and delay of cognitive development cannot be 
excluded in children and adolescents, who are also at a-priori risk for delayed cognitive development due 
to the underlying ADHD disorder. 
Therefore the CHMP requested the applicant to perform a PASS to evaluate long term safety of Intuniv. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Three fatal cases of ADHD-patients treated with the combination of clonidine (i.e. (anti-)adrenergic 
compound similar to guanfacine) and methylphenidate were previously reported in published literature 
(Fenichel 1995). This combination was reported to increase PR-interval more than clonidine alone 
(Connor et al. 2000). A study combining treatment using guanfacine with several different 
psychostimulants, as a part of the currently submitted study-programme, did not reveal dissimilarities as 
compared to the safety profile of guanfacine mono-treatment. In this study 75 patients diagnosed with 
ADHD were treated with these combinations. Overall, 92.0% of patients treated with these combinations 
experienced TEAE’s.  There were no deaths or SAE’s. TEAEs with highest incidence were fatigue (34.7%), 
headache (33.3%), upper abdominal pain (32.0%), irritability (32.0%), somnolence (18.7%), and 
insomnia (16.0%). Irritability occurred notably more with co-administration of guanfacine with 
amphetamine (42.4%) as compared to methylphenidate (23.8%). Five patients (6.7%) discontinued 
study participation due to TEAE’s. In three cases symptoms were dizziness, headache and somnolence. 
Overall, 56.0% of all treated patients experienced hypno-sedative TEAE’s, most often with onset during 
treatment-week 2 or 3 and with average duration of one or two weeks. Somnolence was reported in 
24.2% of the amphetamine-group and 14.3% of the methylphenidate-group. Regarding the TEAE 
sedation, average duration of this effect was longer in the amphetamine-group (23.0 days) as compared 
to the methylphenidate-group (6.0 days). One patient suffered severe TEAE’s including fatigue, fecal 
incontinence, impaired balance and dizziness. Two patients had decreased white blood cell counts, 
including one patient with total count lowered to 3.89 and one patient with neutrophil count decreased to 
1.28. There were 4 patients with elevated glucose levels during treatment.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 61/86 
 
 
 
 
 
During treatments there were decreases in blood pressure and pulse, with mean changes -4.7 / -2.0 
mmHg and -2.8 / -6.4 bpm for methylphenidate / amphetamine. There were 4 patients with bradycardia 
(<50 bpm) in the methylphenidate-group. Low blood pressure was very common in the 13-17 years 
age-group. Three patients experienced clinically relevant decreased blood pressure /hypotension, and 
three patients experienced clinically relevant increased blood pressure or heart rate during the study. 
Regarding ECG parameters, corrected QT-interval prolongations were mild. 
The interaction study is considered relevant for combination-therapy using a stimulant and guanfacine 
since this may be anticipated in clinical practice. In this study, clinically relevant vital abnormalities were 
typically mild, but 92% of all participating patients experienced TEAE’s, and a total of 56% had 
hypno-sedative symptoms. Treatment combining guanfacine with psychostimulants can be foreseen to 
occur in clinical practice, but may not be well tolerated in most cases.   
Post marketing experience 
Guanfacine prolonged-release [GXR] (trade market Intuniv or Intunic XR) has been granted a marketing 
authorisation in 2 countries. The product was first approved on 02 September 2009 by the US FDA for the 
treatment of ADHD in patients 6 to 17 years of age. In Canada the product was approved on 05 July 2013 
for the treatment of ADHD in children and adolescents ages 6 to 12 years. The product is currently 
marketed in the US and Canada. 
The estimated patient exposure to GXR is 609360 person-years (PY) cumulatively since launch.  
The estimated total of 2903 subjects exposed to the product in ongoing and completed clinical trials 
included 2346 pediatric subjects with ADHD, 62 subjects with anxiety disorders and 495 healthy 
volunteers. In completed clinical trials a total of 2028 subjects received GXR. 
As  part  of  this  marketing  authorisation  application,  the  applicant  submitted  7  PSURs  of  Intuniv 
(guanfacine prolonged release): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
PSUR 1, covering period 02 September 2009 – 01 March 2010, dated 16 April 2010 
PSUR 2, covering period 02 March 2010 – 02 September 2010, dated 21 October 2010 
PSUR 3, covering period 02 September 2010 – 01 March 2011, dated 15 April 2011 
PSUR 4, covering period 02 March 2011 – 01 September 2011, dated 17 October 2011 
PSUR 5, covering period 02 September 2011 – 01 March 2012, dated 20 April 2012 
PSUR 6, covering period 02 March 2012 – 01 September 2012, dated 23 October 2012 
PSUR 7, covering period 02 September 2012 – 01 September 2013, dated 24 October 2013 
Changes to the reference safety information 
On 25 February 2011, approval was obtained from the FDA for the additional indication for GXR to be used 
as adjunctive therapy with psycho stimulants. 
Regulatory authority actions taken for safety reasons 
On 20 February 2013, the US FDA requested the addition of the following post marketing events to the US 
Package  Insert  (USPI)  based  on  the  label  of  Tenex  (guanfacine  HCl):  alopecia,  alterations  in  taste, 
arthralgia, blurred vision, confusion, dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, dyspnea, edema, impotence, leg 
cramps, leg pain, malaise, myalgia, palpitations, pareasthesias, pruritis, rash, tachycardia, tremor and 
vertigo. The applicant has reviewed whether any of these 21 events meet the criteria to be included as an 
ADR into the Company Core Data Sheet (CCDS). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 62/86 
 
 
 
 
 
In May 2013, hallucinations were added to the USPI for GXR upon FDA request, and was included in the 
EU PI at CHMP request.  
Safety issues 
During the first PSUR period the applicant committed to monitor and evaluate the post marketing safety 
with a focus on sedative events, hypotension, bradycardia and syncope. In addition, the applicant was 
committed to expedite to the FDA all cases of syncope (n=11) and cases indicative of valvulopathy (n=0) 
due to binding to 5HT-2B receptors. No new safety concerns/signals were identified by the applicant in 
this PSUR period. 
The applicant has implemented a RMP with a focus on syncope, hypotension, bradycardia and sedative 
events. Enhanced pharmacovigilance activities include the use of specific questionnaires.  
During the second PSUR period for Intuniv the applicant closely monitored cases of syncope, hypotension, 
bradycardia,  sedative  events,  and  interaction  with  CYP3A4/5  inhibitors,  withdrawal  blood  pressure 
increase and cardiac valvulopathy. One new safety topic for close monitoring – hyperglycaemia/diabetes 
mellitus – was added based on a published article reporting on inhibition of insulin secretion; no cases 
were identified for this risk. 
During the third PSUR period initial hypertension after overdose was identified as a new safety risk based 
on  2  publications  describing  1  case  each  of  overdose  with  immediate  release  guanfacine.  Initial 
hypertension was added to the Overdose section of the CCDS and USPI. 
During the fourth PSUR period the applicant noticed that there were no changes to the risk assessment of 
the ongoing safety topics. 
During the fifth PSUR period the safety topic inhibition of insulin secretion was closed by the applicant as 
there  was  no  signal  identified  in  patients  treated  with  GXR.  According  to  the applicant  there  were  no 
changes to the remaining safety issues under closely monitoring. 
During the sixth PSUR period, upon request of Health Canada, a cumulative review and analysis of all 
cases  of  QT  prolongation  and  bradyarrhythmia,  suicide-related  events  (SRE)  and  homicidal-related 
events (HRE) was completed. According to the applicant these reviews demonstrated that there is no 
evidence of effects on ventricular repolarization with GXR, and there is no association of SRE or HRE with 
GXR nor does SRE or HRE pose a potential risk for this product as evidenced by its pharmacological action. 
The applicant noticed that there were no changes to the remaining safety issues currently under closely 
monitoring. 
During  the  seventh  PSUR  period  an  increasing  cumulative  number  of  post  marketing  cases  reporting 
hallucinations were identified. Based on a cumulative review the applicant concluded that there was no 
causal relationship between the treatment with GXR and hallucinations. The FDA agreed that it has not 
been established that there is sufficient evidence of an association for hallucinations with GXR, however 
causality cannot be ruled out. Subsequently, upon the FDA’s request, hallucinations was added to the 
adverse event post marketing section of the USPI, which was updated in August 2013. The applicant's 
position however has not changed and hallucinations have not been added in the CCDS. 
Upon request of Health Canada a cumulative review through 01 October 2012 was conducted on the topic 
of QT effects and bradyarrhythmias in subjects treated with GXR. The applicant noticed that there is no 
evidence  of  any  clinically  meaningful  effects  on  ventricular  repolarization  with  GXR  based  on  the 
cumulative review of safety data from clinical trials and post marketing reports, as well as a thorough 
QT/QTc study in healthy subjects. Bradyarrhythmias remain sufficiently described in the CCDS according 
to  the  applicant,  and  will  continue  to  be  monitored  via  routine  pharmacovigilance  and  no  additional 
activities  are  required  at  this  time.  No  new  safety  signals  were  identified  by  the  applicant  during  the 
seventh  reporting  PSUR  period.  There  were  5  identified  risks  (Syncope,  Bradycardia,  Hypotension, 
Sedative  events,  Drug  interaction  with  CYP3A4/5  inhibitors)  and  2  potential  risks  (Withdrawal  blood 
pressure increased, Cardiac valvulopathy due to binding to 5HT-2B receptors) with GXR. 
Clinical studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 63/86 
 
 
 
 
 
The ongoing study SPD503-315 is examining the long-term maintenance of efficacy and safety in children 
and adolescents with ADHD. As of 03 June 2013, enrolment phase of the study was completed and 528 
subjects were enrolled. No new safety information was identified during this study. 
Literature 
The applicant included publications that described potential important new safety information related to 
GXR. One publication is summarized below. 
Martinez  J  et  al,  2013  reviewed  the  published  evidence  on  the  controversial  association  between 
medications approved for treating patients with ADHD and the risk of serious cardiovascular problems, 
specifically the risk of QTc prolongation and the risk of sudden cardiac death. The authors concluded that 
the risk for serious cardiovascular adverse events, including statistically or clinically significant increases 
in QTc and sudden cardiac death associated with α(2)-adrenergic agonists prescribed for ADHD is low and 
the benefits of treating individual patients with ADHD outweigh the risks. The applicant concluded that no 
new efficacy or safety information was appeared from this review paper and therefore does not impact the 
benefit risk ration of guanfacine. 
The applicant stated that the benefit-risk profile of GXR for the treatment of ADHD is positive.  
Cumulative PSUR data from all sources (spontaneous, authorities and literature) show 5,493 reported 
adverse events (451 serious and 5,042 non-serious). From non-interventional trials there were 3 serious 
adverse reactions cumulatively reported, from compassionate or solicited sources there were 40 adverse 
reactions cumulatively reported.  
Most  adverse  reactions  reported  belong  to  the  System  organ  class  (SOC)  Nervous  system  disorders 
(33.5%). The following table show the cumulative numbers of serious adverse reactions and preferred 
terms reported three (3) times or more: 
Preferred term  
Syncope 
Convulsion 
Loss of consciousness 
Somnolence 
Lethargy 
Dizziness 
Unresponsive to stimuli 
Grand mal convulsion 
Presyncope 
Suicidal ideation 
Hallucination 
Psychotic disorder 
Homicidal ideation 
Aggression 
Hallucination, visual 
Hallucination, mixed 
Suicidal behaviour 
Suicidal attempt 
Hallucination, auditory  
Hypotension 
Hypertension 
Bradycardia 
Sinus bradycardia 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
System organ class (SOC) 
Preferred term 
Nervous system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Investigations 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
number 
of 
Cumulative 
serious ADRs 
151 (33.5%) 
61 
21 
20 
8 
7 
5 
4 
3 
3 
107 (23.7%) 
16 
15 
8 
6 
5 
5 
4 
4 
4 
3 
39 (8.6%) 
24 
5 
38 (8.4%) 
18 
7 
3 
28 (6.2%) 
Page 64/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class (SOC) 
Preferred term 
Preferred term  
Injury,  poisoning and  procedural 
complications 
disorders 
General 
administration site conditions 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
and 
Blood pressure decreased 
Blood pressure increased 
Heart rate decreased 
Heart rate increased 
Intentional overdose 
Toxicity to various agents 
Accidental overdose 
Adverse event 
Pancreatitis 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Total  
number 
of 
Cumulative 
serious ADRs 
6 
4 
4 
4 
25 (5.5%) 
10 
4 
3 
17 (3.8%) 
5 
16 (3.5%) 
4 
6 
5 
4 
4 
4 
3 
2 
1 
1 
451 (100%) 
The  important  identified  risks  (Syncope,  Bradycardia,  Hypotension,  Sedative  events,  Drug  interaction 
with CYP3A4/5 inhibitors, Withdrawal blood pressure increased) and important potential risks (, Cardiac 
valvulopathy  due  to  binding  to  5HT-2B  receptors)  will  continue  to  be  monitored  through  routine 
pharmacovigilance    . 
PSUR data show several serious adverse events, reported three times and more, which are not included 
in the proposed SmPC.   
In  SOC  Blood  and  lymphatic  system  disorders,  only  isolated  (n=1)  adverse  events  were  reported: 
anaemia, haemorrhagic diathesis, neutropenia, splenic vein thrombosis, thrombocytosis. 
SOC Eye disorders include the following adverse events: blindness (n=1), blindness transient (n=2) and 
visual impairment (n=1).   
No  adverse  events  were  reported  belonging  to  SOC  Neoplasm  benign,  malignant  and  unspecified 
(including cysts and polyps) and SOC Pregnancy, puerperium and perinatal conditions. Use in pregnancy 
is included as missing information in the proposed RMP. Blood glucose increased was not reported and 
weight increased was reported once cumulatively. 
The above mentioned post marketing experience of  guanfacine was taken into consideration   to establish 
the benefit risk of guanfacine. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
A  number  of  safety  issues  were  identified,  including  low  heart  rate,  low  blood  pressure  and,  in  16 
guanfacin-treated patients, actual syncope’s. Also, high rate of somnolence and sedation occurred, and 
some  QT-interval  prolongations  were  identified.  Long-term  data  suggest  serious  risk  of  considerable 
weight  gain.  Insufficient  data  were  submitted  regarding  long-term  consequences  of  persistent 
hypno-sedation such as possible impaired cognitive development. 
The active-comparator study (316) lists severe TEAE’s to have occurred in 7.0% of guanfacine-treated 
patients (atomoxetine: 1.8%, placebo: 2.7%). As outlined in the applicants’ response, TEAE’s resulted in 
discontinuations  in  7.9%  of  guanfacine-treated  patients  (atomoxetine:  4.5%,  placebo:  0.9%).  These 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 65/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences  are  considered  to  be  substantial  and  question  tolerability  of  guanfacine  as  compared  to 
alternative  treatments.  The  high  rate  of  withdrawal  (61.8%)  observed  in  long-term  studies  raises 
questions on  treatment adherence in clinical practice, outside the controlled research environment.  
Tolerability of guanfacine-treatment is considered to be questionable regarding the observed frequencies 
of TEAE’s. Premature discontinuations, attributed to TEAE’s or overall, were more than twice as frequent 
among guanfacine-treated patients as compared to patients treated using atomoxetine. Severe TEAE’s 
were recorded in excess of 4 times more often. The translation of these findings on treatment adherence 
in clinical practice, outside the controlled research environment, is of concern.  Somnolence and sedation 
were reported by 50.8% of guanfacine-treated patients. In the short-term studies sedation-related 
symptoms led to study discontinuation in almost 12% of all guanfacine-treated patients, indicating 
severity and impact of those symptoms. Somnolence and sedation may be associated with the 
anti-adrenergic mechanism of action of guanfacine, as suggested by the observed dose-response 
relationship and the protracted duration of symptoms. They may impair school functioning, adding to 
possible learning impairments associated with the disorder itself. ADHD-treatment should typically be 
continued for a considerable time-span. Improvement of school-performance and cognitive development 
are major goals of ADHD-treatment. Against that background it is questioned whether 
guanfacine-treatment may accomplish such goals, considering the obvious adverse effect of somnolence 
and sedation on school performance and cognition. The applicant demonstrated adequately during the 
procedure that efficacy is acting at least for some part independently from reported sedation which gave 
some reassurance regarding this concern. Concerns regarding the risk of delay or deterioration of 
cognitive development of children and adolescents treated with guanfacine remain and the CHMP 
requested the applicant to perform a PASS study in order to evaluate the cognitive function of guanfacine- 
treated ADHD patients.    
As expected regarding mechanism of action of guanfacine, effects include the cardiovascular effects of 
bradycardia and hypotension. Both in healthy volunteers and in treated ADHD-patients several syncopes 
occurred. This is considered to be an important concern. Syncope occurred in 16 guanfacine-treated 
patients (0.7%; placebo: 0.2%; atomoxetine: 0.0%). In the long-term studies syncope occurred in 7 
patients (1.1%). Among 441 healthy (adult) volunteers, 2 subjects suffered syncope’s. Among healthy 
volunteers enrolled in the QTc-study 3 subjects had syncope’s. Syncope is a serious risk associated with 
falls, accidents and physical trauma in children and adolescents. In published literature, syncopes were 
also reported in patients receiving guanfacine-treatment for Tourette’s syndrome (King et al, 2006). 
Syncope may increase risk of falls and (traffic-) accidents. Regarding reported frequencies of injury and 
accidents, the guanfacine-treatment associated risk (8.7 - 10.4%) is increased as compared to placebo 
(7.1%). It is noticed that the risk in atomoxetine-treated patients is low (1.8%) which may be associated 
with reduction of ADHD-symptoms such as impulsivity and inattention, possibly lowering the risk of 
accidents towards the level observed in the general (child and adolescent) population. Studies using 
long-acting methylphenidate containing products typically detect 1.3 – 4.4% of treatment-emergent 
injury; poisoning and procedural complications which is also substantially lower. ADHD-treatments may 
typically reduce ADHD-associated increase of injury, but this is questionable for guanfacine. Some data 
suggest that somnolence and sedation may be most pronounced at the start of treatment. This was 
further substantiated by the applicant, in particular regarding a possible association with the risk of 
hypotension. Sedation and in particular its potential implications in terms of cognitive impairment and 
neurocognitive development  was of particular concern for the patient representatives and physicians who 
were consulted during this procedure.  
The risk of potential pro-arrhythmic effect is also of concern.  An on treatment QT-interval ≥480 ms was 
observed in 15 patients (0.8%) exposed to guanfacine, but not in patients exposed to either atomoxetine 
or placebo. There were 5 patients with Fridericia-corrected QT-interval prolongations of 60ms or higher. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 66/86 
 
 
 
 
 
In particular higher exposure after high-fat meals may increase that risk as suggested by prolongation of 
the corrected as well as uncorrected QT-intervals in the TQT-study. In the post-marketing experience as 
of Oct 2013, the applicant identified 4 cases of atrioventricular block or –dissociation, one case of bundle 
branch block and one case of atrial flutter. Regarding BMI, the applicant’s responses confirmed the risk of 
severe weight gain in particular in the setting of long-term treatment using guanfacine.   
Considering the above risks, recommendations with regard to dose titration and adjustment have been 
clearly described in section 4.2 of the SmPc and all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and 
post-marketing from the safety database have been also included in the SmPC.   
The SmPC for Intuniv specifies in section 4.2 that treatment must be initiated under the supervision of an 
appropriate specialist in childhood and/or adolescent behavioural disorders, and according to national 
ADHD prescribing guidelines.  
Educational materials were also developed to inform the specialist healthcare professionals about those 
risks, namely:    
• 
A checklist prior to initiating treatment with Intuniv to identify patients at risk for serious 
undesirable effects;   
• 
A checklist for ongoing monitoring and safety management of patients including titration phase 
during treatment with Intuniv;  
• 
A chart for ongoing monitoring (vital signs, height, weight) of patients during treatment with 
Intuniv.  
Lastly, in order to investigate the long term safety (especially effects on neurocognitive function) of 
Intuniv in Children and Adolescents Aged 6- 17 Years with ADHD, the CHMP requested the MAH to conduct 
and submit the results of a comparative safety study according to an agreed protocol.  
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Important risks and uncertainties were identified for Intuniv, in particular bradycardia and hypotension 
causing syncope, accidents and injuries. Also pronounced somnolence and sedation and severe weight 
increase after prolonged treatment were of concern. Cases of severe weight increase after prolonged 
treatment were also noted.  In order to minimise the risks and uncertainties, educational materials were 
developed to inform the healthcare professionals about these risks.   
The safety of Intuniv was considered to be acceptable  considering the restricted prescription status, the 
additional risk minimisation measures put in place as well as the condition to the marketing authorisation 
for the MAH to conduct a post-authorisation study in order to investigate the long term safety (especially 
effects on neurocognitive function) of Intuniv in Children and Adolescents Aged 6- 17 Years with ADHD.  
Therefore the CHMP considered that appropriate measures were put in place to ensure safe use of the 
product in the recommended indication.  
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.3 could be acceptable if the applicant 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC advice.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 67/86 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant provided an updated RMP version 1.6 addressing the PRAC advice comments. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice with the following changes: 
The CHMP made changes with regards to the wording of the Annex II condition to remove the duration of 
the study and the choice of comparator since these points need to be reviewed and agreed during a 
protocol assessment, the Annex II as agreed by CHMP is as follows: 
In order to investigate the long term safety especially effects on neurocognitive function of Intuniv in 
Children and Adolescents Aged 6- 17 Years with ADHD, the MAH should conduct and submit the results of 
a comparative safety study, according to an agreed protocol. 
The applicant indicated their intention to request Scientific Advice on the study protocol which was 
supported by the CHMP. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC and CHMP.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.6 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
•  Bradycardia 
•  Syncope 
•  Hypotension/decreased blood pressure 
•  Withdrawal blood pressure increase 
•  Sedative events 
•  Weight increase  
•  Cardiac valvulopathy 
•  QT prolongation 
•  Off-label use 
•  Blood glucose disorder 
•  Use in pregnant or breastfeeding women 
•  Use in patients with hepatic or renal impairment 
• 
Long-term safety (neurocognition in particular, but also 
effects on growth and sexual maturation)  
•  Drug interactions 
Activity/Study title (type 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for 
of activity, study title [if 
known] category 1-3)*  
concerns 
Planned, 
submission 
addressed 
started   
of final 
Drug utilisation study of 
Primary objective:  
Off-label use 
Planned 
INTUNIV 
To characterise patients who 
Effectiveness of 
(guanfacine extended release) 
are prescribed guanfacine. 
the educational 
in the European Union 
Category 3 
To describe prescribing 
patterns of guanfacine 
among physicians. 
materials for 
healthcare 
professionals 
reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
Annual reports 
starting 1st year 
after approval 
(to coincide with 
PSUR) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 68/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity/Study title (type 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for 
of activity, study title [if 
known] category 1-3)*  
concerns 
Planned, 
submission 
addressed 
started   
of final 
reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
Secondary Objectives: 
To measure the 
effectiveness of the 
additional risk minimisation 
measure (educational 
materials for healthcare 
professionals) in order to 
assess compliance with the 
indication and with visits and 
measurements needed 
during the first year of 
treatment. 
SPD503-318: A 
Primary objective:  
Long-term 
Started 
Submission of 
Phase 3, Open-label, 
To evaluate the long-term 
Multicentre, Protocol to 
safety and tolerability of 
provide access to Intuniv for 
guanfacine 
safety 
European Children and 
Adolescents A+ged 6-17 Years 
with 
Secondary Objectives: 
final study 
Report: 
31-01-2016 
Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity 
Disorder (ADHD) who 
participated in study 
SPD503-315 or SPD503-316 
Category 3 
To provide the medicine to 
patients who participated in 
studies SPD503-315 or 
SPD503-316  
To assess if the effectiveness 
of guanfacine achieved in the 
previous study is maintained 
SHP503-401: A Comparative 
Primary objective:  
- Long term 
Planned 
Submission of 
Safety Study of Intuniv in 
Children and Adolescents Aged 
6-17 Years with Attention- 
Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder 
(ADHD) according to an 
agreed protocol  
To investigate the long-term 
safety especially effects on 
neurocognition (assessed by 
safety 
(especially 
effects on 
neurocognition)  
the Cambridge 
Neuropsychological Test 
Automated Battery 
Category 1 
(CANTAB) or any other scale 
as per current clinical 
guidelines.  
Secondary objectives: 
final protocol: 
31 July  2016 
Submission of 
final study 
Report: 
31-01-2022 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 69/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity/Study title (type 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for 
of activity, study title [if 
known] category 1-3)*  
concerns 
Planned, 
submission 
addressed 
started   
of final 
reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
To further characterise the 
risks of hypotension, 
syncope, sedative events, 
weight increase, 
bradycardia, growth, sexual 
maturation and QT 
prolongation.  
The study should have at 
least 2 year follow-up, or 
longer if needed for 
achieving study objectives. 
V7089M-SPD503: 
To identify the transporter 
Potential drug 
Planned 
Final study 
results: 
31-03-2016 
In vitro studies to identify 
involved in hepatic uptake. 
interaction 
transporter involved in hepatic 
uptake considering that  
metabolism accounts for more 
than 50% in the drug 
elimination. 
In addition, when a candidate 
transporter has been  
identified, an in vivo study 
with a strong inhibitor/inducer 
of the transporter at the site of 
interest is recommended, if 
feasible (see chapter 5.2.4. of 
the EMA guideline on drugdrug 
interactions) 
Category 3 
V7401M-SPD503: 
To identify if guanfancine is 
Potential drug 
Planned 
Final study 
Time Dependent Inhibition 
an inhibitor of CYP enzymes 
interactions 
study for the following: 
and drug transporters 
results: 
31-01-2016 
- CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6 
and hepatic 3A4/5;  
- CYP2B6; 
- Intestinal CYP3A4, in line 
with the guideline on 
drug-drug interaction 
recommendations (e.g. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 70/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity/Study title (type 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status 
Date for 
of activity, study title [if 
known] category 1-3)*  
concerns 
Planned, 
submission 
addressed 
started   
of final 
reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
inclusion of strong inhibitor, 
maximal intestinal exposure 
of the drug,i.e.10 µM, 
pre-incubation time of at 
least 30 min together with 
IC50 shift calculation is 
recommended in case of 
TDI); 
- Transporters BCRP, 
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, 
OCT2, OAT1, OAT3 
Category 3 
V7400M-SPD503: 
To identify if guanfancine can 
Potential drug 
Planned  
Final study 
The MAH should re-perform 
induce CYP enzymes 
interactions 
results:  
the CYP induction study in 
line with the current EMA 
guideline on drug-drug 
interaction     
Category 3 
The MAH should evaluate 
To evaluate the 
Efficacy and 
Planned 
the pharmacological activity 
pharmacological activity of 
potential 
of 3-hydroxy guanfacine 
3-hydroxy guanfacine 
interaction 
sulfate by in vitro assays. If 
sulfate 
3-hydroxy guanfacine 
sulfate shows 
pharmacological activity in 
vitro, the enzyme involved 
in its formation should be 
identified. 
Category 3 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety 
concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
30-11-2015 
Metabolite 
synthesis 
completed: 
30-11-2015 
Evaluation of 
Pharmacological 
activity: 
28-02-2016 
Additional 
risk 
minimisation 
measures 
Bradycardia 
Pre screening and ongoing monitoring stipulation in Section 4.2 of the 
Educational 
SmPC. Warnings and precautions in Section 4.4 of the proposed 
materials for 
SmPC to measure patient’s heart rate and blood pressure prior to 
Healthcare 
initiation of treatment and periodically therafter.. Caution when 
professional 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 71/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional 
risk 
minimisation 
measures 
Educational 
materials for 
Healthcare 
professional 
Safety 
concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
treating patients with a history of hypotension, heart block, 
bradycardia or cardiovascular disease. Caution when treating patients 
with a history of syncope or a condition that may predispose to 
syncope. Caution when treating patients concomitantly with 
antihypertensives or other medicinal products that can reduce blood 
pressure or heart rate or increase the risk of syncope. 
Section 4.5 of the proposed SmPC recommends using caution when 
INTUNIV is administered to patients taking ketoconazole and other 
strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors. 
Bradycardia is listed as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the proposed SmPC. 
Syncope 
Pre screening and ongoing monitoring stipulation in Section 4.2 of the 
SmPC. Warnings and precautions in Section 4.4 of the proposed 
SmPC to measure patient’s heart rate and blood pressure prior to 
initiation of treatment and periodically thereafter. Caution when 
treating patients with a history of hypotension, heart block, 
bradycardia or cardiovascular disease. Caution when treating patients 
with a history of syncope or a condition that may predispose to 
syncope. Caution when treating patients concomitantly with 
antihypertensives or other medicinal products that can reduce blood 
pressure or heart rate or increase the risk of syncope. 
Section 4.5 of the proposed SmPC recommends using caution when 
INTUNIV is administered to patients taking ketoconazole and other 
strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors. 
Section 4.7 warns of possible effects on the ability to drive and use 
machines. 
Syncope is listed as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the proposed SmPC. 
Hypotension/decr
Pre screening and ongoing monitoring stipulation in section 4.2 of the 
Educational 
eased blood 
SmPC. Warnings and precautions in Section 4.4 of the proposed 
materials for 
pressure 
SmPC to measure patient’s heart rate and blood pressure prior to 
Healthcare 
initiation of treatment. Caution when treating patients with a history 
professional 
of 
hypotension, heart block, bradycardia or cardiovascular disease. 
Caution when treating patients with a history of syncope or a 
condition that may predispose to syncope. Caution when treating 
patients concomitantly with antihypertensives or other medicinal 
products that can reduce blood pressure or heart rate or increase the 
risk of syncope.  
Section 4.5 of the proposed SmPC recommends using caution when 
Intuniv is administered to patients taking ketoconazole and other 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 72/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
risk 
minimisation 
measures 
strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors. 
Hypotension and blood pressure decreased are listed as ADRs in 
Section 4.8 of the proposed SmPC. 
Withdrawal blood 
Section 4.2 of the proposed SmPC recommends monitoring blood 
Educational 
pressure increase 
pressure and pulse during dose downward titration (decrements of no 
materials for 
more than 1mg every 3 to 7 days) and following discontinuation of 
Healthcare 
Intuniv.  
professional 
Hypertension is listed as an ADR in Section 4.8 of the proposed SmPC. 
Sedative events  Pre screening and ongoing monitoring stipulation in Section 4.2 of the 
Educational 
SmPC. Warnings and precautions in Section 4.4 of the proposed 
materials for 
SmPC to consider the potential of additive sedative effects before 
Healthcare 
using with other centrally active depressants. 
professional 
Caution against the patient operating heavy equipment or driving 
until they know how they respond to treatment. 
Section 4.5 of the proposed SmPC recommends using caution when 
INTUNIV is administered to patients taking ketoconazole and other 
strong CYP3A4/5 inhibitors. 
Section 4.7 warns of possible effects on the ability to drive and use 
machines. 
Sedative events (somnolence, sedation, hypersomnia) are listed as 
ADRs in Section 4.8 of the proposed SmPC. 
Weight increase  Pre screening and ongoing monitoring stipulation in Section 4.2 of the 
Educational 
SmPC. Warnings and precautions in Section 4.4 recommends routine 
materials for 
monitoring of height, weight and BMI. 
Cardiac 
None 
valvulopathy 
Healthcare 
professional 
None 
QT prolongation  Pre screening and ongoing monitoring stipulation in  Section 4.2 of 
None 
the SmPC. Warnings and precautions in Section 4.4: Given the effect 
of INTUNIV on cardiac electrophysiology consider this observation in 
clinical decisions to prescribe INTUNIV to patients with a known 
history of QT prolongation, risk factors for torsades de pointes (e.g. 
heart block, bradycardia, hypokalemia) 
or patients who are taking medications known to 
prolongCaution in patients with known history of the QT 
prolongation, risk factors for torsades de pointes (e.g. heart block, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 73/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Additional 
risk 
minimisation 
measures 
bradycardia, hypokalemia) or patients who are taking medicinal 
products known to prolong the QT interval. Recommends further 
cardiac evaluation based on clinical judgment. interval 
Off-label use 
Use in children under 6 years, Adults and Elderly is addressed in 
None 
Section 4.2 (Special populations) of the proposed SmPC 
Blood glucose 
None 
disorder 
None 
Use in pregnant or 
Pregnancy and breastfeeding are addressed in Section 4.6 of the 
None 
breastfeeding 
proposed SmPC 
women 
Use in patients 
Use in patients with renal or hepatic impairment is addressed in 
None 
with renal or 
Section 4.2 (Special populations) of the proposed SmPC 
hepatic 
impairment 
Long-term safety 
Long-term safety is addressed in Section 4.2 of the proposed SmPC  None 
(especially effects 
on growth, sexual 
maturation and 
neurocognition). 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
The CHMP recommends the applicant to update the PL in order to maximise understanding of the product 
information (especially concerning key issues regarding safety and efficacy related to the chronic use of 
this product) by children and adolescents and therefore enhance treatment compliance in this special 
population. A dedicated user consultation with children and adolescents should be conducted on the 
updated PL. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 74/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, INTUNIV (GUANFACINE) is included in the 
additional monitoring list as there is an imposed PASS as an Annex II condition.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Guanfacine has shown to have a beneficial effect on symptoms of ADHD in children and adolescents as 
measured by the primary endpoint, ADHD-RS-IV. This was demonstrated in 4 short-term placebo 
controlled trials of 5-13 weeks duration (studies 301, 314, 312, and 316) and in a randomised withdrawal 
study of 6 months duration (study 315). In addition, the effect of guanfacine on symptoms was 
numerically higher compared to that of atomoxetine in the active-referenced study.   The effect on 
symptoms was also demonstrated in the adolescents study (study 312).  
Regarding functioning, statistically significant results were shown on WFIRS, on both the learning & 
school subscale (difference form placebo -0.22 (95% CI: -0.36 ; -0.08)) and the family subscale 
(difference from placebo -0.21 (95% CI: -0.36 ; -0.06)) in study 316. However, this effect was not 
replicated in studies 312 and 315. The effect of atomoxetine in study 316 was smaller, yet statistically 
significant for the learning & school subscale (difference form placebo -0.16 (95% CI: -0.31 ; -0.02) but 
not significant for the family subscale -0.09 (95% CI: -0.24 ; 0.06). Statistically significant effects were 
obtained on global measures such as CGI and PGA and on symptoms measures such as CPRS/CTRS. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
It is expected that successful ADHD treatment will address not only symptomatic improvement but also 
alleviate impairment in functioning. There is uncertainty about the effect of guanfacine on functioning due 
to the fact that of the 3 studies that used a specific instrument to measure functioning, only one showed 
statistically significant results. While methodological weaknesses in the way functioning had been 
assessed in the studies may contribute to explain these results, the fact remains that an effect on 
functioning has not been consistently shown.  
Significant effects were obtained on CPRS/CTRS, however this is a rating scale designed to evaluate 
DSM-IV ADHD symptoms rather than functioning. With respect to CGI and PGA, these are global 
measures of the patients’ condition that may be influenced by either symptoms, functioning or both. 
Therefore, improvement on these scales may equally reflect improvement on symptoms and/or 
improvement in functioning.  
Results showed that efficacy among patients with inattentive subtype ADHD is consistently lower than 
efficacy among patients with combined subtype ADHD. On the other hand, the applicant provided 
information showing that effects on the inattentive subscale of the ADHD-RS-IV were in the same order 
of magnitude as effects on the hyperactive subscale. It is difficult to know how this inconsistency should 
be interpreted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 75/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whether the effect of guanfacine is mediated only through sedation has been a matter of concern during 
the assessment, also in view of the lack of effect on functioning.  Analyses stratified for patients who did 
and who did not report sedation as an AE were performed to address this concern. In the pooled data from 
studies 301 and 304 the effect size in the subgroup with sedative AEs was smaller than in the subgroup 
without sedative AEs (0.17 vs 0.49 respectively). Although this may be explained by the high placebo 
response in the subgroup with sedative AEs,  the higher placebo response in the subgroup with sedative 
AEs may actually support the hypothesis that sedation drives the reduction in ADHD symptoms. On the 
other hand, additional analyses provided do not support such hypothesis. Indeed, the drop-out rates in 
the two subgroups (with and without sedative AEs) were similar and the proportion of responders 
increases with time while sedative AEs are observed mainly in the first weeks of treatment. In the 
randomized withdrawal study 315, with balanced randomization for sedative AEs between the INTUNIV 
and placebo group, the difference in failure rate in the placebo vs INTUNIV treated subgroup was 13% in 
favour of INTUNIV (66.7% vs 53.7% in the placebo vs. INTUNIV, respectively) while in the subgroup 
without sedative AEs the difference was 19% in favour of INTUNIV (62.9% vs 44.1%). Though in both 
cases the difference was not statistically significant, the larger difference in favour of INTUNIV in the 
non-sedated patients suggests that sedation did not drive the effect in the randomised withdrawal trial.  
The treatment effect sizes were comparable between the subgroup with and without sedative AEs (0.47 
and 0.51 respectively). The additional data show that an efficacy on ADHD symptoms has been observed 
also in subjects without reported sedation. No clear temporal relationship between efficacy and reporting 
of this AE has been demonstrated. This suggests that although contribution of sedation to the reduction 
on the symptom scale cannot be completely excluded, efficacy may be achieved at least partially via a 
different mechanism of action. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Bradycardia and hypotension, syncope 
As expected, given the mechanism of action of guanfacine, effects include the cardiovascular effects of 
bradycardia and hypotension. In the overall pool of guanfacine-treated patients, bradycardia occurred in 
1.5%, hypotension in 3.2% and syncope occurred in 0.7% of all guanfacine-treated patients. Syncope 
occurred in 16 guanfacine-treated patients (0.7%; placebo: 0.2%; atomoxetine: 0.0 Syncope is a serious 
risk associated with falls, accidents and physical trauma hazard in children and adolescents. In published 
literature, syncopes were also reported in patients receiving guanfacine-treatment for Tourette’s 
syndrome (King et al, 2006). Injury and accidents was reported more frequently with  
guanfacine-treatment (10.4%) than with placebo (7.1%). It is noticed that the risk in 
atomoxetine-treated patients is low (1.8%) which may be associated with reduction of ADHD-symptoms 
such as impulsivity and inattention, possibly lowering the risk of accidents towards the level observed in 
the general (child and adolescent) population.  Studies using long-acting methylphenidate containing 
products typically detect 1.3 – 4.4% of treatment-emergent injury; poisoning and procedural 
complications which is also substantially lower. ADHD-treatments may typically reduce ADHD-associated 
increase of accident-proneness and injury, but this is questionable for guanfacine.   
Somnolence and sedation 
Somnolence and sedation were reported by 50.8% of guanfacine-treated patients. The occurrence of 
somnolence and sedation was most prominent in the first few weeks of treatment and diminished 
gradually thereafter.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 76/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Weight increase  
In the overall pool of guanfacine-treated patients, weight increases occurred in 2.9% of patients. An age- 
and sex-normalised mean change from baseline in BMI percentile of 4.3 over 1 year was observed A 
considerable proportion of those patients shifted to the >85th and >95th percentile in normal BMI-by-age 
charts starting at normal or slightly above average weight, i.e. became overweight or obese due to 
treatment. 
QT prolongation 
QT prolongation is a potential risk associated with treatment with guanfacine. In phase II-III randomised 
double-blind monotherapy studies respective increases in QTc interval prolongation that exceeded 
change from baseline greater than 60 ms Fridericia-correction and Bazett-correction were 0 (0.0%) and 
2 (0.3%) among placebo and 1(0.1%) and 1(0.1%) among Intuniv patients. The clinical relevance of this 
finding is uncertain.  
In view of the risks above, prior to prescribing, it is necessary to conduct a baseline evaluation to identify 
patients at increased risk of somnolence and sedation, hypotension and bradycardia, QT-prolongation 
arrhythmia and weight increase /risk of obesity as described in the SPC sections 4.2 and 4.4. The SPC also 
gives recommendations for monitoring during dose titration and thereafter. In addition, patients are 
advised against operating heavy equipment, driving or cycling until they know how they respond to 
treatment with Intuniv, as described in section 4.7 of the SPC. Dedicated educational materials for 
healthcare professionals have also been developed to support the safe use of Intuniv. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Somnolence and sedation 
Somnolence and sedation may result in impaired school performance and delayed cognitive development. 
ADHD-treatment should typically be continued for a considerable time-span, but long-term cognitive 
effects of treatment using Intuniv were not evaluated. Impaired learning ability (memory impairment) 
and delay of cognitive development cannot be excluded. Long term effect of Intuniv on cognitive function 
will be investigated in a  PASS in children and adolescents with ADHD. 
QT prolongation 
Prolongation of the corrected QT-interval was observed in the withdrawal-phase but it remains unclear 
whether that effect includes an increased risk of TdP or life-threatening arrhythmias.  
Weight increase 
The applicant submitted the results of an epidemiological population-based study that showed no effect 
on BMI, but the differences between these findings as compared to the results of the long-term studies 
are poorly understood. A considerable – but partly uncertain - proportion of the increases in BMI in the 
long-term studies were associated with shifts to the >85% or >95% percentile of normalised BMI-for-age 
curves for patients with normal weight or slightly overweight at baseline (onset of overweight or obesity 
due to treatment). In the long-term studies, duration of exposure to higher recommended dose-levels 
was limited due to a high rate of premature discontinuations. Therefore safety of long-term exposure to 
guanfacine, in particular regarding weight-gain, remains uncertain. Therefore, monitoring of height, 
weight and BMI should be done prior to initiation of therapy and then every 3 months for the first year, 
taking into consideration clinical judgement. 6 monthly monitoring should follow thereafter, with more 
frequent monitoring following any dose adjustment. 
 General tolerability and adherence to treatment 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 77/86 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAE’s resulted in discontinuations in 7.9% of guanfacine-treated patients (atomoxetine: 4.5%, placebo: 
0.9%). Regarding the long-term studies the high rate of withdrawal (61.8%) leaves doubts whether in 
clinical practice, outside the controlled research environment, treatment adherence will be sufficient for 
feasibility of long-term therapy that is typically required in ADHD-treatment.
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 78/86 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects Table 
Table 8. Effects Table for Intuniv in the treatment of ADHD in children aged 6-17 years old ( studies 312 and 316). 
Effect 
Short description 
Unit 
Intuniv 
dose 
improvement 
from 
baseline 
[range] 
Atomox 
Placebo 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
Favourable effects 
Short-term 
ADHD-RS-IV 
Mean improvement 
on ADHD-RS-IV vs 
baseline 
(ADHD-RS-IV 
measures symptoms 
severity) 
Unit 
points 
1 mg1  
2 mg2  
3 mg2 
4 mg2 
1-7 mg 
- 20.4  
[-15.4- -18.0] 
[-15.8- -19.4] 
[-19.0- -20.9] 
[-23.9- - 25.7] 4 
-18.6 (11.9)5 
[-8.9 - -19.5] 
Responders 
% 
Responders 
defined as ≥ 25% 
reduction in 
ADHD-RS-IV  
1 mg3 
2 mg3 
3 mg3 
4 mg3 
1-7 mg 
73.7 
69.8 
75.0 
81.1 
[64.3-66.9]4 
55.45 
[42.3-57.13 
Statistically significant effects in all studies. 
Mean effect sizes in the short-term studies 
were, Study 301: 0.4; Study 304: 0.5; 
Study 316: 0.7 Study 312: 0.5. Overall 
effect size: 0.5. This effect size is smaller 
than the effects usually seen for MPH.  
Dropout in the studies was >  1/3. 
Responders not a priori defined in protocol. 
Effect not found in inattentive subtype of 
ADHD  
WFIRSP l&s 
Unit 
points 
Mean improvement 
on WFIRSP 
learning&school 
(WFIRSP measures 
functioning in various 
area such as school 
and family). 
WFIRSP fam 
Mean improvement 
on WFIRSP family 
Unit 
points 
Favourable effects 
Randomised withdrawal study 
1-7 mg4 
[-0.57- -0.64]  
-0.58 
[-0.42- -0.46] 
Effects on functioning were not consistently 
demonstrated.   
1-7 mg4 
[-0.37- -0.62]  
-0.50 
[-0.31- -0.41] 
Ref 
1,2 
4, 5 
3 
4 
4 
4 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 79/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADHD-RS-IV 
Mean improvement 
on ADHD-RS-IV vs 
baseline (SD) 
Unit 
points 
1-7 mg6 
9.6 (11.5) 
15.9(14.2) 
Tx failure 
Treatment failure 
% 
1-7 mg6 
49.3 
WFIRSP l&s 
Mean improvement 
on WFIRSP 
learning&school 
Unit 
points 
1-7 mg6 
0.24  
WFIRSP fam 
Mean improvement 
on WFIRSP family 
Unit 
points 
1-7 mg6 
0.24 
Effect 
Short description 
Unit 
Unfavourable effects 
Somnolence 
Incidence of 
somnolence 
Sedation 
Syncope 
Incdence of 
sedation 
Incidence of 
syncope 
% 
% 
% 
Injury 
Incidence of injury  % 
QT 
prolongation 
Incidence of 
ΔQT>60 ms 
BMI increase 
BMI increase 
% 
Unit 
points 
Intuniv 
Dose 
1 mg 
2 mg  
3 mg 
4 mg 
1 mg 
2 mg 
3 mg 
4 mg 
1-7 mg 
1-7 mg 
1-7 mg 
1 mg  
2 mg  
3 mg 
4 mg 
26.2 
20.7 
28.5 
39.7 
1.6 
10.0 
9.9 
13.2 
0.7 
10.4 
14.0 
3.9 
1.3 
2.2 
2.4 
Dropout in randomised withdrawal study 
>50% in the active arm and most occurred 
in the first month of treatment, shedding 
doubt on ability to comply with medication. 
Effects on functioning were not 
demonstrated.   
6 
6 
6 
6 
64.9 
0.38 
0.31 
Atomox 
Placebo 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
Ref 
17.9 
10.0 
1.8 
2.0 
0.0 
1.8 
0.0 
0.0 
1.2 
The most important safety issues 
associated with guanfacine are 
somnolence/sedation and  syncope. These 
unfavourable effects are considered to be 
pharmacologically associated and together 
constitute the most important risk for the 
safety of children and adolescents due to 
risk of accidents and falls causing injury. 
Persisting prolongations after corrections, 
bradycardia frequent, risk TdP unknown 
Clear increase over time, proportion severe 
increase unknown, high dropout rate 
7 
7 
8 
8 
8 
9 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 80/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-7mg 
2.2 
Abbrevations : ADHD-RS-IV:Attention Deficit and Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale according to DSM-IV criteria; WFIRSP: Weiss Functional Impairment Rating Scale; Resp: 
Responders defined as a ≥30% reduction from baseline in the ADHD-RS-IV and a CGI-I of 1 or 2.Tx failure, defined as 2 consecutive weeks with an increase of >50% in ADHD-RS-IV 
and an increase of > 2-points in CGI-S score relative to baseline of the randomised withdrawal Phase; 
Notes 1 Study 304 (mean difference (SD)  2 Studies 301, 304 [range], 3 Study 304, 4Study 312, 316, 5Study 316,  6Study 315 withdrawal 
7 Randomised pool,  8overall pool, 9Long term studies                
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015  
Page 81/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
ADHD is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders of childhood. It is a well-defined disorder 
with core features of inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity, but also impairment in executive 
functions. Treatment is therefore directed towards improvement of attention and reduction of 
hyperactivity/impulsivity in order to be able to focus on tasks and performance, and improve associated 
behavioural and relational problems.  
As underlined by consulted experts, the improvement in ADHD symptoms in children and in adolescents 
is considered to be an important step in the management of the disorder. Therefore, the effect of Intuniv 
on symptoms was considered clinically meaningful by the CHMP, despite the lack of effect on functioning 
(both at school and at home).    
The most important safety issues associated with guanfacine are bradycardia, hypotension, syncope, 
somnolence and sedation. These unfavourable effects are considered to be pharmacologically associated 
and together constitute the most important risk for the safety of children and adolescents due to risk of 
accidents and falls causing injury. In addition, the risk of increased BMI is an important unfavourable 
effect that may lead to mental and physical health problems on the long term. Appropriate measures 
including additional pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimization measures were put in place to help 
ensure safe and effective use of the product in the recommended indication. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Guanfacine HCl is a selective alpha2–adrenergic agonist. Its hypothesised mechanism of action is the 
modulation of the noradrenergic tonus of the pyramidal cells in the prefrontal cortex, thereby restoring 
deficits in attention and impulse control. It is a new class of medication for ADHD, which is different from 
the mechanism of action of existing medication 
Intuniv has shown an effect on symptoms. This effect was consistently statistically superior to placebo 
across pivotal studies, and numerically superior to that of atomoxetine in the only active-referenced trial. 
The lack of effect on functioning was carefully considered by the CHMP and a scientific advisory group in 
psychiatry (SAG) was convened to help explore the relevance of the benefits seen with Intuniv. The SAG 
underlined the methodological difficulties pertinent to the measurement of functioning in psychiatric 
disorders and in ADHD in particular. As such, an inconsistent effect on WFRIS may not be interpreted as 
a failure of improvement of functioning in general according to the SAG experts. The SAG also considered 
that ADHD treatment is multifaceted and that the reduction of symptoms is to be considered as a first step 
in the management of the disorder. In psychiatric disorders in general, symptom reduction is of 
importance to minimize burden of the disorder and to enable the patient to recover in his/her functioning 
level. Therefore, the observed efficacy of Intuniv on symptoms of ADHD, even though seemingly modest, 
was considered as clinically relevant in itself by the SAG experts. This view was supported by patients’ 
representatives who considered the effects on symptoms as a first step towards revovery. It was indeed 
acknowledged that symptom relief may help to improve the way the ADHD children/adolescent interacts 
with its environment, thereby improve their self-perception and give them a chance to move on towards 
recovery. However, patient representatives highlighted that the second step should be an improvement 
on functioning at school, home and in the daily activities.  
Sedation and somnolence induced by Intuniv were also very carefully considered by the CHMP and subject 
to a consultation of the SAG psychiatry and patient’s representatives. There were concerns in particular 
that sedation may drive the effect of Intuniv on symptoms. Although the role of sedation on symptom 
control cannot be excluded, this concern was alleviated by the lack of temporal relationship observed in 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015 
Page 82/86 
 
 
  
the trials between the sedation SAEs and the effects on core symptoms of ADHD, which would not be 
consistent with a simple sedative effect of the medication. However, somnolence and sedation were 
considered to be important risks by the CHMP, the SAG psychiatry and the patients’ representatives. 
According to the patients representatives who were consulted during the procedure, sedation and its 
potential consequences on neurocognitive development were of particular concern from the safety 
perspective. Together with the risk of bradycardia, hypotension and syncope, somnolence and sedation 
carry also the risk of accidents and falls causing injury. Evening sedation may also not be acceptable for 
some patients and their families as evening is a time for family life and after school activities. On the other 
hand, it was acknowledged that sedation may be beneficial for some patients with sleep problems, as 
from the clinical perspective, sedation may help in some cases to manage symptoms such as agitation. In 
view of the important identified and potential risks of Intuniv, appropriate measures including additional 
pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimization measures were put in place to help ensuring safe and 
effective use. These include detailed dosing instructions and warnings and precautions for use in the 
labelling, as well as dedicated educational materials for prescribers for pre-treatment screening, dose 
titration and monitoring of patients. In addition the applicant committed to conducting a long-term 
comparative post-authorisation safety study investigating the long term safety, especially the effects on 
neurocognitive function, of Intuniv in children and adolescents with ADHD. The MAH should conduct and 
submit the results of the safety study, according to an agreed protocol and the CHMP. Adherence to 
long-term treatment in the real clinical setting was also identified as a possible difficulty, in view of the 
high rate of withdrawal (61.8%) observed in the long-term. 
The CHMP discussed the ADHD population that could benefit the most from treatment with Intuniv.  It is 
acknowledged that methylphenydate has a more consistent and larger effect in symptom reduction than 
guanfacine (d=0.8 compared to d=0.5). Also, improved social- and school-functioning has been shown 
for treatments using short- or long-acting MPH-containing products. Clinical experts consulted during the 
procedure considered that treatment with stimulants has to be considered as fist line treatment due to 
their higher efficacy. However,  the need to have alternative therapeutic options to stimulants was also 
underlined, and so was the existence of  cases where Intuniv may be the most appropriate treatment due 
for example to specific clinical features of the patients (e.g. comorbidities such as tics, weight loss or 
insomnia) or clear contraindications to stimulants.  Apart from those cases, Intuniv will be used as further 
line therapy. As such, Intuniv offers a different mechanism of action than atomoxetine, to which it 
compared favourably with atomoxetine in the active-referenced study (d=0.5 compared to d=0.3) in 
terms of symptoms control, although this study was not powered initially to show a difference between 
the two medicines.  
In conclusion, the CHMP considered that Intuniv should be indicated for children and adolescents for 
whom stimulants are not suitable, not tolerated or have been shown to be ineffective. It also considered 
that both children and adolescents should be eligible for treatment, as the evidence available was 
eventually considered to be sufficient for children less and above 12 years old, and also considering that 
there would be no pharmacological or clinical rationale for stopping the medication at the age of 12, as 
underlined by the SAG psychiatry. 
Importantly, the CHMP concurred also with the SAG experts view - also expressed by patient 
representatives - that the treatment of ADHD should be multifactorial.  This is duly reflected in the 
indication wording whereby Intuniv must be used as a part of a comprehensive ADHD treatment 
programme, typically including psychological, educational and social measures. Like for other medicines 
approved for the treatment of ADHD, Intuniv is not indicated in all individuals with ADHD and the decision 
to use Intuniv must be based on a thorough assessment of the severity and chronicity of the child’s 
symptoms in relation to the child’s age. Diagnosis should be made according to DSM criteria or the current 
guidelines in ICD and should be based on a complete history and evaluation of the patient. Diagnosis 
cannot be made solely on the presence of one or more symptom. The specific aetiology of ADHD is 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015 
Page 83/86 
 
 
  
unknown and there is no single diagnostic test. Adequate diagnosis requires the use of medical and 
specialised psychological, educational and social resources. For this reason, the SPC for Intuniv specifies 
in section 4.2 that treatment must be initiated under the supervision of an appropriate specialist in 
childhood and/or adolescent behavioural disorders, and according to national ADHD prescribing 
guidelines.  
Benefit-risk balance 
In light of the totality of the evidence and taking into account the experts’ view, the CHMP concluded that 
the benefits of Intuniv outweighed its risks in the treatment of attention deficit/ hyperactivity disorder 
(ADHD) in paediatric patients (children and adolescents 6-17 years old inclusive) for whom stimulants are 
not suitable, not tolerated or have been shown to be ineffective. Thus, the benefit-risk balance was 
considered favourable provided that adequate risk minimisation measures are in place. 
4.  Recommendations 
 Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by majority 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Intuniv in the following indication: 
Intuniv is indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children and 
adolescents 6 to 17 years old for whom stimulants are not suitable, not tolerated or have been shown to 
be ineffective. 
Intuniv must be used as a part of a comprehensive ADHD treatment programme, typically including 
psychological, educational and social measures. 
is favourable and therefore recommends  the granting of the marketing authorisation  subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015 
Page 84/86 
 
 
 
 
 
  
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Intuniv in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree 
about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussions and agreement with the National Competent Authorities 
in each Member State where Intuniv is launched all healthcare professionals who are expected to 
prescribe Intuniv are informed through an information letter on having access to / are provided with the 
following items: 
• 
• 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Package Leaflet 
Educational material (including a prescriber check-list) for the healthcare professionals 
The Educational material and Prescriber checklist shall contain the following key messages: 
o 
Information on the risks associated with Intuniv: Bradycardia, Syncope, 
Hypotension/decreased blood pressure, Withdrawal blood pressure increase, sedative events 
and weight increase 
o  Checklist prior to initiating treatment with Intuniv to identify patients at risk for serious 
undesirable effects   
o  Checklist for ongoing monitoring and safety management of patients including titration phase 
during treatment with Intuniv  
o  Chart for ongoing monitoring (vital signs, height, weight) of patients during treatment with 
Intuniv  
• 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Due date 
SHP503-401: In order to investigate the long term safety (especially effects on 
Submission of final 
neurocognitive function) of Intuniv in Children and Adolescents Aged 6- 17 Years 
study Report: 
with ADHD, the MAH should conduct and submit the results of a comparative safety 
31-January-2022 
study according to an agreed protocol. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015 
Page 85/86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to 
be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable 
These conditions reflect the advice received from the PRAC with the exception of modification in the 
imposed post-authorisation safety study, as discussed in section 2.7.   
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed Paediatric 
Investigation Plan P/0265/2013 and the results of these studies are reflected in the Summary of Product 
Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534329/2015 
Page 86/86 
 
 
 
 
  
