14 October 2021 
DOC_REF_ID  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): guanfacine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010413/202103 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 March 2020 To 17 March 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for guanfacine, the  scientific 
conclusions of CHMP  are as follows:  
Suicidal events have been followed almost  since the  beginning of  the  assessment of  the PSURs. Upon  a 
request  from  the  previous  PSUR,  the  MAH  submitted  a  cumulative  review  on  this  safety  topic.  After 
reviewing the  information provided by the MAH,  the PRAC considers that there is not enough information 
to include suicidal ideation in section 4.8, albeit the information included in section 4.4 is very limited and 
should  be  reinforced.  Information  to  warn  the  caregivers or  healthcare  professionals  about  potential 
suicidal behavior should be included.  
In  addition,  a  signal  of  aggression  was  opened  and  closed  by  the  MAH  during  the  current  interval. 
Nonetheless, there were reported cases with plausible temporal association and positive dechallenge after 
withdrawal  or decrease in dose of GXR, and some of them  without  evidence of other concomitant  drugs. 
Moreover, some cases occurred after increasing the dose of GXR. Regarding clinical trials, the percentage 
of  cases  was  slightly  higher  in  the  group  of  GXR  versus  placebo,  even  when  considering  the  cases 
considered related with  the medication by the  investigator. In addition, there were cases of hostility  and 
homicidal ideation.  Therefore, the  PRAC considers that  information  about  aggression should  be included 
in the SmPC in section 4.4 and section 4.8.  
The CHMP agrees with  the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation  to the  terms of the marketing  authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the  scientific conclusions for guanfacine the CHMP  is of the opinion that  the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing guanfacine is unchanged subject to the  proposed 
changes to  the product information 
The CHMP recommends that  the terms of the  marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
