European Medicines Agency 
London, 9 October 2006 
Product name: INVANZ 
Procedure No: EMEA/H/C/389/II/15 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION
Confidential7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20)  74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Ertapenem  sodium  is  a  sterile,  synthetic,  long-acting,  parental,  1β-methylcarbapenem  that  is 
structurally  related  to  β-lactam  antibiotics  with  activity  against  a  wide  range  of  gram-positive  and 
gram-negative aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. 
The bactericidal activity of ertapenem results from the inhibition of cell wall synthesis and is mediated 
through ertapenem binding to penicillin binding proteins. 
Ertapenem  sodium  is  a  white  to  off-white  hygroscopic,  crystalline  solid.  It  is  soluble  in  water  and 
0.9% sodium chloride solution, practically insoluble in ethanol, and insoluble in isopropyl acetate and 
tetrahydrofuran.  
Invanz  is  supplied  as  sterile  lyophilized  powder  for  intravenous  infusion  after  reconstitution  with 
appropriate  diluent  and  transfer  to  50  ml  0.9%  Sodium  Chloride  Injection;  or  for  intramuscular 
injection  following  reconstitution  with  3.2  ml  of  1%  lidocaine  hydrochloride.  Each  vial  contains  
1.046 grams (g) ertapenem sodium, equivalent to 1 g ertapenem.   
The initial Marketing Authorisation was granted on 18 April 2002 by the European Commission. 
On  the  basis  of  the  results  of  a  clinical  study  named  “Protocol  039”,  a  prospective,  multicenter, 
double-blind,  randomised,  comparative  study  to  evaluate  the  safety,  tolerability,  and  efficacy  of  a 
single  dose  of  ertapenem  sodium  (MK-0826)  versus  cefotetan  for  the  prophylaxis  of  surgical  site 
infection  following  elective  colorectal  surgery,  the  MAH  submitted  in  November  2005  the  present 
type II variation to include prophylaxis of surgical site infection elective colorectal surgery in adults to 
the current approved therapeutic indications:  
“Treatment of the following infections in adults when caused by bacteria known or very likely to be 
susceptible to ertapenem and when parenteral therapy is required:  
• 
Intra-abdominal infections 
•  Community acquired pneumonia 
•  Acute gynaecological infections 
•  Diabetic foot infections of the skin and soft tissue” 
Postoperative  infection  is  a  common  complication  of  surgical  procedures.  These  infections  include 
surgical site infections (SSI), which may be further classified as superficial incisional, deep incisional, 
or organ space infections as well as remote site infections.  It has been established for some time that 
antimicrobial  prophylaxis  prior  to  colon  surgery  reduces  both  postoperative  infection  rate  and 
mortality. However, while it has been established that antimicrobial prophylaxis decreases the rate of 
post-operative infection, results from numerous clinical trials have shown a wide range of prophylactic 
success. This range exists not only from regimen to regimen, but across clinical studies using the same 
regimen.  While  the  reasons  for  this  variability  are  not  definitively  known,  a  variety  of  causes  have 
been proposed. Among them are differences in patient population and methodology of measurement. 
Additionally,  differences  in  study  design  and  definition  of  wound  infection  may  contribute  to  the 
differences.  Guidelines  have  been  developed  to  classify  operations  with  respect  to  risk  of 
postoperative infection, and to guide use of appropriate prophylactic measures intended to reduce the 
risk of postoperative infection.  In addition, guidelines have been published to assist in the design of 
studies to examine new agents for prophylactic efficacy. 
The  organisms  that  cause  postoperative  infections  can  vary,  but  generally  include  skin  flora  such  as 
Staphylococcus  aureus,  and  in  the  case  of  colorectal  operations,  enteric  gram-negative  rods  and 
anaerobes, which are abundantly present in the intestinal lumen. Factors associated with increased risk 
of  postoperative  infections  after  colorectal  surgery  include  rectal  resection  (either  low  anterior  or 
abdomino-perineal  procedures),  prolonged  surgery  (>3.5  to  4  hours),  and  other  general  health 
parameters such as advanced age and underlying illnesses, including diabetes mellitus. Other factors 
considered  important  in  reducing  the  risk  of  postoperative  infection  are  careful  attention  to  skin 
antisepsis, primary wound closure, and recently, increasing perioperative tissue oxygenation has been 
suggested. 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
2/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanical  bowel  preparation  intended  to  empty  the  bowel  and  reduce  the  luminal  bacteria  is 
considered a standard prophylactic measure before elective colorectal surgery. The preferred regimens 
currently  are  orally  administered  osmotic  agents  such  as  polyethylene  glycol  solution,  administered 
alone or in reduced volume after the laxative bisacodyl, and sodium phosphate in appropriate patients 
after  minimal  dietary  restriction.  While  sodium  phosphate  regimens  have  shown  high  patient 
compliance  rates,  the  demonstration  of  some  electrolyte  abnormalities  and  contraindications  in  the 
product circular make this an appropriate choice for only some patients. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
2.1  Clinical efficacy 
•  Description and methods of the main study: Protocol 039. 
This  was  a  prospective,  multicenter,  double-blind  (with  in-house  blind),  randomised  comparative 
study conducted in 51 centres in the USA to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and tolerability of ertapenem 
sodium versus cefotetan for prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery 
in adults. This study, which began on 6-May-2002 (FPI), was anticipated to enrol 900 patients (450 on 
ertapenem)  in  order  to  achieve  340  evaluable  patients  in  each  treatment  group.  Each  patient  was 
expected to complete the study, including follow-up, within 4 weeks. Last Patient Out (LPO) was on 
9-Mar-2005 and all data was received in-house by 11-Mar-2005. 
 Study objectives 
The  objective  of  this  study  is  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  intravenous  ertapenem  sodium 
compared  to  cefotetan  in  the  prophylaxis  of  surgical  site  infections  following  elective  colorectal 
surgery. 
Primary: (1) To compare the efficacy of ertapenem sodium with that of cefotetan in the prophylaxis of 
surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery.  
Secondary:  (1)  To  document  the  microbiology  of  surgical  site  infections  in  patients  who  fail 
prophylaxis and/or who have distant site infections.  
(2) To evaluate and compare the safety profile of ertapenem sodium versus cefotetan with 
respect to the proportion of patients with any drug related adverse experiences (AEs). 
 Enrolment - Inclusion and exclusion criteria 
Inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied in order to enroll patients undergoing appropriate surgery 
of the colon or rectum and were not complicated by preexisting conditions which could confound the 
evaluation of the efficacy or safety profiles of the study drugs. The following inclusion and exclusion 
criteria  are  from  Protocol  Amendment  039-01.  The  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  did  not  change 
over the course of the study.   
Particularly, the following inclusion and exclusion criteria were considered: 
(cid:131)  Patients  scheduled  to  undergo  elective  colon  or  colorectal  surgery  by  laparotomy  meeting  the 
following criteria: 
(cid:131)  Surgery  must  have  been  scheduled  in  advance.  Patients  with  emergency  colon  or  colorectal 
to  complete  preoperative  bowel 
insufficient 
time 
surgery  (unscheduled  surgery  with 
preparation) were expressly excluded. 
(cid:131)  There must have been adequate time to complete preoperative bowel preparation. 
(cid:131)  Patients with active inflammatory bowel disease involving the colon were excluded. 
(cid:131)  Patients  with  a  bacterial  infection  at  the  time  of  surgery  or  with  a  need  for  administration  of 
systemic  antimicrobial  therapy  within  1  week  prior  to  surgery  were  excluded.  Coexisting 
condition at baseline that required antimicrobial therapy during the course of the study. 
Patients  had  an  initial  eligibility  screening  assessment  within  30  days  prior  to  study  therapy  that 
included  a  complete  physical  exam  and  medical  history,  assessment  of  baseline  risk  factors  for 
postoperative infection, and laboratory studies. Any patient whose screening procedures occurred >48 
hours  prior  to  study  drug  administration  was  to  have  the  medical  history  and  physical  examination 
updated prior to administration of study drug to assess any significant changes that may have occurred. 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
3/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who met all inclusion criteria and no exclusion criteria were eligible for randomisation into 
the study at that time.   
All patients were to complete an osmotic oral bowel preparation containing polyethylene glycol or oral 
sodium  phosphate  prior  to  surgery.  On  the  day  of  surgery,  patients  received  a  single  dose  of  study 
medication infused over thirty minutes within one hour prior to incision.   
Patients  were  followed  post-operatively  for  efficacy  with  the  investigator  making  an  assessment  of 
clinical  response  to  therapy  at  the  time  of  discharge  from  the  hospital  and  at  the  follow-up  visit  4 
weeks  posttreatment.  Although  clinical  response  was  assessed  at  2  timepoints  for  each  patient,  the 
primary  assessment  of  clinical  response  was  made  at  the  follow-up  or  test  of  success  visit,  4  weeks 
posttreatment.  Patients  were  followed  for  safety  daily  up  to  and  including  14  days  posttreatment.  
Patients  were  to  be  contacted  by  telephone  on  day  14  posttreatment  to  assess  for  any  adverse 
experiences.  After  having  been  entered  into  the  study,  patients  were  allowed  to  withdraw  from  the 
study at any time or the patient could be dropped from the study at the discretion of the investigator 
should  any  untoward  effects  occur.  In  addition,  patients  were  allowed  to  be  withdrawn  if  he/she 
violated  the  study  plan  or  for  administrative  and/or  other  safety  reasons.  All  patients  with  an 
unfavorable clinical response at any time before the 4 week posttreatment follow-up assessment was to 
be  considered  a  failure  for  analysis  and  no  further  assessment  or  clinical  response  was  required.  
However these patients were to be followed for at least 14 days after receiving study therapy for safety 
purposes. 
 Randomisation 
Adult  patients  scheduled  to  undergo  elective  surgery  of  the  colon  or  rectum  with  sufficient  time  for 
bowel  preparation  were  randomised  to  1  of  the  2  study  regimens  in  a  1:1  ratio,  according  to  the 
allocation/randomisation  schedule.  Allocations  were  stratified  by  planned  surgical  procedure  with 
patients  scheduled  to  undergo  an  intraperitoneal  procedure  being  stratified  to  Stratum  I  and  patients 
scheduled to undergo an abdominoperineal resection being stratified to Stratum II. For the purposes of 
this study, an abdominoperineal resection was considered to be a procedure in which any portion of 
the rectum was removed.   
   Changes in the Conduct of the Study or Planned Analyses 
The  study  protocol  (039-00)  was  amended  only  once  during  the  course  of  the  study  (039-01).  This 
protocol  was  written  and  all  changes  implemented  prior  to  the  randomisation  of  the  first  patient.  
Protocol 039-00 was not sent to sites and no patients were entered under this protocol.   
The  DAP  stated  that  all  pre-specified  risk  factors  would  be  included  in  the  multivariate  analysis.  
However, when performing the multivariate analysis, only significant risk factors from the univariate 
analysis were included. A p-value cutoff of < 0.3 was utilised to identify factors to be included in the 
multivariate analysis.   
One  additional  safety  test,  not  pre-specified  in  the  DAP,  was  performed.  The  proportion  of  patients 
with  any  serious  drug-related  clinical  AEs  was  compared  between  treatment  groups  using  risk 
difference.  The 95% CI on the risk difference was calculated and Fisher’s exact test was performed. 
Study medication and Dosage 
Ertapenem was given as a single dose of 1.0 g intravenously and cefotetan was given as a single dose 
of 2.0 g.  Both drugs were to be given 30 to 60 minutes prior to the planned initial surgical incision as 
a single IV dose. There was to be no dose adjustment for renal insufficiency since this was a single 
dose study. 
The  rationale  for  this  study  is  the  appropriate  aerobic  and  anaerobic  spectrum  of  ertapenem,  and  its 
long half life.  Ertapenem has been studied in 8 Phase IIB and III trials, including in complicated intra-
abdominal  infection,  acute  pelvic  infection  in  women,  and  complicated  skin  and  skin  structure 
infection. These 3 studies demonstrated that ertapenem is efficacious in the treatment of polymicrobial 
infections,  in  which  the  pathogens  included  S.  aureus,  and  gram-negative  and  anaerobic  pathogens.  
Furthermore, ertapenem sodium has an extended half-life of ~4 hours and is administered once daily 
in  therapeutic  regimens.  After  a  single  1-g  dose  of  ertapenem  given  intravenously,  a  Cmax  of  
155 µg/ml is reached, and the plasma concentration of total drug is 31 µg/ml at 6 hours and 9 µg/ml  at 
12  hours  dose.  The  plasma  concentration  of  total  drug  declines  to  3  µg/ml  at  18  hours.  Therefore, 
repeated dosing should not be required even for prolonged operations. Ertapenem penetration into skin 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
4/19 
 
 
  
blister  fluid  has  been  studied  using  the  suction  skin  blister  model.  These  data  indicate  excellent 
penetration into blister fluid on Day 3 of 1-g IV once daily dosing.  Peak skin blister concentrations of 
24 µg/ml  are achieved at 4 to 8 hours after dosing and sustained above 4 µg/ml for the entire dosing 
interval.  When  extrapolating  these  data  to  approximate  a  first  (or  only  dose),  the  concentration  of 
ertapenem in skin blister fluid is expected to exceed 4 µg/ml within 1 hour of dosing. This level is well 
above the MIC90 of the anticipated pathogens in surgical infections following colorectal surgery (e.g., 
S.  aureus,  enterics  and  anaerobes),  all  with  MIC90  ≤1.0  µg/ml.  Therefore,  while  the  dose  would  be 
given an expected 1 hour prior to incision, redose would not be required even if there were substantial 
delay to the initiation of surgery, or with prolonged procedure. 
The  comparative  antibiotic,  cefotetan,  is  a  second  generation  cephalosporin  with  anti-anaerobic 
activity  and  relatively  extended  half  life  of  approximately  4  hours.  Cefotetan  has  been  studied 
extensively  with  success  rates  in  prophylaxis  in  colorectal  surgery  ranging  from  72  to  92%.  It  is 
approved  for  use  in  prophylaxis  of  colorectal  surgery  in  the  US,  and  has  been  used  extensively  in 
clinical  trials  of  surgical  prophylaxis  and  in  practice.  The  standard  dose  of  cefotetan  is  1  to  2  g  IV 
administered  30  to  60  minutes  prior  to  incision.  In  accordance  with  its  product  circular  and  other 
published information, the dose of cefotetan used in the study was 2 g IV given 30 to 60 minutes prior 
to surgery. Cefotetan was developed by Yamanouchi and marketed outside Japan by Astra Zeneca as 
Cefotan & Apacef. In the EU, cefotetan has had national licences in a number of countries including 
Belgium,  Italy,  Germany,  Austria  and  France  but  recently  a  few  have  been  withdrawn  (e.g.  France 
2004, Belgium April 2005) and its MAH has variously ceased production for a few EU states. MSD 
confirms  that  in  France,  there  was  specific  registration  for  'prophylaxis  in  surgical  site  infection 
following  colo-rectal  surgery'.  Also,  the  dosage  used  in  protocol  039  is  consistent  with  that  in  the 
Belgian  guideline  on  recommendations  for  prophylactic  use  of  antibiotic  in  surgery  "HGR 
Aanbevelingen  voor  het  prophylactisch  gebruik  van  antibiotica  in  de  heelkunde"  and  the  Italian 
guidelines on the use of antibiotics "Linee guida per la profilassi antibiotica in chirurgia". 
 Efficacy evaluation 
Assessment of clinical response was made for all patients at the time of hospital discharge and at the 
follow-up visit 4 weeks posttreatment.  Although clinical response was assessed at two time points for 
each patient, the primary assessment of clinical response was made at the follow-up, or test-of-success 
visit, 4 weeks posttreatment. If a patient had an unfavorable clinical response at any time before the 
follow-up  visit,  that  was  considered  the  clinical  endpoint  and  no  further  assessment  or  clinical 
response  was  required.  If  a  patient  was  not  declared  a  failure  and  did  not  return  for  an  appropriate 
follow-up  visit  with  the  investigator,  the  patient  was  considered  unevaluable  with  an  indeterminate 
outcome. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of  clinically  evaluable  patients  who  had  a 
favorable clinical response assessment at the 4 week posttreatment follow-up visit. Clinical response 
assessments  were  made  by  the  investigator  at  hospital  discharge  and  at  the  4-week  posttreatment 
follow-up visit. For the efficacy analysis, the clinical response at the 4-week posttreatment visit was 
considered  to  be  the  primary  endpoint.  Clinical  response  definitions  were  success  of  prophylaxis, 
failure of prophylaxis, or distant site infection as defined below.  Patients experiencing both a failure 
of  prophylaxis  and  a  distant  site  infection  had  both  clinical  responses  entered  into  the  database  and 
were considered to be a failure of prophylaxis for the primary endpoint. 
Patients  assessed  as  being a  success  of  prophylaxis were  required  to  meet  all  three  of  the following 
criteria: 
•  No signs or symptoms of infection at the surgical site.  
•  No further antimicrobial therapy was necessary.  
•  No surgical intervention for infection was necessary 
Patients assessed as being a failure of prophylaxis were classified as having development of a surgical 
site  infection,  receiving  unexplained  antibiotics,  or  experiencing  an  anastomotic  leak,  as  defined 
below.  Patients  with  development  of  a  surgical  site  infection  were  further  classified  as  having  a 
superficial  incisional  infection,  a  deep  incisional  infection,  or  an  organ/space  infection  as  defined 
below. 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
5/19 
 
 
(a) 
1. 
Surgical Site Infection 
Superficial  incisional  –  Infection  occurred  within  30  days  after  the  operation  and  infection 
involved only skin or subcutaneous tissue of the incision and at least one of the following: 
•  Purulent drainage, with or without laboratory confirmation, from the superficial incision. 
•  Organisms isolated from an aseptically obtained culture or fluid or tissue from the superficial 
2. 
3. 
incision.  
•  At least one of the following signs or symptoms of infection:  Pain or tenderness, localised 
swelling, redness, or heat  and superficial incision is deliberately opened by the surgeon or 
attending physician. 
Stitch  abscesses  (minimal  inflammation  and  discharge  confined  to  the  points  of  suture 
penetration) and incisional SSI that extends into the fascial and muscle layers.  
Deep incisional – Infection occurred within 30 days after the operation and infection involved 
deep soft tissue (eg., fascial and musical layers) of the incision and at least one of the following: 
•  Purulent  drainage  from  the  deep  incision  but  not  from  the  organ  space  component  of  the 
surgical site. 
•  A deep incision spontaneously dehisced or was deliberately opened by a surgeon when the 
patient had at least one of the following signs or symptoms:  fever (>38◦C), localised pain or 
tenderness. 
•  An  abscess  or  other  evidence  of  infection  involving  the  deep  incision  is  found  on  direct 
examination, during reoperation, or by histopathologic or radiologic examination.  
An  organ/space  infection  that  drained  through  the  incision  was  to  be  reported  as  a  deep 
incisional surgical site infection. 
Organ/space  –  Infection  occurred  within  30  days  after  the  operation  and  infection  appears 
related to the operation and infection involves any part of the anatomy (e-g., organ or spaces), 
other than the incision, which was opened or manipulated during an operation and at least one 
of the following: 
•  Purulent drainage from a drain that is placed through a stab wound into the organ/space. 
•  Organisms isolated from an aseptically obtained culture of fluid or tissue in the organ/space. 
An  abscess  or  other  evidence  of  infection  involving  the  organ/space  that  is  found  on  direct 
examination, during reoperation or by histopathologic or radiologic examination. 
(b)  Unexplained  antibiotic  use  –  Any  patient  receiving  antibiotic  therapy  within  the  4  weeks 
following colorectal surgery for any reason other than development of a surgical site infection 
or a distant site infection was considered to be a failure due to unexplained antibiotic use.   
(c)  Anastomotic  leak  –  Patients  with  an  anastomotic  leak  of  the  involved  bowel  requiring 
additional  intervention  by  surgery  or  use  of  antimicrobials  was  considered  a  failure  due  to 
anastomotic leak.  Patients developing an organ/space infection due to an anastomotic leak were 
assessed as an anastomotic leak for the primary efficacy analysis. 
Patients with a final clinical response assessment of “distant site infection” were not evaluable for the 
primary  analysis  of  efficacy.    Distant  site  infections  were  documented  according  to  the  following 
criteria: 
1. 
Urinary Tract Infection - Diagnosed by signs and symptoms of a urinary tract infection and a 
urine  culture  with  100,000  colonies/ml  (or  ≥10,000  colonies/ml  if  the  same  bacterial  species 
was isolated from 2 urine samples at different times). 
Pneumonia - Diagnosed by a new infiltrate on the chest x-ray and presence of at least one of 
the following signs and symptoms: fever (defined as body temperature of ≥38ºC), leukocytosis 
>12,500 cells/mm3, increased sputum production with numerous leukocytes, and a predominant 
bacterial species. 
Vascular  Site  -  Defined  by  erythema,  swelling,  tenderness,  and/or  the  presence  of  purulent 
material at the catheter site that required systemic antimicrobial therapy. 
Other - Other distant site infections which were clearly unrelated to the surgical site. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
6/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other  endpoints:  (1)  The  proportion  of  patients  with  a  distant  site  infection  any  time  up  to  the  
4-weeks posttreatment visit. (2) The proportion of patients who develop the presence of microbiologic 
pathogens (any pathogen and for each pathogen). (3) The proportion of patients with any drug-related 
AEs. 
 Definitions of populations 
The following terms are used to describe the study populations analyzed in this study: 
- Screened population: all patients who signed a consent form for the study. This population includes 
those  patients  who  were  not  randomised  to  therapy  and  those  patients  who  were  randomised  to 
therapy. 
-  Randomised  population:  a  subset  of  the  screened  population  comprised  of  patients  who  were 
randomised  to  a  study  regimen,  irrespective  of  whether  the  patient  actually  received  study  therapy.  
Patients randomised to one treatment group who, due to dispensing errors, mistakenly received study 
therapy with the other study treatment were analyzed and displayed throughout the report based on the 
study therapy actually received.   
- Treated population:  a subset of the randomised population comprised of patients that received at 
least a partial dose of study therapy.  Only treated patients are included in the safety analysis. 
-  Modified  Intent-to-Treat  (MITT)  population:  a  subset  of  the  treated  population  that  met  the 
minimal  disease  definition,  received  a  complete  dose  of  study  therapy  at  any  time  before  or  during 
surgery,  and  underwent  elective  surgery  of  the  colon  or  rectum  with  completion  of  an  appropriate 
bowel  preparation.  Determination  of  the  MITT  population  was  made  prior  to  unblinding  using 
prespecified criteria as indicated in the Efficacy Evaluability Document.   
-  Evaluable  population:  a  subset  of  the  MITT  population  comprised  of  patients  who  met  the 
evaluability criteria specified in the Efficacy Evaluability Document up to and including their 4-week 
follow-up  assessment.  This  population  comprises  patients  who  received  a  complete  dose  of  study 
therapy  no  more  than  two  hours  prior  to  initial  surgical  incision  and  no  more  than  six  hours  before 
surgical closure and in whom sufficient information was available to determine their outcome at the  
4-week follow-up assessment and for whom no confounding factors were present that interfered with 
the assessment of that outcome. 
The  figure  below  is  the  profile  of  study  enrollment  and  summarizes  the  number  of  patients  in  the 
MITT and evaluable populations. 
Screened patients = 1072 
Not Randomized = 70 
Randomized to Therapy = 1002 
Randomized, not treated = 50 
Treated Population = 952 
Ertapenem Treatment Group = 476 
Cefotetan Treatment Group = 476 
MITT Population = 451 
MITT Population = 450 
Evaluable Population = 338 
Evaluable Population = 334 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
Determinations of evaluability were made prior to unblinding using prespecified criteria as indicated 
in  the  Efficacy  Evaluability  Document.  All  changes  to  clinical  response  and  evaluability  prior  to 
unblinding  are  captured  in  the  audit  list  for  patient  evaluability  and  clinical  response  modules.  Any 
change to data subsequent to unblinding is captured in the critical change memo.   
The  most  common  reason  patients  were  excluded  for  the  MITT  population  was  minimal  surgical 
definition not met. This included 41 patients who did not undergo an appropriate colorectal surgery in 
addition to 49 of the 50 patients randomised but not treated.   
The  other  primary  reason  patients  were  not  qualified  for  the  MITT  population  was  study  therapy 
violation. To be considered qualified for the MITT population, patients were required to receive a full 
dose of study medication. However, receiving a dose of study medication within 2 hours of incision 
and 6 hours of wound closure was not required to be qualified for the MITT population as it was in the 
evaluable  population.  Twenty-four  (24)  patients  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  26 patients  in  the 
cefotetan  group  were  randomised  but  did  not  receive  study  medication  and  were  excluded  from  the 
MITT population. One patient in the cefotetan group received only a partial dose of study medication 
and was thus excluded from the MITT population  
 Analysis populations 
The “evaluable-patients-only” approach was the primary efficacy approach.  A criterion for exclusion 
from  the  evaluable-patients-only  approach  was  concomitant  antibiotic  therapy  to  treat  a  distant  site 
infection,  with  no  evidence  of  subsequent  surgical  site  infection.  However,  patients  who  received 
concomitant antibiotic therapy to treat a distant site infection, and developed a subsequent surgical site 
infection were considered evaluable failures. 
A modified intent-to-treat (MITT) efficacy analysis was also performed for the primary endpoint. This 
analysis  was  considered  supportive  of  the  primary  evaluable-patients-only  analysis.  All  patients 
randomised  and  treated,  who  underwent  elective  colorectal  surgery  with  completion  of  bowel 
preparation  procedure  were  included  in  the  modified  intent-to-treat  analysis.  All  patients  who  were 
considered non-evaluable for the primary analysis because of concomitant antibiotic use for a distant 
site infection were considered failures for the MITT analysis, regardless of investigator’s assessment 
of  the  surgical  site.  In  addition  to  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  all  other  efficacy  endpoints  were 
analysed for the MITT patient population. 
•  Discussion and results from the main study: Protocol 039. 
The  study  039  was  planned  for  a  total  enrollment  of  approximately  900  patients  to  achieve 
340 evaluable  patients  in  each  arm.  However,  during  the  enrollment  period,  an  assessment  of  the 
evaluability  rate  on  the  blinded  data  showed  a  lower  than  expected  rate  of  evaluability.  Therefore, 
enrollment was extended and 1002 patients were randomised into 1 of 2 treatment groups: 500 patients 
were  randomised  to  receive  ertapenem  and  502  patients  were  randomised  to  receive  cefotetan.  Four 
hundred and seventy six (476) patients received ertapenem and 476 patients received cefotetan. Fifty 
(50) patients were randomised to 1 of the 2 treatment arms (24 to ertapenem and 26 to cefotetan) but 
received no study therapy. 
The primary efficacy analysis included all patients who were considered evaluable up until the 4-
week follow-up assessment. Six hundred seventy-two (672) patients were considered evaluable for the 
primary  efficacy  analysis:  338  patients  received  ertapenem  and  334  received  cefotetan.  A  modified 
intent-to-treat  (MITT)  analysis  was  done  to  support  the  evaluable  population  analysis;  901  (89.9%) 
randomised patients were included in this analysis.   
In  terms  of  accounting  of  patients  in  the  evaluable  population,  the  2  treatment  groups  were 
generally similar with respect to reasons that patients discontinued from the study. A high proportion 
of evaluable patients in both treatment groups had an elective colorectal surgical procedure for colon 
or rectal cancer. Patients could have multiple procedures, additional surgical findings, and procedure 
requirements but were required to undergo a procedure involving resection of the colon or rectum to 
be included in the evaluable and MITT population. The 3 commonest procedures were hemicolectomy 
(31.1%), sigmoidectomy (39.6%) and resection of the rectum (22.9%). Of these procedures, it may be 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
8/19 
 
 
 
considered that resection of the rectum, sigmoidectomy and hemicolectomy have descending risk of 
contamination,  with  resection  of  the  rectum  associated  with  the  highest  risk  of  the  3  procedures. 
Between the 2 treatment groups, the comparator group has a slightly lower proportion of the resection 
of  the  rectum  (cefotetan  20.7%  vs.  ertapenem  25.1%)  (arguably  highest  contamination  risk  of  the  3 
procedures)  and  sigmoidectomy  (cefotetan  34.4%  vs.  ertapenem  44.7%).  This  maybe  related  to  the 
lower rate of rectal cancer subjects in the comparator group (cefotetan 14.1% vs. ertapenem 20.4%). 
With  regard  to  hemicolectomy  (arguably  the  lower  contamination  risk  of  the  3  procedures),  the 
comparator  group  has  a  slightly  higher  proportion  than  the  test  group  (cefotetan  33.5%%  vs. 
ertapenem 28.7%).  
The  2  treatment  groups  appear  similar  with  respect  to  the  distribution  of  surgical  details  in  the 
evaluable population and are similar to the treated population. Between the 2 treatment groups, the 
comparator  group  has  a  slightly  lower  proportion  of  inadvertant  perforation  or  spillage  of  luminal 
contents  (cefotetan  1.8%  vs.  ertapenem  3.6%),  adjuvant  chemotherapy  ≤30  days  prior  to  surgery 
(cefotetan  1.5%  vs.  ertapenem  3.0%)  and  radiation  therapy  ≤30  days  prior  to  surgery  (cefotetan 
1.8%% vs. ertapenem 2.7%).  
The 2 treatment groups appear similar with respect to risk factors for infection by treatment group 
for the evaluable population and the evaluable population appears similar to the treated population. 
Between  the  2  treatment  groups,  the  comparator  group  has  a  slightly  lower  proportion  of  obesity 
(cefotetan  27.5%  vs.  ertapenem  30.5%),  but  a  slightly  higher  mean  BMI  (cefotetan  6.4%  vs. 
ertapenem 5.9%).  
The  2  treatment  groups  appear  similar  with  respect  to  specific  secondary  diagnoses  with  an 
incidence ≥3% in one or more treatment groups by body system in the evaluable population and 
the evaluable population appears similar to the treated population. 
The 2 treatment groups appeared to be generally similar with respect to the therapies administered 
prior to study entry (systemic antibacterial, steroid, or chemo therapies within 14 days prior to study 
therapy).  All prior therapy was appropriately accounted for in the evaluability determination. It should 
be noted that patients who received antibacterial therapy within 7 days of study therapy and patients 
with  immunosuppression  due  to  use  of  high-dose  corticosteroids  (e.g.  40  or  more  of  prednisone  or 
equivalent per day) were considered to be non-evaluable. A numerically higher number of patients in 
the  cefotetan  group  took  concomitant  antibiotics.    It  should  be  noted  that  patients  receiving 
antimicrobials for a distant site infection with no subsequent sign of infection at the operative site were 
considered non-evaluable.   
 Efficacy evaluation 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  performed  on  the  evaluable  patient  population.  The  primary 
endpoint  of  interest  was  the  favorable  clinical  response  rate  at  the  4-weeks  posttreatment  follow-up 
assessment.  The  difference  in  response  rates  between  the  2  treatment  groups  was  calculated  as 
ertapenem response rate (%) minus cefotetan response rate (%). Evaluable patients who were clinical 
failures prior to the 4-week visit were considered failures/unfavorable for all subsequent time points, 
including the 4-weeks posttreatment follow-up assessment.  All missing clinical outcomes (after carry 
forward  rules  were  applied)  were  excluded  from  the  analysis.  The  modified-intent-to-treat  (MITT) 
analyses considered missing outcomes as unfavorable and were supportive of the respective evaluable 
patient analysis. 
To  address  the  primary  hypothesis,  the  estimated  proportion,  adjusting  for  surgical  procedure,  of 
evaluable patients with a favorable clinical response assessment 4-weeks posttreatment was evaluated 
in both treatment groups. For the evaluable population, 72.0% of patients in the ertapenem group and 
57.2% of patients in the cefotetan group had a favorable clinical response assessment. The difference 
in  the  clinical  response  rates  between  the  2 treatment  groups  was  14.8  percentage  points  favoring 
ertapenem  with  a  95%  CI  of  (7.5%,  21.9%).  The  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  was  greater  than  the 
prespecified non-inferiority margin of -10 percentage points. In addition, the lower limit of the 95% CI 
was greater than 0.   
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
9/19 
 
 
The  estimated  proportion,  adjusting  for  surgical  procedure,  of  MITT  qualified  patients  with  a 
favorable clinical response assessment 4-weeks post-treatment was evaluated in both treatment groups. 
Fifty-nine point eight percent (59.8%) of patients in the ertapenem group and 49.1% of patients in the 
cefotetan  group  had  a  favorable  clinical  response  assessment.  The  response  rates  for  both  treatment 
groups are lower in the MITT population compared to the evaluable population. This is mainly due to 
patients  with  missing  4-  week  responses  as  well  as  patients  who  took  concomitant  antibiotics  for  a 
distant  site  infection  as  they  were  considered  failures  for  the  MITT  analysis.  The  difference  in  the 
clinical response rates between the 2 treatment groups was 10.7 percentage points favoring ertapenem 
with  a  95%  CI  of  (4.2%,  17.1%).  The  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  is  4.2%  which  is  greater  than  the 
prespecified  non-inferiority  margin  of  -10  percentage  points  and  greater than 0.  The  MITT  data, 
although  numerically  lower,  supports  the  primary  analysis  results.    Thus  the  data  indicate  that 
ertapenem is superior to cefotetan with respect to clinical response rates in MITT qualified patients at 
the 4-weeks post-treatment follow-up assessment. 
 Subgroup Analysis 
The  clinical  response  assessment  at  the  4-weeks  post  treatment  follow-up  assessment  was  also 
analysed  within  a  number  of  specific  predefined  subgroups  of  the  evaluable  population.  These 
subgroups include: gender, age, race, bowel preparation, and creatinine clearance. 
Younger age was associated with lower response than older age in the ertapenem group (age <62 yrs. 
67.9%  vs.  age  >62  yrs.  75.6%).  In  contrast,  male  gender  was  associated  with  lower  response  than 
female gender in the comparator group (male 52.3% vs. female 62.7%). 
 Distant Site Infections 
Although the overall incidence of distant site infections was similar across treatment groups (10.6% 
ertapenem and 12.3% cefotetan) the incidence of specific types of infections varied across treatment. 
Cefotetan  had  a  numerically  higher  incidence  of  pneumonia  and  Urinary  Tract  Infection  while 
ertapenem had a numerically higher incidence of distant site infections categorised as other. 
Nineteen (19) pathogens were isolated from 14 patients in the ertapenem group and 29 pathogens were 
isolated  from  21  patients  in  the  cefotetan  group.  The  most  frequently  documented  pathogens  were 
generally  consistent  with  what  was  seen  in  the  surgical  source  with  Enterococcus,  Enterococcus 
faecalis,  Staphylococcus  aureus,  Escherichia  coli,  being  the  predominate  organisms  identified.  
Additionally,  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  was  seen  in  a  higher  percentage  of  distant  site  infections, 
primarily  in  the  cefotetan  treatment  group.    There  were  no  anaerobic  pathogens  identified  from  the 
distant site source.   
 Risk Factor Analysis 
An exploratory evaluation of baseline and surgery factors was performed to assess whether they were 
risk factors for favorable clinical outcome or postoperative infections.  The following factors were pre-
specified for evaluation: BMI, diabetes, tobacco use (current user, ex-user, non-user), time from study 
incision,  baseline  albumin,  creatinine  clearance  subgroup 
medication  given 
(>30 ml/min/1.73 m2,  ≤30  ml/min/1.73  m2),  surgical  drains  used  (yes,  no),  duration  of  surgery, 
occurrence  of  inadvertent  perforation  or  spillage  of  luminal  contents  (yes,  no),  bowel  preparation 
(sodium  phosphate,  polyethylene  glycol)  and  surgical  site  shaved  or  clipped  (no,  yes:  immediately 
prior to surgery, within 24 hours of surgery, >24 hours prior to surgery). 
to  surgical 
The association between the favorable clinical response and each of the risk factors was assessed using 
a  univariate  model.  The  most  significant  factors  (p-value  <0.01)  were  treatment,  occurrence  of 
perforation/spillage, baseline albumin, BMI, obesity, and duration of surgery.   
 Microbiology of Failures 
Specimens from the surgical site were to be appropriately obtained and sent for aerobic and anaerobic 
culture if a patient developed a postoperative infection at the surgical site, or in circumstances of an 
anastomotic leak. 
One hundred and twenty four (124) pathogens were isolated from 30 patients in the ertapenem group 
and 151 pathogens were isolated from 55 patients in the cefotetan group. The most frequently isolated 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
10/19 
 
 
 
 
the  predominate  species 
pathogens  were  gram  positive  aerobic  cocci  with  Enterococcus,  Enterococcus  faecalis,  and 
identified.  Gram  negative  anaerobic 
Staphylococcus  aureus  being 
coccobacilli were also isolated with Bacteroides fragilis and Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron being the 
most  frequently  observed.  Gram  negative  aerobic  bacilli  were  isolated  in  fewer  numbers  with 
Escherichia  coli  and  Pseudomonas  aeruginosa  being  the  most  frequently  identified.  Gram  positive 
anaerobic  bacilli  were  isolated  but  no  organisms  were  frequently  seen  with  the  exception  of 
Clostridium  innocuum  and  Eubacterium  lentum  in  the  cefotetan  group.  In  general,  the  pathogens 
identified were similar across the treatment groups and specific pathogen isolated with the exception 
of the Clostridium innocuum and Eubacterium lentum isolated in the cefotetan group.   
A  review  of  the  most  frequently  isolated  pathogens  reveals  no  strong  evidence  of  a  relationship 
between  type  of  surgical  infection  and  pathogens  isolated.  Enterococcus  and  Enterococcus  faecalis 
were  seen  in  a  slightly  higher  number  in  superficial  incisional  and  organ/space  infection  in  the 
cefotetan  group  but  were  evenly  distributed  across  infection  type  in  the  ertapenem  group.  
Staphylococcus aureus was isolated most frequently in superficial incisional infection in both groups 
and  Escherichia  coli  was  seen  most  frequently  in  patients  with  an  anastomotic  leak  in  both  groups.  
Bacteroides  fragilis  was  evenly  distributed  across  infection  type  and  Bacteroides  thetaiotaomicron 
was  seen  most  frequently  in  superficial  incisional  infections  in  the  cefotetan  group  and  evenly 
distributed  across  infection  type  in  the  ertapenem  group.  Clostridium  innocuum  and  Eubacterium 
lentum isolated in the cefotetan group were isolated from superficial incisional infections.   
Consistent with established information from the product circulars and published information for both 
products,  some  resistant  pathogens  were  isolated.  Enterococcus  (avium,  durans,  faecalis,  faecium, 
raffinosus)  isolated  from  patients  treated  with  ertapenem  as  well  as  those  treated  with  cefotetan 
exhibited  a  high  prevalence  of  resistance  to  both  study  drugs.  In  addition,  methicillin  resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus isolated from patients in each group was also resistant to both study products. 
Escherichia  coli  identified  was  susceptible  to  both  study  products.  All  species  of  Bacteroides 
identified  were  susceptible  to  ertapenem  but  showed  varying  levels  of  resistance  to  cefotetan.  
Additionally, Clostridium innocuum and Eubacterium lentum were generally susceptible to ertapenem 
but generally resistant to cefotetan.   
Overall, the majority of pathogens (66.7%) isolated and tested in the cefotetan group were resistant to 
cefotetan,  whereas  only  16.3%  of  the  isolates  tested  in  the  ertapenem  group  were  resistant  to 
ertapenem.  The  prominence  of  Enterococci  spp,  S.  aureus,  Bacteriodes  spp.  &  E.coli  are  entirely 
within the expected range of pathogens associated with post-colorectal surgical infection. Enterococci 
are always resistant to ertapenem and cefotetan. There was a notable difference in the sensitivities of 
the pathogens in the 2 groups: 67% of the pathogens identified in the cefotetan group were resistant to 
cefotetan,  whereas  only  16%  of  the  pathogens  in  the  ertapenem  group  were  resistant  to  ertapenem. 
Also,  Clostridium  innocuum  and  Eubacterium  lentum  were  observed  to  a  greater  degree  in  the 
cefotetan  group  (principally  from  superficial  incisional  infections);  these  isolates  were  uniformly 
resistant to cefotetan but susceptible to ertapenem. 
Statistical Assessment of Efficacy 
Although  the  study  title  claims  this  is  an  ‘in-house’  blinded  study  the  study  is,  to  all  intents  and 
purposes, double blind.   In order to maintain the blind, assignment to treatment group and preparation 
of  IV  study  antibiotics  was  performed  by  someone  other  than  the  person  who  administered  and 
monitored  product  infusions  and  evaluated  the  patient  for  clinical  response  and  presence  of  adverse 
experiences. The study pharmacist received open-label clinical supplies and an appropriate allocation 
schedule  was  provided  by  a  central  computerised  system  IVRS.  The  allocation  schedules  were  not 
released to anyone else involved with the study, and the IV study antibiotics were “blinded” against 
visual discrimination as they were prepared by the pharmacist. 
The  primary  analysis  used  a  non-inferiority  margin  of  10%  as  suggested  in  the  CPMP/EWP/558/95 
note for guidance on evaluation of new anti-bacterial medicinal products.  The MAH then switched the 
objectives  of  the  trial  to  superiority  once  non-inferiority  had  been  shown  which  is  considered 
appropriate,  even  though  it  was  not  pre-specified  (as  discussed  in  the  CPMP/EWP/482/99  points  to 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consider document on switching between superiority and non-inferiority).  The analysis methods used 
are also considered to be appropriate for the endpoints used.   
For  the  overall  analysis,  superiority  of  ertapenem  over  cefotetan  was  shown  for  both  the  EPP  and 
MITT populations.  A slightly larger treatment effect was seen in the EPP than the MITT population, 
which is as expected.  The confidence interval presented was also slightly larger, which is due to the 
smaller number of patients included in the EPP population.   
The results of this study indicate that, for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective 
colorectal  surgery  in  adults,  ertapenem  is  superior  to  cefotetan.    This  is  shown  in  both  the  EPP  and 
MITT populations at 4 weeks post-treatment.   
•  Choice of the dose 
Further to the assessment of data submitted originally in November 2005, the MAH was requested, in 
February  2006,  to  better  justify  the  rational  of  the  proposed  dose  (1g  single  dose).  In  the 
supplementary  information  submitted,  the  MAH  presented  new  data  on  the  concentrations  of 
ertapenem in colon, which confirm that sufficient active substance is present for the duration of most 
colorectal  procedures  (tissue  concentrations  exceeding  the  MIC90  for  all  relevant  aerobic  and 
anaerobic pathogens at >4 hours). In addition, presentation of results by time from administration of 
product and also by duration of surgery continues to support the primary results of Protocol 039 using 
1g dose. The MAH’s responses submitted in April 2006 are not judged fully satisfactory to resolve the 
concern  on  the  inadequacy  of  the  posology  in  case  of  surgical  interventions  of  long  duration.  The 
MAH  provided  a  post-hoc  efficacy  analysis  by  time  slot  of  duration  of  surgical  intervention  and 
considered this analysis as reassuring insofar that results are in favour of ertapenem whatever the time 
duration of the intervention. The MAH’s response that univariate analysis demonstrating duration of 
surgery  as  a  predictor  for  development  of  postoperative  infection  was  not  specific  of  ertapenem.  
These  results  were  consistent  with  known  risk  factors  for  infectious  as  well  as  non-infectious 
complications of intra-abdominal surgery. It should be highlighted that for other antibiotics (especially 
for the comparator, cefotetan), it is recommended to re-administer the product in cases where duration 
of the colorectal procedure lasts more than 4 hours (to avoid the risk of suboptimal concentrations).  
Moreover, the MAH stated that the percentage of patients where duration of the colorectal procedure 
lasts  more  than  4  hours  is  expected  to  be  low  (estimated  to  7%)  and  therefore  the  feasibility  of  an 
additional study to further substantiate the dose was questioned.  
In summary, although colorectal procedures of duration greater than 4 hours may be expected rarely, it 
remains  particularly  worrying  that  such  patients  might  be  exposed  to  sub-optimal  concentrations, 
based on the data submitted. The CHMP agreed that this critical concern should not be ignored 
and requested that the section 4.4 of the SPC should be amended to reflect this point.  
As  the  potential  difficulties  in  performing  an  additional  study  for  substantiating  the  dose  in  patients 
experiencing long surgery (>4hours) are recognised, the MAH  should be advised to adopt a step by 
step  approach  i.e.  the  MAH  should  commit  to  collect  PK/PD  and  efficacy  data  (treatment 
response) with the currently recommended dose in patients experiencing long surgery (>3 hours) 
in  clinical  practice  (as  a  follow-up measure)  and  depending  on  the  signal  emerging  from  these 
data, the need for an additional study will be re-considered. The CHMP requested the MAH to 
submit a proposal by the end of September 2006. 
Despite  the  distribution  data  presented  were  reassuring,  the  MAH  was  requested,  in  April  2006,  to 
further discuss the adequacy of the recommendation of the 1 hour time lag between the administration 
of  ertapenem  and  the  beginning  of  surgery,  in  light  of  eventually  available  PK  data  for  colon 
distribution earlier than 120 minutes.  
The  supplementary  data  submitted  in  June  2006  support  the  expected  fact  that  the  ideal  timing  for 
administration  of  ertapenem  for  prophylactic  reasons  should  be  between  30  and  60  minutes  before 
surgery.  Since  the  present  analysis  is  irrespective  of  surgery  duration,  and  not  withstanding  the  fact 
that a further multivariate analysis should be conducted considering both these risk factors, it may be 
admitted  that  the  delay  from  antibiotic  administration  and  the  beginning  of  surgery  could  be  an 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
independent  risk  factor,  as  it  is  to  be  expected.  The  CHMP  agreed  that  this  recommended 
timeframe between administration of ertapenem and surgery should be reflected in section 4.2 of 
the SPC. 
These  supplementary  data  also  support  the  fact  that  the  prophylactic  effectiveness  of  the  currently 
proposed  dosage  for  ertapenem  for  surgery  procedures  with  duration  >  4h,  and  possibly  even  after 
3 hours, cannot be considered acceptable based only on the results of the study 039, even though other 
factors may significantly contribute to the failure rate observed in this group of patients. As the value 
of an additional 1g dose was not evaluated, the CHMP agreed that a precautionary statement should be 
added  to  section  4.4  of  the  SPC  regarding  this  issue.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  should  explore  the 
efficacy of a further 1g dose in colorectal surgical procedures with more than 3 hours duration. 
The CHMP requested the MAH to submit a proposal by the end of September 2006. 
•  Conclusion on clinical efficacy 
The data from the single pivotal study 039 supports the claim for prophylaxis of surgical site infection 
elective colorectal surgery. 
For  the  overall  analysis,  superiority  of  ertapenem  over  cefotetan  was  shown  for  both  the  EPP  and 
MITT populations.  A slightly larger treatment effect was seen in the EPP than the MITT population, 
which is as expected.  The confidence interval presented was also slightly larger, which is due to the 
smaller number of patients included in the EPP population.  The results of this study indicate that, for 
the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery in adults, ertapenem is 
superior to cefotetan.  This is shown in both the EPP and MITT populations at 4 weeks post-treatment.   
The  use  of  the  single  dose  of  1g  has  been  properly  justified.  The  ideal  timing  for  administration  of 
ertapenem for prophylactic reasons being between 30 and 60 minutes before surgery, the section 4.2 of 
the SPC has been updated to reflect it. 
As the currently proposed dose of 1g for surgery procedures >3hours are not acceptable on the basis of 
this study 039 and as the value of an additional 1g dose was not evaluated, the CHMP agreed that a 
precautionary statement should be added to section 4.4 of the SPC regarding this issue. 
2.2  Clinical safety 
•  Safety data from the main study: Protocol 039 
Adverse  experiences  were  recorded  from  the  day  a  patient  signed  informed  consent  up  to  and 
including 14 days after administration of study therapy (safety follow-up period).  Of the 1002 patients 
enrolled,  952  received  their  scheduled  dose  of  study  therapy  and  are  included  in  the  analysis  of 
adverse experiences. 
•  Patient exposure 
Of the 1002 randomised patients, 952 patients (476 in the ertapenem group and 476 in the cefotetan 
group) received their scheduled dose of study therapy.  Fifty (50) patients (24 in the ertapenem group 
and  26  in  the  cefotetan  group)  were  randomised  but  did  not  receive  any  study  drug.  These  patients 
were excluded from the safety analyses.  All patients were to receive one dose of study medication one 
hour prior to surgery infused over 30 minutes. The number of patients who received ertapenem was 
updated in section 4.8 of the SPC to add the 476 adults from this study 039. 
•  Adverse events during study therapy and 14-day follow-up period 
Overall 738 out of 952 patients (77.5%) experienced clinical adverse experiences during study therapy 
and 14-day follow-up period. There were 31 patients (6.5%) in the ertapenem group and 33 patients 
(6.9%)  in  the  cefotetan  group  with  drug  related  adverse  experiences;  3  patients  (0.6%)  in  the 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ertapenem group and 3 patients (0.6%) in the cefotetan group experienced drug related serious adverse 
experiences.  One  patient  in  the  cefotetan  group  discontinued  study  therapy  due  to  a  drug  related 
adverse  experience.  No  patients  in  the  ertapenem  group  discontinued  due  to  drug  related  serious 
adverse experiences.   
Of the patients treated, 357 patients (75.0%) in the ertapenem group and 381 patients (80.0%) in the 
cefotetan group had one or  more adverse experience during study therapy and the 14-day follow up 
period (Incidence ≥3 % in One or More Treatment Groups).  The most common adverse experiences 
were  gastrointestinal  disorders  with  95 patients  (20.0%)  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  121  patients 
(25.4%) in the cefotetan group reporting nausea and 54 patients (11.3%) in the ertapenem group and 
52 patients (10.9%) in the cefotetan group reporting vomiting. Ileus was also frequent with 55 patients 
(11.6%) in the ertapenem group and 45 patients (9.5%) in the cefotetan group reporting ileus. Another 
common  adverse  experience  was  pyrexia  with  72  patients  (15.1%)  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  64 
patients  (13.4%)  in  the  cefotetan  group  reporting  this  event.  The  incidence  of  clinical  adverse 
experiences  was  generally  similar  between  the  two  treatment  groups.    However,  consistent  with  the 
primary  efficacy  endpoint,  the  number  of  patients  with  infections  and  infestations  was  higher  in  the 
cefotetan group. One hundred patients (21.0%) in the ertapenem group and 142 patients (29.8%) in the 
cefotetan  group  experienced  an  infection  during  study  therapy  and  14-day  follow-up  period.  These 
infections included pneumonia, postoperative infection, urinary tract infect, and wound infection. 
Clinical  adverse  experiences  occurring  in  5%  or  more  of  patients  in  either  treatment  group  were 
defined  as  frequently  occurring  clinical  adverse  experiences  either  treatment  group  during  study 
therapy  and  the  14  day  follow-up  period.  The  treatment  difference  for  these  clinical  adverse 
experiences and the 95% CI about the treatment difference are also displayed in the table. Nausea was 
reported  by  95  patients  (20.0%)  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  121  patients  (25.4%)  in  the  cefotetan 
group.  This  confidence  interval  for  the  difference  indicates  that  ertapenem  had  significantly  lower 
incidence of nausea than cefotetan. An additional significant difference exists with respect to wound 
infection. Thirty-one patients (6.5%) in the ertapenem group and 59 patients (12.5%) in the cefotetan 
group experienced a wound infection during study therapy and the 14-day follow-up period.   
Thirty-one (31) patients (6.5%) in the ertapenem group and 33 patients (6.9%) in the cefotetan group 
had  one  or  more  drug  related  adverse  experiences  during  study  therapy  and  the  14-day  follow-up 
period  (Incidence  ≥0%  in  One  or  More  Treatment  Groups).  The  incidence  of  drug  related  clinical 
adverse  experiences  were  similar  between  the  2  treatment  groups.  Three  (3)  patients  (0.6%)  in  the 
ertapenem  group  and  4  patients  (0.8%)  in  the  cefotetan  group  experienced  a  drug  related  clinical 
adverse event on the day of initial operative procedure. 
•  Serious adverse events and deaths 
Three (3) patients in the ertapenem group and 7 patients in the cefotetan group experienced adverse 
experiences resulting in death.  None of these deaths were considered to be drug related. 
Amongst  patients  with  serious  adverse  experiences  with  incidence  >0%  by  body  system  occurring 
during therapy and the 14-day follow-up period (including fatal and nonfatal serious clinical adverse 
experiences),  98  patients  (20.6%)  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  121  patients  (25.4%)  in  the  cefotetan 
group  experienced  serious  clinical  adverse  experiences.  As  expected  in  this  surgical  population,  the 
most  frequently  occurring  serious  clinical  adverse  experiences  were  ileus  and  wound  infection.  
Nineteen  patients  (4.0%)  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  10  patients  (2.1%)  in  the  cefotetan  group 
experienced  ileus.  Wound  infection  considered  to  be  serious  adverse  evens  occurred  in  10  patients 
(2.1%) in the ertapenem group and 20 patients (4.2%) in the cefotetan group.   
Three  patients  in  the  ertapenem  group  experienced  a  serious  clinical  adverse  experience  of 
cerebrovascular accident. One experienced a severe stroke on the day of initial operative procedure. 
One  experienced  a  mild  cerebrovascular  event  on  Study  Day  8  and  one  experienced  a  moderate 
cerebrovascular  event  on  Study  Day  13.  All  three  events  were  determined  to  be  definitely  not  or 
probably not related to study medication. 
Amongst  the  patients  with  serious  drug-related  adverse  experiences  with  incidence  >0%  by  body 
system  occurring  during  study  therapy  and  the  14-day  follow-up  period,  3  (0.6%)  in  the  ertapenem 
group  and  3  (0.6%)  in  the  cefotetan  group  experienced  serious  drug  related  clinical  adverse 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
14/19 
 
 
experiences during study therapy and 14 day follow up period. These events can be found in the table 
below: 
Number (%) of Patients With Serious Clinical Adverse Experiences 
During Study Therapy and 14-Day Follow-Up Period 
(Incidence >0% in One or More Treatment Groups) by System Organ Class— 
(Treated Population)  
Drug Related 
Patients With One Or More Adverse Experiences 
Patients With No Adverse Experience 
Cardiac Disorders 
Sinus Bradycardia 
Infections and Infestations 
 Ertapenem  
 (N=476)  
 Cefotetan  
 (N=476)  
 n  
3 
473 
1 
1 
2 
 (%) 
(0.6) 
(99.4) 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
(0.4) 
 n  
3 
473 
0 
0 
3 
 (%) 
(0.6) 
(99.4) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.6) 
Clostridium Colitis 
Wound Infection 
Although a patient may have had two or more clinical adverse experiences, the patient is counted only once within a category. 
The same patient may appear in different categories. 
(0.4) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.6) 
2 
0 
0 
3 
Since this was a single dose study, patients discontinued from study therapy due adverse experience 
had to have a discontinuation of their study therapy during the infusion.  One patient in the cefotetan 
group  began  experiencing  hypersensitivity  symptoms  (a  flushed  face,  watery  eyes,  sneezing, 
coughing,  wheezing,  and  a  splotchy  chest)  after  receiving  12  ml  of  study  drug.  The  drug  was 
discontinued  and  the  patient  was  discontinued  from  the  study.  No  patients  in  the  ertapenem  group 
discontinued study therapy due to a clinical adverse experience. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Nine hundred thirty-four (934) out of 952 treated patients had a least one laboratory test postbaseline 
during  study  therapy  and  the  14-day  follow-up  period.  Two  hundred  twenty-four  (224)  of  these 
patients had laboratory adverse experiences, 101 (21.7%) in the ertapenem group and 123 (26.3%) in 
the  cefotetan  group.  There  were  9  patients  with  serious  laboratory  adverse  experiences,  2  in  the 
ertapenem  group  and  7  in  the  cefotetan  group.  None  of  these  serious  adverse  experiences  were 
considered  drug  related  and  no  patients  discontinued  as  a  result  of  a  laboratory  adverse  experience. 
The  incidence  of  laboratory  adverse  experiences  was  similar  between  the  2  treatment  groups.  The 
most  common  laboratory  adverse  experiences  in  both  treatment  groups  were  decreases  in  blood 
potassium and blood magnesium and an increase in white blood cell count. 
No patients in either treatment group experienced a serious drug related laboratory adverse experience 
during study treatment and 14-day follow-up period.   
No patients discontinued study therapy or study due to laboratory adverse experiences.   
•  CSLAs During Hospitalisation  
In  addition  to  reviewing  investigator-reported  laboratory  adverse  experiences,  assessment  of  the 
relative  laboratory  safety  of  each  treatment  group  was  accomplished  by  predefining  clinically 
significant  laboratory  abnormalities  (CSLAs)  for  specified  tests  and  then  identifying  patients  whose 
worst  laboratory  value  represented  a  worsening  from  baseline  and  met  the  criteria  for  a  CSLA.  
Additionally, a review of shift in laboratory values was performed for specified tests. The combination 
of these 3 approaches to the analysis of laboratory abnormalities provides a more complete overview 
of the profile of laboratory safety. 
In  order  to  be  considered  in  the  population  for  CSLAs,  patients  had  to  have  a  baseline  laboratory 
value,  at  least  1  postbaseline  laboratory  test,  and  normal  ranges  in  the  database.    For  platelet  count, 
absolute neutrophil count, hematocrit, and hemoglobin, the CSLA criteria were defined in terms of a 
fixed  bound.  For  total  bilirubin,  direct  bilirubin,  ALT,  AST,  alkaline  phosphatase  and  serum 
creatinine, the CSLA criteria were defined in terms of a function of the upper limit of the normal range 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
15/19 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
(ULN).  Patients  whose  baseline  laboratory  value  exceeded  the  CSLA  criteria  were  included  in  the 
count  of  patients  with  CSLAs  if  any  of  their  postbaseline  tests  worsened  compared  to  the  baseline 
value. Hospitalisation was defined as the period of time from the time of initial dose to the time the 
patient was discharged from the hospital after the initial operative procedure. Overall, the proportion 
of patients with CSLAs was low and generally similar between the 2 treatment groups.  
The  most  common  CSLAs  during  hospitalisation  were  elevated  total  or  direct  serum  bilirubin.  
During hospitalisation 20/403 patients (5.0%) in the ertapenem group and 18/407 patients (4.4%) in 
the cefotetan group experienced an elevation in total serum bilirubin of > 1.5 x ULN.  Fourteen (14) of 
129  patients  (10.9%)  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  12/130  patients  (9.2%)  in  the  cefotetan  group 
experienced an increase in serum direct bilirubin 1.5 x ULN.  In the ertapenem group, 10/403 patients 
(2.5%)  experienced  a  total  serum  bilirubin  elevation  >2.5  x  ULN  and  9/129  patients  (7.0%) 
experienced a serum direct bilirubin >2.5 x ULN (four patients experienced both total bilirubin >2.5 x 
ULN and serum direct >2.5 x ULN.   
•  Adverse events added to the SPC 
The MAH did a comprehensive evaluation of the clinical and laboratory safety information from this 
new single dose double-blinded colorectal prophylaxis study in adults (Protocol 039), the basis of the 
current  submission,  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  there  were  new  additional  investigator  determined 
drug-related adverse events (AE) or concerns not presently reported in the EUSPC. Two new clinical 
AEs  (sinus  bradycardia,  urticaria)  and  one  new  laboratory  AE  (increased  prothrombin  time)  were 
identified as possibly drug-related. 
Sinus Bradycardia:  An adverse event of bradycardia was reported in 3 patients in Protocol 039: one 
patient who had received ertapenem and 2 patients who received cefotetan. None of these events were 
considered related to study therapy by the investigator. There was 1 adverse event of sinus bradycardia 
in  the  study,  occurring  in  the  immediate  pre-operative  period  in  a  patient  who  received  ertapenem 
prophylaxis.  This  76-year-old  male  with  a  previous  history  of  A-V  conduction  disorder,  also  on 
treatment  for  hypertension,  experienced  transient  worsening  of  sinus  bradycardia  and  onset  of 
transient  low  blood  pressure  as  the  study  drug  pre-operative    infusion  was  completed.  He  had  been 
receiving a number of other medications, including atenolol, fosinipril and citalopram that may have 
contributed to the bradycardia and blood pressure changes. Because of the temporal relationship to the 
administration of ertapenem the MAH considered this to be possibly a drug related event.  
To the MAH’s knowledge there is no known or reported mechanism, either for ertapenem, or for other 
drugs in the carbapenem class, resulting in sinus bradycardia. Other than the single report in this study 
which is confounded by pre-existing conditions and medications with potential cardiac effects, review 
of  both  the  clinical  trial  and  the  post-marketing  safety  environment  reveal  no  direct  association 
between ertapenem and sinus bradycardia. However, because of the temporal association to ertapenem 
administration  in  the  patient  in  this  study  and  because  the  event  was  ascribed  by  the  investigator  as 
possibly related to study therapy, the MAH proposed for completeness to include the term ‘sinus. The 
CHMP agrees with the proposal. 
Urticaria:    In  Protocol  039  an  adverse  event  of  urticaria  was  reported  in  1  (0.2%)  patient  who  had 
received ertapenem and 1 (0.2%) patient who had received cefotetan as single dose prophylaxis. This 
is  a  66-year-old  Asian  female  with  a  medical  history  positive  for  Crohn's  disease  and  colon 
adenocarcinoma (primary diagnosis for study entry), as well as a history significant for osteoporosis, 
arthritis,  low  back  pain  as  well  as  bilateral  cataracts,  experienced  some  mild  laboratory  adverse 
experiences (decreased phosphorus and potassium) as well  as headache, fever, and lower back pain.  
She  also  had  diarrhea,  blood  in  stool  and  some  abdominal  distension.  On  study  day  10,  the  patient 
experienced  transient  "groin  hives"  which  were  noted  to  resolve  spontaneously  later  in  the  day.  
Concomitant  medications  at  the  time  of  the  urticaria  were  potassium  chloride,  metamucil,  and 
percocet. These events were considered possibly related to study therapy by the MAH.   
Rash and hypersensitivity reactions are currently included in the ertapenem SPC. The term urticaria is 
not. Both the time to onset and the course observed in the single case of urticaria reported in Protocol 
039 strongly suggest an etiology other than the dose of ertapenem received 10 days previously as the 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
16/19 
 
 
cause of urticaria. Examination of the post-marketing safety of ertapenem does not provide compelling 
evidence to support the addition of this term to the SPC. Because the event (urticaria) in Protocol 039 
was  reported  by  the  investigator  as  possibly  drug-related,  the  MAH  has  included  the  term  in  the 
proposed SPC for completeness and consistency with the previous approach for reporting undesirable 
effects in the SPC. The CHMP agrees with this proposal. 
Increased  Prothrombin  Time:    For  patients  in  Protocol  039  who  had  at  least  one  laboratory  test 
performed post-baseline, one or more laboratory adverse event (AE) was reported in 21.7% of patients 
in the ertapenem group and 26.3% of patients who received cefotetan. As would be expected, the large 
majority of these events were attributed to surgical management or complications of surgery.  Only 3 
(0.6%) and 9 (1.9%) patients in the ertapenem and cefotetan group respectively experienced a drug-
related laboratory AE; none of these AEs were considered serious.  Prolonged prothrombin time was 
reported  in  4/386  (1.0%)  patients  who  received  a  single  prophylactic  dose  of  ertapenem  and  5/385 
(1.3%)  patients  who  received  cefotetan.  One  patient  in  the  ertapenem  group  and  4  patients  in  the 
comparator group had this reported as possibly drug-related.   
Prolonged  Prothrombin  Time  (PT)  was  reported  uncommonly  in  Protocol  039  occurring  post-
operatively in 1.0% of 386 patients who received a prophylactic dose of ertapenem and 1.3% of 385 
patients who received cefotetan.  These increases were noted days after the dose of ertapenem would 
have been cleared from the body, were generally mild and none were considered serious.  In one case 
the PT increase was considered by the investigator to have been possibly related to ertapenem. Review 
of  the  post-marketing  safety  data  base  revealed  rare  reports  of  PT  increase  but  these  reports  were 
confounded by other medications or incomplete data and alone do not support a causative association 
between ertapenem PT prolongation. Because, however, this event (increased PT) in Protocol 039 was 
reported by the investigator as possibly drug-related, the MAH has included the term in the proposed 
SPC for completeness and consistency with the previous approach for reporting undesirable effects in 
the SPC. The CHMP agrees with this proposal. 
•  Conclusion on clinical safety 
The frequently occurring clinical adverse events during study therapy and the 14-day follow-up period 
were:  gastrointestinal  disorders,  vomiting,  ileus,  pneumonia,  postoperative  infection,  urinary 
tract infect, and wound infection. 
Three (3) patients in the ertapenem group and 7 patients in the cefotetan group experienced adverse 
experiences resulting in death.  None of these deaths were considered to be drug related. 
The most common clinically significant laboratory abnormalities during study therapy and the 14-day 
follow-up  period  were  decreases  in  blood  potassium  and  blood  magnesium  and  an  increase  in 
white blood cell count.   
With respect to the above data, sinus bradycardia, urticaria and increased prothrombin time were 
added in section 4.8 of the SPC. 
Further to the assessment of the data submitted, no major new safety issues have been identified that 
needed to be added to the SPC. 
2.3  Conclusion on clinical aspects 
Study 039 provided evidence to support the indication prophylaxis of surgical site infection elective 
colorectal surgery in adults.  
The use of a single dose of 1g is supported for this indication with a statement to reflect that the ideal 
timing  for  administration  of  ertapenem  for  prophylactic  reasons  to  be  completed  within  the  hour 
before surgery. 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As the currently proposed dose of 1g for surgery procedures > 4hours are not acceptable on the basis 
of  this  study  039  and  as  the  value  of  an  additional  1g  dose  was  not  evaluated,  a  precautionary 
statement should be added to section 4.4 of the SPC regarding this issue. 
Further to the assessment of the data submitted, no major new safety issues have been identified. With 
respect to the above data, sinus bradycardia, urticaria and increased prothrombin time were added in 
section 4.8 of the SPC. 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is positive for an extension of the therapeutic indication to the use 
in Invanz to prophylaxis of surgical site infection elective colorectal surgery in adults. 
3. 
Changes to the Product Information directly linked to study 039 
•  Section 4.1 “Therapeutic indications” of the SPC 
To reflect the added indication, the following statement was added: 
Prevention 
INVANZ is indicated in adults for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective 
colorectal surgery. 
•  Section 4.2 “Posology and method of administration” of the SPC 
To reflect the optimal use of Invanz, i.e. administration to be completed within 1 hour prior to surgery, 
the following statement was added: 
Prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective colorectal surgery in adults: To prevent 
surgical site infections, the recommended dosage is 1 g administered as a single intravenous dose to 
be completed within 1 hour prior to the surgical incision. 
•  Section 4.4 “Special warnings and precautions for use” of the SPC 
To reflect that the currently proposed dose of 1g for surgery procedures > 4hours are not acceptable on 
the basis of this study 039 and as the value of an additional 1g dose was not evaluated, the following 
statement was added: 
Based on the data available it cannot be excluded that in the few cases of surgical interventions 
exceeding 4 hours, patients could be exposed to sub-optimal Ertapenem concentrations and 
consequently to a risk of potential treatment failure. Therefore, caution should be exercised in such 
unusual cases. 
•  Section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” of the SPC 
To update the number of adults 18 years of age and older who received ertapenem, the following 
statement was added: 
An additional 476 patients received ertapenem as a single 1 g dose prior to surgery in a clinical study 
for the prophylaxis of surgical site infections following colorectal surgery. 
Sinus bradycardia, urticaria and increased prothrombin time were added in section 4.8 of the SPC as 
follows: 
Cardiac disorders: Uncommon: Sinus bradycardia 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Uncommon: urticaria 
Haematology: Uncommon: increased prothrombin time 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly in its sections 1, 3 and 4. 
4. 
Further changes to the Product Information 
•  Section 2 “Qualitative and quantitative composition”  
The following information of the quantity of sodium in Invanz as excipients was added: 
Excipients: each 1.0 g dose contains approximately 6.0 mEq of sodium (approximately 137 mg). 
This information was as well reflected in section 4.4 of the SPC as follows: 
This medicinal product contains approximately 6.0 mEq (approximately 137 mg) of sodium per 1.0 g 
dose, which should be taken into consideration by patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
•  Section 4.2 “Posology and method of administration” of the SPC 
The  MAH  proposed  to  add  Infants  to  better  reflect  the  group  of  age  concerned,  meaning  from 
3 months of age and replaced INVANZ is not recommended in children under 3 months of age, as no 
data  are  available  by  There  is  no  experience  in  children  under  the  3  months  of  age.  These  updates 
were accepted by the CHMP. 
For infants and children (3  months  to 12  years of age): The dose of INVANZ is 15 mg/kg given twice 
daily (not to exceed 1 g/day) by the intravenous route (see section 6.6). There is no experience in 
children under the 3 months of age (see section 4.4). 
•  Section 4.7 “Effects on ability to drive and use machines” of the SPC 
The MAH proposed to add: 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. 
This has been accepted by the CHMP. 
Invanz-H-389-II-15 
19/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
