ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVANZ 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains 1.0 g ertapenem.
Excipient(s) with known effect
Each 1.0 g dose contains approximately 6.0 mEq of sodium (approximately 137 mg).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
White to off-white powder.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Treatment
INVANZ is indicated in paediatric patients (3 months to 17 years of age) and in adults for the
treatment of the following infections when caused by bacteria known or very likely to be susceptible
to ertapenem and when parenteral therapy is required (see sections 4.4 and 5.1):
Intra-abdominal infections
Community acquired pneumonia
Acute gynaecological infections
Diabetic foot infections of the skin and soft tissue (see section 4.4)
Prevention
INVANZ is indicated in adults for the prophylaxis of surgical site infection following elective
colorectal surgery (see section 4.4).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Posology
Treatment
Adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years of age): The dose of INVANZ is 1 gram (g) given once a day
by the intravenous route (see section 6.6).
Infants and children (3 months to 12 years of age): The dose of INVANZ is 15 mg/kg given twice
daily (not to exceed 1 g/day) by the intravenous route (see section 6.6).
2

 

 

 

 
Prevention 
Adults: To prevent surgical site infections following elective colorectal surgery, the recommended
dosage is 1 g administered as a single intravenous dose to be completed within 1 hour prior to the
surgical incision.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of INVANZ in children below 3 months of age have not yet been established.
No data are available.
Renal impairment 
INVANZ may be used for the treatment of infections in adult patients with mild to moderate renal
impairment. In patients whose creatinine clearance is 
 30 mL/min/1.73 m2, no dosage adjustment is
necessary. There are inadequate data on the safety and efficacy of ertapenem in patients with severe
renal impairment to support a dose recommendation. Therefore, ertapenem should not be used in these
patients (see section 5.2.). There are no data in children and adolescents with renal impairment.
Haemodialysis
There are inadequate data on the safety and efficacy of ertapenem in patients on haemodialysis to
support a dose recommendation. Therefore, ertapenem should not be used in these patients.
Hepatic impairment
No dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with impaired hepatic function (see section 5.2).
Elderly
The recommended dose of INVANZ should be administered, except in cases of severe renal
impairment (see Renal impairment).
Method of administration
Intravenous administration: INVANZ should be infused over a period of 30 minutes.
The usual duration of therapy with INVANZ is 3 to 14 days but may vary depending on the type and
severity of infection and causative pathogen(s). When clinically indicated, a switch to an appropriate
oral antibacterial agent may be implemented if clinical improvement has been observed.
For instructions on preparation of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1
Hypersensitivity to any other carbapenem antibacterial agent
Severe hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reaction, severe skin reaction) to any other type of
beta-lactam antibacterial agent (e.g., penicillins or cephalosporins).
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported in patients
receiving therapy with beta-lactams. These reactions are more likely to occur in individuals with a
history of sensitivity to multiple allergens. Before initiating therapy with ertapenem, careful inquiry
should be made concerning previous hypersensitivity reactions to penicillins, cephalosporins, other
beta-lactams and other allergens (see section 4.3). If an allergic reaction to ertapenem occurs (see
section 4.8), discontinue the therapy immediately. Serious anaphylactic reactions require
immediate emergency treatment.
3

 

 

 
Superinfection
Prolonged use of ertapenem may result in overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms. Repeated
evaluation of the patient's condition is essential. If superinfection occurs during therapy, appropriate
measures should be taken.
Antibiotic-associated colitis
Antibiotic-associated colitis and pseudomembranous colitis have been reported with ertapenem and
may range in severity from mild to life-threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this
diagnosis in patients who present with diarrhoea subsequent to the administration of antibacterial
agents. Discontinuation of therapy with INVANZ and the administration of specific treatment for
Clostridioides difficile should be considered. Medicinal products that inhibit peristalsis should not be
given.
Seizures
Seizures have been reported during clinical investigation in adult patients treated with ertapenem (1 g
once a day) during therapy or in the 14-day follow-up period. Seizures occurred most commonly in
elderly patients and those with pre-existing central nervous system (CNS) disorders (e.g. brain lesions
or history of seizures) and/or compromised renal function. Similar observations have been made in the
post-marketing environment.
Encephalopathy
Encephalopathy has been reported with the use of ertapenem (see section 4.8). If ertapenem-induced
encephalopathy is suspected (e.g. myoclonus, seizures, altered mental status, depressed level of
consciousness), discontinuation of ertapenem should be considered. Patients with renal impairment are
at higher risk of ertapenem-induced encephalopathy and the resolution may be prolonged. 
Concomitant use with valproic acid 
The concomitant use of ertapenem and valproic acid/sodium valproate is not recommended (see
section 4.5).
Sub-optimal exposure
Based on the data available it cannot be excluded that in the few cases of surgical interventions
exceeding 4 hours, patients could be exposed to sub-optimal ertapenem concentrations and
consequently to a risk of potential treatment failure. Therefore, caution should be exercised in such
unusual cases.
Considerations for use in particular populations
Experience in the use of ertapenem in the treatment of severe infections is limited. In clinical studies
for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia, in adults, 25 % of evaluable patients treated with
ertapenem had severe disease (defined as pneumonia severity index > III). In a clinical study for the
treatment of acute gynaecologic infections, in adults, 26 % of evaluable patients treated with
ertapenem had severe disease (defined as temperature ≥ 39 C and/or bacteraemia); ten patients had
bacteraemia. Of evaluable patients treated with ertapenem in a clinical study for the treatment of
intra-abdominal infections, in adults, 30 % had generalised peritonitis and 39 % had infections
involving sites other than the appendix including the stomach, duodenum, small bowel, colon, and
gallbladder; there were limited numbers of evaluable patients who were enrolled with APACHE II
scores ≥ 15 and efficacy in these patients has not been established.
The efficacy of INVANZ in the treatment of community acquired pneumonia due to penicillin-
resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae has not been established. 
Efficacy of ertapenem in the treatment of diabetic foot infections with concurrent osteomyelitis has not
been established.
There is relatively little experience with ertapenem in children less than two years of age. In this age
group, particular care should be taken to establish the susceptibility of the infecting organism(s) to
ertapenem. No data are available in children under 3 months of age.
4
Sodium
This medicinal product contains approximately 137 mg sodium per 1.0 g dose, equivalent to 6.85 % of
the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Interactions caused by inhibition of P-glycoprotein-mediated clearance or CYP-mediated clearance of
medicinal products are unlikely (see section 5.2).
Decreases in valproic acid levels that may fall below the therapeutic range have been reported when
valproic acid was co-administered with carbapenem agents. The lowered valproic acid levels can lead
to inadequate seizure control; therefore, concomitant use of ertapenem and valproic acid/sodium
valproate is not recommended and alternative antibacterial or anti-convulsant therapies should be
considered.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
Adequate and well-controlled studies have not been performed in pregnant women. Animal studies do
not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryo-foetal development,
parturition or post-natal development. However, ertapenem should not be used during pregnancy
unless the potential benefit outweighs the possible risk to the foetus.
Breast-feeding
Ertapenem is excreted in human milk. Because of the potential for adverse reactions on the infant,
mothers should not breast-feed their infants while receiving ertapenem.
Fertility
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies regarding the effect of ertapenem use on fertility in
men and women. Preclinical studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to
fertility (see section 5.3).
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.
INVANZ may influence patients' ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be informed that
dizziness and somnolence have been reported with INVANZ (see section 4.8).
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Adults
The total number of patients treated with ertapenem in clinical studies was over 2,200 of which over
2,150 received a 1 g dose of ertapenem. Adverse reactions (i.e., considered by the investigator to be
possibly, probably, or definitely related to the medicinal product) were reported in approximately
20 % of patients treated with ertapenem. Treatment was discontinued due to adverse reactions in 1.3 %
of patients. An additional 476 patients received ertapenem as a single 1 g dose prior to surgery in a
clinical study for the prophylaxis of surgical site infections following colorectal surgery.
For patients who received only INVANZ, the most common adverse reactions reported during therapy
plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped were: diarrhoea (4.8 %), infused vein
complication (4.5 %) and nausea (2.8 %).
For patients who received only INVANZ, the most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities and
their respective incidence rates during therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped
5
were: elevations in ALT (4.6 %), AST (4.6 %), alkaline phosphatase (3.8 %) and platelet count
(3.0 %). 
Paediatric population (3 months to 17 years of age):
The total number of patients treated with ertapenem in clinical studies was 384. The overall safety
profile is comparable to that in adult patients. Adverse reactions (i.e., considered by the investigator to
be possibly, probably, or definitely related to the medicinal product) were reported in approximately
20.8 % of patients treated with ertapenem. Treatment was discontinued due to adverse reactions in
0.5 % of patients.
For patients who received only INVANZ, the most common adverse reactions reported during therapy
plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped were: diarrhoea (5.2 %) and infusion site pain
(6.1 %).
For patients who received only INVANZ, the most frequently reported laboratory abnormalities and
their respective incidence rates during therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped
were: decreases in neutrophil count (3.0 %), and elevations in ALT (2.9 %) and AST (2.8 %).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
For patients who received only INVANZ, the following adverse reactions were reported during
therapy plus follow-up for 14 days after treatment was stopped:
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); Rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000);
Very rare (< 1/10,000); Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data)
Adults 18 years of age and older 
Children and adolescents
(3 months to 17 years of age)
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system
disorders
Immune system disorders
Metabolism and nutrition
disorders
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon: Oral candidiasis,
candidiasis, fungal infection,
pseudomembranous enterocolitis,
vaginitis
Rare: Pneumonia,
dermatomycosis, postoperative
wound infection, urinary tract
infection
Rare: Neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia
Rare: Allergy 
Not known: Anaphylaxis
including anaphylactoid reactions
Uncommon: Anorexia 
Rare: Hypoglycaemia
Uncommon: Insomnia, confusion
Rare: Agitation, anxiety,
depression
Not known: Altered mental status
(including aggression, delirium,
disorientation, mental status
changes)
Not known: Altered mental
status (including aggression)
6
 
Children and adolescents
(3 months to 17 years of age)
Uncommon: Headache
Not known: Hallucinations
Uncommon: Hot flush,
hypertension
Common: Diarrhoea
Uncommon: Faeces
discoloured, melaena
Common: Diaper dermatitis
Uncommon: Erythema, rash,
petechiae
Nervous system disorders
Eye disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
Musculoskeletal and
connective tissue disorders
Renal and urinary disorders
Pregnancy, puerperium and
perinatal conditions
Reproductive system and
breast disorders
Adults 18 years of age and older 
Common: Headache
Uncommon: Dizziness,
somnolence, taste perversion,
seizure (see section 4.4)
Rare: Tremor, syncope
Not known: Hallucinations,
depressed level of consciousness,
dyskinesia, myoclonus, gait
disturbance, encephalopathy (see
section 4.4)
Rare: Scleral disorder
Uncommon: Sinus bradycardia
Rare: Arrhythmia, tachycardia
Common: Infused vein
complication,
phlebitis/thrombophlebitis
Uncommon: Hypotension
Rare: Haemorrhage, increased
blood pressure
Uncommon: Dyspnoea,
pharyngeal discomfort
Rare: Nasal congestion, cough,
epistaxis, rales/rhonchi, wheezing
Common: Diarrhoea, nausea,
vomiting
Uncommon: Constipation, acid
regurgitation, dry mouth,
dyspepsia, abdominal pain
Rare: Dysphagia, faecal
incontinence, pelvic peritonitis
Not known: teeth staining
Rare: Cholecystitis, jaundice, liver
disorder
Common: Rash, pruritus
Uncommon: Erythema, urticaria
Rare: Dermatitis, desquamation,
hypersensitivity vasculitis
Not known: Acute Generalised
Exanthematous Pustulosis
(AGEP), Drug Rash with
Eosinophilia and Systemic
Symptoms (DRESS syndrome)
Rare: Muscle cramp, shoulder
pain
Not known: Muscular weakness
Rare: Renal insufficiency, acute
renal insufficiency
Rare: Abortion
Rare: Genital bleeding 
7
General disorders and
administration site conditions
Investigations
Chemistry
Haematology
Urinalysis 
Miscellaneous 
Children and adolescents
(3 months to 17 years of age)
Common: Infusion site pain
Uncommon: Infusion site
burning, infusion site pruritus,
infusion site erythema,
injection site erythema,
infusion site warmth
Common: Elevations in ALT
and AST
Common: Decreases in
neutrophil count
Uncommon: Increases in
platelet count, activated
partial thromboplastin time,
prothrombin time, decreases
in haemoglobin
Adults 18 years of age and older 
Uncommon: Extravasation,
asthenia/fatigue, fever,
oedema/swelling, chest pain
Rare: Injection-site induration,
malaise 
Common: Elevations in ALT,
AST, alkaline phosphatase
Uncommon: Increases in total
serum bilirubin, direct serum
bilirubin, indirect serum bilirubin,
serum creatinine, serum urea,
serum glucose
Rare: Decreases in serum
bicarbonate, serum creatinine, and
serum potassium; increases in
serum LDH, serum phosphorus,
serum potassium
Common: Elevation in platelet
count
Uncommon: Decreases in white
blood cells, platelet count,
segmented neutrophils,
haemoglobin and haematocrit;
increases in eosinophils, activated
partial thromboplastin time,
prothrombin time, segmented
neutrophils, and white blood cells
Rare: Decrease in lymphocytes;
increases in band neutrophils,
lymphocytes, metamyelocytes,
monocytes, myelocytes; atypical
lymphocytes
Uncommon: Increases in urine
bacteria, urine white blood cells,
urine epithelial cells, and urine red
blood cells; urine yeast present
Rare: Increase in urobilinogen
Uncommon: Positive
Clostridioides difficile toxin
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with ertapenem. Overdosing of
ertapenem is unlikely. Intravenous administration of ertapenem at a 3 g daily dose for 8 days to
healthy adult volunteers did not result in significant toxicity. In clinical studies in adults inadvertent
administration of up to 3 g in a day did not result in clinically important adverse reactions. In
8
paediatric clinical studies, a single intravenous (IV) dose of 40 mg/kg up to a maximum of 2 g did not
result in toxicity.
However, in the event of an overdose, treatment with INVANZ should be discontinued and general
supportive treatment given until renal elimination takes place.
Ertapenem can be removed to some extent by haemodialysis (see section 5.2); however, no
information is available on the use of haemodialysis to treat overdose.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
General properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use, carbapenems, ATC code: J01DH03
Mechanism of action
Ertapenem inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis following attachment to penicillin binding proteins
(PBPs). In Escherichia coli, affinity is strongest to PBPs 2 and 3.
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship
Similar to other beta-lactam antimicrobial agents, the time that the plasma concentration of ertapenem
exceeds the MIC of the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy in
pre-clinical PK/PD studies.
Mechanism of resistance
For species considered susceptible to ertapenem, resistance was uncommon in surveillance studies in
Europe. In resistant isolates, resistance to other antibacterial agents of the carbapenem class was seen
in some but not all isolates. Ertapenem is effectively stable to hydrolysis by most classes of beta-
lactamases, including penicillinases, cephalosporinases and extended spectrum beta-lactamases, but
not metallo-beta-lactamases.
Methicillin-resistant staphylococci and enterococci are resistant to ertapenem, owing to PBP target
insensitivity; P. aeruginosa and other non-fermentative bacteria are generally resistant, probably
owing to limited penetration and to active efflux.
Resistance is uncommon in Enterobacteriaceae and ertapenem is generally active against those with
extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs). Resistance can however be observed when ESBLs or
other potent beta-lactamases (e.g. AmpC types) are present in conjunction with reduced permeability,
arising by the loss of one or more outer membrane porins, or with up-regulated efflux. Resistance can
also arise via the acquisition of beta-lactamases with significant carbapenem-hydrolysing activity (e.g.
IMP and VIM metallo-beta-lactamases or KPC types), though these are rare.
The mechanism of action of ertapenem differs from that of other classes of antibiotics, such as
quinolones, aminoglycosides, macrolides and tetracyclines. There is no target-based cross-resistance
between ertapenem and these substances. However, micro-organisms may exhibit resistance to more
than one class of antibacterial agents when the mechanism is, or includes, impermeability to some
compounds and/or an efflux pump.
Breakpoints
The EUCAST MIC breakpoints are as follows:
Enterobacterales: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
Streptococcus pneumoniae: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
9

 

 
Haemophilus influenzae: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
M. catarrhalis: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
Gram negative anaerobes: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
Gram positive anaerobes: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
Viridans group streptococci: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
Non species related breakpoints: S ≤ 0.5 mg/L and R > 0.5 mg/L
(NB: Susceptibility of staphylococci to ertapenem is inferred from methicillin susceptibility and
susceptibility of group A, B, C,& G streptococci is inferred from benzylpenicillin susceptibility) 
The prescribers are informed that local MIC breakpoints, if available, should be consulted.
Microbiological susceptibility
The prevalence of acquired resistance may vary geographically and with time for selected species and
local information on resistance is desirable, particularly when treating severe infections. Localised
clusters of infections due to carbapenem-resistant organisms have been reported in the European
Union. The information below gives only approximate guidance on the probability as to whether the
micro-organism will be susceptible to ertapenem or not. 
Commonly susceptible species:
Gram-positive aerobes:
Methicillin-susceptible-staphylococci (including Staphylococcus aureus)*
Streptococcus agalactiae*
Streptococcus pneumoniae*†
Streptococcus pyogenes
Gram-negative aerobes:
Citrobacter freundii
Enterobacter aerogenes
Enterobacter cloacae
Escherichia coli*
Haemophilus influenzae*
Haemophilus parainfluenzae
Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae*
Moraxella catarrhalis*
Morganella morganii
Proteus mirabilis*
Proteus vulgaris 
Serratia marcescens
Anaerobes:
Clostridium species (excluding C. difficile)*
Eubacterium species*
Fusobacterium species*
Peptostreptococcus species*
Porphyromonas asaccharolytica*
Prevotella species*
Species for which acquired resistance may be a problem:
Gram-positive aerobes:
Methicillin-resistant staphylococci +#
Anaerobes:
Bacteroides fragilis and species in the B. fragilis Group*
Inherently resistant organisms:
Gram-positive aerobes:
Corynebacterium jeikeium
Enterococci including Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium
10

 

 

 

 

 

 
Gram-negative aerobes:
Aeromonas species
Acinetobacter species
Burkholderia cepacia
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia
Anaerobes:
Lactobacillus species
Others:
Chlamydia species
Mycoplasma species
Rickettsia species
Legionella species
* Activity has been satisfactorily demonstrated in clinical studies.
† The efficacy of INVANZ in the treatment of community acquired pneumonia due to penicillin-resistant
Streptococcus pneumoniae has not been established.
+ frequency of acquired resistance > 50 % in some Member States.
# Methicillin-resistant staphylococci (including MRSA) are always resistant to beta-lactams.
Information from clinical studies
Efficacy in Paediatric Studies
Ertapenem was evaluated primarily for paediatric safety and secondarily for efficacy in randomised
comparative, multicentre studies in patients 3 months to 17 years of age. 
The proportion of patients with a favourable clinical response assessment at posttreatment visit in the
clinical MITT population is shown below:
Disease Stratum†
Community Acquired
Pneumonia (CAP)
Ertapenem
Ceftriaxone
Age Stratum 
n/m 
3 to 23 months 
31/35 
2 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
55/57 
3/3 
%
88.6
96.5
100.0
n/m
13/13
16/17
3/3
%
100.0
94.1
100.0
Disease Stratum 
Age Stratum 
Intraabdominal Infections (IAI)  2 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
Ertapenem 
Ticarcillin/clavulanate
n/m 
28/34 
15/16 
% 
82.4 
93.8 
n/m 
7/9 
4/6 
%
77.8
66.7
Acute Pelvic Infections (API) 
†  This includes 9 patients in the ertapenem group (7 CAP and 2 IAI), 2 patients in the ceftriaxone group
13 to 17 years 
25/25 
100.0 
8/8 
100.0
(2 CAP), and 1 patient with IAI in the ticarcillin/clavulanate group with secondary bacteraemia at entry into
the study.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Plasma concentrations
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a
1 g dose in healthy young adults (25 to 45 years of age) were 155 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour
postdose (end of infusion), 9 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose, and 1 microgram/mL at 24 hour
postdose. 
Area under the plasma concentration curve (AUC) of ertapenem in adults increases nearly dose-
proportionally over the 0.5 to 2 g dose range.
There is no accumulation of ertapenem in adults following multiple intravenous doses ranging from
0.5 to 2 g daily.
11
 
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a
15 mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 1 g) dose in patients 3 to 23 months of age were
103.8 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose (end of infusion), 13.5 micrograms/mL at 6 hour
postdose, and 2.5 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose. 
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a
15 mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 1 g) dose in patients 2 to 12 years of age were
113.2 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose (end of infusion), 12.8 micrograms/mL at 6 hour
postdose, and 3.0 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose.
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a
20 mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 1 g) dose in patients 13 to 17 years of age were
170.4 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose (end of infusion), 7.0 micrograms/mL at 12 hour
postdose, and 1.1 microgram/mL at 24 hour postdose. 
Average plasma concentrations of ertapenem following a single 30 minute intravenous infusion of a
1 g dose in three patients 13 to 17 years of age were 155.9 micrograms/mL (Cmax) at 0.5 hour postdose
(end of infusion), and 6.2 micrograms/mL at 12 hour postdose.
Distribution
Ertapenem is highly bound to human plasma proteins. In healthy young adults (25 to 45 years of age),
the protein binding of ertapenem decreases, as plasma concentrations increase, from approximately
95 % bound at an approximate plasma concentration of < 50 micrograms/mL to approximately 92 %
bound at an approximate plasma concentration of 155 micrograms/mL (average concentration
achieved at the end of infusion following 1 g intravenously).
The volume of distribution (Vdss) of ertapenem in adults is approximately 8 litres (0.11 litre/kg) and
approximately 0.2 litre/kg in paediatric patients 3 months to 12 years of age and approximately
0.16 litre/kg in paediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age.
Concentrations of ertapenem achieved in adult skin blister fluid at each sampling point on the third
day of 1 g once daily intravenous doses showed a ratio of AUC in skin blister fluid: AUC in plasma
of 0.61.
In vitro studies indicate that the effect of ertapenem on the plasma protein binding of highly protein
bound medicinal products (warfarin, ethinyl estradiol, and norethindrone) was small. The change in
binding was < 12 % at peak plasma ertapenem concentration following a 1 g dose. In vivo, probenecid
(500 mg every 6 hours) decreased the bound fraction of ertapenem in plasma at the end of infusion in
subjects administered a single 1 g intravenous dose from approximately 91 % to approximately 87 %.
The effects of this change are anticipated to be transient. A clinically significant interaction due to
ertapenem displacing another medicinal product or another medicinal product displacing ertapenem is
unlikely.
In vitro studies indicate that ertapenem does not inhibit P-glycoprotein-mediated transport of digoxin
or vinblastine and that ertapenem is not a substrate for P-glycoprotein-mediated transport.
Biotransformation
In healthy young adults (23 to 49 years of age), after intravenous infusion of radiolabelled 1 g
ertapenem, the plasma radioactivity consists predominantly (94 %) of ertapenem. The major
metabolite of ertapenem is the ring-opened derivative formed by dehydropeptidase-I-mediated
hydrolysis of the beta-lactam ring.
In vitro studies in human liver microsomes indicate that ertapenem does not inhibit metabolism
mediated by any of the six major CYP isoforms: 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4.
12
Elimination
Following administration of a 1 g radiolabelled intravenous dose of ertapenem to healthy young adults
(23 to 49 years of age), approximately 80 % is recovered in urine and 10 % in faeces. Of the 80 %
recovered in urine, approximately 38 % is excreted as unchanged ertapenem and approximately 37 %
as the ring-opened metabolite.
In healthy young adults (18 to 49 years of age) and patients 13 to 17 years of age given a 1 g
intravenous dose, the mean plasma half-life is approximately 4 hours. The mean plasma half-life in
children 3 months to 12 years of age is approximately 2.5 hours. Average concentrations of ertapenem
in urine exceed 984 micrograms/mL during the period 0 to 2 hours postdose and exceed
52 micrograms/mL during the period 12 to 24 hours post-administration.
Special populations
Gender
The plasma concentrations of ertapenem are comparable in men and women.
Elderly
Plasma concentrations following a 1 g and 2 g intravenous dose of ertapenem are slightly higher
(approximately 39 % and 22 %, respectively) in healthy elderly adults (≥ 65 years) relative to young
adults (
 65 years). In the absence of severe renal impairment, no dosage adjustment is necessary in
elderly patients.
Paediatric population
Plasma concentrations of ertapenem are comparable in paediatric patients 13 to 17 years of age and
adults following a 1 g once daily intravenous dose.
Following the 20 mg/kg dose (up to a maximum dose of 1 g), the pharmacokinetic parameter values in
patients 13 to 17 years of age were generally comparable to those in healthy young adults. To provide
an estimate of the pharmacokinetic data if all patients in this age group were to receive a 1 g dose, the
pharmacokinetic data were calculated adjusting for a 1 g dose, assuming linearity. A comparison of
results show that a 1 g once daily dose of ertapenem achieves a pharmacokinetic profile in patients
13 to 17 years of age comparable to that of adults. The ratios (13 to 17 years/adults) for AUC, the end
of infusion concentration and the concentration at the midpoint of the dosing interval were 0.99, 1.20,
and 0.84, respectively.
Plasma concentrations at the midpoint of the dosing interval following a single 15 mg/kg intravenous
dose of ertapenem in patients 3 months to 12 years of age are comparable to plasma concentrations at
the midpoint of the dosing interval following a 1 g once daily intravenous dose in adults (see Plasma
concentrations). The plasma clearance (mL/min/kg) of ertapenem in patients 3 months to 12 years of
age is approximately 2-fold higher as compared to that in adults. At the 15 mg/kg dose, the AUC value
and plasma concentrations at the midpoint of the dosing interval in patients 3 months to 12 years of
age were comparable to those in young healthy adults receiving a 1 g intravenous dose of ertapenem.
Hepatic impairment
The pharmacokinetics of ertapenem in patients with hepatic impairment have not been established.
Due to the limited extent of hepatic metabolism of ertapenem, its pharmacokinetics are not expected to
be affected by hepatic impairment. Therefore, no dosage adjustment is recommended in patients with
hepatic impairment.
Renal impairment
Following a single 1 g intravenous dose of ertapenem in adults, AUCs of total ertapenem (bound and
unbound) and of unbound ertapenem are similar in patients with mild renal impairment (Clcr 60 to
90 mL/min/1.73 m2) compared with healthy subjects (ages 25 to 82 years). AUCs of total ertapenem
and of unbound ertapenem are increased in patients with moderate renal impairment (Clcr 31 to
59 mL/min/1.73 m2) approximately 1.5-fold and 1.8-fold, respectively, compared with healthy
subjects. AUCs of total ertapenem and of unbound ertapenem are increased in patients with severe
13
renal impairment (Clcr 5 to 30 mL/min/1.73 m2) approximately 2.6-fold and 3.4-fold, respectively,
compared with healthy subjects. AUCs of total ertapenem and of unbound ertapenem are increased in
patients who require haemodialysis approximately 2.9-fold and 6.0-fold, respectively, between dialysis
sessions, compared with healthy subjects. Following a single 1 g intravenous dose given immediately
prior to a haemodialysis session, approximately 30 % of the dose is recovered in the dialysate. There
are no data in paediatric patients with renal impairment.
There are inadequate data on the safety and efficacy of ertapenem in patients with advanced renal
impairment and patients who require haemodialysis to support a dose recommendation. Therefore,
ertapenem should not be used in these patients.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety,
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity and toxicity to reproduction and development.
Decreased neutrophil counts, however, occurred in rats that received high doses of ertapenem, which
was not considered a significant safety issue.
Long-term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of ertapenem have not been
performed.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Sodium bicarbonate (E500)
Sodium hydroxide (E524) to adjust pH to 7.5
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Do not use solvents or infusion fluids containing dextrose for reconstitution or administration of
ertapenem.
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal
products except those mentioned in section 6.6.
6.3  Shelf life
2 years.
After reconstitution: Diluted solutions should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in use
storage times are the responsibility of the user. Diluted solutions (approximately 20 mg/mL
ertapenem) are physically and chemically stable for 6 hours at room temperature (25°C) or for
24 hours at 2 to 8°C (in a refrigerator). Solutions should be used within 4 hours of their removal from
the refrigerator. Do not freeze solutions of INVANZ.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 25 C.
For storage conditions after reconstitution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
15 mL Type I glass vials with a grey butyl stopper and a white plastic cap on a coloured aluminium
band seal.
14
Supplied in packs of 1 vial or 10 vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Instructions for use:
For single use only.
Reconstituted solutions should be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution immediately
after preparation.
Preparation for intravenous administration:
INVANZ must be reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration.
Adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years of age)
Reconstitution
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of INVANZ with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 100 mg/mL.
Shake well to dissolve. (See section 6.4.)
Dilution
For a 50 mL bag of diluent: For a 1 g dose, immediately transfer contents of the reconstituted vial to a
50 mL bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution; or 
For a 50 mL vial of diluent: For a 1 g dose, withdraw 10 mL from a 50 mL vial of sodium chloride
9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution and discard. Transfer the contents of the reconstituted 1 g vial of INVANZ
to the 50 mL vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution. 
Infusion
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes.
Children (3 months to 12 years of age)
Reconstitution
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of INVANZ with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 100 mg/mL.
Shake well to dissolve. (See section 6.4.)
Dilution
For a bag of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a
bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL or less; or 
For a vial of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a
vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL or less. 
Infusion
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes.
Compatibility of INVANZ with intravenous solutions containing heparin sodium and potassium
chloride has been demonstrated.
The reconstituted solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior
to administration, whenever the container permits. Solutions of INVANZ range from colourless to
pale yellow. Variations of colour within this range do not affect potency.
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
15
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/02/216/001
EU/1/02/216/002
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 18 April 2002
Date of latest renewal: 22 December 2011
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
16
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH
RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
17
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
FAREVA Mirabel, Route de Marsat, Riom
63963 Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9, France
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
Not applicable.
18

 

 
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
19
A. LABELLING
20
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVANZ 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
ertapenem
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains: 1.0 g ertapenem (as sodium). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Sodium bicarbonate (E500); sodium hydroxide (E524) to adjust pH to 7.5.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
1 vial
10 vials
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 C
21
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/02/216/001 1 vial
EU/1/02/216/002 10 vials
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Batch
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
22
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
INVANZ 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
ertapenem 
Intravenous use
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Batch
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
1 g
6.  OTHER
23
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
24
Package leaflet: Information for the user
INVANZ 1 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
ertapenem
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important
information for you.
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
- 
What is in this leaflet
1.  What INVANZ is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you are given INVANZ
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use INVANZ
Possible side effects
How to store INVANZ
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What INVANZ is and what it is used for
INVANZ contains ertapenem which is an antibiotic of the beta-lactam group. It has the ability to kill a
wide range of bacteria (germs) that cause infections in various parts of the body. 
INVANZ can be given to persons 3 months of age and older.
Treatment:
Your doctor has prescribed INVANZ because you or your child has one (or more) of the following
types of infection: 
Infection in the abdomen
Infection affecting the lungs (pneumonia)
Gynaecological infections
Skin infections of the foot in diabetic patients. 
Prevention:
Prevention of surgical site infections in adults following surgery of the colon or rectum.
2.  What you need to know before you are given INVANZ
Do not use INVANZ
- 
if you are allergic to the active substance (ertapenem) or any of the other ingredients of this
medicine (listed in section 6)
if you are allergic to antibiotics such as penicillins, cephalosporins or carbapenems (which are
used to treat various infections).
- 
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before taking INVANZ.
During treatment, if you experience an allergic reaction (such as swelling of the face, tongue or throat,
difficulty in breathing or swallowing, skin rash), tell your doctor straight away as you may need urgent
medical treatment. 
25

 

 

 

 

 
While antibiotics including INVANZ kill certain bacteria, other bacteria and fungi may continue to
grow more than normal. This is called overgrowth. Your doctor will monitor you for overgrowth and
treat you if necessary.
It is important that you tell your doctor if you have diarrhoea before, during or after your treatment
with INVANZ. This is because you may have a condition known as colitis (an inflammation of the
bowel). Do not take any medicine to treat diarrhoea without first checking with your doctor.
Tell your doctor if you are taking medicines called valproic acid or sodium valproate (see Other
medicines and INVANZ below).
Tell your doctor about any medical condition you have or have had including:
- 
Kidney disease. It is particularly important that your doctor knows if you have kidney disease
and whether you undergo dialysis treatment.
Allergies to any medicines, including antibiotics.
Central nervous system disorders, such as localised tremors, or seizures.
- 
- 
Children and adolescents (3 months to 17 years of age)
Experience with INVANZ is limited in children less than two years of age. In this age group your
doctor will decide on the potential benefit of its use. There is no experience in children under 3 months
of age.
Other medicines and INVANZ
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
Tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are taking medicines called valproic acid or sodium
valproate (used to treat epilepsy, bipolar disorder, migraines, or schizophrenia). This is because
INVANZ can affect the way some other medicines work. Your doctor will decide whether you should
use INVANZ in combination with these other medicines.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.
INVANZ has not been studied in pregnant women. INVANZ should not be used during pregnancy
unless your doctor decides the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus.
Women who are receiving INVANZ should not breast-feed, because it has been found in human milk
and the breast-fed baby may therefore be affected.
Driving and using machines
Do not drive or use any tools or machines until you know how you react to the medicine.
Certain side effects, such as dizziness and sleepiness, have been reported with INVANZ, which may
affect some patients’ ability to drive or operate machinery.
INVANZ contains sodium
This medicine contains approximately 137 mg sodium (main component of cooking / table salt) in
each 1.0 g dose. This is equivalent to 6.85 % of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of
sodium for an adult.
3.  How to use INVANZ
INVANZ will always be prepared and given to you intravenously (into a vein) by a doctor or another
healthcare professional.
26
The recommended dose of INVANZ for adults and adolescents 13 years of age and older is 1 gram (g)
given once a day. The recommended dose for children 3 months to 12 years of age is 15 mg/kg given
twice daily (not to exceed 1 g/day). Your doctor will decide how many days’ treatment you need.
For prevention of surgical site infections following surgery of the colon or rectum, the recommended
dose of INVANZ is 1 g administered as a single intravenous dose 1 hour before surgery.
It is very important that you continue to receive INVANZ for as long as your doctor prescribes it.
If you are given more INVANZ than you should
If you are concerned that you may have been given too much INVANZ, contact your doctor or another
healthcare professional immediately.
If you miss a dose of INVANZ
If you are concerned that you may have missed a dose, contact your doctor or another healthcare
professional immediately.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Adults 18 years of age and older:
Since the drug has been marketed, severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis), hypersensitivity syndromes
(allergic reactions including rash, fever, abnormal blood tests) have been reported. The first signs of a
severe allergic reaction may include swelling of the face and/or throat. If these symptoms occur tell
your doctor straight away as you may need urgent medical treatment.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects are:
Headache
Diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting
Rash, itching
Problems with the vein into which the medicine is given (including inflammation, formation of
a lump, swelling at the injection site, or leaking of fluid into the tissue and skin around the
injection site)
Increase in platelet count
Changes in liver function tests
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) side effects are:
Dizziness, sleepiness, sleeplessness, confusion, seizure
Low blood pressure, slow heart rate
Shortness of breath, sore throat
Constipation, yeast infection of the mouth, antibiotic-associated diarrhoea, acid regurgitation,
dry mouth, indigestion, loss of appetite
Skin redness
Vaginal discharge and irritation
Abdominal pain, fatigue, fungal infection, fever, oedema/swelling, chest pain, abnormal taste
Changes in some laboratory blood and urine tests
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) side effects are:
Decrease in white blood cells, decrease in blood platelet count
Low blood sugar
Agitation, anxiety, depression, tremor
Irregular heart rate, increased blood pressure, bleeding, fast heart rate
27

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Nasal congestion, cough, bleeding from the nose, pneumonia, abnormal breathing sounds,
wheezing
Inflammation of the gall bladder, difficulty in swallowing, faecal incontinence, jaundice, liver
disorder
Inflammation of the skin, fungal infection of the skin, skin peeling, infection of the wound after
an operation 
Muscle cramp, shoulder pain
Urinary tract infection, kidney impairment
Miscarriage, genital bleeding
Allergy, feeling unwell, pelvic peritonitis, changes to the white part of the eye, fainting.
The skin may become hard at the site of injection
Swelling of the skin blood vessels
Side effects reported with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available
data) are: 
hallucinations
decreased consciousness
altered mental status (including aggression, delirium, disorientation, mental status changes) 
abnormal movements 
muscle weakness
unsteady walking
teeth staining
There have also been reports of changes in some laboratory blood tests.
If you experience raised or fluid-filled skin spots over a large area of your body, tell your doctor or
nurse straight away.
Children and adolescents (3 months to 17 years of age):
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects are:
Diarrhoea
Diaper rash
Pain at the infusion site
Changes in white blood cell count
Changes in liver function tests
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) side effects are:
Headache
Hot flush, high blood pressure, red or purple, flat, pinhead spots under the skin
Discoloured faeces, black tar-like faeces
Skin redness, skin rash
Burning, itching, redness and warmth at infusion site, redness at injection site
Increase in platelet count 
Changes in some laboratory blood tests
Side effects reported with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available
data) are:
Hallucinations
Altered mental status (including aggression) 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
28

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store INVANZ
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the container.
The first 2 numbers indicate the month; the next 4 numbers indicate the year.
Do not store above 25 C
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What INVANZ contains
The active ingredient of INVANZ is ertapenem 1 g.
The other ingredients are: sodium bicarbonate (E500) and sodium hydroxide (E524).
What INVANZ looks like and contents of the pack
INVANZ is a white to off-white, freeze-dried powder for concentrate for solution for infusion.
Solutions of INVANZ range from colourless to pale yellow. Variations of colour within this range do
not affect potency.
INVANZ is supplied in packs of 1 vial or 10 vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat, Riom
63963 Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
Belgique/België/Belgien
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel:+32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel. + 370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
29
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o. 
Tel.: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: +45 44 82 40 00
dkmail@merck.com
Deutschland
INFECTOPHARM 
Arzneimittel und Consilium GmbH
Tel. +49 (0)6252 / 95-7000
kontakt@infectopharm.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Eλλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: + 30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +361 888 53 00
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 
(+31 (0)23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp.z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: + 4021 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: + 386 1 5204201
msd_slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel.: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
30
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 80000 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: +371 67364 224
msd_lv@merck.com
This leaflet was last revised in
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 9 804650
info@msd.fi
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 (0)77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human
Health) Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only:
Instructions of how to reconstitute and dilute INVANZ:
For single use only.
Preparation for intravenous administration:
INVANZ must be reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration.
Adult and adolescents (13 to 17 years of age)
Reconstitution
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of INVANZ with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 100 mg/mL.
Shake well to dissolve.
Dilution
For a 50 mL bag of diluent: For a 1 g dose, immediately transfer contents of the reconstituted vial to a
50 mL bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution; or
For a 50 mL vial of diluent: For a 1 g dose, withdraw 10 mL from a 50 mL vial of sodium chloride
9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution and discard. Transfer the contents of the reconstituted 1 g vial of INVANZ
to the 50 mL vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution.
Infusion
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes.
Children (3 months to 12 years of age)
Reconstitution
Reconstitute the contents of a 1 g vial of INVANZ with 10 mL of water for injection or sodium
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 100 mg/mL.
Shake well to dissolve.
Dilution
For a bag of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a
bag of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL or less; or 
For a vial of diluent: Transfer a volume equal to 15 mg/kg of body weight (not to exceed 1 g/day) to a
vial of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for a final concentration of 20 mg/mL or less.
31
Infusion
Infuse over a period of 30 minutes.
The reconstituted solution should be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution
immediately after preparation. Diluted solutions should be used immediately. If not used immediately,
in use storage times are the responsibility of the user. Diluted solutions (approximately 20 mg/mL
ertapenem) are physically and chemically stable for 6 hours at room temperature (25°C) or for
24 hours at 2 to 8°C (in a refrigerator). Solutions should be used within 4 hours of their removal from
the refrigerator. Do not freeze the reconstituted solutions.
The reconstituted solutions should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior
to administration, whenever the container permits. Solutions of INVANZ range from colourless to
pale yellow. Variations of colour within this range do not affect potency.
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
32
