SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Invanz. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Invanz  contains  ertapenem,  a  new  beta-lactam  agent  of  the  carbapenem  class  (1-β-methyl 
carbapenem). 
Carbapenem  agents  are  normally  active  against  common  aerobic  and  anaerobic  gram-positive 
pathogens,  but  not  against  methicillin-resistant  staphylococci.  In  vitro,  ertapenem  is  slightly  more 
active against gram-negative than gram-positive organisms. However, ertapenem does not show useful 
activity against the non-fermenting gram-negative aerobes, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa.  
The carbapenems that are already available in the European Union – meropenem and imipenem - are 
administered  by  injection  only  and  are  usually  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  serious  infections  in 
hospitalised  patients,  often  with  significant  co-morbidities.  As  imipenem  is  very  susceptible  to 
hydrolysis  by  human  dehydropeptidase-1  (DHP-1),  it  must  be  given  with  cilastatin,  an  inhibitor  of 
human  DHP-1,  in  order  to  achieve  clinically  useful  plasma  levels  for  an  appropriate  period. 
Meropenem and ertapenem are much more stable to DHP-1 due to the insertion of a 1-β-methyl group 
on the penem ring and therefore they do not have to be co-administered with a DHP-1 inhibitor.  
Invanz has been developed as a once-daily parenteral product. It is presented as a sterile lyophilised 
powder containing 1.046 g ertapenem sodium, equivalent to 1 g ertapenem. 
At the recommended dosage recommendation [1 g daily administered intravenously over a period of 
30 minutes for 3 to 14 days depending on the type and severity of infection and causative pathogen(s)] 
ertapenem is indicated for the treatment of the following infections in adults when caused by bacteria 
known or very likely to be susceptible to ertapenem and when parenteral therapy is required: 
• 
• 
• 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Community acquired pneumonia 
Acute gynaecological infections 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Invanz is a sterile lyophilised powder formulation of ertapenem sodium.  Each vial contains 1.046 g 
ertapenem  sodium,  equivalent  to  1  g  ertapenem.    The  formulation  also  contains  sodium  bicarbonate 
and sodium hydroxide as stabilisers for the active substance. 
For  intravenous  infusion  use,  the  product  is  reconstituted  with  10  ml  water  for  injections  or  sodium 
chloride 0.9 % solution for injection (to yield a reconstituted solution of approximately 100 mg/ml), 
immediately followed by dilution to about 20 mg/ml ertapenem with sodium chloride 0.9% injection  
(See Summary of Product Characteristics section 6.6). 
TSE  risk  assessments  have  been  conducted  in  respect  of  materials  used  in  the  production  of  Invanz 
and these demonstrate compliance with current guidelines. 
The  primary container comprises  a  colourless  20  ml  PhEur Type I glass  vial  with grey butyl rubber 
stopper (PhEur Type I) and aluminium overseal with integral plastic cap. 
1/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
The  development  of  the  active  substance  synthesis  was  well  described.    Ertapenem  is  a  weakly 
crystalline powder containing 15.5 – 19 % water.  Proof of its structure has been provided by means of 
UV, IR, NMR (1H & 13C) and MS. 
Satisfactory control specifications and associated method validations have been demonstrated for the 
starting  materials  and  key  intermediates,  and  spectroscopic  studies  support  the  structures  proposed.  
Satisfactory specifications have also been provided for all reagents and solvents. 
Ertapenem  is  synthesised  as  a  single  isomer.  Appropriate  control  of  the  starting  materials,  in 
combination with the nature of the synthesis, ensures the production of a single isomer of ertapenem.  
Chiral identity is confirmed in the active substance specification by specific optical rotation.  Evidence 
of reproducible manufacture at production scale (16 batches) has been provided and control limits for 
related  substances  have  been  justified  in  relation  to  batches  used  in  pre-clinical  and  clinical  studies.  
The  main degradant is  also the major hydrolysis metabolite in vivo. Satisfactory controls of residual 
solvents and catalysts are included in the specification and the absence of a test and limits for heavy 
metals has been justified. 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance and identity (IR, HPLC, presence of 
sodium, specific rotation) and tests and limits for assay, sodium, impurities (specified, unspecified and 
total), residual organic solvents, palladium, and water. 
All  methods  in  the  specification  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated.  The  reference 
standards have been adequately characterised.  Batch analyses data confirm both compliance with the 
proposed specification and consistency between batches. 
Ertapenem  is  unstable  at  ambient  temperature  and  humidity  and  requires  storage  in  moisture 
impermeable containers at -20°C over the retest period of 18 months. 
In solution, degradation of ertapenem is very rapid outside a very narrow pH range.  The instability of 
the  active  substance  is  evident  in  the  reference  and  sample  solutions  used  for  the  assay,  but  the 
maximum storage periods for the analysis of these samples have been justified. 
Other ingredients 
Sodium bicarbonate, sodium hydroxide and water for injections are the subject of PhEur monographs.  
The glass vial and rubber stopper comply with appropriate pharmacopoeial standards. 
Product development and finished product 
The finished product is formulated as a lyophilised powder using sodium bicarbonate and control of 
pH  to  stabilise  the  active  substance.    A  reversible  carbon  dioxide  adduct  is  formed  during  product 
manufacture  and  reduces  the  degradation  rate  of  the  drug  substance.    Nevertheless  a  manufacturing 
overage (total 16 %) of active substance is required to compensate for degradation during manufacture 
(up to 6 %), for the non-withdrawable component following reconstitution (4 %), and for degradation 
during the “in-use” storage period (up to 4 %).  The level of overage has been justified based on data 
from  pilot  and  commercial  scale  manufacture  and  the  data  demonstrate  that  at  any  time  during  the 
shelf-life of the product, a patient will receive a dose within the acceptable range of label claim + 10%. 
Invanz  is  manufactured  by  aseptic  filtration  and  filling  into  presterilised  vials  followed  by 
lyophilisation.  This method of production is justified by the thermolability of the active substance and 
full  details  of  all  the  methods  have  been  provided.    In  process  testing  of  the  solution  is  performed 
between the two 0.22µm filters to ensure that the pre-final filtration bioburden limit of 10cfu/100ml is 
routinely achieved.  Process validation studies on three production-scale batches manufactured at the 
commercial  manufacturing  site  demonstrated  the  product  can  be  reproducibly  manufactured  at  the 
proposed site and that the finished product specification is met. 
2/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The finished product specification is appropriate for control of this type of product.  
The  finished  product  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  and  identity  (NIR,  HPLC)  and  tests 
and limits for completeness and clarity of solution, particulate matter (visible and sub-visible), assay, 
degradation  products  (specified,  unspecified  and  total),  content  uniformity,  pH,  water  content, 
endotoxins and sterility. 
Acceptance  limits  for  related  substances  have  been  justified  in  relation  to  process  capability  and 
batches used in pre-clinical safety studies.  Degradants are a human metabolite, which comprises about 
70  %  of  the  total  degradants,  dimers  and  oxazinone.    The  limits  for  dimers,  oxazinone  and  total 
impurities have all been justified by reference to pre-clinical safety studies.  Analytical methods have 
been  shown  to  be  suitable  for  the  product.    Near  infra-red  (NIRS)  methods  of  analysis  have  been 
justified for determination of identity of the active substance and water content in the finished product.  
‘Conventional’ reference methods are also included in the specification for each of these controls. 
The  shelf-life  tests  limits  differ  from  those  used  for  release  purposes,  but  all  the  differences  are 
justified. 
All methods have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Batch  analyses  data  have  been  provided  and  these  demonstrate  both  compliance  with  the  proposed 
specification and consistency of manufacture. 
Reconstitution of the product with water for injections or 0.9 % sodium chloride injection is rapid, so 
the  omission  from  the  finished  product  specification  of  a  reconstitution  test  using  these  solvents  is 
justified.  No significant changes in reconstitution time were observed after storage of the product for 
up to 78 weeks. 
Stability of the Product 
Although significant degradation of ertapenem occurs on storage of the lyophilised product, following 
its  reconstitution  and  “in-use”  prior  to  administration  to  the  patient,  the  degradation  profile  is 
documented  and  does  not  give  rise  to  safety  concerns.    Degradation  of  ertapenem  on  storage  is 
temperature  dependent  and  is  minimised  by  storage  of  the  lyophilised  product  in  a  refrigerator  (2-
8°C).  Under these conditions, there was very little change in potency of the active substance observed 
after  78  weeks  storage  at  5°C  and  little  change  in  the  content  of  related  substances,  with  the  small 
increase  in  total  impurities  being  almost  entirely  accounted  for  by  the  ring-opened  degradant.  
Refrigeration of the product minimises degradation.  Invanz is not photolabile.  The major degradant is 
also a human metabolite.  The proposed shelf-life specification limits for assay and related substances 
have been justified in relation to product efficacy and safety.  Long-term stability data on pilot batches 
have  been  reported  up  to  18  months  storage  in  support  of  a  product  shelf-life  of  the  same  interval, 
when stored in a refrigerator. 
The proposed in-use shelf-life, following reconstitution and dilution, is 6 hours at room temperature or 
24 hours at 2 to 8°C (in a refrigerator), and this has been supported by appropriate data.  It has been 
demonstrated that the product is incompatible with 5 % dextrose solutions and Section 6.2 of the SPC 
states  that  dextrose-containing  solutions  should  not  be  used  for  preparation  or  administration  of  this 
product. 
Compatibility  of  the  reconstituted  solutions  with  commonly  used  administration  sets  has  been 
demonstrated. 
3/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Originally, ertapenem was developed using a non-lyophilised powder. In the early studies, ertapenem 
was either reconstituted with sodium bicarbonate and saline or blended with sodium bicarbonate and 
then  reconstituted  with  saline.  Subsequently  it  was  determined  that  lyophilising  the  substance 
improved  its  stability.  The  lyophilised  form  was  therefore  used  at  latter  stages  of  the  non-clinical 
development.  It  was  shown  that  both  forms  of  ertapenem  yielded  the  same  chemical  products, 
including degradates and impurities upon reconstitution.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Like other beta-lactam agents, the mechanism of action of ertapenem involves decreased synthesis of 
peptidoglycan  by  inhibition  of  specific  penicillin-binding  proteins  (PBP).  In  competitive  binding 
studies in E. coli, ertapenem displayed high affinity mainly for PBP2 and PBP3.  
Antibacterial activity 
The antibacterial activity of ertapenem has been extensively investigated both in vitro and in vivo with 
banked clinical isolates from all parts of the EU and many other countries. In vitro studies employed 
the  methodologies  of  the  National  Committee  for  Clinical  Laboratory  Standards  (NCCLS;  MIC90 
values  defined  by  broth  microdilution).  In  a  study  of  susceptibility  to  ertapenem  in  the  EU,  2854 
recent  clinical  isolates  of  common  pathogenic  species  (range  55-208  per  species  for  those  of  most 
relevance)  were  tested  by  MIC  determination  for  susceptibility  to  ertapenem  and  compared  to  other 
antibacterial  agents  (e.g  cefepime,  ceftriaxone,  imipenem  and  piperacillin/tazobactam).  The  main 
features of the antibacterial activity of ertapenem are summarised below: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Ertapenem  showed  activity  against  methicillin-susceptible  S.  aureus  (MSSA),  which  were 
generally inhibited at 0.25 mg/l. Most other methicillin-susceptible staphylococci were inhibited 
at 2 mg/l. As expected, ertapenem was not active against methicillin-resistant staphylococci.  
Streptococcus pyogenes and agalactiae were inhibited by ≤ 0.06 mg/l whereas the MIC90 for S. 
pneumoniae (including penicillin-resistant (Pen-R) strains) was about 1 mg/l. 
Ertapenem  was  not  active  against  the  enterococci,  Corynebacterium  jeikeium  or  the 
lactobaccilli. 
Haemophilus  influenzae  and  Moraxella  catarrhalis  were  both  very  susceptible  to  ertapenem  
(MICs ≤ 0.06 mg/l). 
Ertapenem  was  very  active  in  vitro  against  most  enterobacteriaceae  and  other  common  
gram-negative rods, but not against the non-fermenting aerobic species. For example, the MIC90 
of  ertapenem  was  16  mg/l  for  Acinetobacter  spp.,  16  mg/l  for  imipenem-susceptible 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and 32 mg/l for imipenem-resistant strains. Ertapenem was not active 
against Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Burkholderia cepacia, or Aeromonas spp. 
Activity  was  generally  good  against  important  anaerobic  species  (eg.  MIC90  of  1  mg/l  for 
Bacteroides fragilis, and 0.125 mg/l for Clostridium perfringens). However, ertapenem was not 
active against Bacteroides distasonis or Clostridium difficile. 
Ertapenem  was  efficacious  in  experimental  infection  models  conducted  in  immuno-competent  and 
immuno-deficient  animals,  including  experimental  septicemia  with  gram-positive  and  gram-negative 
pathogens and deep tissue infection models.  
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The  antibacterial  activity  of  ertapenem  is  time  dependent,  i.e  the  proportion  of  the  dosing  interval 
during  which  plasma  concentrations  exceed  the  MIC  of  the  infecting  organism  (T>  MIC)  correlates 
with  efficacy.  Maximum  activity  against  gram-negative  bacilli,  S.  aureus,  and  S.  pneumoniae 
respectively  occurred  when  the  total  ertapenem  concentration  exceeded  the  MIC  of  the  infecting 
organism for 34.5 %, 43 % and 24.2 % of the dosing interval. 
4/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Breakpoints 
The MIC susceptibility testing breakpoints that were applied during clinical trials and that have been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics are: Susceptible ≤ 4 mg/l (except for streptococci 
where susceptibility was defined as ≤ 2 mg/l) and Resistant > 8 mg/l.  
Resistance 
As for all other beta-lactams, the possible mechanisms of resistance with ertapenem are: 
Bacterial production of beta-lactamase  
• 
The  most  common  types  of  beta-lactamases,  extended-spectrum  beta-lactamases  or  the  inducible 
AmpC-type  enzymes  that  may  be  produced  by  bacterial  pathogens,  do  not  efficiently  hydrolyse  the 
carbapenems.  For  example,  ertapenem  was  very  active  against  wild-type  organisms  of  species  that 
have  inducible  chromosomally  encoded  AmpC  enzymes  (MICs  ≤  0.5  mg/l).  Activity  against  stably-
derepressed mutants was less, showing an upward shift in MIC range, MIC50 and MIC90 values but, for 
the most part, MICs were still ≤ 1 mg/l. There was no detectable increase in chromosomally-encoded 
AmpC  beta-lactamase  production  by  inducible  strains  on  exposure  to  ertapenem  and  ertapenem  did 
not exhibit significant inhibition of AmpC beta-lactamase in vitro. 
However, ertapenem, like other carbapenems, may be hydrolysed by zinc-containing carbapenemases. 
For  example,  IMP-1,  which  may  be  chromosomal  or  plasmid-encoded,  is  a  zinc-containing 
carbapenemase  that  has  been  found  in  some  enterobacteria  and  in  P.  aeruginosa.  Carbapenem 
resistance  has  also  become  a  problem  in  Acinetobacter  baumannii,  in  which  a  non-metallic  enzyme 
(ARI-1) is sometimes the cause, with or without impermeability of the outer membrane to beta-lactam 
agents and/or changes in the PBPs. Other acquired carbapenemases (eg. IMI-1, NMC-A and Sme-1), 
which also appear to be non-metallic and to have a serine-based mechanism, have a greater effect on 
imipenem than meropenem, are located on the chromosome, and may be inhibited by clavulanic acid. 
Alteration in the penicillin-binding proteins  
• 
The carbapenems are less active against organisms that show reduced susceptibility or frank resistance 
to  penicillins  as  a  result  of  PBP  changes  (e.g  penicillin-resistant  pneumococci).  However  clinical 
resistance does not always result. 
Impermeability that prevents access of the compound to target sites.  
• 
This usually results from changes in porins in the outer membranes of gram-negative organisms that 
limit the penetration of the compound into the periplasmic space. Cross-resistance between ertapenem 
and  non-beta  lactam  antibacterial  agents  may  occur  if  the  mechanism  involves  outer  membrane 
impermeability to several types of molecules, 
efflux pumps that limit accumulation of the compound at the target sites. 
• 
Cross-resistance  between  ertapenem  and  non-beta  lactam  antibacterial  agents  may  occur  if  the 
mechanism involves an efflux pump with affinity for a wide variety of antibacterial agents.  
General and safety pharmacology programme  
In a comprehensive programme of general pharmacodynamic studies, no relevant effects of ertapenem 
were reported. In particular there was no effect on the respiratory, gastro-intestinal and central nervous 
systems. In addition there was no effect on the ECG of cats receiving an intravenous dose 5-6 times 
the proposed clinical dose.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of ertapenem was evaluated in species used in the toxicity studies (rats 
and monkeys).  Ertapenem concentrations were measured using validated methods.  
5/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral  absorption  of  ertapenem  was  very  poor.  Indeed,  following  an  oral  dose  of  10  mg/kg, 
bioavailability of ertapenem was only about 3.5 %, confirming that the compound was not suitable for 
oral administration. 
Absorption and distribution 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ertapenem  appeared  to  be  species-dependent  and  was  not  linear. 
Following  single  intravenous  administration  of  ertapenem  (10  mg/kg),  elimination  of  the  parent 
compound was slow and the elimination dose-dependent.  
The  plasma  clearance  of  ertapenem  in  rats  was  about  5.5  ml/min/kg  based  on  the  total  plasma 
concentration, which is about 15 times higher than that in primates and humans. The blood clearance 
in all animal species studied was less than 15 % of hepatic blood flow.  
Over a range of 10 to 180 mg/kg the AUC values increased less than dose proportional. A less than 
proportional increase in AUC was also observed in rats and monkeys after multiple IV administration. 
No dose accumulation was recorded. 
Following  intravenous  administration  of  15  mg/kg  [14C]  ertapenem  to  rats,  radioactivity  was  widely 
distributed, the highest concentrations being detected in the kidney, plasma, small intestine and liver. 
Radioactivity  declined  with  time  in  all  tissues.  With  the  exception  of  the  kidneys,  radioactivity  in 
tissues  was  less  than  0.7  µg/g  at  72  hour  post-dose.  Distribution  volumes  varied  across  species, 
ranging from 84 ml/kg in monkeys to 145 ml/kg in rats. 
Ertapenem was extensively bound to rat, monkey and human plasma proteins. Only a small proportion 
of  ertapenem  remained  unbound  to  plasma  proteins  in  all  species  at  very  high  concentrations  of 
2000 µg/ml  (less  than  7  %).    The  saturation  of  binding  that  occurred  at  very  high  doses  was 
responsible for non-linear kinetics.  In fact, as the dose increased, the fraction of unbound ertapenem 
in  plasma  available  for  elimination  increased,  resulting  in  a  higher  clearance  value.  Results  from  in 
vitro  studies  also  revealed  that  the  saturation  of  the  plasma  protein  binding  was  not  extensive  at 
clinically-relevant  concentrations  (155  to  283  µg/ml)  following  administration  of  the  recommended  
1-  to  3-g  IV  dose  in  humans.  Thus,  the  degree  of  non  linearity  in  human  pharmacokinetics  was 
expected to be much less significant. As predicted, the observed plasma clearance in humans increased 
only 23 % over the dose range of 1 to 3. 
Following  intravenous  administration  of  700  mg/kg/day  of  ertapenem  to  rats,  ertapenem  was  also 
detected in foetal plasma and milk at 3 % and 7 % of maternal plasma concentration respectively. 
Ertapenem was neither a substrate nor inhibitor of P-gP glycoprotein.  
Metabolism and elimination 
Following  intravenous  administration  of  [14C]  ertapenem,  formation  of  the  beta-lactam  ring-open 
metabolite  was  the  major  metabolic  pathway  in  rats,  monkeys,  and  humans.    The  beta-lactam  ring-
open  metabolite  was  detected  in  plasma  and  urine  of  all  species  and  the  total  recovery  of  this 
metabolite  in  the  urine  of  rats,  monkeys,  and  humans  was  32  %,  75  %  and  37  %  of  the  dose, 
respectively.  In  bile  duct-cannulated  rats,  the  beta-lactam  ring-open  metabolite  was  detected  as  the 
major radioactive component (about 8.2 % of the dose) in the bile. In addition, a polar metabolite, M1, 
tentatively  identified  as  the  amide  hydrolysis  product  of  the  beta-lactam  ring-open  metabolite,  was 
detected in the urine of rats (20 % of the dose), monkeys (8 % of the dose), and humans (<1 % of the 
dose).  
The excretion was primarily via urine with very little as unchanged parent compound except for the 
rats  in  which  faecal  excretion  accounted  for  22  %  of  a  radioactive  dose.  The  highest  proportion  of 
parent compound (given as radioactive dose) detected in urine occurred in humans (37.5 %). 
6/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The conversion of ertapenem to the beta-lactam ring-open metabolite in rats was catalyzed by DHP-I 
in  the  lung  and  kidney,  two  organs  that  in  rodents  are  known  to  contain  high  levels  of  DHP-1.  
Ertapenem did not interact in any manner with the cytochrome P450 system. 
Co-administration of cilastatin with ertapenem to rats reduced the plasma clearance of ertapenem by 6-
fold.  Urinary  excretion  of  the  unchanged  drug  increased  from  9  to  36  %  of  the  dose,  and  was 
accompanied by a decrease in the urinary recovery of the beta-lactam ring-open metabolitefrom 31 to 
9 % of the dose.   
The  t1/2  was  much  longer  in  primates  (326  min  in  monkeys)  than  in  rodents  (37  min  in  rats).  Since 
rodents  are  known  to  have  higher  non-renal  DHP-1  activities,  it  is  expected  that  the  clearance  in 
humans would be most likely closer to that in primates. The observed human clearance is very similar 
to that in the monkey and chimpanzee.  
Toxicology 
The toxicological profile of ertapenem was evaluated in rats, mice, monkeys and rabbits. Based on the 
pharmacokinetic  data,  species  were  considered  relevant,  with  primate  being  the  preclinical  species 
closest  to  humans.  Studies  were  conducted  according  to  Good  Laboratory  Practices.  Ertapenem  was 
administered via intravenous bolus. This was considered acceptable and since greater exposure would 
not be achieved by intramuscular dosing, further studies using that route were not warranted.  
Single dose toxicity 
There  was  little  potential  for  acute  toxicity  with  LD50  values  in  rodents  >  700  mg/kg  following 
intravenous administration and ≥ 500 mg/kg in mice after oral administration.   
In an exploratory study in rabbits, single intravenous doses of ertapenem as high as 500 mg/kg did not 
lead to any functional renal impairment or any histomorphologic changes in the kidney and therefore 
ertapenem  was  considered  less  nephrotoxic  than  150  mg/kg  imipenem,  the  positive  control.  In  an 
additional study in rabbits, ertapenem was not considered nephrotoxic based on the lack of treatment-
related changes after administration of a single intravenous dose of 225 mg/kg of ertapenem. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeated dose toxicity studies were carried out in rats (up to 27 weeks), rabbits (up to 2 weeks) and 
monkeys (up to 27 weeks). No-treatment related mortality was reported in any of the studies. 
The major findings were: 
- decreased neutrophil count (up to 50 % reduction in percentage or number) in rats 
- irritation at the injection site in rats 
- increases in serum ALT concentration in rabbits and monkeys.   
Decrease  in  neutrophil  count  was  not  associated  with  any  changes  in  the  bone  marrow  and  was 
reversible after interruption of ertapenem treatment. The mechanism of this species-specific reversible 
effect is unknown but was considered unlikely to be of clinical relevance. 
There  was  an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  overall  damage  at  the  injection  sites  of  female  rats  who 
received 675 mg/kg/day for around 14 weeks (characterised by slight to marked fibrosis, haemorrhage 
and inflammation at those sites) and the slight increase in serum ALT concentration unaccompanied 
by  histopathological  changes  were  reported  in  rabbits  (60  mg/kg/day  for  5  weeks  and  monkeys  
(≥ 30 mg/kg/day for 5 weeks). These effects were not considered to be of clinical relevance. This was 
supported  by  the  clinical  studies  where  the  incidence  of  increased  ALT  was  similar  to  that  of  the 
comparator (5.5 %). 
Kidney histopathological changes were also reported in monkeys in the 5-week study at the high doses 
≥ 500 mg/kg/day (tubular cytoplasmic rarefaction and vacuolation of cortical tubular epithelial cells) 
and  in  the  27  week-study  at  all  doses  (40,  120  and  360  mg/kg/day  characterised  by  tubular 
cytoplasmic rarefaction and luminal eosinophilic granularity). The changes were considered adaptive 
not  degenerative  and  occurred  at  high  doses  and/or  after  long  treatment  period.  No  microscopic 
alterations  of  kidneys  were  observed  in  rabbits  in  the  exploratory  study  above  referred.  In  addition 
since  no  clinical  findings  indicative  of  nephrotoxicity  were  reported,  these  were  considered  of  no 
clinical relevance. 
7/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
The  safety  margins  of  about  10-fold  for  rat  and  about  15-fold  for  monkeys  were  reached  based  on 
Cmax comparison, and about 1-fold for rat and about 6-fold for monkeys based on AUC comparison. 
It  was  not  feasible  to  administer  higher  doses  in  rats  because  of  irritation  of  the  injection  sites  and 
instability  of  the  compound  at  higher  concentrations.  Although  these  did  not  attain  many  multiples 
over  expected  clinical  levels,  they  were  considered  acceptable  to  support  the  safety  of  ertapenem 
administration to patients at the therapeutic doses. 
Infant monkeys receiving intravenous doses of ertapenem for up to 5 weeks (60 or 180 mg/kg/day) did 
not show any major treatment related effects.  
Genotoxicity 
In  a  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genetoxicity  studies,  ertapenem  was  neither  genotoxic  nor 
mutagenic.  These  studies  also  gave 
the  
beta-lactam ring-open metabolite. 
lack  of  genotoxicity  of 
reassurance  on 
the 
Carcinogenicity  
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with ertapenem in view of the expected short duration 
of treatment. This is consistent with the current international guidelines on carcinogenicity testing.  
Reproduction toxicity 
Reproduction  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  mice.  Mice  were  used  as  an  alternative 
species  to  rabbits  to  evaluate  the  developmental  toxicity  of  ertapenem.  The  reason  for  using  this 
alternative  species  is  based  on  the  excessive  toxicity  of  ertapenem  at  relatively  low  doses  in  rabbits 
due to sensitivity to antibiotics.  
There was no effect on fertility of either female or male rats at doses up to 700 mg/kg/day. The no-
effect  level  for  maternal  and  developmental  toxicity  was  >  700  mg/kg/day  in  rats.  In  mice,  slight 
decrease  in  average  foetal  weight  and  an  associated  decrease  in  the  number  of  ossified  sacrocaudal 
vertebrae  were  reported  in  the  700  mg/kg/day  group  but  no  effect  on  embryo  survival  or  foetal 
morphology  was  reported.  The  no-effect  level  for  maternal  toxicity  was  therefore  >  700  mg/kg/day 
and for developmental toxicity equivalent to 350 mg/kg/day in mice.  
Intravenous  irritation  at  the  injection  site  and  the  instability  of  ertapenem  at  high  concentrations 
limited the ability to administer higher doses and therefore systemic exposure were below or similar to 
those expected to be reached in humans. However studies on structurally related compounds did not 
give any indication of potential developmental toxicity.  
Ertapenem crossed the placenta and was excreted into milk of lactating rats. 
Local tolerance 
In  local  tolerance  studies,  ertapenem  exhibited  little  potential  for  irritancy.  In  particular,  in 
intramuscular irritancy in rabbits, the only adverse finding was a moderate degree of muscle necrosis 
and  a  slight  to  moderate  degree  of  cellular  infiltration  one  week  after  injection.  This  reaction  had 
almost resolved after a further week. 
Other toxicity 
In  a  special  toxicity  study  involving  intracisternal  administration  of  ertapenem  to  rats,  it  was  shown 
that ertapenem had 5-10 times less convulsant potential than the comparator imipenem. The ED50 for 
induction  of  convulsion  was  133  µg/ml  (93-193  µg/ml).  Ertapenem  did  not  show  any  haemolytic 
potential. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
An  assessment  of  the  environmental  risk  was  did  not  reveal  any  potential  risk  to  the  environment 
related to the use of ertapenem. 
8/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
The main features of the antibacterial activity of ertapenem have been described in section 3.3 above. 
Microbiological data were obtained from organisms isolated from patients treated during the phase II 
and  phase  III  trials  and  were  compared  with  clinical  and  microbiological  outcomes  in  the 
microbiologically evaluable populations. 
Aerobic pathogens 
• 
The only species for which MICs of ertapenem exceeded 4 mg/l for some isolates were E. faecalis and 
E. faecium, P. aeruginosa, S. aureus and S. epidermidis. The analysis of outcomes by MIC suggested 
that  the  infections  due  to  the  17  organisms  inhibited  at  16  mg/l  or  more  were  much  less  likely  to 
respond  clinically  or  microbiologically  to  therapy.  As  already  indicated  MRSA,  MRSE,  enterococci 
and Pseudomonas spp. are designated as resistant to ertapenem. 
From studies 018 and 020 in CAP, there were 23 pneumococci inhibited at 0.1 mg/l penicillin or more 
that  were  treated  with  ertapenem  and  21  that  were  treated  with  ceftriaxone.  However,  20  and  18  of 
these  were  inhibited  at  <  2  mg/l  penicillin,  and  all  were  inhibited  at  4  mg/l  ertapenem  (all  but  one 
inhibited at 1 mg/l or less). These few data suggest that ertapenem might be efficacious against such 
pneumococci (most of which were treated at 1 g daily), but there are too few penicillin-resistant strains 
treated to draw a firm conclusion.  
Anaerobic pathogens 
• 
The  only  species  for  which  MICs  of  ertapenem  exceeded  4  mg/l  for  some  isolates  were  anaerobic 
cocci  (unspecified),  B.  fragilis  and  B.  fragilis  group,  and  Bilophila  wardsworthia.  With  so  few 
organisms  inhibited  at  2  mg/l  or  more,  no  assessment  of  efficacy  against  less  susceptible  anaerobes 
(MIC  4  mg/l  or  more)  could  be  made.  B.  fragilis  and  B.  fragilis  group  were  considered  susceptible 
based on the MIC90 of 1 mg/l of these organisms. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of ertapenem was evaluated in healthy volunteers from both sexes, in the 
elderly  and  patients  with  renal  impairment,  following  single  and  multiple  intravenous  doses  of 
ertapenem. Ertapenem was measured using validated methods. There was also a limited evaluation of 
the pharmacokinetics of ertapenem following intramuscular route. 
Absorption and distribution 
Mean  Cmax  ertapenem  following  a  single  30-minute  intravenous  infusion  of  a  1  g  dose  in  healthy 
young adults was 155 mg/l at 0.5 hour post-dose (end of infusion), 9 mg/l at 12 hour post-dose, and 
1 mg/ml at 24 hours post-dose.  
Single and multiple dose studies indicated that total ertapenem AUCs were slightly lower than would 
be predicted as the dose is increased (0.5 to 2 g), but unbound ertapenem concentrations were higher 
than  expected.  Following  multiple  doses,  there  was  no  evidence  of  any  drug  accumulation  between 
days 1 and 8 on dosing at up to 3 g/day. 
After single intravenous doses of 1 g over 30 minutes in males and females, mean AUCs for total and 
unbound drug were not significantly different between gender, with or without weight as a covariate in 
females. The 12 h mean plasma concentration of total ertapenem after 1 g was 8.3 mg/l in females and 
12.1 mg/l in males.  
In the elderly, exposure to both total (about 1.3:1) and  unbound ertapenem (about  1.7:1) was higher 
than  in  younger  subjects.  In  the  elderly,  12  hour  mean  plasma  concentrations  after  1  g  dose  were 
9/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 mg/l for unbound and 18 mg/l for total ertapenem. The time during which plasma levels exceeded 
1 mg/l in the elderly was about 50 % of the dosing interval. After multiple dosing at 1 g/day for 7 days 
in  young  or  elderly  subjects,  plasma  concentrations  of  total  and  unbound  ertapenem  were  slightly 
lower on day 7 than on day 1.  
After  intramuscular  doses,  Cmax  was  slightly  lower  but  exposure  to  total  drug  was  similar  and  the 
bioavailability of drug following IM injection was 92 %. A comparison of time during which plasma 
levels  of  total  drug  exceeded  4  mg/l  showed  that  this  was  18  h  after  IM  dosing  and  17  h  after  IV 
dosing  as  a  30-minute  infusion.  Multiple  IM  dosing  at  1  g/day  showed  no  significant  changes  in 
pharmacokinetic parameters between days 1 and 7, although AUC was slightly lower on day 7.  
The volume of distribution was estimated between 7-9 l in males and females. Distribution into skin 
suction blister fluid showed that AUC on the third dosing day was about 60 % of that in plasma, but 
the 24  h concentration was higher in blister fluid, with a  ratio of  about  4:1. The lack of  data on the 
distribution of ertapenem in the lung and respiratory secretions was considered acceptable in view of 
the  results  from  the  two  large  clinical  studies  in  community-acquired  pneumonia.  Ertapenem  was 
neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of human MDR1 P-glycoprotein. 
In  vitro,  ertapenem  was  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  (94-95  %).  The  binding  was  found  to  be 
saturable  but  increases  in  free  fraction  became  apparent  only  when  total  ertapenem  concentrations 
exceeded 150 mg/l, which is approximately the Cmax obtained at the end of a 30 minute intravenous 
infusion  of  1  g  ertapenem.  Ertapenem  appears  to  bind  to  albumin,  with  more  than  one  binding  site 
identified.  
Ertapenem is excreted into human milk. Ertapenem concentration in the milk was < 0.4 mg/l within 
24 h  of  a  dose,  but  the  maximal  drug  concentration  in  milk  is  unknown.  As  recommended  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics, ertapenem should not be used in women who breast-feed. 
Metabolism and excretion 
A study with  14C-labelled ertapenem administered at the single dose of 1 g showed that radioactivity 
mirrored total ertapenem concentrations as determined by HPLC. In this study, cumulative recovery of 
dose  administrated  in  urine  and  faeces  was  90  %  over  168  h.  The  majority  of  the  radioactivity  was 
recovered  during  the  initial  24  hour  post-dose,  predominantly  in  urine  (81  %),  9  %  being  recovered 
from  the  faeces,  indicating  that  a  small  portion  of  the  dose  was  eliminated  by  biliary  or  intestinal 
secretion.  
In the urine, unchanged ertapenem accounted for 38 % of the dose administered and 37 % appeared as 
the  beta-lactam  ring-open  metabolite.  Each  of  the  other  six  components  detected  accounted  for  less 
than 1% of the administered dose. The conversion to the open ring form in man has been ascribed to 
DHP-1, and appears to occur very predominantly in the renal tissues. There was no evidence in vivo 
that  microbiologically active  metabolites  might  be  present in  either plasma or  urine.  Ertapenem was 
neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of CYP 1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 or 3A4.  
Renal clearance of ertapenem was slightly higher in females, with plasma elimination half-life for total 
ertapenem equivalent to 4.6 h in males and 3.6 h in females. Renal excretion of intact ertapenem as a 
percent  of  dose  was  about  one-third  higher  in  females,  while  t1/2  for  total  ertapenem  was  shorter  in 
females  (3.5  h  vs  4.2  h  after  1  g  doses).  Renal  clearance  of  total  (ratio  0.7:1)  and  unbound  (ratio 
0.55:1)  ertapenem  was  lower  in  the  elderly,  as  was  non-renal  clearance  (approximately  0.9:1  and 
0.7:1, respectively). The t1/2 for total ertapenem was about 5 h in the elderly and about 4 h in younger 
subjects.  
Special populations 
The pharmacokinetic profile of ertapenem has not yet been evaluated in children. 
study 
In  a 
impairment),  
31-59 ml/min/1.73 m2  (moderate  impairment),  5-30  ml/min/1.73  m2  (advanced  impairment),  or  < 
subjects  with  CrCl  60-90  ml/min/1.73  m2 
involving 
(mild 
10/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 ml/min/1.73 m2 (end-stage and on haemodialysis), AUCs for total and unbound fractions increased 
with decreasing renal function. Compared with data from healthy young and elderly subjects, AUCs 
for  total  ertapenem  were  more  than  2.5-fold  higher,  and  for  the  unbound  fraction  more  than  3-fold 
higher, in patients with advanced  or end-stage  disease. This finding correlated with decreasing renal 
clearance and prolonged t1/2 as CrCl decreased. In those with moderate impairment of renal function, 
exposure  increased  1.5-fold  for  total  and  1.8-fold  for  unbound  ertapenem,  with  decrease  in  renal 
clearance to 60 %. In the subgroup on haemodialysis, dosing occurred on a non-dialysis day and 4 h 
before  haemodialysis.  Haemodialysis  increased  the  apparent  plasma  clearance  of  total  drug  by  
1.3-fold.  
Based on these data, no dosage recommendation is warranted in patients with mild and moderate renal 
impairment. In patients with advanced renal insufficiency or on haemodialysis, the SPC recommends 
that  ertapenem  should  not  be  used  due  to  the  lack  of  safety  and  efficacy  data  to  support  a  dosage 
recommendation.  
The pharmacokinetic profile of ertapenem has not been evaluated in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Considering  that  the  hepatic  metabolism  of  ertapenem  is  limited,  it  is  not  expected  that 
pharmacokinetic parameters will be affected in these patients. 
Interaction studies 
Data  from  in  vitro  studies  were  provided  to  describe  the  potential  for  ertapenem  to  displace  highly 
protein  bound  substances.  When  ertapenem  (12-190  mg/l)  was  added  to  radiolabelled  warfarin  
(1.5 mg/l) in human plasma, the unbound fraction of warfarin reached 2.7 % compared with 2.5 % in 
the  absence  of  ertapenem.  Ertapenem  (at  Cmax)  had  therefore  no  effect  on  the  protein  binding  of 
warfarin.  
With  ethinyloestradiol,  the  mean  unbound  proportion  was  2.9  %  in  the  absence  of  ertapenem, 
increasing  to  a  maximum  of  3.2  %  with  ertapenem  concentrations  of  200  mg/l.  Similarly,  the  mean 
unbound proportion of  norethindrine  was 4.7  % in  the  absence  of  ertapenem,  increasing to 5  mg/ml 
with ertapenem concentrations of 200 mg/l.  
In vivo, probenecid (500 mg every 6 hours) decreased the bound fraction of ertapenem in plasma at the 
end of infusion in subjects administered a single 1 g intravenous dose from 91 % to 87 %. 
Overall  a  clinically  significant  interaction  with  ertapenem  (displacement  of  an  other  substance  and 
vice versa) is unlikely to occur. 
Interactions caused by inhibition of P-gP or CYP mediated clearance of substances are unlikely. 
No  interaction  study  between  valproic  acid  and  ertapenem  has  been  carried  out,  however  since 
carbapenems are known to decrease serum levels of valproic acid, monitoring of serum levels should 
be considered when co-administered with ertapenem as recommended in the SPC. 
Clinical efficacy  
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
The clinical programme of ertapenem aimed to demonstrate the efficacy of ertapenem in the treatment 
of adult patients infected with the following infections:  
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP)  (studies 002 and 008 combined 018 and 020) 
Intra-abdominal infections (IAI) (studies 004 and 017) 
Acute gynaecological infections (study 023) 
Skin and soft tissue infections (SST) (studies 003 and 016) 
Urinary tract infections (UTI) (studies 007, 014 and 021) 
All these studies were conducted in accordance with agreed International Ethical principles and Good 
Clinical practices standards. 
Over  3000  patients  were  included  in  the  main  and  supportive  studies,  of  whom  over  1000  received 
ertapenem. 
The summary of the ertapenem phase II and III trials is displayed in table 1. 
11/24 
EMEA 2004 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IIa 
Community-Acquired Pneumonia 
002/008¶ 
1 g q.d. 
2 g q.d. 
1 g q.d.§ 
Pivotal 
018 
1 g q.d.§ 
020 
Supportive 
Skin And Skin Structure Infection 
003% 
016 
Urinary Tract Infection 
007% 
IIa 
Pivotal 
014 
Supportive 
021 
1 g q.d. 
1 g q.d 
IIa 
Pivotal 
Table 1: Summary of Ertapenem Phase II to III Clinical Development Programme 
Study Regimens 
Oral 
IM 
Primary Analysis 
N (n) 
Comparator 
N (n) 
switch?  Therapy? 
Evaluable-Population 
Primary Analysis Response 
017 
Pivotal 
328  (207) 
No 
CRO 2 g q.d.† 
110 
(72) 
Yes 
No 
No 
Clinical and 
Microbiologic 
Clinical and 
Microbiologic 
Clinical and microbiologic  
Clinical and microbiologic  
Pivotal/ 
Supportive 
Protocol 
Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infection 
004 
Ertapenem 
IIa 
 1 g q.d. 
1.5 g q.d. 
1 g q.d.‡ 
1.5 g q.d.‡ 
(31) 
  59 
  51 
(29) 
 323  (203) 
(7) 
  14 
Acute Gynaecological Infection 
Pivotal 
023 
1 g q.d.‡ 
 216  (163) 
P/T 3.375 g 
q6h‡ 
P/T 3.375 g 
q6h‡ 
(16) 
(24) 
CRO 2 g q.d. 
  28 
  30 
 244  (182)  CRO 1 g q.d.§ 
 239  (100)  CRO 1 g q.d.§ 
  15 
 274  (185) 
(7)  CRO 2 g q.d. 
P/T 3.375 g q6h 
196  (153) 
No 
No 
Clinical 
Clinical response  
  27 
(19) 
Yes 
No 
Clinical 
Clinical response  
258  (201) 
(49) 
125 
  11 
(5) 
266  (174) 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
Clinical 
Microbiologic 
Clinical 
Clinical 
Clinical response  
Clinical response  
Clinical response  
Clinical response  
1 g q.d. 
 1 g q.d. 
1 g q.d. 
Totals  1 g q.d. 
  19 
(12)  CRO 1 g q.d. 
 298  (159)  CRO 1 g q.d. 
(97)  CRO 1 g q.d. 
 175 
1890 (1155) 
CRO 1 g q.d. 
(36) 
  65 
CRO 2 g q.d. 
(24) 
  30 
P/T 3.375 g q6h 
†  Patients on CRO also received blinded metronidazole therapy for anaerobic coverage. 
‡  Patients could have received optional open vancomycin therapy for resistant gram-positive infections. 
§  For patients with documented penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae pneumonia and inadequate clinical response, the dose of ETP or CRO could have been increased to 2 g 
Microbiologic response  
Microbiologic response  
Microbiologic response  
  14 
(9) 
294  (171) 
  83 
(53) 
774  (483) 
148 
(96) 
790  (534) 
Microbiologic 
Microbiologic 
Microbiologic 
1.5 g q.d. 
2 g q.d. 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
No 
No 
Yes 
q.d. in a blinded fashion. 
%  Protocol 007 was a study of uncomplicated upper urinary tract infection; Protocol 003 was a study of uncomplicated skin and skin structure infection. 
¶  Protocols 002 and 008 were studies of lower respiratory tract infection, including acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, and are reported in a single study report. 
CRO, ceftriaxone; IIa, Phase IIa study; P/T, piperacillin/tazobactam; TOC, test-of-cure 
N, number of patients randomized to each regimen; n, number of patients in primary analysis evaluable-population. 
12/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Dose rational 
The  dose  of  ertapenem  was  selected  according  to  the  PK/PD  relationship  and  the  phase  II  clinical 
studies.   
The  rational  for  an  ertapenem  1  g  once  daily  dosage  regimen  was  based  on  the  observation  that 
T>MIC is the critical pharmacodynamic parameter that correlates with efficacy. As already indicated 
in section 3.3 of this document, it was suggested that the time above MIC for free drug needed to be 
between 20 % and 40 % of the dosing interval, depending on the bacterial species. It was calculated 
that  this  might  be  achieved  with  1  g  every  24  h  provided  that  the  MICs  were  no  higher  than  
1-4 mg/l. 
Main clinical studies 
All  main  studies  were  multi-centre,  randomised  and  double  blind  trials  in  which  ertapenem  was 
administered intravenously at the dose of 1 g daily; a small subset of patients received 1 g ertapenem 
administered intramuscularly daily as an option in some studies.  
The comparative agent was ceftriaxone 1 g IV once daily in the CAP Phase III studies. 
The  comparative  agent  was  IV  piperacillin/tazobactam  in  IAI  and  gynaecological  infections  studies. 
Although  the  dose  studied  was  different  to  the  most  commonly  approved  regimen  in  EU  (3  g 
piperacillin:  375  mg  tazobactam  given  every  6  h  versus  4  g  piperacillin:  500  mg  tazobactam  every 
8 hours),  the  applicant  provided  an  acceptable  justification  based  on  pharmacokinetic  and 
pharmacodynamic considerations for the comparative dosage regimens. 
A switch to oral therapy after a minimum of three days of ertapenem or the comparative agent by the 
parenteral  route  was  allowed  when  protocol-defined  criteria  had  been  met  (temperature  and  other 
clinical findings). Follow-on therapy was to complete a maximum total number of days treatment (IV 
plus oral) as follows: in CAP studies (10-14 days) switch to amoxycillin/clavulanate; in UTI trials (up 
to 14 days) switch to ciprofloxacin. There was no switch in the study in gynaecological infections or 
the main studies in SSTIs and IAIs. 
Population 
All  protocols  planned  to  enrol  patients  of  18  years  of  age  or  older  (16  years  or  older    in  the  acute 
pelvic  infection  study).  In  Phase  III  trials,  there  was  a  general  exclusion  of  those  patients  with 
< 500 neutrophils  mm3, with > 6 x upper the normal limit (ULN) ALT or  AST, > 3  x ULN ALP or 
bilirubin.  Limits  were  also  set  on  haemoglobin  (minimum  8g/dl)  and  platelets  (50,000  mm3)  and  on 
CD4 cell counts in HIV positive patients. 
Patients  who  had  received  >  24  h  of  a  potentially  effective  antimicrobial  agent  before  study  entry 
(sometimes specified as within 72 h) were excluded, unless failing. 
Patients  found  to  have  treatment-resistant  pathogens  or  no  pathogens  were  not  necessarily  removed 
from Phase III studies unless failing. Diagnostic criteria are presented in table 2. 
Table 2: Diagnostic Criteria 
Diagnosis 
CAP 
IAI 
Gynaecological 
infection 
Entry criteria 
Men and women > 18 years  
Clinical  signs  +  new  infiltrate  on  chest  X-ray  within  48  hours  of  study  entry  in  patients 
hospitalised or nursed in other health care facilities for < 48 hours 
Sputum purulence defined as > 25 leucocytes and < 10 epithelial cells per 1pf 
Patients required to have initial hospitalisation but not assisted ventilation 
Men and women > 18 years evidence of peritoneal infection (i.e. infection extending beyond 
the  wall  of  a  hollow  organ),  including  established  abscesses.  Upper  gastrointestinal  organ 
perforation was allowed if there was a delay of at least 24 h before surgery. Appendicitis had 
to be complicated by peritoneal irritation (004) or perforation (017). 
Women > 16 years with diagnosis of acute pelvic infection requiring parenteral therapy 
13/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Men and women > 18 years with a diagnosis of complicated SST infections (defined as lower 
limb  infections  in  diabetics,  infected  pressure  sores,  deep  tissue  infections  in  which 
enterobacteria  or  anaerobes  were  likely  or  which  required  surgical  drainage,  extensive 
cellulites, wound infections, and  perineal abscesses)  considered to  be  moderate or severe  in 
intensity and requiring 7 to 14 days of parenteral antibiotic therapy. 
Complicated  UTI  included  those  UTIs  that  occur  at  sites  other  than  the  bladder  (e.g 
pyelonephritis),  UTIs  in  men  as  well  as  UTIs  associated  with  obstruction,  the  presence  of 
foreign  body  (e.g  catheter)  or  urologic  abnormalities  that  interfere  with  normal  voiding. 
Patients  with  complicated  UTIs  characterised  by  the  investigator  as  serious  (requiring 
parenteral therapy) were included. 
SST 
UTI 
Endpoints 
Phase III trials focused on clinical outcome in clinically evaluable populations, except for IAI (clinical 
and microbiological outcomes) and CAP trial 020 (microbiological).  
The primary endpoint was analysed at a number of timepoints in each trial, but for each indication, a 
primary  timepoint,  test-of-cure  (TOC)  visit,  was  defined  in  the  protocol.  For  instance,  TOC  was  at 
least 7-14 days post-therapy in CAP trials and at 14-28 days post-therapy in study 023 (gynaecological 
infections).  
For  Phase  III  comparative  trials,  sample  sizes  were  based  on  the  expected  success  rates  i.e  δ  was 
chosen to be: 10 % or 20 % in CAP, 15 % in IAI, and 10 % in gynaecological infections.  
Statistical analysis  
The studies aimed to demonstrate non-inferiority to the active comparator. Ertapenem was deemed to 
be non-inferior if the lower limit of the 95 % two-sided confidence interval for the difference between 
proportion  of  responders  in  each  treatment  group  excluded  –10  %  (if  the  response  in  the  active 
comparator was > 90 %), - 15 % (if the response in the active comparator was > 80 % but less than 
90 %) or – 20 % (if the response in the active comparator was > 70 % but less than 80 %). Confidence 
intervals accounting for stratification were based on the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel approach. 
Statistical  analyses  were  performed  on  2  populations:  modified  intention  to  treat  population  and 
evaluable population (clinically or microbiologically). The analysis for the primary clinical endpoints 
was  mostly  based  on  the  clinically  evaluable  population.  The  microbiological  endpoints,  either 
primary  or  secondary,  where  evaluated,  were  assessed  using  the  microbiologically  evaluable 
population. Table 3 presents the definition for the relevant population for efficacy criteria. 
Table 3 
ITT population 
Clinical  Modified  Intent-to-Treat 
(MITT) population 
Microbiologic MITT population 
Clinically Evaluable Population 
Microbiologically 
population 
Evaluable 
All randomised patients who received at least 1 dose of study therapy 
All ITT patients that met the minimal disease definition 
Subset  of  the  clinical  MITT  population  including  patients  with  a 
baseline  pathogen  identified,  regardless  of  susceptibility  to  study 
agents and a subsequent microbiologic response assessment  
Subset of the clinical MITT population comprised of patients in whom 
sufficient  information  was  available  to  determine  the  patient’s 
outcome and no confounding factors were present that interfered with 
the  assessment  of  that  outcome  at  time  of  cure  visit;  furthermore,  it 
was required that if baseline pathogens were identified, one or more of 
these pathogens were susceptible to both parenteral study therapies. 
Subset  of  the  clinically  evaluable  population,  comprised  of  those 
clinically  evaluable  patients  who  had  a  baseline  pathogen  identified 
and a microbiologic response assessed. 
The  criteria  for  the  choice  of  the  clinically  evaluable  population  to  be  included  in  most  of  the 
primary  efficacy  analyses  are  stringent,  as  only  patients  with  a  recognized  susceptible  pathogen  to 
both treatments were analyzed, thus tending to artificially increase the favorable outcome rate.  
14/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As all microbiologically evaluable patients were required to be clinically evaluable, the population of 
clinically  and  microbiologically  evaluable  patients  is  identical  to  the  microbiologically  evaluable 
population;  for  all  data  presented  hereafter,  this  group  will  be  referred  to  as  the  microbiologically 
evaluable population. Determinations of evaluability were made prior to unblinding using prespecified 
criteria as indicated in the protocols. 
Subgroup analyses by demographic factors and level of severity at baseline were also performed. 
As the phase III studies were similar in design, it was considered appropriate to combine efficacy data 
in those indications with more than one trial. 
Community Acquired Pneumonia (CAP)  
Phase II: studies 002/008 combined report.  
These early studies aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ertapenem  versus ceftriaxone in the 
treatment of serious uncomplicated lower respiratory tract infections (CAP or acute exarcerbetion of 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) either in the United States (study 002) or outside (study 008). 
When combining  data,  75/85  patients  had CAP. Mean  exposure to IV treatment was  4 days in all  3 
treatment groups (ceftriaxone 2 g/day, ertapenem 1 or 2 g/day). All but two ertapenem treated patients 
and all ceftriaxone treated patients were switched to oral therapy (amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium) 
for a mean of 6 days. 
Results 
At  TOC,  for  the  evaluable  population,  the  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  a  favourable  clinical 
outcome  was 83  % in  the  1 g  ertapenem  group,  96  % in the  2  g  group and  92 % in the ceftriaxone 
group.  MITT  results  showed  that  the  favourable  response  accounted  for  82  %,  93  %  and  81  % 
respectively. 
Phase III studies 
The two main studies in CAP (018 and 020) employed baseline stratification according to pneumonia 
severity index scores (PSI ≤ 3 or > 3) and age (≤ 65 or > 65 years). Ertapenem 1 g was compared to  
1 g ceftriaxone daily, using 1:1 randomisation in study 018, compared to 2:1 randomisation in study 
020.  The  median  duration  of  study  therapy  was  11  days,  including  4  days  IV  followed  by  7  days 
switched  oral  therapy.  Of  the  great  majority  of  patients  who  switched  to  oral  treatment,  more  than 
75% received amoxycillin/clavulanate. 
In  both  studies,  there  were  approximately  25  %  of  clinically  evaluable  patients  who  had  a  severe 
infection indicated by a PSI > 3.  
Study 018 
Of the 502 patients randomised, 54 % per group had received an antimicrobial agent within 14 days of 
study entry and about one-third had received a beta-lactam agent.  
Results 
Clinical responses 
In the clinically-evaluable population (383 patients of whom 182 for ertapenem) at TOC, a favourable 
outcome  was  assigned  to  92  %  of  the  patients  in  ertapenem  group  versus  91  %  in  the  ceftriaxone 
group (95 % CI -5, +7). Favourable clinical outcome rates were numerically similar between treatment 
groups  for  patients  in  high  and  low  age  and  PSI  categories.  Only  one  patient  per  group  who  failed 
therapy had a documented atypical pneumonia. In the MITT population (486 patients of whom 236 in 
the ertapenem group), favourable clinical response rates were 85 % in both treatment groups (95 % CI 
-7, +7).  
15/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  microbiologically  evaluable  population  (209  patients  of  whom  96  in  the  ertapenem  group)  at 
TOC,  the  by-pathogen  favourable  clinical  response  rates  were  92  %  for  ertapenem  and  93  %  for 
ceftriaxone for the 47 and 57 S. pneumoniae, but 81% and 96 % for the 21 and 23 H. influenzae in the 
respective  groups.  Four  patients  with  Pen-R  pneumococci  (>  2  mg/l),  all  treated  with  1  g/day 
ertapenem, were cured. By-pathogen clinical response rates were 80 % and 83 % per treatment group 
for the 10 and 18 organisms isolated from blood cultures (5/6 and 15/17 for pneumococci) and there 
was no documented persistence in blood cultures.  
Microbiological responses 
In  the  MITT  population  with  a  pathogen,  favourable  microbiological  outcomes  were  recorded  for 
94 % in the ertapenem group and 91 % in the ceftriaxone group. 
There were six patients with superinfections and eight patients with new infections recorded but the 
pathogens in these patients were too varied species to draw firm conclusions. 
Study 020 
Of  the  364  patients  randomised,  about  50  %  per  group  had  received  an  antimicrobial  agent  within 
14 days of study entry.   
Results 
Clinical response 
In  the  microbiologically-evaluable  population  (149  patients  including  100  in  ertapenem  group)  at 
TOC, a favourable outcome was assigned to 92 % for both treatment group (95 % CI -12, +10). As for 
study 018, results were numerically similar between treatments for the small subgroups of patients in 
high and low age and PSI categories. By-pathogen favourable response rates were 88 % for the 49 S. 
pneumoniae treated with ertapenem and 96 % for the 22 treated with ceftriaxone. There were 12/13 
and 8/8 blood culture isolates per group for which the clinical outcome was favourable (12 and 6 were 
pneumococci) and all blood cultures became negative. In the MITT population (183 patients of whom 
123  in  ertapenem  group),  favourable  clinical  response  rates  were  86  %  for  ertapenem  and  87%  for 
ceftriaxone, compared with 89 % and 90 %, respectively, for those patients with a pathogen.  
Microbiological response 
In  the  microbiologically-evaluable  population  at  TOC,  the  by-pathogen  eradication  rates  were  88  % 
and  100  %,  respectively,  for  the  49  and  22  S.  pneumoniae  per  group  and  all  blood  cultures  became 
negative.  
Other analyses in this study, and the comparisons made in trial 018, all gave very similar favourable 
outcome rates between treatments. Patients were allowed to switch therapy after 3 days of treatment 
and  therefore  a  concern  was  raised  that  the  timing  of  switching  could  have  masked  differences  of 
potential  importance.  It  was  considered  however  that  the  (predominant)  use  of  sequential  oral 
amoxycillin-clavulanate  provided  a  similar  contribution to  the  final resolution  of  pneumonia in  both 
treatment groups. Although the use of 1 g/day ceftriaxone rather than 2 g/day might be questioned, all 
clinical and microbiological success rates in evaluable patients were in excess of 90 % (and ≥ 8 5% in 
the MITT population). Thus, it would be reasonable to assume that comparison with a higher dose of 
ceftriaxone  would  not  have  changed  these  findings.  A  subgroup  analysis  showed  the  treatments 
appeared to be similarly effective between patients with PSI scores ≤ 3 and those with PSI scores > 3 
(that accounted for 25 % of patients). Therefore, it was considered that the data supported the use of 
ertapenem in CAP. 
Intra-Abdominal Infection (IAI) 
Study 004 
In this phase II trial, patients were initially randomised 1:1 to 1.5 g ertapenem daily or 2 g ceftriaxone 
daily plus metronidazole. Following the results of a planned interim analysis, the dose of ertapenem 
was  changed  to  1  g  daily.  In  the  microbiologically  evaluable  population  at  TOC,  84  %  in  the  1  g 
16/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ertapenem  group  and  86  %  in  the  comparative  group  had  a  favourable  clinical  and  microbiological 
outcome.  Rates  were  88  %  and  91  %  for  those  with  appendicitis.  In  the  MITT  population  with  a 
pathogen  at  TOC,  88  %  in  the  1  g  ertapenem  group  and  85  %  in  the  comparative  group  had  a 
favourable clinical outcome.  
Study 017  
This  main  study  compared  the  efficacy  of  ertapenem  versus  piperacillin/tazobactam  in  patients 
stratified  at  baseline  according  to  APACHE  II  scores  (≤  15  or  >  15)  and  according  to  diagnosis 
(complicated appendicitis versus all other diagnoses).  
Of  the  665  patients  randomised,  43  %  of  patients  had  complicated  appendicitis  and  57  %  had  other 
diagnoses, of whom 88 % had been treated with open abdominal surgery and 80 % had received prior 
antibacterial therapy. Only 8 % of patients had APACHE II scores > 15, although the study allowed 
for score up to 30. More than 80 % of evaluable patients had a polymicrobial infection. The median 
duration  of  therapy  was  6-7  days  in  both  treatment  groups  and  vancomycin  was  given  to  4  %  of 
patients per group. 
The results are displayed in the below table: 
Proportion of patients with favourable clinical and microbiological response at test of cure 
(microbiologically evaluable population) 
Ertapenem 1 g (A) 
N = 203 
Site of infections 
n/m 
Observed response 
Piperacillin/tazobactam 1 g 
(B)  
N = 193 
Observed response 
n/m 
Observed 
difference  
(A-B) (95 % CI) 
Overall 
176/203 
86.7 % 
157/193 
81.3 % 
5.4 % (-2; + 13) 
85/94 
82/91 
75/102 
91/109 
90.1 % 
90.4 % 
83.5 % 
Complicated 
appendicitis* 
Other diagnoses 
n/m: number of patients with favorable assessment/number of patients with assessment 
* without generalized peritonitis 
The  favourable clinical  and  microbiological  outcomes in  patients  with  APACHE II score  > 15 were 
63.6 %  (7/11) in the ertapenem group and 83.3 % (10/12) in the piperacillin/tazobactam group. When 
viewed  by  range,  favourable  outcomes  were  recorded  in  10/13  patients  of  the  ertapenem  group  and 
10/12 patients of the piperacillin/tazobactam group with baseline scores ranging from 15 to 19 and for 
3/5 and 1/1 patients per group with scores of 20 or more. There were only 12 and 19 patients per group 
with positive blood cultures, of whom 9/12 and 15/19 had a favourable clinical outcome. There was no 
documented persistence recorded in these patients. 
73.5 % 
10.0 % 
0.3 % 
In  the  clinically  evaluable  population  at  TOC,  87  %  and  83  %  of  patients  in  the  ertapenem  and 
piperacillin/tazobactam groups had a favourable clinical outcome rates (95 % CI –3; + 11). Outcomes 
viewed by infectious processes showed no numerical inferiority for ertapenem in the four categories 
(generalised peritonitis, multiple abscess, single abscess or localised disease). 
This  single  phase  III  trial  in  IAI  demonstrated  overall  equivalence  between  treatments.  Due  to  the 
small numbers of patients with APACHE scores, efficacy in this population cannot be confirmed. 
Acute gynaecological infections  
Study 023 
A total of 412 females were randomised 1:1 to 1 g ertapenem daily or piperacillin/tazobactam. Patients 
were  stratified  at  baseline  according  to  whether  the  diagnosis  was  obstetric/postpartum  (85  %)  or 
gynaecological/post-operative  (15  %),  with  a  one-month  limit  set  on  the  timing  of  the  event 
predisposing  to  infection.  Overall,  75  %  of  women  were  considered  to  have  endomyometritis  and 
about  55  %  had  received  a  prior  antibacterial  agent.  Most  patients  had  a  mild  to  moderately  severe 
infection,  but  26  %  of  clinically-evaluable  patients  had  a  severe  infection  (defined  as  either  a 
17/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
temperature > 39 ºC and/or a positive blood culture at baseline). Ten patients had bacteriaemia. The 
median duration of therapy was four days in both treatment groups. Results are displayed in the table. 
Study population 
Favourable responses at TOC 
Treatment groups 
Ertapenem 
Piperacillin/tazobactam 
n 
Response % 
n 
Response % 
163 
Clinical response 
clinically-evaluable 
population 
Clinical MITT 
Microbiological response (i.e. pathogen eradication) 
Microbiologically-
evaluable population 
Microbiological MITT 
94 % 
94 % 
88 % 
86 % 
128 
161 
211 
153 
191 
129 
158 
92 % 
88%  
94 % 
89 % 
95 % CI 
-4 ; + 9 
-9, +5 
-7, +7 
-9, +7 
In the clinically-evaluable population, clinical responses rates were 40/42 (95 %) and 30/35 (86 %) in 
respective treatment groups for those with severe infections compared to 93 % in both groups for all 
other  infections.  Similar  findings  were  reported  for  the  subgroups  according  to  diagnosis,  and  to 
mono- or polymicrobial infections. The ten and six patients per group with positive blood cultures all 
had a favourable outcome.  
In the microbiologically-evaluable population, by-pathogen eradication rates, including blood culture 
isolates, reflected the clinical response rates (as above). There were only one and three patients in the 
respective groups with superinfections and one patient per group with a new infection.  
This  single  trial  in  gynaecological  infections  predominantly  enrolled  women  with  post-partum 
infections. This probably reflects a very rapid switch to oral treatment in the majority of other types of 
gynaecological infections that initially require intravenous therapy, such that few women would have 
completed an IV-only trial. A concern was raised with respect to the efficacy of ertapenem in patients 
with severe infection since only 26 % of evaluable patients treated with ertapenem had severe disease. 
The SPC points out this feature of the patient population. 
Skin and skin structure infections (SSTIs) and urinary tract infections (UTIs) 
the  efficacy  of  ertapenem,  1.0  g 
In  study  016, 
IV  once  daily  was  compared  with 
piperacillin/tazobactam,  3.375  g  every  6  hours,  in  the  treatment  of  complicated  skin  and  skin 
structure infections, defined as lower limb infections in diabetics, infected pressure sores, deep tissue 
infections  in  which  enterobacteria  or  anaerobes  were  likely  or  which  required  surgical  drainage, 
extensive  cellulititis,  wound  infections  and  perineal  abscesses.  Patients  were  stratified  at  baseline 
according to the presence or absence of complicating underlying disease. Stratum I consisted of those 
with decubitus ulcers, diabetes mellitus or other neuropathic conditions whereas Stratum II contained 
all other patients. Overall 60 % of patients had received an antimicrobial agent within 14 days of study 
entry, predominantly beta-lactam compound. 
Results 
Proportion of patients with favourable clinical response at test of cure 
Study population 
Ertapenem 1 g 
n/m             cure rate % 
Piperacillin/tazobactam 1g 
n/m             cure rate % 
Clinically evaluable population 
Overall 
Moderate 
Severe 
152/185             82 % 
83 % 
120/145  
82 % 
32/40 
147/174  
125/143  
22/31  
84 % 
88 % 
71 % 
95 % 
confidence 
interval 
-10, +6 
However, there was concern regarding the efficacy of ertapenem in SST infections, particularly since 
only  one-fifth  of  the  patients  enrolled  had  a  severe  infection.  There  were  also  several  instances  of 
18/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
numerical  inferiority  for  ertapenem,  and  microbiological  response  rates  could  have  been  clouded  by 
the fact that the pathogenicity of several of the species that have been counted among the pathogens 
was dubious. It was considered that these data could not support the use of ertapenem in complicated 
SSTIs.  
In  addition,  results  from  two  studies  evaluating  the  efficacy  of  ertapenem  versus  ceftriaxone  in 
urinary  tract  infections  (UTIs)  were  presented:  one  main  trial  (study  014  where  592  patients  were 
randomised) and one supportive trial (study 021 where 258 patients were randomised). Patients were 
stratified at baseline according to the diagnosis i.e. acute pyelonephritis, with or without structural or 
functional  renal  tract  abnormalities,  or  other  complicated  UTIs.  After  at  least  3  days  of  treatment,  a 
switch to oral treatment was allowed. 
Results  showed  that  the  lower  95%  CI  were  ≤  -10%  for  clinical  responses  in  the  microbiologically 
evaluable  population  in  study  014  (90  %  versus  94  %  in  ertapenem  and  ceftriaxone  groups 
respectively; 95 % CI -10, +3), and for by-patient microbiological responses in the microbiologically-
evaluable  population  in  study  021  (86  %  versus  85  %  in  ertapenem  and  ceftriaxone  groups 
respectively;  95  %  CI  -13,  +14);  the  latter  study  used  2:1  randomisation.  Although  response  rates 
between treatments were similar at the time of discontinuation of intravenous therapy (3-4 day median 
duration),  the  sequential  therapy  (median  of  7-9  days  of  mainly  ciprofloxacin)  was  likely  to  have 
exerted  a  very  considerable  influence  on  outcome,  especially  in  patients  with  underlying  renal  tract 
abnormalities  and/or  prostheses.  Thus,  there  was  concern  that  any  real  difference  between  the  two 
parenteral treatments may have been clouded by the study design. These results were not considered 
sufficient to support a recommendation of use of ertapenem in this indication. 
Summary of efficacy in bacteraemic patients across all trials 
Across the reported trials, there were 172 fully evaluable patients with a documented bacteraemia at 
baseline, of whom 86 received ertapenem. In studies versus ceftriaxone, overall favourable response 
rates were 87 % for ertapenem and 86 % for the comparator. In studies versus piperacillin/tazobactam, 
favourable  response  rates  were  24/34  (71  %)  for  ertapenem  and  28/35  (80  %)  for  the  comparator. 
Favourable response rates in patients with E. coli in blood at baseline were 23/25 for ertapenem and 
15/18  for  ceftriaxone.  Similarly,  rates  were  16/18  and  21/23,  respectively,  for  those  with 
pneumococcal  bacteraemia.  Of  the  120  isolates  analysed,  all  were  inhibited  at  <  1  mg/l  ertapenem. 
There was no demonstrable correlation between MIC and outcome.  
Since  outcomes  in  the  bacteraemic  patients  were  not  notably  different  between  treatments  as  far  as 
could  be  judged  by the  relatively  small  numbers,  there  did  not  appear  to  be  a  need  for  a  cautionary 
statement  in  the  SPC  regarding  use  in  patients  suspected  of  having  a  concomitant  bacteraemia  at 
presentation. 
Special populations 
Age and gender  
The overall rates for favourable primary responses were 91 % for females and 88 % for males treated 
with ertapenem; rates by indication did not show consistent differences in response rates by gender. In 
CAP studies, there was no notable difference in response rates to ertapenem in the elderly (either ≥ 65 
or 75 years compared with all others). However, the elderly had notably numerically lower response 
rates to ertapenem in studies in SST and IAI than younger subjects; this latter pattern was less marked 
or not apparent in the piperacillin/tazobactam-treated groups, but numbers are relatively small.  
Intramuscular administration 
Although  PK/PD  considerations  supported  the  use  of  the  same  dose  of  ertapenem  IM  as  IV,  the 
bioavailability from IM administration in patients may not be as high or as reliable as that recorded in 
healthy volunteers with presumptively normal blood flow distribution patterns. A double-blind study 
(029) was conducted to assess the safety of ertapenem when given by the IM route in comparison with 
ceftriaxone (3:1 randomisation) to patients (n = 117) with lower respiratory tract infections, skin and 
soft tissue infections and urinary tract infections. This study did not raise any concern with respect to 
safety. There was a limited number of patients enrolled to assess efficacy. It was considered that the 
19/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
data were inadequate to support the efficacy of intramuscular ertapenem (1 g daily) as an alternative 
route of administration. 
Children 
The efficacy of ertapenem has not yet been evaluated in children but the applicant agreed to provide 
details of the proposed paediatric development plan as part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled 
post-authorisation. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Approximately 4,000 subjects/patients were enrolled in the clinical development programme, of which 
more than 2,000 received at least 1 dose of ertapenem administered parentally.  
There  were  220  subjects  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies  who  received  ertapenem,  involving 
doses up to 3 g for up to 8 days. However, the majority received 1 g/day for a mean duration of 4 days 
(range 1-15 days).  
In phase II/III studies, including studies in other infections (SSTIs and UTIs), the majority of patients 
(approximately  1800)  received  1  g  ertapenem  daily.  Of  those  approximately  100  patients  received 
ertapenem intramuscularly. The median duration of therapy at 1 g/day ertapenem was 5 days (range 1-
28  days).  There  were  472  patients  aged  at  least  65  years  randomised  to  1  g  ertapenem  daily.  In 
addition,  there  were  64  patients  treated  with  1.5  g  ertapenem  daily  for  one  or  more  days  and  155 
received  2  g/day  for  all  or  part  of  the  total  treatment  period,  although  only  30  were  actually 
randomised to this dose. Twelve patients received at least one dose 0.5 g daily in accordance with dose 
adjustment for renal insufficiency. 
Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse event (SAEs)/deaths 
Clinical pharmacology studies 
Overall, 62  % of subjects on ertapenem and  34 % on  placebo experienced at least one  AE, whereas  
40 % and 16 %, respectively, experienced an event related to treatment. The commonest events were 
diarrhoea  (24  %  in  ertapenem  group;  41/52  cases  deemed  related  versus  9  %  in  placebo  group), 
headache  (22  %  in  ertapenem  group;  28/49  cases  deemed  related  versus  9  %  in  placebo  group)  and 
nausea (16 % in ertapenem group; 28/35 cases deemed related versus 6 % in placebo group). Rates for 
these  three  events  among  those  who  received  1  g  ertapenem  daily  were  18  %,  20  %  and  12  % 
respectively.  There  was  an  overall  trend  to  increased  reporting  rates  with  increase  of  the  dose.  Five 
ertapenem group subjects (2 %) had a rash and two had urticaria (1 %), of which three and one cases, 
respectively, were considered related to treatment. Among 58 subjects who received single or multiple 
doses  of  1  g  ertapenem  intramuscularly,  four  reported  pain  and  there  was  one  report  of  each  of 
swelling and tenderness. 
Eleven  subjects  discontinued  ertapenem  due  to  AE(s)  related  to  treatment.  These  included  three 
subjects with a rash and one with urticaria. Five subjects had a gastrointestinal event(s). There were no 
SAEs or deaths recorded in these trials. 
Based on ECGs data collected routinely in two phase I studies, and results from an additional study in 
which  single  IV  doses  (2  g)  were  given  to  24  healthy  volunteers  (ten  males)  to  evaluate  ECG 
parameters at the time of Cmax, it was confirmed that ertapenem had no discernable effect on cardiac 
conduction. 
Phase II/III trials 
AEs during parenteral treatment only  
Because  a  switch  to  oral  therapy  was  allowed  in  all  but  three  trials,  the  AEs  that  occurred  during 
parenteral  treatment  only  were  presented  separately.  Overall,  48  %  of  patients  randomised  to  1  g 
20/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ertapenem  daily  reported  an  AE  compared  with  56  %  on  piperacillin/tazobactam  and  48  %  on 
ceftriaxone, while 20-22% per treatment group had at least one treatment-related AE. 
At least one event at the infusion site, mainly pain and erythema, was reported in 22 % of patients in 
ertapenem group, 26% in piperacillin/tazobactam group and 23% in ceftriaxone group. However, only 
7-8 % per group had a moderately severe or severe infusion site problem.  
The  other  commonest  events  were  diarrhoea 
in 
piperacillin/tazobactam  groups  and  6  %  in  ceftriaxone  groups),  nausea  (6-7  %  per  group),  and 
headache (5-6 % per group). Treatment-related events included infusion site problems (5 %, 7 % and 
6 % respectively), diarrhoea (4 %, 7 % and 4 % respectively) and nausea (3 % per group).  
Testing for Clostridium difficile associated diarrhoea was not performed routinely and no comparison 
with other injectable beta-lactam with comparable antibacterial activity can be made. In the absence of 
evidence, it should be assumed that cases of diarrhoea are antibiotic associated diarrhoea.  
in  1g  ertapenem  group,  11% 
(7  % 
Rash was reported in 1-3 % per group and treatment-related rash in 1-2 % per group. Rashes ranged 
from macular or maculopapular, with or without erythema, eruptions to hives and urticaria. Rash was 
mild and lasted mostly 1-7 days, with resolution in most of the patients.  
Seizure  was  reported  in  four  patients  treated  with  1  g  ertapenem  and  two  patients  treated  with 
piperacillin/tazobactam.  An analysis showed that the causal relationship is unknown  considering the 
possible  degree  of  renal  impairment  related  to  the  age  of  these  patients  (75-89  years)  and  the 
concomitant medications.  
AEs for patients who did not switch to oral treatment up to 14 days post-therapy 
This  additional  analysis  showed  that  the  total  rate  of  diarrhoea  was  10  %,  but  the  rate  related  to 
treatment was 5 %. Seven cases of seizure were recorded, two being considered treatment-related. The 
total rash rate was 3 %, and treatment-related rash was reported in 1 %. 
AEs during parenteral therapy plus oral treatment and up to 14 days post-therapy 
Similar proportions in ertapenem and comparative groups switched to similar ranges of oral therapies. 
Therefore these analyses give higher numbers but the same picture for between-group comparisons to 
that  described  for  parenteral  use  only.  The  number  of  reports  of  seizure  increased  to  ten  among 
patients initially randomised to ertapenem. However, none of the additional cases was considered to 
be treatment-related; all patients had completed ertapenem therapy before seizure onset. 
Discontinuation of therapy 
Parenteral therapy was discontinued due to AE(s) in 4 % of patients treated with 1 g ertapenem, 5 % 
of those treated with piperacillin/tazobactam group and 4 % who received ceftriaxone. AEs considered 
related to  ertapenem that prompted discontinuation from treatment included five cases of rash, three 
cases of pruritus, two cases of seizure, two of diarrhoea, and single cases of facial and tongue oedema 
with rash, cholecystitis, thrombocytopenia, and allergy (including burning and itching skin).  
Serious adverse events and deaths 
During parenteral therapy, 6 % ertapenem, 7 % piperacillin/tazobactam 5 % ceftriaxone patients had at 
least one SAE; these were of very  mixed types. In the ertapenem group, SAEs related  to ertapenem 
included three cases of seizure, two of renal insufficiency, and single cases of spontaneous abortion, 
thrombocytopenia, colitis and cholecystitis.  
Numbers experiencing SAEs were higher but the overall picture was similar for SAEs reported up to 
day 14 post-therapy.    
Laboratory findings 
Clinical pharmacology studies 
Laboratory AEs as reported by the investigators (i.e. not all findings outside normal ranges) occurred 
in  9  (4  %)  ertapenem  and  1  (3  %)  placebo  subjects.  Six  subjects  in  the  ertapenem  group  had  an 
increased ALT and three had an increased AST.  
21/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory abnormalities as determined by the sponsor's criteria indicated that a drop in neutrophils to 
<  1.8  x  103  mm3  occurred  in  12  %  ertapenem  and  9  %  placebo  group  subjects.  Despite  the 
investigators' reports above, only one subject had an AST or ALT  > 2.5 x ULN. However, 11 had an 
increase in creatinine to 1.5 x ULN, and eight to > 3 x ULN compared with no subjects on placebo.  
Phase II/III trials 
in  23  %  of  patients 
treated  with  1g  ertapenem,  28  % 
Laboratory AEs  that  occurred  during parenteral therapy,  as reported  by the investigators (as  defined 
above),  occurred 
treated  with 
piperacillin/tazobactam and 19 % treated with ceftriaxone. In each group, about 50 % were considered 
to be treatment-related by the reporting investigator, but < 1% discontinued therapy due these AEs and 
< 2% were considered to be SAEs. The most common reports were of increased ALT or AST (each in 
6-8  %  per  group;  values  up  to  200-300  U/l),  about  two-thirds  of  which  were  considered  to  be 
treatment-related,  increased  ALP  (3-6  %  per  group),  and  anaemia  (3-4  %  per  group).  Less  than  
1  %  per  group  had  a  decrease  in  neutrophils  or  platelets  reported  as  an  AE.  Treatment-related 
abnormalities up to 14 days post-therapy in those who did not switch to oral treatments gave similar 
results to the above analysis. 
Laboratory abnormalities during parenteral therapy, as determined by the sponsor's criteria, indicated 
that  a  drop  in  neutrophils  to  <  1.8  x  103  mm3  occurred  in  3  %  of  patients  in  ertapenem,  1  % 
piperacillin/tazobactam and 2 % ceftriaxone groups. There were 1 % patients in each treatment group 
with platelet counts < 75,000 mm3. There were 5 % and 6 % ertapenem group patients with an AST or 
ALT  > 2.5 x ULN, compared with 3-6 % in comparative groups, while 2 % per group had an increase 
in  ALP  to  >  2.5  x  ULN.  There  were  22  (1  %)  ertapenem  group  patients  who  had  an  increase  in 
creatinine to 1.5 x ULN, and four to > 3 x ULN; these findings were similar to those in comparative 
groups.  
Over  the  IV/PO  treatment  period  plus  up  to  14  days  post-  therapy,  a  drop  in  neutrophils  to  
<  1.8  x  103  mm3  occurred  in  4  %  of  patients  in  ertapenem,  2  %  piperacillin/tazobactam  and  4  % 
ceftriaxone  groups.  The  analysis  of  these  patients  showed  that  the  relation  between  ertapenem  and 
neutropenia is unclear. There were still only 1% patients in each treatment group with platelet counts 
< 75,000 mm3. However, there was no evidence that ertapenem was more likely to trigger neutropenia 
than  other  beta-lactam  agents.  There  were  6  %  ertapenem  group  patients  with  an  AST  or  ALT  
>  2.5  x  ULN,  compared  with  4-7  %  in  comparative  groups,  while  2-4  %  per  group  had  an  ALP  to  
> 2.5 x ULN.  
Safety in special populations 
Regarding  age  and  gender,  AE  reporting  rates  were  not  notably  different  between  age  groups  and 
gender.  Incidences  of  all  and  specific  AEs  were  generally  higher  in  females,  but  this  pattern  also 
applied to comparative therapies. 
Regarding renal insufficiency, there were 54 patients with CrCl estimated at < 60 ml/min/1.73m2 who 
were  treated  with  ertapenem  1  g/day,  20  with  piperacillin/tazobactam  and  30  with  ceftriaxone.  The 
overall rates of AE reports were slightly increased in these patients compared with all other patients 
(eg.  54  %  versus  48  %  with  any  AE  in  the  ertapenem  1  g  group).  Few  patients  had  a  protocol-
recommended dose adjustment due to renal insufficiency, but these data are too scarce to draw firm 
conclusions.  
Regarding  intramuscular  administration,  there  were  similar  types  and  rates  of  reactions  as  for 
intravenous, but data were considered insufficient to support this route of administration. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general the quality dossier has been well presented and indicates that the active substance and the 
finished  product  are  manufactured  and  controlled  in  a  relevant  way,  in  compliance  with  current  EU 
22/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information has been provided to demonstrate that these manufacture 
and control processes routinely and consistently generate a product of uniform quality when used in 
accordance with the conditions defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics.   
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Like other beta-lactam agents, the mechanism of action of ertapenem involves inhibition of bacterial 
cell-wall  synthesis  by  binding  to  specific  penicillin-binding  proteins.  Overall,  the  primary 
pharmacodynamic  studies  adequately  described  the  antibacterial  activity  of  ertapenem  in  relation  to 
the proposed indications. The possible mechanisms of resistance to ertapenem have been adequately 
explored. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ertapenem  was  found  to  be  very  straightforward.  The  saturation  of 
plasma  protein  binding  that  occurred  at  very  high  doses  was  responsible  for  non-linear  kinetics  in 
preclinical  species.    This  will  not  occur  in  clinical  use  at  the  recommended  daily  dose  of  1  g,  since 
Cmax  is  around  150  mg/l.  Metabolism  of  ertapenem  to  the  ring-opened  form  is  catalysed  by 
dehydropeptidase-1. The cytochrome P450 system is not involved in the metabolism of ertapenem and 
the drug does not induce or inhibit any of the isoenzymes.  Excretion was primarily via urine as the 
ring-opened form.  
The  toxicology  programme  did  not  reveal  any  major  toxic  effects  of  ertapenem.  A  decrease  in 
neutrophil  count  was  reported  in  rats  but  this  was  considered  unlikely  to  be  of  clinical  relevance.  
There  were  no  adverse  findings  of  clinical  significance  in  reproduction  toxicity  studies.  However  in 
the  absence  of  data  in  women,  ertapenem  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  the  potential 
benefit  outweighs  the  possible  risks  to  the  foetus.    This  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC. 
Ertapenem  was  neither  mutagenic  nor  clastogenic  and  the  absence  of  carcinogenicity  data  was 
adequately justified in view of the short duration of treatment. 
Efficacy 
Microbiological data obtained from patients treated during the phase II and phase III trials supported 
general MIC susceptibility test breakpoints of Susceptible ≤ 4 mg/l and Resistant > 8 mg/l. The MIC 
susceptibility test breakpoint for streptococci, including S. pneumoniae, is: S ≤ 2 mg/l.  
For species susceptible to ertapenem, resistance was not frequently reported in surveillance studies in 
Europe.  Outbreaks  of  carbapenem-resistant  organisms  have  however  occurred  and  the  applicant 
agreed  to  implement  appropriate  post-authorisation  studies  to  collect  data  on  the  prevalence  of 
resistance, both within and outside the EU to enable periodic updating of the SPC. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  ertapenem  was  adequately  defined  in  healthy  volunteers.  No  dosage 
adjustment  is  warranted  according  to  gender  or  age  or  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  renal 
impairment.  
The  once-daily  administration  of  ertapenem  is  different  to  the  regimens  approved  for  other 
carbapenems.  The  rational  for  the  dosage  regimen  was  based  on  the  fact  that  the  efficacy correlates 
with  the  proportion  of  the  dosing  interval  that  plasma  levels  exceed  the  MIC  of  ertapenem  for  the 
infecting organism (T> MIC).  
The  clinical  benefit  of  ertapenem  was  demonstrated  for  the  following  infections,  in  which  non-
inferiority to approved comparative regimens was demonstrated: 
- Community-acquired pneumonia 
In two Phase III trials, the favourable outcome rates in patients receiving ertapenem were not inferior 
to those in the ceftriaxone groups, including  patients with  severe disease (pneumonia  severity index 
>3) that accounted for 25 % of evaluable patients treated with ertapenem in each trial.  
23/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Intra-abdominal infections 
A  single  phase  III  trial  in  IAI  included  demonstrated  overall  non-inferiority  between  ertapanem  and 
piperacillin/tazobactam.  Of  the  evaluable  patients,  30  %  had  generalized  peritonitis  and  39  %  had 
infections  involving  sites  other  than  the  appendix  including  the  stomach,  duodenum,  small  bowel, 
colon, and gallbladder. It was considered however that the clinical benefit of ertapenem has not been 
demonstrated in patients with APACHE scores > 15 due to the limited number of patients included, as 
reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
- Acute gynaecological infections 
The results of a single trial, enrolling predominantly women with post-partum infections showed that 
ertapenem  was  non-inferior  to  piperacillin/tazobactam  and  therefore  could  support  an  indication  for 
use in acute gynaecological infections.  The percentage of evaluable patients treated with ertapenem 
who had severe disease (temperature ≥ 39°C and/or bacteraemia) accounted for 26 %.  
The CPMP considered, however, that there were insufficient data to support the use of ertapenem in 
complicated skin and skin structure infections and in urinary tract infections. 
The  clinical  benefit  of  ertapenem  in  children  has  not  yet  been  investigated,  however  the  applicant 
undertook to conduct a clinical programme in this population.   
Safety 
The  most  common  adverse  events  reported  related  to  infusion  site  problems,  diarrhoea  and  nausea. 
With respect to laboratory abnormalities, increased ALT or AST, increased ALP, and anaemia were 
the most frequently reported. The applicant agreed to evaluate the impact of ertapenem on faecal flora. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
During  an  oral explanation  before the  CPMP, the applicant addressed  concerns that  had  been raised 
regarding  the  appropriateness  of  1  g  daily  dosing  in  CAP,  IAI  and  acute  gynecological  infections, 
especially with regard to the more severe infections. It was confirmed that the efficacy of ertapenem in 
patient subgroups with more severe infections was consistent with the overall results in these studies. 
However  considering  the  limited  number  of  patients  with  severe  infections  (approximately 20-30  % 
for each indication), it was agreed to reflect in the “Special warnings and precautions for use” section 
of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  the  limited  experience  in  the  use  of  ertapenem  in  the 
treatment of complicated and severe infections. 
As already highlighted the applicant agreed to provide further data as part of the follow-up measures 
to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  with  respect  to  the  prevalence  of  resistance  to  ertapenem,  the 
paediatric population and the effects on faecal flora.  In addition the applicant will further investigate 
the efficacy of ertapenem using shorter durations of treatment. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Invanz  in  the  treatment  of  intra-abdominal  infections,  community 
acquired pneumonia and acute gynaecological infections was favourable.  
There  were  however  divergent  opinions  mainly  based  on  the  fact  that  experience  in  the  use  of 
ertapenem in the treatment of severe infections is limited. 
The CPMP however, recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation for Invanz (1 g powder 
for concentrate for solution for infusion) for the following indication: 
“Treatment of the following infections in adults when caused by bacteria known or very likely to be 
susceptible to ertapenem and when parenteral therapy is required: 
• 
• 
• 
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents” 
Intra-abdominal infections 
Community acquired pneumonia 
Acute gynaecological infections 
24/24 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
