EMA/665637/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000389 
EPAR summary for the public 
Invanz 
ertapenem 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Invanz. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Invanz. 
For practical information about using Invanz, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Invanz and what is it used for? 
Invanz is an antibiotic. It is used in adults and children aged over 3 months to treat the following 
infections: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
infections within the abdomen; 
community-acquired pneumonia (infection of the lungs caught away from hospital); 
gynaecological infections; 
foot infections in diabetes patients. 
Invanz is also used in adults to prevent infection after colorectal surgery (surgery in the lower part of 
the bowel, including the rectum). 
Invanz is used when the bacteria that cause the infection are likely to be killed by the antibiotic. Before 
using Invanz, doctors should consider official guidance on the appropriate use of antibiotics. 
Invanz contains the active substance ertapenem.  
How is Invanz used? 
Invanz is available as a vial containing a powder which is dissolved before use to make up a solution 
for infusion (drip) into a vein. It is infused over 30 minutes. The medicine can only be obtained with a 
prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Invanz is given at a dose of 1 g once a day in adults and adolescents. For younger patients (3 months 
to 12 years), a dose of 15 mg per kilogram body weight is given twice a day, up to a total of 1 g per 
day. Treatment with Invanz lasts between 3 and 14 days, depending on the type and the severity of 
the infection. Once the infection has improved, treatment can be switched to an antibiotic that can be 
given by mouth.  
For preventing infection after colorectal surgery in adults, a single dose of Invanz is given within 1 hour 
before the operation.  
How does Invanz work? 
The active substance in Invanz, ertapenem, belongs to the group of antibiotics known as 
‘carbapenems’. It attaches to certain proteins on the bacteria cells. This upsets the essential functions 
that keep the cells alive, and so kills the bacteria. Invanz can work on a range of different bacteria, 
which are listed in the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
What benefits of Invanz have been shown in studies? 
Treatment of infections 
Invanz was compared with ceftriaxone (another antibiotic) for the treatment of adults with community-
acquired pneumonia (866 patients) and urinary tract infections (592 patients), and with a combination 
of piperacillin and tazobactam for the treatment of abdominal infections (655 patients), gynaecological 
infections (412 patients), skin and soft tissue infections (infections of the skin and the tissues just 
beneath the skin, 540 patients); and foot infections in diabetes patients (576 patients). In studies in 
children, Invanz was compared with ceftriaxone (for community-acquired pneumonia, 389 children) 
and with ticarcillin/clavulanate (for intra-abdominal infections, 105 children). The studies examined if 
the infection was cured after 7 to 28 days of treatment, depending on the type of infection. 
Invanz was as effective as ceftriaxone or piperacillin/tazobactam for the treatment of abdominal 
infections, community-acquired pneumonia, gynaecological infections and foot infections in diabetes 
patients: Invanz was effective for 87 to 94% of patients compared with 83 to 92% for the comparator 
antibiotics. However, the data were not sufficient to support the use of Invanz in the treatment of 
urinary tract infections and skin and soft tissue infections, except foot ulcers in diabetes patients. In 
children, Invanz was as effective as the comparator antibiotics and had similar effectiveness to that in 
adults. 
Prevention of infections after colorectal surgery 
Invanz was compared with cefotetan for preventing infection after colorectal surgery. Effectiveness was 
measured as absence of infection 4 weeks after treatment, which involved 952 adults. Infection was 
absent in about 60% patients given Invanz compared with 49% of patients given cefotetan. 
What are the risks associated with Invanz? 
The most common side effects with Invanz (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are headache, 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, rash (including nappy rash in children), itching, and 
problems around the area where the medicine is infused (including pain and inflammation of the vein). 
Invanz also has an effect on some blood tests. For the full list of all side effects reported with Invanz, 
see the package leaflet. 
Invanz  
EMA/665637/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Invanz must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to ertapenem or to other 
antibiotics of the same group (carbapenems). It must also not be used in patients who are severely 
allergic to other types of antibiotics, such as penicillins and cephalosporins. For the full list of 
restrictions see the package leaflet. 
Why is Invanz approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Invanz’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP noted 
that Invanz was shown to be effective, albeit with a limited number of severe cases treated during the 
studies for abdominal infections, community-acquired pneumonia, gynaecological infections and 
diabetic foot infections. The Committee concluded that it was also effective for treatment of infection in 
children and for preventing infection after colorectal surgery in adults.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Invanz? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Invanz have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Invanz 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Invanz on 18 April 2002. 
The full EPAR for Invanz can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Invanz, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2016.  
Invanz  
EMA/665637/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
