Summary of Risk Management Plan for
INVEGA (Paliperidone Prolonged-Release Tablets)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for INVEGA. The RMP details important 
risks of INVEGA, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about INVEGA's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
INVEGA's  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how INVEGA should be used.
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  INVEGA should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment  report of the evaluation and its  plain-language summary,  all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of INVEGA's 
RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What It Is Used For
INVEGA  is  authorized for  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  adults  and  in  adolescents  aged 
15 years  and  older  and  schizoaffective  disorder  in  adults (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It 
contains  paliperidone  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by  mouth  as  a  prolonged-release 
tablet (available as 3-mg, 6-mg, 9-mg, or 12-mg tablets).
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  INVEGA's  benefits  can  be  found  in  INVEGA's 
EPAR,  including in its plain-language summary,  available on the European Medicines Agency
(EMA) website, under the medicine's webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/invega.
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or 
Further Characterize the Risks
Important  risks  of  INVEGA,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about INVEGA's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  PL
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine's packaging;
The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;
The  medicine's  legal  status  - the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  (PSUR)  assessment  so  that 
immediate  action  can  be 
routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
If important information that may affect the safe use of INVEGA is not yet available, it is listed 
under "missing information" below.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important  risks  of  INVEGA  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken.  Important 
risks  can be regarded as  identified or  potential.  Identified risks  are concerns for which there is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  INVEGA.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks None
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
Exposure during pregnancy
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Missing Information: Exposure during pregnancy
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPCs for INVEGA, XEPLION, Paliperidone Janssen-Cilag International, 
and TREVICTA:
Section 4.6, Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Section 5.3, Preclinical safety data
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
II.C.
Postauthorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
No studies are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation for INVEGA.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan
No studies are required for INVEGA.
