ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 3 mg of paliperidone.
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 6 mg of paliperidone.
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 9 mg of paliperidone.
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 12 mg of paliperidone.
Excipient with known effect
Each 3 mg tablet contains 13.2 mg lactose.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Prolonged-release tablet
Trilayer capsule-shaped white tablets of 11 mm in length and 5 mm in diameter printed with “PAL 3”
Trilayer capsule-shaped beige tablets of 11 mm in length and 5 mm in diameter printed with “PAL 6”
Trilayer capsule-shaped pink tablets of 11 mm in length and 5 mm in diameter printed with “PAL 9”
Trilayer capsule-shaped yellow tablets of 11 mm in length and 5 mm in diameter printed with 
“PAL 12”
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
INVEGA is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults and in adolescents 15 years and
older.
INVEGA is indicated for the treatment of schizoaffective disorder in adults.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Schizophrenia (adults)
The recommended dose of INVEGA for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults is 6 mg once daily, 
administered in the morning. Initial dose titration is not required. Some patients may benefit from 
lower or higher doses within the recommended range of 3 mg to 12 mg once daily. Dosage 
adjustment, if indicated, should occur only after clinical reassessment. When dose increases are 
indicated, increments of 3 mg/day are recommended and generally should occur at intervals of more 
than 5 days.
Schizoaffective disorder (adults)
The recommended dose of INVEGA for the treatment of schizoaffective disorder in adults is 6 mg
once daily, administered in the morning. Initial dose titration is not required. Some patients may 
benefit from higher doses within the recommended range of 6 mg to 12 mg once daily. Dosage 
adjustment, if indicated, should occur only after clinical reassessment. When dose increases are 
2
indicated, increments of 3 mg/day are recommended and generally should occur at intervals of more 
than 4 days.
Switching to other antipsychotic medicinal products
There are no systematically collected data to specifically address switching patients from INVEGA to 
other antipsychotic medicinal products. Due to different pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic 
profiles among antipsychotic medicinal products, supervision by a clinician is needed when switching 
to another antipsychotic product is considered medically appropriate.
Elderly
Dosing recommendations for elderly patients with normal renal function (≥ 80 mL/min) are the same 
as for adults with normal renal function. However, because elderly patients may have diminished renal 
function, dose adjustments may be required according to their renal function status (see Renal 
impairment below). INVEGA should be used with caution in elderly patients with dementia with risk 
factors for stroke (see section 4.4). Safety and efficacy of INVEGA in patients > 65 years of age with 
schizoaffective disorder have not been studied.
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. As INVEGA 
has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment, caution is recommended in such 
patients.
Renal impairment
For patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 50 to < 80 mL/min), the recommended 
initial dose is 3 mg once daily. The dose may be increased to 6 mg once daily based on clinical 
response and tolerability.
For patients with moderate to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance  10 to < 50 mL/min), the 
recommended initial dose of INVEGA is 3 mg every other day, which may be increased to 3 mg once 
daily after clinical reassessment. As INVEGA has not been studied in patients with creatinine 
clearance below 10 mL/min, use is not recommended in such patients.
Paediatric population
Schizophrenia: The recommended starting dose of INVEGA for the treatment of schizophrenia in 
adolescents 15 years and older is 3 mg once daily, administered in the morning.
Adolescents weighing < 51 kg: the maximum recommended daily dose of INVEGA is 6 mg.
Adolescents weighing ≥ 51 kg: the maximum recommended daily dose of INVEGA is 12 mg.
Dosage adjustment, if indicated, should occur only after clinical reassessment based on the individual 
need of the patient. When dose increases are indicated, increments of 3 mg/day are recommended and 
generally should occur at intervals of 5 days or more. The safety and efficacy of INVEGA in the 
treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents between 12 and 14 years old has not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology 
can be made. There is no relevant use of INVEGA in children aged less than 12 years.
Schizoaffective disorder: The safety and efficacy of INVEGA in the treatment of schizoaffective 
disorder in patients aged 12 to 17 years has not been studied or established. There is no relevant use of 
INVEGA in children aged less than 12 years.
Other special populations
No dose adjustment for INVEGA is recommended based on gender, race, or smoking status.
Method of administration
INVEGA is for oral administration. It must be swallowed whole with liquid, and must not be chewed, 
divided, or crushed. The active substance is contained within a non-absorbable shell designed to 
3
release the active substance at a controlled rate. The tablet shell, along with insoluble core 
components, is eliminated from the body; patients should not be concerned if they occasionally notice 
in their stool something that looks like a tablet.
The administration of INVEGA should be standardised in relation to food intake (see section 5.2). The 
patient should be instructed to always take INVEGA in the fasting state or always take it together with 
breakfast and not to alternate between administration in the fasting state or in the fed state.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, risperidone, or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Patients with schizoaffective disorder treated with paliperidone should be carefully monitored for a 
potential switch from manic to depressive symptoms.
QT interval
Caution should be exercised when INVEGA is prescribed in patients with known cardiovascular 
disease or family history of QT prolongation, and in concomitant use with other medicines thought to 
prolong the QT interval.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), characterised by hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic 
instability, altered consciousness, and elevated serum creatine phosphokinase levels has been reported 
to occur with paliperidone. Additional clinical signs may include myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis) and 
acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs or symptoms indicative of NMS, all antipsychotics, 
including INVEGA, should be discontinued.
Tardive dyskinesia/extrapyramidal symptoms
Medicines with dopamine receptor antagonistic properties have been associated with the induction of
tardive dyskinesia characterised by rhythmical, involuntary movements, predominantly of the tongue 
and/or face. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear, the discontinuation of all 
antipsychotics, including INVEGA, should be considered.
Caution is warranted in patients receiving both, psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) and 
paliperidone concomitantly, as extrapyramidal symptoms could emerge when adjusting one or both 
medications. Gradual withdrawal of stimulant treatment is recommended (see section 4.5).
Leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis
Events of leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported with antipsychotic agents, 
including INVEGA. Agranulocytosis has been reported very rarely (< 1/10 000 patients) during 
post-marketing surveillance. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell 
count (WBC) or a drug-induced leucopenia/neutropenia should be monitored during the first few 
months of therapy and discontinuation of INVEGA should be considered at the first sign of a clinically 
significant decline in WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically 
significant neutropenia should be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection 
and treated promptly if such symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute 
neutrophil count < 1 x 109/L) should discontinue INVEGA and have their WBC followed until 
recovery.
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus
Hyperglycaemia, diabetes mellitus, and exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes have been reported 
during treatment with paliperidone. In some cases, a prior increase in body weight has been reported 
which may be a predisposing factor. Association with ketoacidosis has been reported very rarely and 
rarely with diabetic coma. Appropriate clinical monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised 
antipsychotic guidelines. Patients treated with any atypical antipsychotic, including INVEGA, should 
4
be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, and 
weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored regularly for worsening of glucose 
control.
Weight gain
Significant weight gain has been reported with INVEGA use. Weight should be monitored regularly.
Hyperprolactinaemia
Tissue culture studies suggest that cell growth in human breast tumours may be stimulated by 
prolactin. Although no clear association with the administration of antipsychotics has so far been 
demonstrated in clinical and epidemiological studies, caution is recommended in patients with relevant 
medical history. Paliperidone should be used with caution in patients with possible 
prolactin-dependent tumours.
Orthostatic hypotension
Paliperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension in some patients based on its alpha-blocking activity.
Based on pooled data from the three, placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials with INVEGA (3, 
6, 9, and 12 mg), orthostatic hypotension was reported by 2.5% of subjects treated with INVEGA 
compared with 0.8% of subjects treated with placebo. INVEGA should be used with caution in 
patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, myocardial infarction or ischaemia, 
conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions that predispose the patient to 
hypotension (e.g., dehydration and hypovolaemia).
Seizures
INVEGA should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that 
potentially lower the seizure threshold.
Potential for gastrointestinal obstruction
Because the INVEGA tablet is non-deformable and does not appreciably change shape in the
gastrointestinal tract, INVEGA should not ordinarily be administered to patients with preexisting 
severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic) or in patients with dysphagia or significant 
difficulty in swallowing tablets. There have been rare reports of obstructive symptoms in patients with 
known strictures in association with the ingestion of medicines in non-deformable controlled-release 
formulations. Due to the controlled-release design of the dosage form, INVEGA should only be used 
in patients who are able to swallow the tablet whole.
Conditions with decreased gastro-intestinal transit time
Conditions leading to shorter gastrointestinal transit time, e.g., diseases associated with chronic severe 
diarrhoea, may result in a reduced absorption of paliperidone.
Renal impairment
The plasma concentrations of paliperidone are increased in patients with renal impairment and, 
therefore, dosage adjustment may be required in some patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). No data are 
available in patients with a creatinine clearance below 10 mL/min. Paliperidone should not be used in 
patients with creatinine clearance below 10 mL/min.
Hepatic impairment
No data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Caution is 
recommended if paliperidone is used in such patients.
Elderly patients with dementia
INVEGA has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. The experience from risperidone is 
considered valid also for paliperidone.
Overall mortality
In a meta-analysis of 17 controlled clinical trials, elderly patients with dementia treated with other 
atypical antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, olanzapine, and quetiapine had an 
5
increased risk of mortality compared to placebo. Among those treated with risperidone, the mortality 
was 4% compared with 3.1% for placebo.
Cerebrovascular adverse reactions
An approximately 3-fold increased risk of cerebrovascular adverse reactions have been seen in 
randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials in the dementia population with some atypical 
antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine. The mechanism for this increased 
risk is not known. INVEGA should be used with caution in elderly patients with dementia who have 
risk factors for stroke.
Parkinson’s disease and dementia with Lewy bodies
Physicians should weigh the risks versus the benefits when prescribing INVEGA to patients with 
Parkinson’s Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) since both groups may be at increased risk 
of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome as well as having an increased sensitivity to antipsychotics. 
Manifestation of this increased sensitivity can include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with 
frequent falls, in addition to extrapyramidal symptoms.
Priapism
Antipsychotic medicinal products (including risperidone) with α-adrenergic blocking effects have 
been reported to induce priapism. During post-marketing surveillance priapism has also been reported 
with paliperidone, which is the active metabolite of risperidone. Patients should be informed to seek 
urgent medical care in case that priapism has not been resolved within 3-4 hours.
Body temperature regulation
Disruption of the body’s ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic 
medicinal products. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing INVEGA to patients who will be 
experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g., 
exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medication with 
anticholinergic activity, or being subject to dehydration.
Venous thromboembolism
Cases of venous thromboembolism (VTE) have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal products.
Since patients treated with antipsychotics often present with acquired risk factors for VTE, all possible 
risk factors for VTE should be identified before and during treatment with INVEGA and preventive 
measures undertaken.
Antiemetic effect
An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in
humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain medicines or of conditions 
such as intestinal obstruction, Reye’s syndrome, and brain tumour.
Paediatric population
The sedative effect of INVEGA should be closely monitored in this population. A change in the time 
of administration of INVEGA may improve the impact of sedation on the patient.
Because of the potential effects of prolonged hyperprolactinaemia on growth and sexual maturation in 
adolescents, regular clinical evaluation of endocrinological status should be considered, including 
measurements of height, weight, sexual maturation, monitoring of menstrual functioning, and other 
potential prolactin-related effects.
During treatment with INVEGA regular examination for extrapyramidal symptoms and other 
movement disorders should also be conducted.
For specific posology recommendations in the paediatric population see section 4.2.
6
Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome
Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in patients 
treated with medicines with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect, such as INVEGA (see section 4.8).
IFIS may increase the risk of eye complications during and after the operation. Current or past use of 
medicines with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect should be made known to the ophthalmic 
surgeon in advance of surgery. The potential benefit of stopping alpha 1 blocking therapy prior to 
cataract surgery has not been established and must be weighed against the risk of stopping the 
antipsychotic therapy.
Excipients
Lactose content (pertains only to the 3 mg tablets)
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, the Lapp lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine.
Sodium content
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, i.e., essentially
sodium-free.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Caution is advised when prescribing INVEGA with medicines known to prolong the QT interval, e.g., 
class IA antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmics (e.g., 
amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some other antipsychotics and some antimalarials (e.g., 
mefloquine).
Potential for INVEGA to affect other medicines
Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicines 
that are metabolised by cytochrome P-450 isozymes. In vitro studies indicate that paliperidone is not 
an inducer of CYP1A2 activity.
Given the primary CNS effects of paliperidone (see section 4.8), INVEGA should be used with 
caution in combination with other centrally acting medicines, e.g., anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, 
hypnotics, opiates, etc. or alcohol.
Paliperidone may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination 
is deemed necessary, particularly in end-stage Parkinson’s disease, the lowest effective dose of each 
treatment should be prescribed.
Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension (see section 4.4), an additive effect may 
be observed when INVEGA is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential, e.g., 
other antipsychotics, tricyclics.
Caution is advised if paliperidone is combined with other medicines known to lower the seizure 
threshold (i.e., phenothiazines or butyrophenones, clozapine, tricyclics or SSRIs, tramadol, 
mefloquine, etc.).
No interaction study between INVEGA and lithium has been performed, however, a pharmacokinetic 
interaction is unlikely to occur.
Co-administration of INVEGA 12 mg once daily with divalproex sodium prolonged-release tablets 
(500 mg to 2,000 mg once daily) did not affect the steady-state pharmacokinetics of valproate. 
Co-administration of INVEGA with divalproex sodium prolonged-release tablets increased the 
exposure to paliperidone (see below).
7
Potential for other medicines to affect INVEGA
In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone 
metabolism, but there are no indications in vitro nor in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role 
in the metabolism of paliperidone. Concomitant administration of INVEGA with paroxetine, a potent 
CYP2D6 inhibitor, showed no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone. 
In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrate.
Co-administration of INVEGA once daily with carbamazepine 200 mg twice daily caused a decrease 
of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. This decrease is 
caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone likely as a result 
of induction of renal P-gp by carbamazepine. A minor decrease in the amount of active substance 
excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP metabolism or 
bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. Larger decreases in plasma 
concentrations of paliperidone could occur with higher doses of carbamazepine. On initiation of 
carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. Conversely, 
on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of INVEGA should be re-evaluated and decreased if 
necessary. It takes 2-3 weeks for full induction to be achieved and upon discontinuation of the inducer 
the effect wears off over a similar time period. Other medicinal products or herbals which are 
inducers, e.g., rifampicin and St. John´s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may have similar effects on 
paliperidone.
Medicinal products affecting gastrointestinal transit time may affect the absorption of paliperidone, 
e.g., metoclopramide.
Co-administration of a single dose of INVEGA 12 mg with divalproex sodium prolonged-release 
tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of approximately 50% in the Cmax and 
AUC of paliperidone. Dosage reduction for INVEGA should be considered when INVEGA is 
co-administered with valproate after clinical assessment.
Concomitant use of INVEGA with risperidone
Concomitant use of INVEGA with oral risperidone is not recommended as paliperidone is the active 
metabolite of risperidone and the combination of the two may lead to additive paliperidone exposure.
Concomitant use of INVEGA with psychostimulants
The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) with paliperidone can lead to 
extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of paliperidone during pregnancy.
Paliperidone was not teratogenic in animal studies, but other types of reproductive toxicity were 
observed (see section 5.3). Neonates exposed to antipsychotics (including paliperidone) during the 
third trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or 
withdrawal symptoms that may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been 
reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding 
disorder. Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. INVEGA should not be used during 
pregnancy unless clearly necessary. If discontinuation during pregnancy is necessary, it should not be 
done abruptly.
8
Breast-feeding
Paliperidone is excreted in the breast milk to such an extent that effects on the breast-fed infant are 
likely if therapeutic doses are administered to breast-feeding women. INVEGA should not be used 
while breast feeding.
Fertility
There were no relevant effects observed in the non-clinical studies.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Paliperidone can have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines due to 
potential nervous system and visual effects (see section 4.8). Therefore, patients should be advised not 
to drive or operate machines until their individual susceptibility to INVEGA is known.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Adults
Summary of the safety profile
The adverse drug reactions (ADRs) most frequently reported in clinical trials with adults were 
headache, insomnia, sedation/somnolence, parkinsonism, akathisia, tachycardia, tremor, dystonia,
upper respiratory tract infection, anxiety, dizziness, weight increased, nausea, agitation, constipation, 
vomiting, fatigue, depression, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, dry mouth, toothache, musculoskeletal pain, 
hypertension, asthenia, back pain, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, and cough.
The ADRs that appeared to be dose-related included headache, sedation/somnolence, parkinsonism, 
akathisia, tachycardia, dystonia, dizziness, tremor, upper respiratory tract infection, dyspepsia, and 
musculoskeletal pain.
In the schizoaffective disorder studies, a greater proportion of subjects in the total INVEGA dose 
group who were receiving concomitant therapy with an antidepressant or mood stabiliser experienced 
adverse events as compared to those subjects treated with INVEGA monotherapy.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following are all the ADRs that were reported in clinical trials and post-marketing experience 
with paliperidone by frequency category estimated from INVEGA clinical trials in adults. The 
following terms and frequencies are applied: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000), and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
System Organ 
Class
Infections and 
infestations
Very 
common
Blood and 
lymphatic
system 
disorders
Immune 
system 
disorders
Adverse Drug Reaction
Frequency
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Not known
bronchitis, upper 
respiratory tract 
infection, 
sinusitis, urinary 
tract infection, 
influenza
eye infection, 
onychomycosis, 
cellulitis, 
acarodermatitis
agranulocytosisc, 
neutropenia, 
eosinophil count 
increased
anaphylactic 
reaction, 
hypersensitivity
pneumonia, 
respiratory tract 
infection, cystitis, 
ear infection, 
tonsillitis
white blood cell 
count decreased, 
thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, 
haematocrit 
decreased
9
Endocrine 
disorders
Metabolism 
and nutrition 
disorders
Psychiatric 
disorders
insomniae
weight increased, 
increased 
appetite, weight 
decreased, 
decreased 
appetite
mania, agitation, 
depression, 
anxiety
Nervous 
system 
disorders
parkinsonismb
, akathisiab, 
sedation/
somnolence, 
headache
dystoniab, 
dizziness, 
dyskinesiab, 
tremorb
Eye disorders
vision blurred
Ear and 
labyrinth
disorders
Cardiac 
disorders
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestin
al disorders
atrioventricular 
block, 
conduction 
disorder, 
electrocardiogra
m QT prolonged, 
bradycardia, 
tachycardia
orthostatic 
hypotension, 
hypertension
pharyngolarynge
al pain, cough, 
nasal congestion
abdominal pain, 
abdominal 
discomfort, 
vomiting, 
nausea, 
constipation, 
diarrhoea, 
dyspepsia, dry 
mouth, toothache
hyperinsulinaemi
a
pulmonary 
congestion
hyperprolactinaemia
a
diabetes mellitusd, 
hyperglycaemia,
waist circumference 
increased, anorexia, 
blood triglycerides 
increased
sleep disorder, 
confusional state, 
libido decreased, 
anorgasmia, 
nervousness, 
nightmare
tardive dyskinesia, 
convulsione, 
syncope, 
psychomotor 
hyperactivity,
dizziness postural, 
disturbance in 
attention, dysarthria, 
dysgeusia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
paresthaesia
photophobia, 
conjunctivitis, dry 
eye
vertigo, tinnitus, ear 
pain
inappropriate 
antidiuretic hormone
secretionc, glucose 
urine present
water intoxication, 
diabetic 
ketoacidosisc, 
hypoglycaemia, 
polydipsia, blood
cholesterol increased
catatonia, 
somnambulism,
blunted affectc
neuroleptic 
malignant syndrome,
cerebral ischaemia, 
unresponsive to 
stimulic, loss of 
consciousness, 
depressed level of 
consciousnessc, 
diabetic comac
balance disorder, 
coordination 
abnormal, head 
titubationc
glaucoma, eye 
movement disorderc, 
eye rollingc, 
lacrimation 
increased, ocular 
hyperaemia
sinus arrhythmia, 
electrocardiogram 
abnormal, 
palpitations
atrial fibrillation, 
postural orthostatic 
tachycardia 
syndromec
hypotension 
dyspnoea, wheezing,
epistaxis
swollen tongue, 
gastroenteritis, 
dysphagia, 
flatulence
pulmonary 
embolism, venous 
thrombosis, 
ischaemia, flushing
sleep apnoea 
syndrome, 
hyperventilation, 
pneumonia 
aspiration, 
respiratory tract 
congestion, 
dysphonia
pancreatitisc, 
intestinal 
obstruction, ileus, 
faecal incontinence, 
faecalomac, cheilitis
10
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders
Musculoskelet
al and 
connective 
tissue 
disorders
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders
Pregnancy, 
puerperium 
and perinatal 
conditions
Reproductive 
system and 
breast 
disorders
transaminases 
increased
pruritus, rash
gamma-glutamyltran
sferase increased, 
hepatic enzyme 
increased
urticaria, alopecia, 
eczema, acne
musculoskeletal 
pain, back pain, 
arthralgia
amenorrhoea
blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased, muscle 
spasms, joint 
stiffness, joint 
swelling, muscular 
weakness, neck pain
urinary incontinence, 
pollakiuria, urinary
retention, dysuria
erectile dysfunction, 
ejaculation disorder, 
menstrual disordere, 
galactorrhoea, sexual 
dysfunction, breast 
pain, breast 
discomfort
General 
disorders 
pyrexia, asthenia, 
fatigue
face oedema, 
oedemae, chills, 
body temperature 
increased, gait 
abnormal, thirst, 
chest pain, chest 
discomfort, malaise
fall
jaundice
angioedema, drug 
eruptionc, 
hyperkeratosis, dry 
skin, erythema, skin 
discolouration,
seborrhoeic 
dermatitis, dandruff
rhabdomyolysisc, 
posture abnormalc
drug withdrawal 
syndrome neonatal 
(see section 4.6)c
priapismc, 
menstruation 
delayedc,
gynaecomastia, 
breast engorgement, 
breast enlargementc,
breast discharge, 
vaginal discharge
hypothermiac, body 
temperature 
decreasedc, drug 
withdrawal 
syndromec,
indurationc
Injury, 
poisoning and
procedural
complications
a Refer to ‘Hyperprolactinaemia’ below.
b Refer to ‘Extrapyramidal symptoms’ below.
c Not observed in INVEGA clinical studies but observed in post-marketing environment with paliperidone.
d
e
In placebo-controlled pivotal trials, diabetes mellitus was reported in 0.05% in INVEGA-treated subjects compared to a 
rate of 0% in placebo group. Overall incidence from all clinical trials was 0.14% in all INVEGA-treated subjects.
Insomnia includes: initial insomnia, middle insomnia; Convulsion includes: grand mal convulsion; Oedema includes: 
generalised oedema, oedema peripheral, pitting oedema; Menstrual disorder includes: menstruation irregular, 
oligomenorrhoea.
Undesirable effects noted with risperidone formulations
Paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone, therefore, the adverse reaction profiles of these 
compounds (including both the oral and injectable formulations) are relevant to one another. In 
addition to the above adverse reactions, the following adverse reactions have been noted with the use 
of risperidone products and can be expected to occur with INVEGA.
Psychiatric disorders: sleep-related eating disorder
Nervous system disorders: cerebrovascular disorder
Eye disorders: floppy iris syndrome (intraoperative)
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders: rales
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis
11
Description of selected adverse reactions
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)
In schizophrenia clinical trials, there was no difference observed between placebo and the 3 and 6 mg
doses of INVEGA. Dose dependence for EPS was seen with the two higher doses of INVEGA (9 and 
12 mg). In the schizoaffective disorder studies, the incidence of EPS was observed at a higher rate 
than placebo in all dose groups without a clear relationship to dose.
EPS included a pooled analysis of the following terms: Parkinsonism (includes salivary 
hypersecretion, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism, drooling, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, 
hypokinesia, masked facies, muscle tightness, akinesia, nuchal rigidity, muscle rigidity, parkinsonian 
gait, and glabellar reflex abnormal, parkinsonian rest tremor), akathisia (includes akathisia, 
restlessness, hyperkinesia, and restless leg syndrome), dyskinesia (dyskinesia, muscle twitching, 
choreoathetosis, athetosis, and myoclonus), dystonia (includes dystonia, hypertonia, torticollis, muscle 
contractions involuntary, muscle contracture, blepharospasm, oculogyration, tongue paralysis, facial 
spasm, laryngospasm, myotonia, opisthotonus, oropharyngeal spasm, pleurothotonus, tongue spasm, 
and trismus), and tremor. It should be noted that a broader spectrum of symptoms are included that do 
not necessarily have an extrapyramidal origin.
Weight gain
In schizophrenia clinical trials, the proportions of subjects meeting a weight gain criterion of ≥ 7% of 
body weight were compared, revealing a similar incidence of weight gain for INVEGA 3 mg and 6 mg
compared with placebo, and a higher incidence of weight gain for INVEGA 9 mg and 12 mg
compared with placebo.
In schizoaffective disorder clinical trials, a higher percentage of INVEGA-treated subjects (5%) had 
an increase in body weight of ≥ 7% compared with placebo-treated subjects (1%). In the study that 
examined two dose groups (see section 5.1), the increase in body weight of ≥ 7% was 3% in the 
lower-dose (3-6 mg) group, 7% in the higher-dose (9-12 mg) group, and 1% in the placebo group.
Hyperprolactinaemia
In schizophrenia clinical trials, increases in serum prolactin were observed with INVEGA in 67% of 
subjects. Adverse reactions that may suggest increase in prolactin levels (e.g., amenorrhoea, 
galactorrhoea, menstrual disturbances, gynaecomastia) were reported overall in 2% of subjects. 
Maximum mean increases of serum prolactin concentrations were generally observed on day 15 of 
treatment, but remained above baseline levels at study endpoint.
Class effects
QT prolongation, ventricular arrythmias (ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia), sudden 
unexplained death, cardiac arrest and Torsade de pointes may occur with antipsychotics. Cases of 
venous thromboembolism, including cases of pulmonary embolism and cases of deep vein thrombosis 
have been reported with antipsychotic drugs - Frequency unknown.
Paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone. The safety profile of risperidone may be pertinent.
Elderly
In a study conducted in elderly subjects with schizophrenia, the safety profile was similar to that seen 
in non-elderly subjects. INVEGA has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. In clinical 
trials with some other atypical antipsychotics, increased risks of death and cerebrovascular accidents 
have been reported (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
Summary of the safety profile
In one short-term and two longer-term studies with paliperidone prolonged-release tablets conducted 
in adolescents 12 years and older with schizophrenia, the overall safety profile was similar to that seen 
in adults. In the pooled adolescent schizophrenia population (12 years and older, N = 545) exposed to 
INVEGA, the frequency and type of undesirable effects were similar to those in adults except for the 
12
following ADRs that were reported more frequently in adolescents receiving INVEGA than adults 
receiving INVEGA (and more frequently than placebo): sedation/somnolence, parkinsonism, weight 
increase, upper respiratory tract infection, akathisia, and tremor were reported very commonly (≥ 1/10) 
in adolescents; abdominal pain, galactorrhoea, gynaecomastia, acne, dysarthria, gastroenteritis, 
epistaxis, ear infection, blood triglyceride increased, and vertigo were reported commonly (≥ 1/100, 
< 1/10) in adolescents.
Extrapyramidal Symptoms (EPS)
In the short-term, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose adolescent study, the incidence of EPS was higher 
than placebo for all doses of INVEGA with an increased frequency of EPS at higher doses. Across all 
adolescent studies, EPS was more common in adolescents than in adults for each INVEGA dose.
Weight gain
In the short-term, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose adolescent study, a higher percentage of 
INVEGA-treated subjects (6-19% depending on dose) had an increase in body weight of ≥ 7% 
compared to placebo-treated subjects (2%). There was no clear dose relationship. In the long-term 
2-year study, the subjects who were exposed to INVEGA during both the double-blind and open-label 
studies reported a modest weight gain (4.9 kg).
In adolescents, weight gain should be assessed against that expected with normal growth.
Prolactin
In the up to 2-year, open-label treatment study of INVEGA in adolescents with schizophrenia, 
incidence of elevated serum prolactin levels occurred in 48% of females and 60% of males. Adverse 
reactions that may suggest increase in prolactin levels (e.g., amenorrhoea, galactorrhoea, menstrual 
disturbances, gynaecomastia) were reported overall in 9.3% of subjects.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medical product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In general, expected signs and symptoms are those resulting from an exaggeration of paliperidone’s 
known pharmacological effects, i.e., drowsiness and sedation, tachycardia and hypotension, QT 
prolongation, and extrapyramidal symptoms. Torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been 
reported in association with overdose. In the case of acute overdosage, the possibility of multiple 
medicinal product involvement should be considered.
Consideration should be given to the prolonged-release nature of the product when assessing treatment 
needs and recovery. There is no specific antidote to paliperidone. General supportive measures should 
be employed. Establish and maintain a clear airway and ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation. 
Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous 
electrocardiographic monitoring for possible arrhythmias. Hypotension and circulatory collapse should 
be treated with appropriate measures such as intravenous fluid and/or sympathomimetic agents. 
Administration of activated charcoal together with a laxative should be considered. In case of severe 
extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic agents should be administered. Close supervision and 
monitoring should continue until the patient recovers.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacologic group: Psycholeptics, other antipsychotics, ATC code: N05AX13
13
INVEGA contains a racemic mixture of (+)- and (-)-paliperidone.
Mechanism of action
Paliperidone is a selective blocking agent of monoamine effects, whose pharmacological properties 
are different from that of traditional neuroleptics. Paliperidone binds strongly to serotonergic 5-HT2-
and dopaminergic D2-receptors. Paliperidone also blocks alfa1-adrenergic receptors and blocks, to a 
lesser extent, H1-histaminergic and alfa2-adrenergic receptors. The pharmacological activity of the 
(+)- and (-)-paliperidone enantiomers are qualitatively and quantitatively similar.
Paliperidone is not bound to cholinergic receptors. Even though paliperidone is a strong 
D2-antagonist, which is believed to relieve the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, it causes less 
catalepsy and decreases motor functions to a lesser extent than traditional neuroleptics. Dominating 
central serotonin antagonism may reduce the tendency of paliperidone to cause extrapyramidal side 
effects.
Clinical efficacy
Schizophrenia
The efficacy of INVEGA in the treatment of schizophrenia was established in three multi-centre, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, 6-week trials in subjects who met DSM-IV criteria for 
schizophrenia. INVEGA doses, which varied across the three studies, ranged from 3 to 15 mg once 
daily. The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as a decrease in total Positive and Negative 
Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores as shown in the following table. The PANSS is a validated 
multi-item inventory composed of five factors to evaluate positive symptoms, negative symptoms, 
disorganised thoughts, uncontrolled hostility/excitement, and anxiety/depression. All tested doses of 
INVEGA separated from placebo on day 4 (p < 0.05). Predefined secondary endpoints included the 
Personal and Social Performance (PSP) scale and the Clinical Global Impression – Severity (CGI-S) 
scale. In all three studies, INVEGA was superior to placebo on PSP and CGI-S. Efficacy was also 
evaluated by calculation of treatment response (defined as decrease in PANSS Total Score ≥ 30%) as a 
secondary endpoint.
Schizophrenia Studies: Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) Total Score - Change 
From Baseline to End Point - LOCF for Studies R076477-SCH-303, R076477-SCH-304, and 
R076477-SCH-305: Intent-to-Treat Analysis Set
Placebo
INVEGA
3 mg
INVEGA
9 mg
(N = 122)
93.2 (11.90)
-17.2 (20.23)
<0.001
-13.5 (2.63)
INVEGA
6 mg
(N = 123)
94.3 (10.48)
-17.9 (22.23)
<0.001
-13.7 (2.63)
(N = 111)
92.3 (11.96)
-15.7 (18.89)
0.006
-7.0 (2.36)
(N = 105)
93.6 (11.71)
-8.0 (21.48)
(N = 126)
94.1 (10.74)
-4.1 (23.16)
R076477-SCH-303
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs, Placebo)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
R076477-SCH-304
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs, Placebo)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
(N = 123)
R076477-SCH-305
91.6 (12.19)
Mean baseline (SD)
-15.0 (19.61)
Mean change (SD)
<0.001
P-value (vs, Placebo)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
-11.6 (2.35)
Note: Negative change in score indicates improvement. For all 3 studies, an active control (olanzapine at a dose of 10 mg) 
was included. LOCF = last observation carried forward. The 1-7 version of the PANSS was used. A 15 mg dose was also 
included in Study R076477-SCH-305, but results are not presented since this is above the maximum recommended daily dose 
of 12 mg.
(N = 123)
93.9 (13.20)
-16.3 (21.81)
<0.001
-12.9 (2.34)
(N = 120)
93.9 (12.66)
-2.8 (20.89)
INVEGA
12 mg
(N = 129)
94.6 (10.98)
-23.3 (20.12)
<0.001
-18.9 (2.60)
(N = 111)
94.1 (11.42)
-17.5 (19.83)
<0.001
-8.5 (2.35)
14
Schizophrenia Studies: Proportion of Subjects with Responder Status at LOCF End Point
Studies R076477-SCH-303, R076477-SCH-304, and R076477-SCH-305: Intent-to-Treat Analysis Set
R076477-SCH-303
N
Responder, n (%)
Non-responder, n (%)
P value (vs Placebo)
R076477-SCH-304
N
Responder, n (%)
Non-responder, n (%)
P value (vs Placebo)
R076477-SCH-305
N
Responder, n (%)
Non-responder, n (%)
P value (vs Placebo)
Placebo
126
38 (30.2)
88 (69.8)
--
105
36 (34.3)
69 (65.7)
--
120
22 (18.3)
98 (81.7)
--
INVEGA
3 mg
INVEGA
6 mg
123
69 (56.1)
54 (43.9)
< 0.001
110
55 (50.0)
55 (50.0)
0.025
123
49 (39.8)
74 (60.2)
0.001
INVEGA
12 mg
129
79 (61.2)
50 (38.8)
< 0.001
111
57 (51.4)
54 (48.6)
0.012
INVEGA
9 mg
122
62 (50.8)
60 (49.2)
0.001
123
56 (45.5)
67 (54.5)
< 0.001
In a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect, INVEGA was significantly more 
effective than placebo in maintaining symptom control and delaying relapse of schizophrenia. After 
having been treated for an acute episode for 6 weeks and stabilised for an additional 8 weeks with 
INVEGA (doses ranging from 3 to 15 mg once daily) patients were then randomised in a double-blind 
manner to either continue on INVEGA or on placebo until they experienced a relapse in schizophrenia 
symptoms. The trial was stopped early for efficacy reasons by showing a significantly longer time to 
relapse in patients treated with INVEGA compared to placebo (p=0.0053).
Schizoaffective disorder
The efficacy of INVEGA in the acute treatment of psychotic or manic symptoms of schizoaffective 
disorder was established in two placebo-controlled, 6-week trials in non-elderly adult subjects. 
Enrolled subjects 1) met DSM-IV criteria for schizoaffective disorder, as confirmed by the Structured 
Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Disorders, 2) had a Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) 
total score of at least 60, and 3) had prominent mood symptoms as confirmed by a score of at least 16 
on the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) and/or Hamilton Rating Scale 21 for Depression (HAM-D
21). The population included subjects with schizoaffective bipolar and depressive types. In one of 
these trials, efficacy was assessed in 211 subjects who received flexible doses of INVEGA (3-12 mg
once daily). In the other study, efficacy was assessed in 203 subjects who were assigned to one of two 
dose levels of INVEGA: 6 mg with the option to reduce to 3 mg (n = 105) or 12 mg with the option to 
reduce to 9 mg (n = 98) once daily. Both studies included subjects who received INVEGA either as 
monotherapy or in combination with mood stabilisers and/or antidepressants. Dosing was in the
morning without regard to meals. Efficacy was evaluated using the PANSS.
The INVEGA group in the flexible-dose study (dosed between 3 and 12 mg/day, mean modal dose of 
8.6 mg/day) and the higher dose group of INVEGA in the 2 dose-level study (12 mg/day with option 
to reduce to 9 mg/day) were each superior to placebo in the PANSS at 6 weeks. In the lower dose 
group of the 2 dose-level study (6 mg/day with option to reduce to 3 mg/day), INVEGA was not 
significantly different from placebo as measured by the PANSS. Only few subjects received the 3 mg
dose in both studies and efficacy of this dose could not be established. Statistically superior 
improvements in manic symptoms as measured by YMRS (secondary efficacy scale) were observed in 
patients from the flexible-dose study and the INVEGA higher dose in the second study.
Taking the results of both studies together (pooled study-data), INVEGA improved the psychotic and 
manic symptoms of schizoaffective disorder at endpoint relative to placebo when administered either 
as monotherapy or in combination with mood stabilisers and/or antidepressants. However, overall the 
magnitude of effect in regard to PANSS and YMRS observed on monotherapy was larger than that 
observed with concomitant antidepressants and/or mood stabilisers. Moreover, in the pooled 
population, INVEGA was not efficacious in patients concomitantly receiving mood stabiliser and 
antidepressants in regard to the psychotic symptoms, but this population was small (30 responders in 
15
the paliperidone group and 20 responders in the placebo group). Additionally, in study SCA-3001 in 
the ITT population the effect on psychotic symptoms measured by PANSS was clearly less 
pronounced and not reaching statistical significance for patients receiving concomitantly mood
stabilisers and/or antidepressants. An effect of INVEGA on depressive symptoms was not 
demonstrated in these studies, but has been demonstrated in a long-term study with the long-acting 
injectable formulation of paliperidone (described further down in this section).
An examination of population subgroups did not reveal any evidence of differential responsiveness on 
the basis of gender, age, or geographic region. There were insufficient data to explore differential 
effects based on race. Efficacy was also evaluated by calculation of treatment response (defined as 
decrease in PANSS Total Score ≥ 30% and CGI-C Score ≤ 2) as a secondary endpoint.
Schizoaffective Disorder Studies: Primary Efficacy Parameter, PANSS Total Score Change from Baseline from 
Studies R076477-SCA-3001 and R076477-SCA-3002: Intent-to-Treat Analysis Set
Placebo
INVEGA Flexible 
Dose (3-12 mg)
INVEGA 
Lower Dose
(3-6 mg)
(N=105)
95.9 (13.0)
-27.4 (22.1)
0.187
-3.6 (2.7)
INVEGA Higher 
Dose
(9-12 mg)
(N=98)
92.7 (12.6)
-30.6 (19.1)
0.003
-8.3 (2.8)
(N=107)
91.6 (12.5)
-21.7 (21.4)
R076477-SCA-3001
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
R076477-SCA-3002
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
Note: Negative change in score indicates improvement. LOCF = last observation carried forward.
(N=93)
91.7 (12.1)
-10.8 (18.7)
(N=211)
92.3 (13.5)
-20.0 (20.23)
< 0.001
-13.5 (2.63)
Schizoaffective Disorder Studies: Secondary Efficacy Parameter, Proportion of Subjects with Responder Status 
at LOCF End Point: Studies R076477-SCA-3001 and R076477-SCA-3002: Intent-to-Treat Analysis Set
R076477-SCA-3001
N
Responder, n (%)
Non-responder, n (%)
P value (vs Placebo)
R076477-SCA-3002
N
Responder, n (%)
Non-responder, n (%)
P value (vs Placebo)
Placebo
107
43 (40.2)
64 (59.8)
--
93
26 (28.0)
67 (72.0)
--
INVEGA 
Lower Dose
(3-6 mg)
INVEGA Higher 
Dose
(9-12 mg)
INVEGA Flexible 
Dose (3-12 mg)
104
59 (56.7)
45 (43.3)
0.008
98
61 (62.2)
37 (37.8)
0.001
210
85 (40.5)
125 (59.5)
0.046
Response defined as decrease from baseline in PANSS Total Score ≥ 30% and CGI-C Score ≤ 2
In a long-term trial designed to assess the maintenance of effect, the long-acting injectable formulation 
of paliperidone was significantly more effective than placebo in maintaining symptom control and 
delaying relapse of psychotic, manic, and depressive symptoms of schizoaffective disorder. After 
having been successfully treated for an acute psychotic or mood episode for 13 weeks and stabilised 
for an additional 12 weeks with the long-acting injectable formulation of paliperidone (doses ranging 
from 50 to 150 mg) patients were then randomised to a 15-month double-blind relapse prevention 
period of the study to either continue on the long-acting injectable formulation of paliperidone or on 
placebo until they experienced a relapse of schizoaffective symptoms. The study showed a 
significantly longer time to relapse in patients treated with the long-acting injectable formulation of 
paliperidone compared to placebo (p < 0.001).
16
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
INVEGA in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of schizoaffective disorders. (See 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
The efficacy of INVEGA in the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents between 12 and 
14 years old has not been established.
The efficacy of INVEGA in adolescent subjects with schizophrenia (INVEGA N = 149, placebo 
N = 51) was studied in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 6-week study using a 
fixed-dose weight-based treatment group design over the dose range of 1.5 mg/day to 12 mg/day. 
Subjects were 12-17 years of age and met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia. Efficacy was evaluated 
using PANSS. This study demonstrated the efficacy of INVEGA of the medium dose group in 
adolescent subjects with schizophrenia. Secondary by dose analysis demonstrated the efficacy of 
3 mg, 6 mg, and 12 mg dose given once daily.
Adolescent Schizophrenia Study: R076477-PSZ-3001: 6-week, fixed-dose, placebo-controlled Intent-to-Treat 
Analysis Set. LOCF endpoint change from baseline
Placebo
N=51
INVEGA
Low Dose
1.5 mg
N=54
INVEGA
Medium Dose
3 or 6 mg*
N=48
90.6 (12.13)
-7.9 (20.15)
Change in PANSS Score
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs Placebo)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
Responder Analysis
21 (38.9)
Responder, n (%)
33 (61.1)
Non-responder, n (%)
0.479
P value (vs Placebo)
Response defined as decrease from baseline in PANSS Total Score ≥ 20%
Note: Negative change in score indicates improvement. LOCF = last observation carried forward.
* Medium dose group: 3 mg for subjects < 51 kg, 6 mg for subjects ≥ 51 kg
** High dose group: 6 mg for subjects < 51 kg, 12 mg for subjects ≥ 51 kg
91.6 (12.54)
-9.8 (16.31)
0.508
-2.1 (3.17)
17 (33.3)
34 (66.7)
31 (64.6)
17 (35.4)
0.001
90.6 (14.01)
-17.3 (14.33)
0.006
-10.1 (3.27)
INVEGA
High Dose
6 or 12 mg**
N=47
91.5 (13.86)
-13.8 (15.74)
0.086
-6.6 (3.29)
24 (51.1)
23 (48.9)
0.043
Efficacy of INVEGA over a flexible dose range of 3 mg/day to 9 mg/day in adolescent subjects
(12 years and older) with schizophrenia (INVEGA N = 112, aripiprazole N = 114) was also evaluated 
in a randomised, double-blind, active-controlled study that included an 8-week, double-blind acute 
phase and an 18-week, double-blind maintenance phase. The changes in PANSS total scores from 
baseline to week 8 and week 26 were numerically similar between the INVEGA and aripiprazole 
treatment groups. In addition, the difference in the percentage of patients demonstrating ≥ 20% 
improvement in PANSS total score at week 26 between the two treatment groups was numerically 
similar.
Adolescent Schizophrenia Study: R076477-PSZ-3003: 26-week, flexible-dose, active-controlled Intent-to-Treat 
Analysis Set. LOCF endpoint change from baseline
Change in PANSS Score
8 week, acute endpoint
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs aripiprazole)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
Aripiprazole
5-15 mg
N=114
92.0 (12.09)
-19.8 (14.56)
INVEGA
3-9 mg
N=112
89.6 (12.22)
-19.3 (13.80)
0.935
0.1 (1.83)
17
Change in PANSS Score
26 week endpoint
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs aripiprazole)
Diff. of LS Means (SE)
Responder Analysis
26 week endpoint
Responder, n (%)
Non-responder, n (%)
P value (vs aripiprazole)
Response defined as decrease from baseline in PANSS Total Score ≥ 20%
Note: Negative change in score indicates improvement. LOCF = last observation carried forward.
89.6 (12.22)
-25.6 (16.88)
0.877
-0.3 (2.20)
86 (76.8)
26 (23.2)
0.444
92.0 (12.09)
-26.8 (18.82)
93 (81.6)
21 (18.4)
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics of paliperidone following INVEGA administration are dose proportional within 
the available dose range.
Absorption
Following a single dose, INVEGA exhibits a gradual ascending release rate, allowing the plasma 
concentrations of paliperidone to steadily rise to reach peak plasma concentration (Cmax) 
approximately 24 hours after dosing. With once-daily dosing of INVEGA, steady-state concentrations 
of paliperidone are attained within 4-5 days of dosing in most subjects.
Paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone. The release characteristics of INVEGA result in 
minimal peak-trough fluctuations as compared to those observed with immediate-release risperidone 
(fluctuation index 38% versus 125%).
The absolute oral bioavailability of paliperidone following INVEGA administration is 28% (90% CI 
of 23%-33%).
Administration of paliperidone prolonged-release tablets with a standard high-fat/high-caloric meal
increases Cmax and AUC of paliperidone by up to 50-60% compared with administration in the fasting 
state.
Distribution
Paliperidone is rapidly distributed. The apparent volume of distribution is 487 L. The plasma protein 
binding of paliperidone is 74%. It binds primarily to α1-acid glycoprotein and albumin.
Biotransformation and elimination
One week following administration of a single oral dose of 1 mg immediate-release 14C-paliperidone,
59% of the dose was excreted unchanged into urine, indicating that paliperidone is not extensively
metabolised by the liver. Approximately 80% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in urine 
and 11% in the faeces. Four metabolic pathways have been identified in vivo, none of which accounted 
for more than 6.5% of the dose: dealkylation, hydroxylation, dehydrogenation, and benzisoxazole 
scission. Although in vitro studies suggested a role for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 in the metabolism of 
paliperidone, there is no evidence in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role in the metabolism 
of paliperidone. Population pharmacokinetics analyses indicated no discernible difference on the 
apparent clearance of paliperidone after administration of INVEGA between extensive metabolisers 
and poor metabolisers of CYP2D6 substrates. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that 
paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of medicines metabolised by cytochrome 
P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and 
CYP3A5. The terminal elimination half-life of paliperidone is about 23 hours.
In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate and a weak inhibitor of P-gp at high 
concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown.
18
Hepatic impairment
Paliperidone is not extensively metabolised in the liver. In a study in subjects with moderate hepatic
impairment (Child-Pugh class B), the plasma concentrations of free paliperidone were similar to those 
of healthy subjects. No data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
class C).
Renal impairment
Elimination of paliperidone decreased with decreasing renal function. Total clearance of paliperidone 
was reduced in subjects with impaired renal function by 32% in mild (Creatinine Clearance 
[CrCl] = 50 to < 80 mL/min), 64% in moderate (CrCl = 30 to < 50 mL/min), and 71% in severe 
(CrCl = < 30 mL/min) renal impairment. The mean terminal elimination half-life of paliperidone was 
24, 40, and 51 hours in subjects with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively, 
compared with 23 hours in subjects with normal renal function (CrCl ≥ 80 mL/min).
Elderly
Data from a pharmacokinetic study in elderly subjects (≥ 65 years of age, n = 26) indicated that the 
apparent steady-state clearance of paliperidone following INVEGA administration was 20% lower 
compared to that of adult subjects (18-45 years of age, n = 28). However, there was no discernable 
effect of age in the population pharmacokinetic analysis involving schizophrenia subjects after 
correction of age-related decreases in CrCl.
Adolescents
Paliperidone systemic exposure in adolescent subjects (15 years and older) was comparable to that in
adults. In adolescents weighing < 51 kg, a 23% higher exposure was observed than in adolescents
weighing ≥ 51 kg. Age alone did not influence the paliperidone exposure.
Race
Population pharmacokinetics analysis revealed no evidence of race-related differences in the 
pharmacokinetics of paliperidone following INVEGA administration.
Gender
The apparent clearance of paliperidone following INVEGA administration is approximately 19% 
lower in women than men. This difference is largely explained by differences in lean body mass and 
creatinine clearance between men and women.
Smoking status
Based on in vitro studies utilising human liver enzymes, paliperidone is not a substrate for CYP1A2; 
smoking should, therefore, not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone. A population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly lower exposure to paliperidone in smokers compared with 
non-smokers. The difference is unlikely to be of clinical relevance, though.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Repeat-dose toxicity studies of paliperidone in rat and dog showed mainly pharmacological effects, 
such as sedation and prolactin-mediated effects on mammary glands and genitals. Paliperidone was 
not teratogenic in rat and rabbit. In rat reproduction studies using risperidone, which is extensively 
converted to paliperidone in rats and humans, a reduction was observed in the birth weight and 
survival of the offspring. Other dopamine antagonists, when administered to pregnant animals, have 
caused negative effects on learning and motor development in the offspring. Paliperidone was not 
genotoxic in a battery of tests. In oral carcinogenicity studies of risperidone in rats and mice, increases 
in pituitary gland adenomas (mouse), endocrine pancreas adenomas (rat), and mammary gland 
adenomas (both species) were seen. These tumours can be related to prolonged dopamine D2 
antagonism and hyperprolactinaemia. The relevance of these tumour findings in rodents in terms of 
human risk is unknown.
In a 7-week juvenile toxicity study in rats administered oral doses of paliperidone up to 2.5 mg/kg/day, 
corresponding to an exposure approximately equal to the clinical exposure based on AUC, no effects 
19
on growth, sexual maturation and reproductive performance were observed. Paliperidone did not 
impair the neurobehavioural development in males at doses up to 2.5 mg/kg/day. At 2.5 mg/kg/day in 
females, an effect on learning and memory was observed. This effect was not observed after 
discontinuation of treatment. In a 40-week juvenile toxicity study in dogs with oral doses of
risperidone (which is extensively converted to paliperidone) up to 5 mg/kg/day, effects on sexual 
maturation, long bone growth and femur mineral density were observed from 3 times the clinical 
exposure based on AUC.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
3 mg
Core
Polyethylene oxide 200K
Sodium chloride
Povidone (K29-32)
Stearic acid
Butyl hydroxytoluene (E321)
Ferric oxide (yellow) (E172)
Polyethylene oxide 7000K
Ferric oxide (red) (E172)
Hydroxyethyl cellulose
Polyethylene glycol 3350
Cellulose acetate
Overcoat
Hypromellose
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Lactose monohydrate
Triacetin
Carnauba wax
Printing ink
Iron oxide (black) (E172)
Propylene glycol
Hypromellose
6 mg
Core
Polyethylene oxide 200K
Sodium chloride
Povidone (K29-32)
Stearic acid
Butyl hydroxytoluene (E321)
Polyethylene oxide 7000K
Ferric oxide (red) (E172)
Hydroxyethyl cellulose
Polyethylene glycol 3350
Cellulose acetate
Overcoat
Hypromellose
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Polyethylene glycol 400
Ferric oxide (yellow) (E172)
20
Ferric oxide (red) (E172)
Carnauba wax
Printing ink
Iron oxide (black) (E172)
Propylene glycol
Hypromellose
9 mg
Core
Polyethylene oxide 200K
Sodium chloride
Povidone (K29-32)
Stearic acid
Butyl hydroxytoluene (E321)
Polyethylene oxide 7000K
Ferric oxide (red) (E172)
Iron oxide (black) (E172)
Hydroxyethyl cellulose
Polyethylene glycol 3350
Cellulose acetate
Overcoat
Hypromellose
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Polyethylene glycol 400
Ferric oxide (red) (E172)
Carnauba wax
Printing ink
Iron oxide (black) (E172)
Propylene glycol
Hypromellose
12 mg
Core
Polyethylene oxide 200K
Sodium chloride
Povidone (K29-32)
Stearic acid
Butyl hydroxytoluene (E321)
Polyethylene oxide 7000K
Ferric oxide (red) (E172)
Ferric oxide (yellow) (E172)
Hydroxyethyl cellulose
Polyethylene glycol 3350
Cellulose acetate
Overcoat
Hypromellose
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Polyethylene glycol 400
Ferric oxide (yellow) (E172)
Carnauba wax
Printing ink
Iron oxide (black) (E172)
21
Propylene glycol
Hypromellose
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Bottles: Do not store above 30°C. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
Blisters: Do not store above 30°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Bottles:
White high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with induction sealing and polypropylene 
child-resistant closure. Each bottle contains two 1 g dessicant silica gel (silicone dioxide) pouches 
(pouch is food approved polyethylene).
Pack sizes of 30 and 350 prolonged-release tablets.
Blisters:
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) laminated with polychloro-trifluoroethylene (PCTFE)/aluminium 
push-through layer.
Pack sizes of 14, 28, 30, 49, 56, and 98 prolonged-release tablets.
Or
White polyvinyl chloride (PVC) laminated with polychloro-trifluoroethylene (PCTFE)/aluminium 
push-through layer.
Pack sizes of 14, 28, 30, 49, 56, and 98 prolonged-release tablets.
Or
Oriented polyamide (OPA)-aluminium-polyvinyl chloride (PVC)/aluminium push-through 
child-resistant blister.
Pack sizes of 14, 28, 49, 56, and 98 prolonged-release tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
No special requirements for disposal.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
22
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
3 mg
EU/1/07/395/001 - 005
EU/1/07/395/021 - 025
EU/1/07/395/041 - 044
EU/1/07/395/057 - 058
EU/1/07/395/065 - 067
6 mg
EU/1/07/395/006 - 010
EU/1/07/395/026 - 030
EU/1/07/395/045 - 048
EU/1/07/395/059 - 060
EU/1/07/395/068 - 070
9 mg
EU/1/07/395/011 - 015
EU/1/07/395/031 - 035
EU/1/07/395/049 - 052
EU/1/07/395/061 - 062
EU/1/07/395/071 - 073
12 mg
EU/1/07/395/016 - 020
EU/1/07/395/036 - 040
EU/1/07/395/053 - 056
EU/1/07/395/063 - 064
EU/1/07/395/074 - 076
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 25 June 2007
Date of latest renewal: 14 May 2012
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/.
23
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
24
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Via C. Janssen
IT-04100 Borgo San Michele
Latina
Italy
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
25
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
26
A.
LABELLING
27
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON FOR PVC-PCTFE/ALUMINIUM BLISTER (for white and clear blister)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 3 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 6 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 9 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 12 mg paliperidone
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
3 mg tablets
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 prolonged-release tablets
28 prolonged-release tablets
30 prolonged-release tablets
49 prolonged-release tablets
56 prolonged-release tablets
98 prolonged-release tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Swallow whole, do not chew, divide or crush.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
28
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP {MM/YYYY}
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30oC
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
3 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/065 - CLEAR
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/001 - CLEAR
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/002 - CLEAR
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/003 - CLEAR
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/004 - CLEAR
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/005 - CLEAR
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/066 - WHITE
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/021 - WHITE
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/022 - WHITE
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/023 - WHITE
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/024 - WHITE
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/025 - WHITE
6 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/068 - CLEAR
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/006 - CLEAR
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/007 - CLEAR
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/008 - CLEAR
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/009 - CLEAR
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/010 - CLEAR
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/069 - WHITE
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/026 - WHITE
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/027 - WHITE
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/028 - WHITE
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/029 - WHITE
29
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/030 - WHITE
9 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/071 - CLEAR
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/011 - CLEAR
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/012 - CLEAR
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/013 - CLEAR
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/014 - CLEAR
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/015 - CLEAR
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/072 - WHITE
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/031 - WHITE
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/032 - WHITE
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/033 - WHITE
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/034 - WHITE
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/035 - WHITE
12 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/074 - CLEAR
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/016 - CLEAR
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/017 - CLEAR
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/018 - CLEAR
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/019 - CLEAR
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/020 - CLEAR
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/075 - WHITE
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/036 - WHITE
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/037 - WHITE
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/038 - WHITE
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/039 - WHITE
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/040 - WHITE
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
invega 3 mg
invega 6 mg
invega 9 mg
invega 12 mg
30
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
31
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
7 & 10 TABLET PVC-PTFE/ALU BLISTER (for white and clear blister)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
paliperidone
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP MM/YYYY
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
32
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON FOR OPA-ALUMINIUM-PVC/ALUMINIUM BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 3 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 6 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 9 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 12 mg paliperidone
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
3 mg tablets
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 prolonged-release tablets
28 prolonged-release tablets
49 prolonged-release tablets
56 prolonged-release tablets
98 prolonged-release tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Swallow whole, do not chew, divide or crush.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
33
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP {MM/YYYY}
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30oC
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
3 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/067
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/041
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/042
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/043
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/044
6 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/070
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/045
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/046
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/047
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/048
9 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/073
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/049
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/050
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/051
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/052
12 mg
14 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/076
28 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/053
49 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/054
56 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/055
98 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/056
34
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
invega 3 mg
invega 6 mg
invega 9 mg
invega 12 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
35
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
7 TABLET OPA-ALU-PVC/ALU BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
paliperidone
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP MM/YYYY
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon, Tue, Wed, Thu, Fri, Sat, Sun
36
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
BOTTLE CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 3 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 6 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 9 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 12 mg paliperidone
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
3 mg tablets
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
30 prolonged-release tablets
350 prolonged-release tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Swallow whole, do not chew, divide or crush.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP {MM/YYYY}
37
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30oC
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
3 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/057
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/058
6 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/059
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/060
9 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/061
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/062
12 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/063
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/064
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
38
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
invega 3 mg
invega 6 mg
invega 9 mg
invega 12 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
39
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 3 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 6 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 9 mg paliperidone
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 12 mg paliperidone
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
3 mg tablets
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENT
30 prolonged-release tablets
350 prolonged-release tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
Swallow whole, do not chew, divide or crush.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP {MM/YYYY}
40
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30oC
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
3 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/057
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/058
6 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/059
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/060
9 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/061
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/062
12 mg
30 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/063
350 prolonged-release tablets - EU/1/07/395/064
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
41
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
42
B.
PACKAGE LEAFLET
43
Package leaflet: Information for the user
INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablets
INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablets
Paliperidone
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet:
1. What INVEGA is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take INVEGA
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take INVEGA
Possible side effects
How to store INVEGA
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What INVEGA is and what it is used for
INVEGA contains the active substance paliperidone which belongs to the class of antipsychotic 
medicines.
INVEGA is used to treat schizophrenia in adults and in adolescents aged 15 years and older.
Schizophrenia is a disorder with symptoms such as hearing things, seeing or sensing things that are not 
there, mistaken beliefs, unusual suspiciousness, becoming withdrawn, incoherent speech, and 
behaviour and emotional flatness. People with this disorder may also feel depressed, anxious, guilty, 
or tense.
INVEGA is also used to treat schizoaffective disorder in adults.
Schizoaffective disorder is a mental condition in which a person experiences a combination of 
schizophrenia symptoms (as listed above) in addition to mood disorder symptoms (feeling very high, 
feeling sad, feeling agitated, distracted, sleeplessness, talkativeness, losing interest in everyday 
activities, sleeping too much or too little, eating too much or too little, and recurrent thoughts of 
suicide).
INVEGA can help alleviate the symptoms of your disease and stop your symptoms from coming back.
2. What you need to know before you take INVEGA
Do not take INVEGA
-
if you are allergic to paliperidone, risperidone, or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking INVEGA.
44
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Patients with schizoaffective disorder treated with this medicine should be carefully monitored 
for a potential switch from manic to depressive symptoms.
This medicine has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. However, elderly patients 
with dementia, who are treated with other similar types of medicine, may have an increased risk 
of stroke or death. (see section 4, possible side effects).
if you have Parkinson’s disease or Dementia.
if you have ever been diagnosed with a condition whose symptoms include high temperature 
and muscle stiffness (also known as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome).
if you have ever experienced abnormal movements of the tongue or face (Tardive Dyskinesia).
You should be aware that both of these conditions may be caused by this type of medicine.
if you know that you have had low levels of white blood cells in the past (which may or may not 
have been caused by other medicines).
if you are diabetic or prone to diabetes.
if you have heart disease or heart disease treatment that makes you prone to low blood pressure.
if you have epilepsy.
if you have a swallowing, stomach or intestinal disorder that reduces your ability to swallow or 
pass foods by normal bowel movements.
if you have diseases associated with diarrhoea.
if you have kidney problems.
if you have liver problems.
if you have prolonged and/or painful erection.
if you have difficulty controlling core body temperature or overheating.
if you have an abnormally high level of the hormone prolactin in your blood or if you have a 
possible prolactin-dependent tumour.
if you or someone else in your family has a history of blood clots, as antipsychotics have been 
associated with formation of blood clots.
If you have any of these conditions, please talk to your doctor as he/she may want to adjust your dose 
or monitor you for a while.
As dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight infection in your 
blood has been seen very rarely with patients taking INVEGA, your doctor may check your white 
blood cell counts.
INVEGA may cause you to gain weight. Significant weight gain may adversely affect your health. 
Your doctor should regularly measure your body weight.
As diabetes mellitus or worsening of pre-existing diabetes mellitus have been seen with patients taking 
INVEGA, your doctor should check for signs of high blood sugar. In patients with pre-existing 
diabetes mellitus blood glucose should be monitored regularly.
During an operation on the eye for cloudiness of the lens (cataract), the pupil (the black circle in the 
middle of your eye) may not increase in size as needed. Also, the iris (the coloured part of the eye) 
may become floppy during surgery and that may lead to eye damage. If you are planning to have an 
operation on your eye, make sure you tell your eye doctor that you are taking this medicine.
Children and adolescents
INVEGA is not for use in children and adolescents under 15 years for the treatment of schizophrenia.
INVEGA is not for use in children and adolescents who are under 18 years for the treatment of 
schizoaffective disorder.
This is because it is not known if INVEGA is safe or effective in these age groups.
Other medicines and INVEGA
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.
45
Abnormalities of electrical function in the heart may occur when this medicine is taken with certain 
heart medicines that control heart rhythm, or some other types of medicines such as antihistamines, 
antimalarials, or other antipsychotics.
Since this medicine works primarily in the brain, interference from other medicines (or alcohol) that 
work in the brain could occur due to additive effect on brain function.
Since this medicine can lower blood pressure, care should be taken when this medicine is taken with 
other medicines that lower blood pressure.
This medicine can reduce the effect of medicines against Parkinson’s disease and restless legs 
syndrome (e.g., levodopa).
The effects of this medicine may be affected if you are taking medicines that affect the speed of 
movement in the gut (e.g., metoclopramide).
Dosage reduction for this medicine should be considered when this medicine is co-administered with 
valproate.
The use of oral risperidone together with this medicine is not recommended as the combination of the 
two medicines may lead to increased side effects.
INVEGA should be used with caution with medicines that increase the activity of the central nervous 
system (psychostimulants such as methylphenidate).
INVEGA with alcohol
Alcohol should be avoided when taking this medicine.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. You should not take this medicine
during pregnancy unless this has been discussed with your doctor. The following symptoms may occur
in newborn babies of mothers that have used paliperidone in the last trimester (last three months of 
their pregnancy): shaking, muscle stiffness and/or weakness, sleepiness, agitation, breathing problems, 
and difficulty in feeding. If your baby develops any of these symptoms you may need to contact your 
doctor.
You should not breastfeed when taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
Dizziness and vision problems may occur during treatment with this medicine (see section 4, possible 
side effects). This should be considered in cases where full alertness is required, e.g., when driving a 
car or handling machines.
The 3 mg tablet of INVEGA contains lactose
The 3 mg tablet of this medicine contains lactose, a type of sugar. If you have been told by a doctor 
that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine.
INVEGA contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take INVEGA
Take this medicine exactly as the doctor, pharmacist or nurse has told you to.
46
Use in adults
The recommended dose in adults is 6 mg once a day taken in the morning. The dose may be increased 
or decreased by your doctor within the dose range of 3 mg to 12 mg once a day for schizophrenia or 
6 mg to 12 mg once a day for schizoaffective disorder. This depends on how well the medicine works 
for you.
Use in adolescents
The recommended starting dose for treating schizophrenia in adolescents 15 years and older is 3 mg
once a day taken in the morning.
For adolescents weighing 51 kg or more the dose may be increased within the range of 6 mg to 12 mg
once a day.
For adolescents weighing less than 51 kg the dose may be increased to 6 mg once a day.
Your doctor will decide how much to give you. The amount you take depends on how well the 
medicine works for you.
How and when to take INVEGA
This medicine must be taken by mouth, swallowed whole with water or other liquids. It must not be 
chewed, broken, or crushed.
This medicine should be taken every morning with breakfast or without breakfast, but in the same way 
every day. Do not alternate between taking this medicine with breakfast one day and without having 
breakfast the next day.
The active ingredient, paliperidone, dissolves once swallowed and the tablet shell is passed out of the 
body as waste.
Patients with kidney problems
Your doctor may adjust your dose of this medicine based upon your kidney function.
Elderly
Your doctor may reduce your dose of medicine if your kidney function is reduced.
If you take more INVEGA than you should
Contact your doctor right away. You may experience sleepiness, tiredness, abnormal body 
movements, problems with standing and walking, dizziness from low blood pressure, and abnormal 
heart beats.
If you forget to take INVEGA
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. If you miss one dose, take your next dose 
on the day following the missed dose. If you miss two or more doses, contact your doctor.
If you stop INVEGA
Do not stop taking this medicine since you will lose the effects of the medicine. You should not stop 
this medicine unless told to do so by your doctor as your symptoms may return.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
47
Tell your doctor immediately if you:

experience blood clots in the veins, especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, pain, and 
redness in the leg), which may travel through blood vessels to the lungs causing chest pain and 
difficulty breathing. If you notice any of these symptoms seek medical advice immediately.
have dementia and experience a sudden change in your mental state or sudden weakness or 
numbness of your face, arms or legs, especially on one side, or slurred speech, even for a short 
period of time. These may be signs of a stroke.
experience fever, muscle stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness (a disorder 
called “Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome”). Immediate medical treatment may be needed.
are a man and experience prolonged or painful erection. This is called priapism. Immediate 
medical treatment may be needed.
experience involuntary rhythmic movements of the tongue, mouth and face. Withdrawal of 
paliperidone may be needed.
experience a severe allergic reaction characterised by fever, swollen mouth, face, lip or tongue, 
shortness of breath, itching, skin rash and sometimes drop in blood pressure (amounting to an 
‘anaphylactic reaction’).
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people


difficulty falling or staying asleep
parkinsonism: This condition may include slow or impaired movement, sensation of stiffness or 
tightness of the muscles (making your movements jerky), and sometimes even a sensation of 
movement "freezing up" and then restarting. Other signs of parkinsonism include a slow 
shuffling walk, a tremor while at rest, increased saliva and/or drooling, and a loss of expression 
on the face.
restlessness
feeling sleepy or less alert
headache.



Common side effects: may affect up to 1 in 10 people

infection of the chest (bronchitis), common cold symptoms, sinus infection, urinary tract 
infection, feeling like you have the flu
weight gain, increased appetite, weight loss, decreased appetite
elated mood (mania), irritability, depression, anxiety
dystonia: This is a condition involving slow or sustained involuntary contraction of muscles. 
While it can involve any part of the body (and may result in abnormal posture), dystonia often 
involves muscles of the face, including abnormal movements of the eyes, mouth, tongue or jaw.
dizziness
dyskinesia: This is a condition involving involuntary muscle movements, and can include 
repetitive, spastic or writhing movements, or twitching.
tremor (shaking)
blurry vision
an interruption in conduction between the upper and lower parts of the heart, abnormal electrical 
conduction of the heart, prolongation of the QT interval from your heart, slow heart rate, rapid 
heart rate
low blood pressure upon standing (consequently, some people taking INVEGA may feel faint, 
dizzy, or may pass out when they stand up or sit up suddenly), high blood pressure
sore throat, cough, stuffy nose
abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, vomiting, nausea, constipation, diarrhoea, indigestion, 
dry mouth, toothache
increased liver transaminases in your blood
itching, rash
bone or muscle ache, back pain, joint pain
loss of menstrual periods
fever, weakness, fatigue (tiredness).





















48
Uncommon side effects: may affect up to 1 in 100 people


pneumonia, infection of the breathing passages, bladder infection, ear infection, tonsillitis
white blood cell count decreased, decrease in platelets (blood cells that help you stop bleeding), 
anaemia, decrease in red blood cells
INVEGA can raise your levels of a hormone called "prolactin" found on a blood test (which 
may or may not cause symptoms). When symptoms of high prolactin occur, they may include: 
(in men) breast swelling, difficulty in getting or maintaining erections, or other sexual 
dysfunction, (in women) breast discomfort, leakage of milk from the breasts, missed menstrual 
periods, or other problems with your cycle.
diabetes or worsening diabetes, high blood sugar, increased waist size, loss of appetite resulting 
in malnutrition and low body weight, high blood triglycerides (a fat)
sleep disorder, confusion, decreased sexual drive, inability to reach orgasm, nervousness, 
nightmares
tardive dyskinesia (twitching or jerking movements that you cannot control in your face, tongue, 
or other parts of your body). Tell your doctor immediately if you experience involuntary 
rhythmic movements of the tongue, mouth and face. Withdrawal of INVEGA may be needed.
convulsion (fits), fainting, a restless urge to move parts of your body, dizziness upon standing,
disturbance in attention, problems with speech, loss or abnormal sense of taste, reduced 
sensation of skin to pain and touch, a sensation of tingling, pricking, or numbness of skin
oversensitivity of the eyes to light, eye infection or "pink eye", dry eye
a sensation of spinning (vertigo), ringing in the ears, ear pain
irregular heartbeat, abnormal electrical tracing of the heart (electrocardiogram or ECG), a
fluttering or pounding feeling in your chest (palpitations)
low blood pressure
shortness of breath, wheezing, nosebleeds
swollen tongue, stomach or intestinal infection, difficulty swallowing, excessive passing of gas 
or wind
increased GGT (a liver enzyme called gamma-glutamyltransferase) in your blood, increased 
liver enzymes in your blood
hives (or “nettle rash”), hair loss, eczema, acne
an increase of CPK (creatine phosphokinase) in your blood, an enzyme which is sometimes 
released with muscle breakdown, muscle spasms, joint stiffness, joint swelling, muscle 
weakness, neck pain
incontinence (lack of control) of urine, frequent passing of urine, inability to pass urine, pain 
when passing urine
erectile dysfunction, ejaculation disorder
missed menstrual periods or other problems with your cycle (females), leakage of milk from the 
breasts, sexual dysfunction, breast pain, breast discomfort
swelling of the face, mouth, eyes, or lips, swelling of the body, arms or legs
chills, an increase in body temperature
a change in the way you walk
feeling thirsty
chest pain, chest discomfort, feeling unwell
fall.
Rare side effects: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people

eye infection, fungal infection of the nails, infection of the skin, skin inflammation caused by 
mites
dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight infection in your 
blood
decrease in the type of white blood cells that help to protect you against infection, increase in 
eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) in your blood
severe allergic reaction characterised by fever, swollen mouth, face, lip or tongue, shortness of 
breath, itching, skin rash and sometimes drop in blood pressure, allergic reaction
sugar in the urine



























49


























inappropriate secretion of a hormone that controls urine volume
life-threatening complications of uncontrolled diabetes
dangerously excessive intake of water, low blood sugar, excessive drinking of water, increased 
cholesterol in your blood
sleep walking
not moving or responding while awake (catatonia)
lack of emotion
neuroleptic malignant syndrome (confusion, reduced or loss of consciousness, high fever, and 
severe muscle stiffness)
loss of consciousness, balance disorder, abnormal coordination
blood vessel problems in the brain, coma due to uncontrolled diabetes, unresponsive to stimuli,
low level of consciousness, shaking of the head
glaucoma (increased pressure within the eyeball), increased tears, redness of the eyes, problems 
with movement of your eyes, eye rolling
atrial fibrillation (an abnormal heart rhythm), rapid heartbeat upon standing
blood clots in the veins especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, pain and redness in 
the leg), which may travel through blood vessels to the lungs causing chest pain and difficulty in 
breathing. If you notice any of these symptoms seek medical advice immediately
decreased oxygen in parts of your body (because of decreased blood flow), flushing
trouble breathing during sleep (sleep apnea), fast, shallow breathing
pneumonia caused by inhaling food, congestion of breathing passages, voice disorder
a blockage in the bowels, stool incontinence, very hard stool, lack of bowel muscle movement 
that causes blockage
yellowing of the skin and the eyes (jaundice)
inflammation of the pancreas
serious allergic reaction with swelling that may involve the throat and lead to difficulty 
breathing
thickening of the skin, dry skin, skin redness, skin discolouration, flaky itchy scalp or skin, 
dandruff
breakdown of muscle fibers and pain in muscles (rhabdomyolysis), abnormal posture
priapism (a prolonged penile erection that may require surgical treatment)
development of breasts in men, enlargement of the glands in your breasts, discharge from the 
breasts, vaginal discharge
a delay in menstrual periods, breast enlargement
very low body temperature, a decrease in body temperature
symptoms of drug withdrawal.
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data


lung congestion
increased insulin (a hormone that controls blood sugar levels) in your blood.
The following side effects have been seen with the use of another medicine called risperidone that is 
very similar to paliperidone, so these can also be expected with INVEGA: sleep-related eating 
disorder, other types of blood vessel problems in the brain, crackly lung sounds, and severe or 
life-threatening rash with blisters and peeling skin that may start in and around the mouth, nose, eyes 
and genitals and spread to other areas of the body (Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal 
necrolysis). Eye problems during cataract surgery may also occur. During cataract surgery, a condition 
called intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) can happen if you take or have taken INVEGA. If 
you need to have cataract surgery, be sure to tell your eye doctor if you take or have taken this 
medicine.
Additional side effects in adolescents
Adolescents generally experienced side effects that were similar to those seen in adults except the 
following side effects were seen more commonly:

feeling sleepy or less alert
50















parkinsonism: This condition may include slow or impaired movement, sensation of stiffness or 
tightness of the muscles (making your movements jerky), and sometimes even a sensation of 
movement "freezing up" and then restarting. Other signs of parkinsonism include a slow 
shuffling walk, a tremor while at rest, increased saliva and/or drooling, and a loss of expression 
on the face.
weight gain
common cold symptoms
restlessness
tremor (shaking)
stomach pain
leaking milk from the breasts in girls
breast swelling in boys
acne
problems with speech
stomach or intestinal infection
nose bleeds
ear infection
high blood triglycerides (a fat)
sensation of spinning (vertigo).
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store INVEGA
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister/bottle and carton after
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Bottles: Do not store above 30°C. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
Blisters: Do not store above 30°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What INVEGA contains
The active substance is paliperidone
Each INVEGA 3 mg prolonged-release tablet contains 3 mg of paliperidone.
Each INVEGA 6 mg prolonged-release tablet contains 6 mg of paliperidone.
Each INVEGA 9 mg prolonged-release tablet contains 9 mg of paliperidone.
Each INVEGA 12 mg prolonged-release tablet contains 12 mg of paliperidone.
The other ingredients are:
Coated tablet core:
Polyethylene oxide 200K
Sodium chloride
Povidone (K29-32)
Stearic acid
51
Butyl hydroxytoluene (E321)
Ferric Oxide (Yellow) (E172) (3, 12 mg tablet only)
Polyethylene Oxide 7000K
Ferric Oxide (Red) (E172)
Hydroxyethyl Cellulose
Polyethylene glycol 3350
Cellulose acetate
Iron oxide (Black) (E172) (9 mg tablet only)
Colour overcoat:
Hypromellose
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Polyethylene glycol 400 (6, 9 and 12 mg tablet only)
Ferric Oxide (Yellow) (E172) (6, 12 mg tablet only)
Ferric Oxide (Red) (E172) ( 6, 9 mg tablet only)
Lactose monohydrate (3 mg tablet only)
Triacetin (3 mg tablet only)
Carnauba wax
Printing ink:
Iron oxide (Black) (E172)
Propylene glycol
Hypromellose
What INVEGA looks like and contents of the pack
INVEGA prolonged-release tablets are capsule shaped. The 3 mg tablets are white and printed with 
“PAL 3”, the 6 mg tablets are beige and printed with “PAL 6”, the 9 mg tablets are pink and printed 
with “PAL 9”, and the 12 mg tablets are dark yellow and printed with “PAL 12”. All tablets are 
available in the following pack sizes:
-
-
Bottles: The tablets are supplied in a plastic bottle with a child-resistant plastic cap. Each bottle 
contains either 30 tablets or 350 tablets. Each bottle contains two silica gel pouches which are 
provided to absorb moisture and keep the tablets dry.
Blisters: The tablets are supplied in blisters packed in cartons of 14, 28, 30, 49, 56, and 
98 tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Via C. Janssen
04100 Borgo San Michele
Latina
Italy
52
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
Lietuva
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON”
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
България
”Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.:+359 2 489 94 00
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/ Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel:+420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 884 2858
Malta
AM MANGION LTD.
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
Eesti
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON” Eesti filiaal
Tel.: +372 617 7410
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tel: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +353 1 800 709 122
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
C/o Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel: 800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
53
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Tηλ: +357 22 207 700
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
Latvija
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON” filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/.
54
