Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are used together with diet and exercise in 
patients with type 2 diabetes, either alone or in combination with other diabetes medicines. SGLT2 is 
expressed in the proximal renal tubules and is responsible for the majority of the reabsorption of 
filtered glucose from the tubular lumen. By blocking the action of SGLT2, these substances cause more 
glucose to be removed via the urine, thereby reducing the levels of glucose in the blood via an insulin-
independent mechanism. In the EU, three SGLT2 inhibitors are currently authorised as mono-
component and as fixed dose combination with metformin: canagliflozin (Invokana and Vokanamet), 
dapagliflozin (Forxiga and Xigduo) and empagliflozin (Jardiance and Synjardy). The exposure to these 
substances is respectively estimated to 565,000 patient-years, 555,470 patient-years and 66,052 
patient-years worldwide. 
Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is a serious, often life-threatening condition, which usually develops in 
diabetic patients when insulin levels are too low. In absence of insulin the metabolism switches from 
using glycogenolysis to lipolysis as a source of energy, which produces ketone bodies. Ketone bodies 
have a low pKa and therefore their accumulation in the blood lead to acidosis. This can be partially 
buffered with the bicarbonate buffering system, but this system is quickly overwhelmed and other 
mechanisms must work to compensate for the acidosis. In addition, the low levels of insulin along with 
a rise in plasma glucagon levels lead to the release of glucose by the liver. The glucose is partially 
excreted via the urine, leading to polyuria, dehydration, and compensatory thirst and polydipsia. DKA 
most commonly occurs in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and is usually accompanied by 
high blood glucose levels (>250 mg/dL). In a study that reported population-based rates of DKA, the 
incidence rate of DKA in T2DM patients, requiring hospital admission, was reported to be 0.5 per 1,000 
patient-years. 
A search in Eudravigilance (EV) database was performed by the EMA on 19 May 2015 for the three 
SGLT2 inhibitors. One hundred and two serious and sometimes life-threatening cases of DKA 
suggestive of a causal association were identified in T2DM patients for the three active substances, 
raising thus a safety signal. In a number of these reports, the presentation of the condition was 
atypical with only moderately increased blood glucose levels observed. Atypical presentation of DKA in 
patients with type 2 diabetes could delay diagnosis and treatment. Forty-six cases of DKA were also 
reported in patients on SGLT2 inhibitors for T1DM, which is not currently an approved indication for 
these products. A safety warning on DKA was issued by the FDA for this therapeutic class in the same 
month. Taking into account the severity of these cases and the general pattern seen across these 
medicinal products, the European Commission requested, on the 10 of June 2015 and pursuant to 
Article 20 of Regulation No 726/2004, the opinion of the Agency on whether the marketing 
authorisation of canagliflozin-, dapagliflozin- and empagliflozin-containing medicinal products, should 
be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
When considering all the data submitted by the MAHs from clinical and non-clinical studies, post-
marketing reports and in published literature, in relation to the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in 
association with SGLT2 inhibitors, the PRAC was of the view that a small excess risk could not be 
excluded in patients with T2DM. DKA typically occurs in T1DM patients with high blood glucose 
concentrations. However, cases reported with SLGT2 inhibitors occurred in patients with T2DM as well 
as T1DM. Further, in a number of cases, blood glucose values were only moderately increased or 
normal. DKA cases were reported in all three SGLT2 currently authorised in the EU, suggestive of a 
class effect. Although the MAHs estimated slightly different incidence rates, these were not all 
calculated according to the international standards for computation of incidence rate. Further, different 
inclusion and exclusion criteria were used in the clinical development programs of the products, 
2 
 
therefore the populations may not share the same baseline risk of DKA and careful consideration 
should be given to any direct incidence comparison. Based on the data available, the PRAC considered 
that there was no indication of a different risk between the products. This is further supported by the 
likely common mechanism of action. Considering the above, the PRAC was of the view that DKA should 
be included in the product information of all SGLT2 inhibitors with the frequency rare.  
The atypical presentation of DKA cases in SGLT2 treated diabetes patients, combined with the 
otherwise non-specific symptoms presented by patients with DKA may delay the diagnosis and 
therefore lead to the development of more serious or life-threatening conditions. In order to minimise 
this risk, the PRAC considered that physicians and patients should be warned through the PI to 
consider the risk of atypical DKA in the occurrence of non-specific symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, 
anorexia, abdominal pain, excessive thirst, difficulty breathing, confusion, unusual fatigue or 
sleepiness. Patients should be advised to contact a doctor in order to be tested for ketoacidosis and to 
discontinue SGLT2 inhibitor treatment if DKA is suspected or diagnosed. 
In addition, the PRAC considered that “DKA with atypical presentation” should be added as an 
important identified risk to the Risk Management Plan (RMP) of those products. Several post-
authorisation safety studies are planned or ongoing in order to compare the incidence of DKA in SGLT2 
inhibitors and other anti-hyperglycaemic agents. In addition, the MAHs are required to clarify the 
mechanism behind SGLT2 inhibitors-induced DKA. Non-clinical mechanistic studies are already planned 
or on-going for dapagliflozin- and empagliflozin-containing products; such study is also required to be 
undertaken by the MAH of canagliflozin-containing products. Those studies are expected to enable 
better characterisation of the risk of DKA and its mechanism and should be included in the RMP of 
those products. Moreover, the MAHs should explore the feasibility of collecting plasma hormones in 
new or ongoing trials with the aim to identify patterns of hormone derangement that could further 
explain the mechanism of action of SGLT2 inhibitors in ketoacidosis. 
The PRAC further concluded that a risk of DKA, including with atypical presentation, is also associated 
with SGLT2 inhibitors treatment in patients with T1DM. This is not an approved indication for SGLT2 
inhibitors containing products. Limited data from clinical trials suggest that DKA occurs with common 
frequency in T1DM patients. The PRAC considered that this information should be included in the PI 
and, considering that the safety and efficacy of SGLT2 inhibitors have not been established in patients 
with T1DM, healthcare professionals should be reminded that these should not be used in this 
indication. Planned and ongoing Drug Utilisation Studies (DUS) for dapagliflozin- and empagliflozin-
containing products are expected to generate more information on the extent and nature of the off-
label use. The MAHs are required to submit the final study report to the EMA as they become available. 
In addition, a DUS, ideally based on secondary observational data via existing databases, is also 
required to be undertaken by the MAH of canagliflozin-containing products. The RMP of all these 
products should be updated accordingly.  
The relatively long time-to-onset observed in clinical trials is suggestive of contributing factors 
triggering the development of DKA. Moreover, risk factors reported in the cases are consistent with 
those previously reported in the literature and the risks factors inherent to the patient population (e.g. 
patients with low beta-cell function reserve, restricted food intake or severe dehydration, sudden 
reduction in insulin dose and increased insulin requirements due to acute medical illness, surgery or 
alcohol abuse). The PRAC considered that these should be included in the product information and 
physicians advised to consider the patient’s history before initiating treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors. In 
addition treatment should be interrupted in patients who are hospitalised for major surgical procedures 
or acute serious medical illnesses. Further, restarting SGLT2 inhibitor medication in patients with 
previous DKA while on treatment is not recommended unless another clear precipitating factor is 
identified and resolved. No subset of the population at increased risk could be identified from the 
analysis of cases reported in clinical studies. No definite conclusion could be drawn regarding dose 
3 
 
relationship or protective or exacerbating effect of concomitant medicines. Overall the reported cases 
were poorly documented and the MAHs are requested to implement targeted follow up questionnaires, 
in order to document consistent information on the cases. 
The PRAC considered that the efficacy of these products had been adequately demonstrated in their 
currently authorised indications in monotherapy and in combination as an adjunct to diet and exercise 
to improve glycaemic control in T2DM adult patients.  
In conclusion, the PRAC considered that the benefit-risk balance of SGLT2 inhibitors-containing 
products remained favourable, provided the proposed changes to the product information and the risk 
management plan are implemented. 
Grounds for PRAC recommendation 
Whereas, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting 
from pharmacovigilance data for SGLT2 inhibitors-containing medicinal products. 
The PRAC reviewed the totality of the data submitted by the marketing authorisation holders in 
relation to the risk of DKA in association with SGLT2 inhibitors-containing products and in 
support of the efficacy of SGLT2 inhibitors-containing products.  
The PRAC considered that the efficacy of these products had been adequately demonstrated in 
their currently authorised indications in monotherapy and in combination as an adjunct to diet 
and exercise to improve glycaemic control in T2DM adult patients. 
The PRAC concluded that a small excess risk of DKA associated with SGLT2 inhibitors 
treatment in patients with T2DM could not be excluded. Importantly, DKA with atypical 
presentation may occur in association with SGLT2 inhibitors. 
The PRAC therefore, was of the view that the risk of DKA should be minimised by its inclusion 
in the product information with a warning highlighting to healthcare professional and patients 
the possible atypical presentation of DKA to be considered in the occurrence of non-specific 
symptoms, together with the risk factors, and recommendations regarding treatment 
discontinuation.  
The PRAC further concluded that a risk of DKA, including with atypical presentation, is also 
associated with the use of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with T1DM. This is not an approved 
indication for SGLT2 inhibitors containing products, nevertheless the PRAC considered that 
healthcare professionals should be warned of this risk and reminded that patients with T1DM 
should not be treated with SGLT2 inhibitors.  
In view of the above, the PRAC considered that the benefit-risk balance of Forxiga, XigDuo, Invokana, 
Vokanamet, Jardiance and Synjardy remains favourable subject to the agreed amendments to the 
product information.  
The PRAC, as a consequence, recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations 
for SGLT2 inhibitors-containing products.  
CHMP opinion 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions and 
grounds for recommendation. 
4 
 
 
 
