EMA/368477/2020  
EMEA/H/C/002649 
Invokana (canagliflozin) 
An overview of Invokana and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Invokana and what is it used for? 
Invokana is a diabetes medicine that contains the active substance canagliflozin. It is used together 
with diet and exercise to treat adults with type 2 diabetes. 
Invokana can be used on its own in patients who cannot take metformin (another diabetes medicine) 
or it can be used as an ‘add-on’ to other diabetes medicines. 
How is Invokana used? 
Invokana is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription. The tablets are taken 
once a day, preferably before the first meal of the day. The recommended starting dose is 100 mg 
once a day. If appropriate, the dose can be increased to 300 mg once a day.  
For more information about using Invokana, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Invokana work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. This leads to high levels of 
glucose in the blood and other complications. 
The active substance in Invokana, canagliflozin, works by blocking a protein in the kidneys called 
sodium‑glucose co‑transporter 2 (SGLT2). SGLT2 absorbs glucose from the urine back into the 
bloodstream as the blood is filtered in the kidneys. By blocking the action of SGLT2, Invokana causes 
more glucose to be removed via the urine, thereby reducing the levels of glucose in the blood. 
SGLT2 also absorbs sodium from the urine into the bloodstream. Blocking the action of SGLT2 leads to 
a reduction of sodium in the blood reducing the pressure in the kidney and slowing the progression of 
diabetic kidney disease. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Invokana have been shown in studies? 
Invokana’s effects on blood glucose levels have been evaluated in 9 main studies involving a total of 
around 10,000 patients with type 2 diabetes. In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness 
was the reduction in the level of a substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), 
which gives an indication of how well the blood glucose is controlled. 
Invokana was shown to be more effective than placebo, and at least as effective as comparator 
medicines, at reducing the levels of HbA1c when used alone or in combination with other diabetes 
medicines: 
•  When Invokana was used on its own at a dose of 100 mg, it decreased HbA1c levels by 0.91 
percentage points more than placebo after 26 weeks, while the 300 mg dose led to a reduction of 
1.16 percentage points more than placebo. 
•  Across the studies that looked at Invokana when used as add-on to one or two other diabetes 
medicines, the reductions in HbA1c levels after 26 weeks compared with placebo ranged from 0.76 
percentage points to 0.92 percentage points with the 300 mg dose, and from 0.62 percentage 
points to 0.74 percentage points with the 100 mg dose. 
•  When Invokana was used as add-on to insulin at a dose of 300 mg, it decreased HbA1c levels by 
0.73 percentage points more than placebo after 18 weeks, while the 100 mg dose led to a 
reduction of 0.65 percentage points more than placebo. 
• 
• 
• 
Invokana was also shown to be at least as effective as the diabetes medicines glimepiride and 
sitagliptin after 52 weeks of treatment. 
The study in patients with moderately reduced kidney function showed that the effects of Invokana 
were reduced in these patients, but still clinically relevant: the reduction of HbA1c levels compared 
with placebo was 0.3 percentage points with the 100 mg dose. 
The study in older patients showed that Invokana had clinically relevant effects in patients above 
75 years of age with HbA1c reductions compared with placebo of 0.70 percentage points and 0.57 
percentage points with the 300 mg and 100 mg doses, respectively 
In addition, Invokana’s effects on the heart and diabetic kidney disease were studied in 3 main 
studies:   
• 
• 
In two studies involving over 10,000 patients who had heart disease or were at risk of developing 
it, treatment with Invokana for 149 weeks reduced the risk of heart problems or stroke: in the 
Invokana group there were 27 occurrences of a heart attack, stroke or death from problems in the 
heart and blood circulation per 1000 patient-years compared with 32 occurrences with placebo. 
Invokana was also shown to be  effective in slowing the progression in diabetic kidney disease in 
patients with type 2 diabetes. In a study in 4,000 patients with mildly or moderately reduced 
kidney function, patients received either Invokana or placebo on top of standard treatment. With 
Invokana, 11% of patients (245 out of 2,202) had substantial worsening of kidney function or died 
from kidney and heart problems compared with 16% (340 out of 2,199) of patients on placebo. 
When compared to placebo, the effect on kidney function was largely independent from the blood-
glucose-lowering effect of Invokana. 
Invokana (canagliflozin)  
EMA/368477/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Invokana? 
The most common side effects (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) with Invokana are 
hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels) when used together with insulin or a sulphonylurea, 
vulvovaginal candidiasis (thrush, a fungal infection of the female genital area caused by Candida) and 
urinary tract infection (infection of the structure that carries the urine). 
For the full list of side effects of Invokana, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Invokana authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Invokana’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. Invokana was shown to be effective at controlling blood glucose levels 
in patients with type 2 diabetes and at reducing diabetic kidney disease and heart complications. 
Regarding its safety, this was considered similar to other medicines of the same class (SGLT2 
inhibitors). Important side effects identified included dehydration and urinary tract infection, but these 
were considered manageable. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Invokana? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Invokana have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Invokana are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Invokana are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Invokana 
Invokana received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 November 2013.  
More information on Invokana can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/invokana    
This overview was last updated in 06-2020.  
Invokana (canagliflozin)  
EMA/368477/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
