Summary of Risk Management Plan for INVOKANA (Canagliflozin)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for INVOKANA. The RMP details 
important risks of INVOKANA, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about INVOKANA’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
INVOKANA’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL) 
provide  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  INVOKANA 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for INVOKANA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
INVOKANA’s RMP.
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For
INVOKANA is authorized for treatment of adults with insufficiently controlled type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM) as an adjunct to diet and exercise (see SmPC for the full indication). It can 
be used by itself, or in combination with other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes. 
This medicine works by increasing the amount of sugar removed from your body in your urine. 
This reduces the amount of sugar in your blood and can help prevent heart disease in T2DM. 
It also helps to slow down deterioration of kidney function in T2DM by a mechanism beyond 
blood glucose lowering.
It contains canagliflozin as the active substance and it is given as an oral tablet (canagliflozin 
100 mg,  canagliflozin  300 mg).  Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  INVOKANA’s 
benefits  can  be  found  in  INVOKANA’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary, 
available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/invokana
II. 
Risks  Associated  With  the  Medicine  and  Activities  to  Minimize  or 
Further Characterize the Risks
Important  risks  of  INVOKANA,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more about INVOKANA’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  the  case  of  INVOKANA,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk 
minimization measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment so that immediate 
action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance 
activities.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of INVOKANA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of INVOKANA. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Diabetic ketoacidosis with atypical presentation
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
Use in pregnancy
Use in nursing mothers
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Important Identified Risk: Diabetic ketoacidosis with atypical presentation
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine
Risk factors and risk groups
Diabetic  ketoacidosis  (DKA)  has  been  reported  during  postmarketing 
experience  with canagliflozin in T2DM patients, including cases  with 
fatal outcomes. An atypical presentation (blood glucose values less than 
13.9  mmol/L  [250  mg/dL])  has  been  observed  during  postmarketing 
surveillance in cases of DKA for canagliflozin and across the class of 
sodium-glucose  co-transporter-2 
inhibitors.  Cases  of 
ketoacidosis have occurred during off-label use of SGLT2 inhibitors in 
type 1  diabetes  mellitus  (T1DM)  patients  and  in  T1DM  clinical  trials 
(EMA,  2017).  In  an  18-week  Phase  2  trial  in  subjects  with  T1DM 
randomized to either canagliflozin or placebo (DIA2004), the frequency 
of DKA was higher than that observed in T2DM clinical trials.
(SGLT2) 
The available clinical trial data suggest that patients diagnosed as having 
T2DM  or  misdiagnosed  as  T2DM  (eg,  T1DM,  latent  autoimmune 
diabetes of adulthood), and who have a low beta-cell reserve, are unable 
to  produce  sufﬁcient  insulin  to  suppress  hepatic  ketogenesis  and 
peripheral lipolysis. In the setting of known DKA precipitating factors, 
such as an acute illness (and associated increase in insulin resistance), 
these  patients  can  develop  DKA.  The  increased  rate  of  DKA  in  the 
CREDENCE trial was observed predominantly in subjects in the lowest 
Important Identified Risk: Diabetic ketoacidosis with atypical presentation
eGFR  stratum;  which  included  subjects  with  a  longer  duration  of 
diabetes,  higher  proportion  of  insulin  use,  and  higher  baseline 
glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) than the overall population.
Risk minimization measures
Routine risk minimization measures:


SmPC Section 4.8 and PL Section 4.
Recommendations  regarding  appropriate  dosing  and  patient 
management (including advice on discontinuation and restart) are 
provided in SmPC Section 4.4;
 Advice  to  patients  who  have  DKA,  including  a  warning  that 
canagliflozin should not be used to treat this condition, is provided 
in PL Sections 2 and 4;
 Advice on when to suspect DKA is provided in SmPC Section 4.4 
and PL Sections 2 and 4;
 Description  of  factors  that  may  predispose  patients  to  DKA,  and 
advice  on  use  in  patients  at  higher  risk  for  DKA  are  provided  in 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2;
 Warning not to use canagliflozin in patients with T1DM is provided 
in SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2.
Additional risk minimization measures:
 Direct Healthcare Professional Communication.
Additional 
activities
pharmacovigilance 
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  beyond  adverse 
reporting and signal detection:
reactions 

Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaire;
 Adjudication  of  DKA  events  from  ongoing  clinical  trials  by  an 
independent blinded committee.
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:

PASS: Retrospective Drug Utilization Study.
See  Section  II.C  of 
postauthorization development plan.
this  summary  for  an  overview  of 
the 
Missing Information: Use in pregnancy
Risk minimization measures
Routine risk minimization measures:


SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2.
Recommendation regarding use of canagliflozin during pregnancy 
is provided in SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2.
Additional risk minimization measures:
 None.
Missing Information: Use in nursing mothers
Risk minimization measures
Routine risk minimization measures:


SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2.
Recommendation  regarding  use  of  canagliflozin  during  breast-
feeding is provided in SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2.
Additional risk minimization measures:
 None.
II.C.
Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation 
of INVOKANA.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Post-authorization Development Plan
Post-authorization Safety Study: To describe the time-trend of canagliflozin utilization in 
patients with T1DM using real-world databases in European countries with high cumulative 
exposure, including the United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, and Belgium.
Purpose of the study: To describe the time-trend of  drug  utilization of  canagliflozin among 
patients with T1DM in a European setting.
