European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/729732/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Irbesartan Teva 
International Nonproprietary Name: irbesartan 
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/001093 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Page 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE......................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................................... 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION............................................................................................... 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction............................................................................................................................ 5 
Quality aspects....................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects .............................................................................................................. 9 
Clinical Aspects ................................................................................................................... 10 
Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................................... 14 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation.................................... 15 
2/15 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V.  submitted  on  30  October  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Irbesartan  Teva,  in  accordance  with 
the centralised procedure falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under 
Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aprovel 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol Myers Squib SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 27 August 1997 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)   Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/97/046/001-039 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aprovel 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol Myers Squib SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 27 August 1997 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
o  Community 
(cid:131)   Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/97/046/001-039 
(cid:131)  Bioavailability study number: 1056 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Concepcion Prieto Yerro  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
An  application  was  filed  in  the  following  countries:  Spain.  The  product  was  not  licensed  in  any 
country at the time of submission of the application. 
3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 30 October 2008.  
The procedure started on 19 November 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
6 February 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  16-19 March 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  20 March 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
24 April 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 12 June 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22-25  June 2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 2 July 2009. 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 15 July 2009.  
During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Irbesartan Teva on 23 July 2009. 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 30 October 2009. 
4/15 
 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Irbesartan  Teva  75  mg,  150  mg  and  300  mg  film-coated  tablet  is  a  generic  medicinal  product 
containing  irbesartan  as  active  substance.  The  application  was  submitted  under  the  Article 10(1)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC i.e. generic application referring to a reference medicinal product. 
Irbesartan  is  a  potent,  orally  active,  selective  angiotensin-II  receptor  (type  AT1)  antagonist.  It  is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin-II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin-II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin-II (AT1) receptors 
results  in  increases  in  plasma  renin  levels  and  angiotensin-II  levels,  and  a  decrease  in  plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the  recommended  doses.  Irbesartan  does  not  inhibit  ACE  (kininase-II),  an  enzyme  which  generates 
angiotensin-II  and  also  degrades  bradykinin  into  inactive  metabolites.  Irbesartan  does  not  require 
metabolic activation for its activity. 
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  irbesartan  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  randomised,  double-blind 
placebo  controlled  studies,  and  controlled  studies  with  active  comparators  in  patients  with 
hypertension. Irbesartan was also studied in two large studies in kidney disease in patients with type 2 
diabetes. A summary of these studies can be found in the EPAR of Aprovel. 
The indication proposed for irbesartan is the same as authorised for the reference medicinal product 
Aprovel. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Irbesartan Teva is presented as film-coated tablets containing 75 mg, 150 mg or 300 mg of irbesartan 
(active  substance).  Excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of Irbesartan Teva are well known excipients 
used  in  tablets  preparations  such  as  povidone,  pregelatinized  starch  (maize),  poloxamer  188, 
microcrystalline  cellulose,  croscarmellose  sodium,  silica,  colloidal  hydrated,  magnesium  stearate 
(present in the tablet core) and Opadry II OY-GM-28900 white (coating agent) which is composed of 
polydextrose (E1200), titanium dioxide (E171), hypromellose (E464) and macrogol 4000. 
Irbesartan Teva film-coated tablets white to off white capsule shaped. One side of the tablet debossed 
with  the  number  “93”.  The  other  side  of  the  tablet  debossed  with  number  “7464”  (75 mg  tablets), 
“7465” (150 mg tablets) and “7466” (300 mg tablets).  
The tablets are packed in PVC/PVdC white opaque – aluminium blisters.  
Active Substance  
is  chemically  designated  as  2-butyl-3-({4-[2-(2H-1,2,3,4-tetrazol-5-
The  active  substance 
yl)phenyl]phenyl}methyl)-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one (IUPAC Name) or 2-butyl-3-[[4-[2-(2H-
tetrazol-5-yl)phenyl]phenyl]methyl]-1,3-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-4-one  (Chemical  name)  and  has  the 
following structure: 
5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan is a white to off-white crystalline, non hygroscopic powder, which is sparingly soluble in 
alcohol and methylene chloride, practically insoluble in water. 
Two crystalline polymorph forms of irbesartan are known from the literature: form A and form B. The 
commercially utilised manufacturing process is optimised to produce the desired polymorphic form. 
X-ray  powder  diffraction  showed  a  consistency  of  the  polymorphic  content  in  various  batches  of 
irbesartan. 
• 
Manufacture 
Information  about  manufacturing  process  has  been  provided  using  Active  Substance  Master  File 
(ASMF) procedure.    
Critical  parameters  and  accompanying  in-process  controls,  to ensure quality of the final compound, 
have been defined.  
Confirmation of the chemical structure of irbesartan was provided by spectroscopic methods as FT-
IR, NMR (1H-NMR and 13C-NMR), mass spectroscopy and X-ray powder diffraction (XRD). The X-
ray diffraction studies confirmed the proposed crystalline form.  
Potential impurities have been well discussed in relation to their origin and potential carry-over into 
the final drug substance, including potential for the formation of genotoxic impurities. 
• 
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identification  (FTIR,  HPLC  and 
XRD),  water  content  (Karl-Fisher),  heavy  metals,  sulphated  ash,  related  substances  (HPLC),  assay 
(HPLC and XRD), residual solvents (GC), particle size distribution, bulk density and tapped density.  
A detailed description for all analytical methods was provided. Since irbesartan is not yet described 
the European Pharmacopoeia the in-house test methods for the quality control of the active substance, 
considering  European  Pharmacopeia  General  Methods  section,  have  been  developed.  Full  method 
validation  data  was  provided  for  the  non  compendial  analytical  methods:  HPLC  methods  for 
identification  assay,  and  related  substance,  GC  method  for  residual  solvents  and  XRD  method  for 
identification and quantitative determination of the polymorphic form. 
The HPLC method for related substances has been validated for specificity and selectivity, linearity, 
limit of quantitation, limit of detection, accuracy and recovery, precision (system precision, method 
precision and method reproducibility), robustness, and stability of standard and sample.  
6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  HPLC  method  for  assay  has  been  validated  for  method  precision  (system  precision,  method 
precision  and  method  reproducibility),  linearity  and  accuracy  and  stability  of  standard  solution. 
Validation data indicates that the method is valid and fully applicable for control of irbesartan content 
in drug substance. 
The XRD method for identification and quantitative determination of the polymorphic form also has 
been  validated  with  regards  to  method  precision  (method  precision  and  method  reproducibility), 
linearity, accuracy and specificity.  
The  GC  method  for  determination  of  residual  solvents  has  been  validated  with  respect  to  system 
precision, method precision, method reproducibility, accuracy and recovery, linearity, specificity and 
selectivity, limit of quantitation, robustness and stability of standard  and sample solution. Validation 
indicates  that  the  method  is  valid  and  fully  applicable  for  control  of  residual  solvents  in  the  active 
substance. 
In general analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the drug substance. 
Data  on  three  consecutive  batches  of  irbesartan  manufactured  according  to  the  proposed 
manufacturing process in the proposed manufacturing sites was provided. All batches represented full 
scale production and complied with the requirements in the drug substance specification.  
• 
Stability 
Stability  studies  were  carried  out  according  to  ICH  guidelines  for  real  time  (25°C/60% RH)  and 
accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH). Data for six batches were given with 24 and 48 months real 
time and 6 months accelerated data.  
In addition forced degradation and photostability studies have been performed. A discussion about the 
potential  degradation pathways of the substance based on the results from forced degradation study 
has been provided. Irbesartan was exposed to acidic, alkaline and oxidation, and also to the thermal 
treatment  (heat).  The  photostability  in  solid  state  and  in  solution  has  been  conducted  and  no 
significant changes were observed. No unknown impurities were detected during stability testing. 
The stability studies confirmed the proposed re-test period. 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain,  a  robust  and  stable  immediate  release 
tablet  formulation  containing  qualitatively  and  quantitatively  the  same  active  substance  as  the 
reference  product  and  which  is  comparable  in  terms  of  dissolution  and  bioequivalent  with  the 
reference product. 
Similarity with the reference medicinal product was addressed by dissolution studies and comparative 
impurity profiles. 
Compositions of Irbesartan Teva film-coated tablets and the reference product are similar.  
Irbesartan  Teva  film-coated  tablets  contain  microcrystalline  cellulose,  croscarmellose  sodium, 
magnesium  stearate,  colloidal  hydrated  silica,  pregelatinised  maize  starch,  poloxamer  188  and 
povidone.  The  reference  medicinal  product  was  authorised  through  the  centralised  procedure  and 
therefore  the  qualitative  and  quantitative  composition  of  the  active  substance  (irbesartan)  and  the 
excipients  (microcrystalline  cellulose,  croscarmellose  sodium,  lactose  monohydrate,  magnesium 
stearate, colloidal hydrated silica, hypromellose) is identical in all Member States. The formulation of 
Irbesartan Teva film-coated tablets differs by the inclusion of poloxamer 188 and povidone compared 
to lactose monohydrate and hypromellose in reference medicinal product. 
7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Similarity  between  two  products  was  also  shown  by  dissolution  testing.  Comparative  dissolution 
profiles of Irbesartan Teva 75 mg, 150 and 300 mg film-coated tablets and reference product Aprovel 
75 mg, 150 mg and 300 mg film-coated tablets in three different media: 0,1 M HCl, phosphate buffer 
pH 4,5  and  phosphate  buffer  pH  6,8    have  been  conducted.  The  dissolution  profiles  of  test  product 
and reference product are considered similar in all three media. 
Impurity  profile  comparisons  and  assay  values  of  test  product  and  reference  product  showed  that 
Irbesartan Teva and the reference product have comparable assay values and impurity profile. 
A  bioequivalence  study  was  conducted,  under  fasting  conditions,  in  order  to  prove  in-vivo 
bioequivalence  between  Irbesartan  Teva  300 mg  film-coated  tablets  and  the  reference  product 
Aprovel 300 mg film-coated tablets. The application concerned three strengths of 75 mg, 150 mg and 
300 mg  film-coated  tablets  however  the  bioequivalence  was  demonstrated  between  Irbesartan  Teva 
300 mg  film-coated  tablets  and  Aprovel  300 mg  film-coated  tablets  and  biowaiver  for  a 
bioequivalence  study  with  the  75 mg  and  150 mg  strengths  was  claimed.  The  biowaiver  could  be 
applied since:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
all strengths are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process,  
the drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic dose range (irbesartan exhibits 
linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 mg to 600 mg),  
the qualitative composition of the strengths is the same,  
the ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same,  
the dissolution profiles were similar for all and the tablets are rapidly dissolved products (more 
than 85% of the labelled amount dissolved after 15 minutes).  
The drug product manufacturing process development was also performed. Details were provided for 
experimental  batches  manufactured  to  establish  optimum  manufacturing  conditions.  To  obtain 
immediate  release  tablets,  which  were  essentially  similar  to  the  reference  product,  a  formulating 
strategy was undertaken in order to optimize the manufacturing process. A common formulation and 
manufacturing process was developed for all strengths. Due to high percentage of the drug substance 
in the formulation, a wet granulation process was selected. 
• 
Adventitious Agents  
None  of  the  excipients  used  in  the  drug  product  is  of  human  or  animal  origin.  Magnesium  stearate 
used in the formulation is of vegetal origin. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The proposed manufacturing process is a standard process utilised in tablet manufacture and consists 
of  several  steps  including  premixing,  wet  granulation,  drying  and  milling,  mixing  of  blend, 
compression (tabletting) of the final blend, film-coating and packaging.  
The  process  has  been  sufficiently  characterized.  Critical  steps  (granulation,  tabletting  and  coating) 
and  in-process  controls  have  been  identified.  A  flow  diagram  and  detailed  description  of  the 
manufacturing process have been provided.  
Process validation data were provided for two pilot scale batches of each tablet strength. In addition 
the validation protocol has been provided and the applicant committed that full process validation will 
be performed on three consecutive commercial batches. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specification  is  a  standard  one  for  tablets  and  contains  tests  with  suitable  limits  for 
appearance,  identification  (HPLC  and  UV),  uniformity  of  dosage  units  by  mass  variation,  water 
content  (Karl-Fisher),  thickness  of  cores,  friability  of  uncoated  tablets,  resistance  to  crushing  of 
8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tablets, assay (HPLC), impurities and degradation products (HPLC), dissolution, microbial limits and 
identification of colouring agent (titanium dioxide).  
Full details of all analytical methods have been provided. All non pharmacopoeial methods have been 
satisfactory validated.  
The  HPLC  methods  for  assay  and  related  substances  have  been  suitably  validated  with  respect  to 
intermediate precision, method precision, accuracy and recovery, linearity, specificity and selectivity 
(degradation peaks are well separated from the main peak), limit of quantitation, stability of samples 
and  standard  solutions  and  robustness.  Validation  results  indicate  that  the  method  is  suitable  for 
evaluation of assay and for control of related substances in drug product. 
The UV method for evaluation of dissolved irbesartan has been validated with respect to intermediate 
precision, method precision (repeatability), accuracy (by comparing results with the results obtained 
for  the  same  samples  using  the  HPLC  method),  linearity,  specificity  and  selectivity,  standard  and 
sample solution stability and robustness of the method.  
Batch analysis data was provided on six pilot scale batches of the finished product (2 batches for each 
strength).  Results  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  proposed  specification  and  confirm  consistency 
and  uniformity  of  the  product.  It  has  been  shown  that  tablets  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according to the finished product specifications. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  studies  under  ICH  conditions  of  25ºC/60%RH  (long  term,  12 months)  and  40ºC/75%RH 
(accelerated, 6 months) were carried out on two pilot scale batches of each strength. Containers used 
in the stability studies were the same as those proposed for commercialisation. 
Photostability studies have also been included in the stability program. No significant differences in 
irbesartan assay and degradation products content were observed. In conclusion, Irbesartan Teva film-
coated tablets are considered photostable. 
Stability  results  showed  no  increase  of  the  impurities  (known  and  unknown).  The  results  are  well 
within the specifications. Based on the stability data the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as 
defined in the SPC are acceptable. 
In summary the stability data provided support the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects 
Irbesartan  is  widely  used  well-known  substance.  Its  pharmacodynamic,  pharmacokinetic  and 
toxicological properties are well characterised. No further studies are required and the applicant has 
justified why no such data were provided.  
The environmental risk assessment (ERA) in line with the CHMP Guideline on Environmental Risk 
Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CPMP/SWP/4447/00)  was  not  submitted; 
however, a justification for omission of environmental risk assessment was provided. This was based 
on the fact the generic medicinal product is intended to substitute the reference product and it will not 
result in additional hazard to the environment. The supplied justification for the lack of a full ERA 
was considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of a bioequivalence study. 
GCP 
The bioequivalence study is stated to have been performed in accordance with GCP and the ethical 
requirements of Directive 2001/20.  
The clinical part of the study was performed by a CRO in Canada. The Clinical Laboratory and the 
Analytical  centre  were  both located in Canada. The Pharmacokinetic, Statistical and Report Issuing 
Facility was another CRO located in Canada. 
The applicant has clarified that the clinical centre has been inspected by Regulatory Agencies in 2008, 
including FDA (USA) and Health Canada. The FDA has also inspected the analytical site. 
The outcome of these inspections was assessed during the procedure and considered satisfactory. 
Clinical study 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted a single-dose, fasted-state bioequivalence 
study.   
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
Single-Dose, Randomized, Open-Label, Three-Way Crossover, Comparative Bioavailability Study of 
Two Formulations of Irbesartan 300 mg Tablets (Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.) and AprovelTM 
300 mg Film-Coated Tablets (Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC, France) in Normal, Healthy 
Subjects under Fasting Conditions. 
Subjects who met the eligibility criteria were randomly assigned to receive the study drugs according 
to one of the three dosing sequences A-B-C, B-C-A, or C-A-B. A total of 8 subjects were planned to 
receive  treatment  sequence  A-B-C,  8  subjects  were  planned  to  receive  sequence  B-C-A,  and  8 
subjects  were  planned  to  receive  sequence  C-A-B.  The  washout  period  was  a  minimum  of  7  days 
between each dosing, but no more than 14 days. 
Subjects  took  their  assigned  study  medication,  designated  by the randomization scheme, after a 10-
hour  fast,  with  240  mL  of  ambient  temperature  water  at  their  scheduled  timepoint.  Blood  samples 
were taken at the following time points: pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.5, 0.67, 0.83, 1.0, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2.0, 
2.33, 2.67, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 8.0, 12.0, 16.0, 24.0, 36.0, 48.0 and 72.0 hours after dosing. 
The protocol (version date 09/01/2008) and informed consent forms (ICFs) (version date 08/01/2008) 
were  reviewed  and  approved  by  an  Institutional  Review  Board  (IRB).  Following  changes  to  the 
existing Protocol and ICF, new versions were approved on February 01, 2008. 
The clinical phases were performed the 03/02/2008, 10/02/2008 and 13/02/2008. 
The analysis of the samples was conducted on the period from 26/02/2008 to 08/03/2008. 
The study was complying with GCP, as claimed by the applicant. 
10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Treatment  A:  Irbesartan  300  mg  film-coated  tablets  EU;  Lot  No:  K-39692;  (Teva  Pharmaceutical 
Industries Ltd.) 
Treatment  B:  Irbesartan  300  mg  film-coated  tablets  EU;  Lot  No:  K-39693;  (Teva  Pharmaceutical 
Industries Ltd.).  
Treatment  C:  Aprovel™  300  mg  film-coated  tablets;  Lot  No:  2165;  (Sanofi  Pharma  Bristol-Myers 
Squibb SNC, France). Expiry date: 02/2009  
Biowaiver 
According  to  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 a bioequivalence study investigating only one strength may be acceptable 
if  a  new  application  concerns  several  strengths  of  the  active  substance.  However  the  choice  of  the 
strength used should be justified on analytical, pharmacokinetic and safety grounds. The selection of 
the  dose  has  been  done  according  to  the  recommended  doses  normally  administered  to  patients 
(respecting  the  therapeutic  range),  and  in  order  to  obtain  measurable  plasma  concentrations  after 
administration. 
Furthermore all of the following conditions should be fulfilled: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process, 
the drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic range (if this is not the case 
the strengths where the sensitivity is largest to identify differences in the two products should 
be used), 
the qualitative compositions of the different strengths is the same, 
the ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same, or, in the case of 
preparations containing a low concentration of the active substance (less than 5%), the ratio 
between the amounts of excipients is similar, 
the dissolution profile should be similar under identical conditions for the additional strength 
and strength of the batch used in bioequivalence study. 
All  the  above  points  were  met.  Dissolution  tests  were  performed  at  pH  1.2,  4.5  and  6.8  in  paddle 
apparatus, 50 rpm, in 1000 ml of dissolution media. Dissolution was complete at pH 1.2. The values 
at  15  minutes  were  higher  than  85%  and  therefore  the  dissolution  profiles  are  similar.  At  pH  4.5 
dissolution was minimal (<10%) in all strengths. And at pH 6.8 dissolution was almost complete, but 
the dissolution of the highest strengths is slightly slower than with the other lower strengths because 
of the lack of sink conditions. This behaviour is acceptable since it occurs similarly in the reference 
product. 
It  is  also  important  to  highlight  that  Poloxamer  188  is  not  a  conventional  excipient  in  tablets. 
However,  as  bioequivalence  has  been  shown  with  the  highest  strength  and  dose,  it  can  be  assumed 
that  lower  amounts  included  in  the  proportional  formulations  will  not  affect  negatively  the 
bioavailability of the drug.  
POPULATION STUDIED   
Twenty-four (24) subjects were enrolled in the study. One subject was dismissed by the Investigator 
due to an adverse event and the use of concomitant medication. Data from this subject were excluded 
from the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. Additionally, two subjects voluntarily withdrew for 
personal reasons after having completed 2 periods of the study, resulting in the administration of at 
least  one  test  product  and  the  reference  product.  Data  from  these  subjects  were  included  in  the 
pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. Thus, a total of twenty-three (23) subjects were included in 
the final data set and therefore in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses. 
Subjects who withdrew or were dismissed due to adverse events were not replaced. 
11/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
A method for determining irbesartan in human plasma has been validated using LC/MS/MS system.  
This  analytical  method  is  able  to  distinguish  the  parent  drug  from  the  major  circulating  metabolite 
(inactive irbesartan glucuronide).  
The validation of the analytical method is satisfactory. 
Pre-study validation 
For  irbesartan,  the  overall  inter-day  precision  (%CV)  and  accuracy  (%Bias)  for  the  standards  and 
quality control samples was within an acceptable. 
The 
to  common  medications  such  as  acetaminophen,  aspirin, 
chlorpheniramine  maleate  and ibuprofen, as well as caffeine, were evaluated under irbesartan assay 
conditions.  The  results  showed  no  interference  observed  at  the  retention  time  of  irbesartan  or  the 
internal standard. 
interference  checks  due 
In-study validation 
Inter-day precision (%CV) and accuracy were determined.  
For irbesartan standards, a single calibration curve was analyzed with each batch run. 
For  sample  analysis,  each  batch  run  consisted  of  standards  in  singlet  and  QC  samples  at  least  in 
duplicate. 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
Standard  pharmacokinetic  variables  were  determined  through  non-compartmental  analysis  by  the 
linear  trapezoidal  rule.  The  pharmacokinetic  analysis  was  performed  using  SAS®  Version  9.1  or 
higher. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
ANOVA was performed on the natural logarithm-transformed data for AUCt, AUCinf, and Cmax and on 
the raw data for AUCt, AUCinf, Cmax, Tmax, λ and T1/2. Tmax was compared between Test and Reference 
products  using  an  additional  non-parametric  method.  The  significance  of  the  sequence,  subjects 
nested within sequence, period and treatment were tested. 
The 90% confidence intervals (CI) of the Test/Reference ratios of geometric means for AUCt, AUCinf, 
and Cmax were calculated based on the least square means (LSMEANS) and estimate of the ANOVA. 
The statistical analysis was performed using SAS® Version 9.1 or higher. 
• 
Results 
Based on the statistical analysis the test products are equivalent to the reference with respect to the 
extent and rate of absorption / exposure. The 90% confidence intervals calculated for AUC(0-t), AUC(0-
inf)  and  Cmax  of  irbesartan  were  inside  the  normal  range  of  acceptability  (0.80  –  1.25)  (see  Table  1 
below). However, these calculations were at first considered not valid due to a controversial decision 
on the exclusion of one subject and the inclusion of two subjects (see section “Population studied”) 
and the unjustified exclusion of some AUC values from subjects included in the dataset. This concern 
was raised as a major objection by the CHMP who required the submission of additional calculations 
as  sensitivity  analysis  to  confirm  the  bioequivalence  of  the  formulation.  Two  additional  sets  of 
analyses were carried out (with n=21 and n=24) and the sensitivity analysis showed bioequivalence in 
all cases. Therefore the conclusion of bioequivalence was considered robust and not influenced by the 
number of subjects excluded from statistical analysis. 
12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax ,median, range) 
13/15 
 
 
 
 
Protocol deviations: 
One subject failed to disclose his full medical history at screening and was included in the study. This 
subject was dismissed from the study for an adverse event and for use of concomitant medication. The 
subject’s data was excluded from the pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses but this decision was 
considered controversial by the CHMP and new analyses including these data were provided by the 
applicant during the procedure (see section “Population studied”) 
Another subject had an unknown actual collection time for the 48 hours time points. However, this 
sample was treated as collected on time. 
There were also a significant number of deviations in the sampling times with respect to the schedule 
time  point.  Sampling  times  were  adjusted  using  the  blood  sampling  time  deviations  in  the 
pharmacokinetic analysis in order to more accurately reflect the temporal collection of samples. 
These deviations were considered normal and acceptable by the CHMP since they did not have any 
impact on the study results. 
Safety data: 
There were 8 adverse events involving 5 subjects in this study. 
A  total  of  2  mild  AEs  (somnolence  and  pain  in  extremity)  were  experienced  by  the  subjects  after 
taking Treatment A (Test product) and 2 mild AEs (oral herpes and contusion) were experienced by 
the  subjects  after  taking  Treatment  B  (Test  product).  A  total  of  4  mild  AEs  (pain  in  extremity, 
somnolence  and  headache)  were  experienced  by  the  subjects  after  taking  Treatment  C  (Reference 
product).  All  these  adverse  events  were  considered  unrelated  to  the  treatment.  No  serious  adverse 
events  were  reported  during  the  conduct  of  this  study.  The  test  and  reference  products  were  well 
tolerated by all subjects. 
The safety profile of both products seems to be comparable although the design was not powered to 
compare the safety profile. At this point in time, no difference in the safety profile is anticipated. 
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  Irbesartan  Teva  is  considered  bioequivalent  with 
Aprovel. 
The results of the study with the 300 mg formulation can be extrapolated to other strengths 75 mg and 
150  mg,  according  to  conditions  in  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and 
Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, section 5.4. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  as  described  in  version  7.0  date 
28 May 2009 presented in Module 1.8.1. of the Marketing Authorisation Application, is in place and 
functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
No description of Risk Management Plan has been provided by the applicant. Since the application 
concerns  a  generic  with  a  reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring 
additional risk minimisation activities have been identified, this approach is considered acceptable. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Bioequivalence  between  the  test  product  and  the  reference  product  has  been shown for the 300 mg 
strength.  However,  the  exclusion  of  some  subjects  and  some  AUC  values  of  included  subjects  was 
raised as a major objection by the CHMP. In response, the applicant submitted two additional sets of 
analyses and the sensitivity analysis showed bioequivalence in all cases. 
The conclusion of bioequivalence was therefore considered robust by the CHMP. 
Extrapolation  of  this  evidence  to  the  proportional  strengths  of  75  and  150  mg  is  possible  since 
bioequivalence has been shown with the highest strength and kinetics is linear, the different strengths 
are qualitatively identical and quantitatively proportional in composition and dissolution profiles have 
shown to be sufficiently similar at pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical and clinical data and the bioequivalence has 
been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus decision that the 
benefit/risk ratio of Irbesartan Teva in the treatment of essential hypertension and treatment of renal 
disease in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus as part of an antihypertensive drug 
regimen was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
