ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains 150 mg of irbesartan and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 26.65 mg of lactose (as lactose monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Tablet. 
Peach, biconvex, oval-shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2775 engraved on the 
other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken once daily, with or without food.  
Dose titration with the individual components (i.e. irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may be 
recommended. 
When clinically appropriate direct change from monotherapy to the fixed combinations may be 
considered: 
• 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients whose 
blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide or irbesartan 150 mg 
alone; 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by irbesartan 300 mg or by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg. 
• 
• 
Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily are not recommended. 
When necessary, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be administered with another 
antihypertensive medicinal product (see sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not 
recommended for patients with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). Loop 
diuretics are preferred to thiazides in this population. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients 
with renal impairment whose renal creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not indicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. No dosage 
adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for use in children and adolescents 
because the safety and efficacy have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to 
other sulfonamide-derived substances (hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide-derived substance) 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) 
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis 
The concomitant use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with aliskiren-containing 
products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m²) (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypotension - Volume-depleted patients 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva has been rarely associated with symptomatic hypotension in 
hypertensive patients without other risk factors for hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension may be 
expected to occur in patients who are volume and/or sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such conditions should be corrected before initiating 
therapy with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Renal artery stenosis - Renovascular hypertension 
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. While this is not documented with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, a similar effect should be anticipated. 
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation 
When Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used in patients with impaired renal function, a 
periodic monitoring of potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. There is no 
experience regarding the administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with a 
recent kidney transplantation. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be used in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). Thiazide diuretic-
associated azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function. No dosage adjustment is 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
necessary in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min. However, in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥30 ml/min but <60 ml/min) 
this fixed dose combination should be administered with caution. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). 
Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers 
or aliskiren is therefore not recommended ( see sections 4.5 and 5.1). If dual blockade therapy is 
considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist supervision and subject to 
frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure. ACE-inhibitors and 
angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with diabetic 
nephropathy. 
Hepatic impairment 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver 
disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. There is 
no clinical experience with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with hepatic 
impairment. 
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Primary aldosteronism 
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended. 
Metabolic and endocrine effects 
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during 
thiazide therapy. Irbesartan may induce hypoglycaemia, particularly in diabetic patients. In patients 
treated with insulin or antidiabetics an appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be considered; a 
dose adjustment of inslulin or antidiabetics may be required when indicated (see section 4.5).  
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however at the 12.5 mg dose contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, minimal or no 
effects were reported. 
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide 
therapy. 
Electrolyte imbalance 
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals. 
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance are 
dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or cramps, 
muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea 
or vomiting. 
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
irbesartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greatest in patients 
with cirrhosis of the liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inadequate oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with 
corticosteroids or ACTH. Conversely, due to the irbesartan component of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva hyperkalaemia might occur, especially in the presence of renal 
impairment and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in 
patients at risk is recommended. Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or potassium-
containing salts substitutes should be co-administered cautiously with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva (see section 4.5). 
There is no evidence that irbesartan would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. Chloride 
deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment. 
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function. 
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnaesemia. 
Lithium 
The combination of lithium and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
Anti-doping test 
Hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicinal product could produce a positive analytic result in an 
anti-doping test. 
General 
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute hypotension, 
azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any antihypertensive agent, 
excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischemic cardiopathy or ischemic cardiovascular 
disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of 
allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics. 
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides diuretics (see section 4.8). If 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA. 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless 
continued AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if 
appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Choroidal effusion, acute myopia and secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma 
Sulfonamide or sulfonamide derivative drugs can cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. While 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide, only isolated cases of acute angle-closure glaucoma have been 
reported so far with hydrochlorothiazide. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or 
ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure 
glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue drug intake as 
rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular 
pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include 
a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy (see section 4.8). 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) exposure has 
been observed in two epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. 
Photosensitizing actions of HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC. 
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their 
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimize the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8). 
Acute respiratory toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered to patients who previously experienced ARDS 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake. 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Other antihypertensive agents 
The antihypertensive effect of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be increased with the 
concomitant use of other antihypertensive agents. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide (at doses up to 
300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) have been safely administered with other 
antihypertensive agents including calcium channel blockers and beta-adrenergic blockers. Prior 
treatment with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when 
initiating therapy with irbesartan with or without thiazide diuretics unless the volume depletion is 
corrected first (see section 4.4). 
Aliskiren-containing products or ACE-inhibitors 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects 
have been very rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Furthermore, renal clearance of lithium is 
reduced by thiazides so the risk of lithium toxicity could be increased with Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Therefore, the combination of lithium and Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see section 4.4). If the combination proves 
necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 
Medicinal products affecting potassium 
The potassium-depleting effect of hydrochlorothiazide is attenuated by the potassium-sparing effect of 
irbesartan. However, this effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium would be expected to be 
potentiated by other medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other 
kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium). Conversely, based 
on the experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, 
concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g. heparin sodium) 
may lead to increases in serum potassium. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in patients at risk 
is recommended (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium is recommended when Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
(e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non-steroidal anti- 
inflammatory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>3 g/day) and non-selective 
NSAIDs), attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. 
As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in 
serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal function. The combination should 
be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter. 
Repaglinide 
Irbesartan has the potential to inhibit OATP1B1. In a clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan 
increased the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 1.3-fold, 
respectively, when administered 1 hour before repaglinide. In another study, no relevant 
pharmacokinetic interaction was reported, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose 
adjustment of antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide may be required (see section 4.4). 
Additional information on irbesartan interactions 
In clinical studies, the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan 
is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant 
pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered 
with warfarin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as 
rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of 
digoxin was not altered by co-administration of irbesartan. 
Additional information on hydrochlorothiazide interactions 
When administered concurrently, the following medicinal products may interact with thiazide 
diuretics: 
Alcohol: potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur; 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulins): dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic 
medicinal product may be required (see section 4.4); 
Colestyramine and Colestipol resins: absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of 
anionic exchange resins. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be taken at least one hour 
before or four hours after these medications; 
Corticosteroids, ACTH: electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalaemia, may be increased; 
Digitalis glycosides: thiazide induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnaesemia favour the onset of 
digitalis-induced cardiac arrhythmias (see section 4.4); 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics in some patients; 
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline): the effect of pressor amines may be decreased, but not 
sufficiently to preclude their use; 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine): the effect of nondepolarizing skeletal 
muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide; 
Antigout medicinal products: dosage adjustments of antigout medicinal products may be necessary as 
hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or 
sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of thiazide diuretics may increase the incidence 
of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol; 
Calcium salts: thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to decreased excretion. If 
calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be 
prescribed, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly; 
Carbamazepine: concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with 
the risk of symptomatic hyponatraemia. Electrolytes should be monitored during concomitant use. If 
possible, another class of diuretics should be used; 
Other interactions: the hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by 
thiazides. Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, beperiden) may increase the bioavailability of 
thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate. Thiazides 
may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine. Thiazides may reduce the renal 
excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
The use of AIIRAs is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy (see section 4.4). The 
use of AIIRAs is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with Angiotensin II 
Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs), similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued 
AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative 
antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, 
alternative therapy should be started. 
Exposure to AIIRA therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3). 
Should exposure to AIIRAs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check 
of renal function and skull is recommended. 
Infants whose mothers have taken AIIRAs should be closely observed for hypotension (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
There is limited experience with hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy, especially during the first 
trimester. Animal studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the 
pharmacological mechanism of action of hydrochlorothiazide its use during the second and third 
trimester may compromise foeto-placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like 
icterus, disturbance of electrolyte balance and thrombocytopenia. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used. 
Since Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains hydrochlorothiazide, it is not recommended 
during the first trimester of pregnancy. A switch to a suitable alternative treatment should be carried 
out in advance of a planned pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
Because no information is available regarding the use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended and alternative 
treatments with better established safety profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while 
nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
It is unknown whether irbesartan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in rats have shown excretion of irbesartan or its 
metabolites in milk (for details see 5.3). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding is not recommended. If Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used during 
breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as possible. 
Fertility 
Irbesartan had no effect upon fertility of treated rats and their offspring up to the dose levels inducing 
the first signs of parental toxicity (see section 5.3).  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Based on its pharmacodynamic properties, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect 
the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken 
into account that occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of hypertension. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
Among 898 hypertensive patients who received various doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
(range: 37.5 mg/6.25 mg to 300 mg/25 mg) in placebo-controlled trials, 29.5% of the patients 
experienced adverse reactions. The most commonly reported ADRs were dizziness (5.6%), fatigue 
(4.9%), nausea/vomiting (1.8%), and abnormal urination (1.4%). In addition, increases in blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) (2.3%), creatine kinase (1.7%) and creatinine (1.1%) were also commonly observed in 
the trials. 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
trials. 
The frequency of adverse reactions listed below is defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Trials and Spontaneous Reports 
Investigations: 
Common: 
increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 
creatinine and creatine kinase 
Cardiac disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Reproductive  system  and  breast 
disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
decreases in serum potassium and sodium 
syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, oedema 
dizziness 
orthostatic dizziness 
headache 
tinnitus 
cough 
nausea/vomiting 
diarrhoea 
dyspepsia, dysgeusia 
abnormal urination 
impaired renal function including isolated 
cases of renal failure in patients at risk (see 
section 4.4) 
swelling extremity 
arthralgia, myalgia 
hyperkalaemia 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
flushing 
fatigue 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
cases of hypersensitivity reactions such as 
angioedema, rash, urticaria 
jaundice 
hepatitis, abnormal liver function 
sexual dysfunction, libido changes 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information on individual components 
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above for the combination product, other adverse reactions 
previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Tables 2 and 3 below detail the adverse reactions reported 
with the individual components of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported with the use of irbesartan alone 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
chest pain 
Not known: 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia  
anaphylactic reaction including 
anaphylactic shock 
hypoglycaemia 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Investigations: 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders: 
Not known: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Not known: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
electrolyte imbalance (including hypokalaemia 
and hyponatraemia, see section 4.4), 
hyperuricaemia, glycosuria, hyperglycaemia, 
increases in cholesterol and triglycerides 
cardiac arrhythmias 
aplastic anaemia, bone marrow depression, 
neutropenia/agranulocytosis, haemolytic 
anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
vertigo, paraesthesia, light-headedness, 
restlessness 
transient blurred vision, xanthopsia, acute 
myopia and secondary acute angle-closure 
glaucoma, choroidal effusion 
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
(see section 4.4) 
respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and 
pulmonary oedema) 
pancreatitis, anorexia, diarrhoea, constipation, 
gastric irritation, sialadenitis, loss of appetite 
interstitial nephritis, renal dysfunction 
anaphylactic reactions, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, necrotizing angitis (vasculitis, 
cutaneous vasculitis), cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus-like reactions, reactivation of 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus, 
photosensitivity reactions, rash, urticaria 
weakness, muscle spasm 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
postural hypotension 
fever 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice) 
depression, sleep disturbances 
non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The dose dependent adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide (particularly electrolyte disturbances) may 
increase when titrating the hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. The patient should be closely monitored, and the treatment should be symptomatic and 
supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion and the severity of the symptoms. 
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric lavage. Activated charcoal may be 
useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be monitored frequently. 
If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, with salt and volume 
replacements given quickly. 
The most likely manifestations of irbesartan overdose are expected to be hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia might also occur. 
Overdose with hydrochlorothiazide is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloremia, hyponatraemia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common 
signs and symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle 
spasms and/or accentuate cardiac arrhythmias associated with the concomitant use of digitalis 
glycosides or certain anti-arrhythmic medicinal products. 
Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by 
haemodialysis has not been established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) and diuretics, ATC code: 
C09DA04 
Mechanism of action 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, 
irbesartan, and a thiazide diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an 
additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component 
alone. 
Irbesartan is a potent, orally active, selective angiotensin II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist. It is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors 
results in increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin II levels, and a decrease in plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the recommended doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Irbesartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin II and also 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
degrades bradykinin into inactive metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its 
activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, 
directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The 
diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of irbesartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at 
about 4 hours, while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours. 
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in 
blood pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 
300 mg irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted 
in further placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 
6.1 mm Hg. The combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in an 
overall placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of up to 13.6/11.5 mm Hg. 
Limited clinical data (7 out of 22 patients) suggest that patients not controlled with the 
300 mg/12.5 mg combination may respond when uptitrated to 300 mg/25 mg. In these patients, an 
incremental blood pressure lowering effect was observed for both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (13.3 and 8.3 mm Hg, respectively). 
Once daily dosing with 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide gave systolic/diastolic 
mean placebo-adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 12.9/6.9 mm Hg 
in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Peak effects occurred at 3-6 hours. When assessed by 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the combination 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide once daily produced consistent reduction in blood pressure over the 24 hours 
period with mean 24-hour placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of 15.8/10.0 mm Hg. When 
measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the trough to peak effects of 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg were 100%. The trough to peak effects measured by 
cuff during office visits were 68% and 76% for irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide300 mg/12.5 mg, respectively. These 24-hour effects were observed 
without excessive blood pressure lowering at peak and are consistent with safe and effective blood-
pressure lowering over the once-daily dosing interval. 
In patients not adequately controlled on 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide alone, the addition of irbesartan 
gave an added placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic mean reduction of 11.1/7.2 mm Hg. 
The blood pressure lowering effect of irbesartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide is apparent 
after the first dose and substantially present within 1-2 weeks, with the maximal effect occurring by 
6-8 weeks. In long-term follow-up studies, the effect of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was maintained 
for over one year. Although not specifically studied with the Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, 
rebound hypertension has not been seen with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide. 
The effect of the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide on morbidity and mortality has 
not been studied. Epidemiological studies have shown that long term treatment with 
hydrochlorothiazide reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. 
There is no difference in response to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, regardless of age or gender. As is 
the case with other medicinal products that affect the renin-angiotensin system, black hypertensive 
patients have notably less response to irbesartan monotherapy. When irbesartan is administered 
concomitantly with a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide (e.g. 12.5 mg daily), the antihypertensive 
response in black patients approaches that of non-black patients. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for severe hypertension 
(defined as SeDBP ≥ 110 mmHg) was evaluated in a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, active-
controlled, 8-week, parallel-arm study. A total of 697 patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg or to irbesartan 150 mg and systematically force-
titrated (before assessing the response to the lower dose) after one week to 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/25 mg or irbesartan 300 mg, respectively. 
The study recruited 58% males. The mean age of patients was 52.5 years, 13% were ≥ 65 years of age, 
and just 2% were ≥ 75 years of age. Twelve percent (12%) of patients were diabetic, 34% were 
hyperlipidemic and the most frequent cardiovascular condition was stable angina pectoris in 3.5% of 
the participants. 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the proportion of patients whose SeDBP was 
controlled (SeDBP < 90 mmHg) at Week 5 of treatment. Forty-seven percent (47.2%) of patients on 
the combination achieved trough SeDBP < 90 mmHg compared to 33.2% of patients on irbesartan 
(p = 0.0005). The mean baseline blood pressure was approximately 172/113 mmHg in each treatment 
group and decreases of SeSBP/SeDBP at five weeks were 30.8/24.0 mmHg and 21.1/19.3 mmHg for 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan, respectively (p < 0.0001). 
The types and incidences of adverse events reported for patients treated with the combination were 
similar to the adverse event profile for patients on monotherapy. During the 8-week treatment period, 
there were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 0.6% and 0% of patients 
with hypotension and 2.8% and 3.1% of patients with dizziness as adverse reactions reported in the 
combination and monotherapy groups, respectively. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker. ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of 
cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of 
end-organ damage. VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
diabetic nephropathy. 
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy. 
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dosedependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 (95% CI: 1.23-
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose response relationship 
was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible association between lip cancer 
(SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched with 63,067 population controls, 
using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response relationship was demonstrated with an 
adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 
7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose (~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan has no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of either medicinal product. 
Absorption 
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are orally active agents and do not require biotransformation for 
their activity. Following oral administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, the absolute 
oral bioavailability is 60-80% and 50-80% for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. Food 
does not affect the bioavailability of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Peak plasma 
concentration occurs at 1.5-2 hours after oral administration for irbesartan and 1-2.5 hours for 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding of irbesartan is approximately 96%, with negligible binding to cellular blood 
components. The volume of distribution for irbesartan is 53-93 litres. Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% 
protein-bound in the plasma, and its apparent volume of distribution is 0.83-1.14 l/kg. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Irbesartan exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg. 
A less than proportional increase in oral absorption at doses beyond 600 mg was observed; the 
mechanism for this is unknown. The total body and renal clearance are 157-176 and 3.0-3.5 ml/min, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of irbesartan is 11-15 hours. Steady-state plasma 
concentrations are attained within 3 days after initiation of a once-daily dosing regimen. Limited 
accumulation of irbesartan (< 20%) is observed in plasma upon repeated once-daily dosing. In a study, 
somewhat higher plasma concentrations of irbesartan were observed in female hypertensive patients. 
However, there was no difference in the half-life and accumulation of irbesartan. No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in female patients. Irbesartan AUC and Cmax values were also somewhat 
greater in older subjects (≥ 65 years) than those of young subjects (18-40 years). However the terminal 
half-life was not significantly altered. No dosage adjustment is necessary in older people. The mean 
plasma half-life of hydrochlorothiazide reportedly ranges from 5-15 hours. 
Biotransformation 
Following oral or intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, 80-85% of the circulating plasma 
radioactivity is attributable to unchanged irbesartan. Irbesartan is metabolised by the liver via 
glucuronide conjugation and oxidation. The major circulating metabolite is irbesartan glucuronide 
(approximately 6%). In vitro studies indicate that irbesartan is primarily oxidised by the 
cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9; isoenzyme CYP3A4 has negligible effect.  
Elimination 
Irbesartan and its metabolites are eliminated by both biliary and renal pathways. After either oral or 
intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, about 20% of the radioactivity is recovered in the urine, 
and the remainder in the faeces. Less than 2% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged 
irbesartan. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidneys. At least 
61% of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the 
placental but not the blood-brain barrier, and is excreted in breast milk. 
Renal impairment 
In patients with renal impairment or those undergoing haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetic parameters 
of irbesartan are not significantly altered. Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. In patients with 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min, the elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was reported to 
increase to 21 hours. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of irbesartan are not 
significantly altered. Studies have not been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The potential toxicity of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination after oral administration was 
evaluated in rats and macaques in studies lasting up to 6 months. There were no toxicological findings 
observed of relevance to human therapeutic use. 
The following changes, observed in rats and macaques receiving the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination at 10/10 and 90/90 mg/kg/day, were also seen with one of the two medicinal products 
alone and/or were secondary to decreases in blood pressure (no significant toxicologic interactions 
were observed): 
• 
kidney changes, characterized by slight increases in serum urea and creatinine, and 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, which are a direct consequence of the 
interaction of irbesartan with the renin-angiotensin system; 
slight decreases in erythrocyte parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit); 
stomach discoloration, ulcers and focal necrosis of gastric mucosa were observed in few rats in 
a 6 months toxicity study at irbesartan 90 mg/kg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 90 mg/kg/day, and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 10/10 mg/kg/day. These lesions were not observed in macaques; 
decreases in serum potassium due to hydrochlorothiazide and partly prevented when 
hydrochlorothiazide was given in combination with irbesartan. 
• 
• 
• 
Most of the above mentioned effects appear to be due to the pharmacological activity of irbesartan 
(blockade of angiotensin II-induced inhibition of renin release, with stimulation of the renin-producing 
cells) and occur also with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. These findings appear to have no 
relevance to the use of therapeutic doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in humans. 
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats given irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination at 
doses that produced maternal toxicity. The effects of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
on fertility have not been evaluated in animal studies, as there is no evidence of adverse effect on 
fertility in animals or humans with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide when administered alone. 
However, another angiotensin II antagonist affected fertility parameters in animal studies when given 
alone. These findings were also observed with lower doses of this other angiotensin II antagonist when 
given in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity with the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination. The carcinogenic potential of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination has not 
been evaluated in animal studies. 
Irbesartan 
There was no evidence of abnormal systemic or target organ toxicity at clinically relevant doses. In 
non-clinical safety studies, high doses of irbesartan (≥ 250 mg/kg/day in rats and ≥ 100 mg/kg/day in 
macaques) caused a reduction of red blood cell parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit). 
At very high doses (≥ 500 mg/kg/day) degenerative changes in the kidneys (such as interstitial 
nephritis, tubular distention, basophilic tubules, increased plasma concentrations of urea and 
creatinine) were induced by irbesartan in the rat and the macaque and are considered secondary to the 
hypotensive effects of the medicinal product which led to decreased renal perfusion. Furthermore, 
irbesartan induced hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular cells (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg/day, in 
macaques at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day). All of these changes were considered to be caused by the 
pharmacological action of irbesartan. For therapeutic doses of irbesartan in humans, the 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the renal juxtaglomerular cells does not appear to have any relevance. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity, clastogenicity or carcinogenicity. 
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected in studies of male and female rats even at 
oral doses of irbesartan causing some parental toxicity (from 50 to 650 mg/kg/day), including 
mortality at the highest dose. No significant effects on the number of corpora lutea, implants, or live 
foetuses were observed. Irbesartan did not affect survival, development, or reproduction of offspring. 
Studies in animals indicate that the radiolabelled irbesartan is detected in rat and rabbit foetuses. 
Irbesartan is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. 
Animal studies with irbesartan showed transient toxic effects (increased renal pelvic cavitation, 
hydroureter or subcutaneous oedema) in rat foetuses, which were resolved after birth. In rabbits, 
abortion or early resorption was noted at doses causing significant maternal toxicity, including 
mortality. No teratogenic effects were observed in the rat or rabbit. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Equivocal evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect was found in some experimental models. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate 
Colloidal hydrated silica 
Pregelatinised maize starch 
Red and yellow ferric oxides (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons of 14 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 28 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 98 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 x 1 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/001-005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 January 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 27 February 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains 300 mg of irbesartan and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 65.8 mg of lactose (as lactose monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Tablet. 
Peach, biconvex, oval-shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2776 engraved on the 
other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken once daily, with or without food.  
Dose titration with the individual components (i.e. irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may be 
recommended. 
When clinically appropriate direct change from monotherapy to the fixed combinations may be 
considered: 
• 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients whose 
blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide or irbesartan 150 mg 
alone; 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by irbesartan 300 mg or by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg. 
• 
• 
Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily are not recommended. 
When necessary, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be administered with another 
antihypertensive medicinal product (see sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not 
recommended for patients with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). Loop 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diuretics are preferred to thiazides in this population. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients 
with renal impairment whose renal creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not indicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. No dosage 
adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in the elderly. 
Paediatric population  
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for use in children and adolescents 
because the safety and efficacy have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to 
other sulfonamide-derived substances (hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide-derived substance) 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) 
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis 
The concomitant use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with aliskiren-containing 
products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m²) (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypotension - Volume-depleted patients 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva has been rarely associated with symptomatic hypotension in 
hypertensive patients without other risk factors for hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension may be 
expected to occur in patients who are volume and/or sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such conditions should be corrected before initiating 
therapy with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Renal artery stenosis - Renovascular hypertension 
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. While this is not documented with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, a similar effect should be anticipated. 
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation 
When Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used in patients with impaired renal function, a 
periodic monitoring of potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. There is no 
experience regarding the administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with a 
recent kidney transplantation. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be used in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). Thiazide diuretic-
associated azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function. No dosage adjustment is 
necessary in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance is ≥ 30 ml/min. However, in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 30 ml/min but <60 ml/min) 
this fixed dose combination should be administered with caution. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin 
II receptor blockers or aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). If dual 
blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy. 
Hepatic impairment 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver 
disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. There is 
no clinical experience with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with hepatic 
impairment. 
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Primary aldosteronism 
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended. 
Metabolic and endocrine effects 
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during 
thiazide therapy. Irbesartan may induce hypoglycaemia, particularly in diabetic patients. In patients 
treated with insulin or antidiabetics an appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be considered; a 
dose adjustment of inslulin or antidiabetics may be required when indicated (see section 4.5).  
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however at the 12.5 mg dose contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, minimal or no 
effects were reported. 
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide 
therapy. 
Electrolyte imbalance 
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals. 
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance are 
dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or cramps, 
muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea 
or vomiting. 
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
irbesartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greatest in patients 
with cirrhosis of the liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving 
inadequate oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with 
corticosteroids or ACTH. Conversely, due to the irbesartan component of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva hyperkalaemia might occur, especially in the presence of renal 
impairment and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in 
patients at risk is recommended. Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or potassium-
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
containing salts substitutes should be co-administered cautiously with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva (see section 4.5). 
There is no evidence that irbesartan would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. Chloride 
deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment. 
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function. 
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnaesemia. 
Lithium 
The combination of lithium and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
Anti-doping test 
Hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicinal product could produce a positive analytic result in an 
anti-doping test. 
General 
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute hypotension, 
azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any antihypertensive agent, 
excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischemic cardiopathy or ischemic cardiovascular 
disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of 
allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics. 
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides diuretics (see section 4.8). If 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA. 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless 
continued AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if 
appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Choroidal effusion, acute myopia and secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma 
Sulfonamide or sulfonamide derivative drugs can cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. While 
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide, only isolated cases of acute angle-closure glaucoma have been 
reported so far with hydrochlorothiazide. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or 
ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure 
glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue drug intake as 
rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include 
a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy (see section 4.8). 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) exposure has 
been observed in two epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. 
Photosensitizing actions of HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC. 
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their 
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimize the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8). 
Acute respiratory toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered to patients who previously experienced ARDS 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake. 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Other antihypertensive agents 
The antihypertensive effect of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be increased with the 
concomitant use of other antihypertensive agents. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide (at doses up to 
300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) have been safely administered with other 
antihypertensive agents including calcium channel blockers and beta-adrenergic blockers. Prior 
treatment with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when 
initiating therapy with irbesartan with or without thiazide diuretics unless the volume depletion is 
corrected first (see section 4.4). 
Aliskiren-containing products or ACE-inhibitors 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects 
have been very rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Furthermore, renal clearance of lithium is 
reduced by thiazides so the risk of lithium toxicity could be increased with Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Therefore, the combination of lithium and Irbesartan 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see section 4.4). If the combination proves 
necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 
Medicinal products affecting potassium 
The potassium-depleting effect of hydrochlorothiazide is attenuated by the potassium-sparing effect of 
irbesartan. However, this effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium would be expected to be 
potentiated by other medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other 
kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium). Conversely, based 
on the experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, 
concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g. heparin sodium) 
may lead to increases in serum potassium. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in patients at risk 
is recommended (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium is recommended when Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
(e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non-steroidal anti- 
inflammatory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>3 g/day) and non-selective 
NSAIDs), attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. 
As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in 
serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal function. The combination should 
be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter. 
Repaglinide 
Irbesartan has the potential to inhibit OATP1B1. In a clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan 
increased the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 1.3-fold, 
respectively, when administered 1 hour before repaglinide. In another study, no relevant 
pharmacokinetic interaction was reported, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose 
adjustment of antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide may be required (see section 4.4). 
Additional information on irbesartan interactions 
In clinical studies, the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan 
is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant 
pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered 
with warfarin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as 
rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of 
digoxin was not altered by co-administration of irbesartan. 
Additional information on hydrochlorothiazide interactions 
When administered concurrently, the following medicinal products may interact with thiazide 
diuretics: 
Alcohol: potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur; 
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulins): dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic 
medicinal product may be required (see section 4.4); 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colestyramine and Colestipol resins: absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of 
anionic exchange resins. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be taken at least one hour 
before or four hours after these medications; 
Corticosteroids, ACTH: electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalaemia, may be increased; 
Digitalis glycosides: thiazide induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnaesemia favour the onset of 
digitalis-induced cardiac arrhythmias (see section 4.4); 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics in some patients; 
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline): the effect of pressor amines may be decreased, but not 
sufficiently to preclude their use; 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine): the effect of nondepolarizing skeletal 
muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide; 
Antigout medicinal products: dosage adjustments of antigout medicinal products may be necessary as 
hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or 
sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of thiazide diuretics may increase the incidence 
of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol; 
Calcium salts: thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to decreased excretion. If 
calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be 
prescribed, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly; 
Carbamazepine: concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with 
the risk of symptomatic hyponatraemia. Electrolytes should be monitored during concomitant use. If 
possible, another class of diuretics should be used; 
Other interactions: the hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by 
thiazides. Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, beperiden) may increase the bioavailability of 
thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate. Thiazides 
may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine. Thiazides may reduce the renal 
excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
The use of AIIRAs is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy (see section 4.4). The 
use of AIIRAs is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with Angiotensin II 
Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs), similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued 
AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative 
antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When 
pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, 
alternative therapy should be started. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to AIIRA therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3). 
Should exposure to AIIRAs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check 
of renal function and skull is recommended. 
Infants whose mothers have taken AIIRAs should be closely observed for hypotension (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
There is limited experience with hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy, especially during the first 
trimester. Animal studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the 
pharmacological mechanism of action of hydrochlorothiazide its use during the second and third 
trimester may compromise foeto-placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like 
icterus, disturbance of electrolyte balance and thrombocytopenia. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used. 
Since Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains hydrochlorothiazide, it is not recommended 
during the first trimester of pregnancy. A switch to a suitable alternative treatment should be carried 
out in advance of a planned pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
Because no information is available regarding the use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended and alternative 
treatments with better established safety profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while 
nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
It is unknown whether irbesartan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in rats have shown excretion of irbesartan or its 
metabolites in milk (for details see 5.3). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding is not recommended. If Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used during 
breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as possible. 
Fertility 
Irbesartan had no effect upon fertility of treated rats and their offspring up to the dose levels inducing 
the first signs of parental toxicity (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Based on its pharmacodynamic properties, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect 
the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken 
into account that occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of hypertension. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
Among 898 hypertensive patients who received various doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
(range: 37.5 mg/6.25 mg to 300 mg/25 mg) in placebo-controlled trials, 29.5% of the patients 
experienced adverse reactions. The most commonly reported ADRs were dizziness (5.6%), fatigue 
(4.9%), nausea/vomiting (1.8%), and abnormal urination (1.4%). In addition, increases in blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) (2.3%), creatine kinase (1.7%) and creatinine (1.1%) were also commonly observed in 
the trials. 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
trials. 
The frequency of adverse reactions listed below is defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Trials and Spontaneous Reports 
Investigations: 
Common: 
increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 
creatinine and creatine kinase 
Cardiac disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Reproductive  system  and  breast 
disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
decreases in serum potassium and sodium 
syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, oedema 
dizziness 
orthostatic dizziness 
headache 
tinnitus 
cough 
nausea/vomiting 
diarrhoea 
dyspepsia, dysgeusia 
abnormal urination 
impaired renal function including isolated 
cases of renal failure in patients at risk (see 
section 4.4) 
swelling extremity 
arthralgia, myalgia 
hyperkalaemia 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
flushing 
fatigue 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
cases of hypersensitivity reactions such as 
angioedema, rash, urticaria 
jaundice 
hepatitis, abnormal liver function 
sexual dysfunction, libido changes 
Additional information on individual components 
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above for the combination product, other adverse reactions 
previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Tables 2 and 3 below detail the adverse reactions reported 
with the individual components of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported with the use of irbesartan alone 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
chest pain 
Not known: 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Not known: 
anaphylactic reaction including anaphylactic 
shock 
hypoglycaemia 
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Investigations: 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders: 
Not known: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Not known: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
electrolyte imbalance (including hypokalaemia 
and hyponatraemia, see section 4.4), 
hyperuricaemia, glycosuria, hyperglycaemia, 
increases in cholesterol and triglycerides 
cardiac arrhythmias 
aplastic anaemia, bone marrow depression, 
neutropenia/agranulocytosis, haemolytic 
anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
vertigo, paraesthesia, light-headedness, 
restlessness 
transient blurred vision, xanthopsia, acute 
myopia and secondary acute angle-closure 
glaucoma, choroidal effusion 
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
(see section 4.4) 
respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and 
pulmonary oedema) 
pancreatitis, anorexia, diarrhoea, constipation, 
gastric irritation, sialadenitis, loss of appetite 
interstitial nephritis, renal dysfunction 
anaphylactic reactions, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, necrotizing angitis (vasculitis, 
cutaneous vasculitis), cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus-like reactions, reactivation of 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus, 
photosensitivity reactions, rash, urticaria 
weakness, muscle spasm 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
postural hypotension 
fever 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice) 
depression, sleep disturbances 
non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The dose dependent adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide (particularly electrolyte disturbances) may 
increase when titrating the hydrochlorothiazide. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. The patient should be closely monitored, and the treatment should be symptomatic and 
supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion and the severity of the symptoms. 
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric lavage. Activated charcoal may be 
useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be monitored frequently. 
If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, with salt and volume 
replacements given quickly. 
The most likely manifestations of irbesartan overdose are expected to be hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia might also occur. 
Overdose with hydrochlorothiazide is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloremia, hyponatraemia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common 
signs and symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle 
spasms and/or accentuate cardiac arrhythmias associated with the concomitant use of digitalis 
glycosides or certain anti-arrhythmic medicinal products. 
Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by 
haemodialysis has not been established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) and diuretics, ATC code: 
C09DA04 
Mechanism of action 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, 
irbesartan, and a thiazide diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an 
additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component 
alone. 
Irbesartan is a potent, orally active, selective angiotensin II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist. It is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors 
results in increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin II levels, and a decrease in plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the recommended doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Irbesartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin II and also 
degrades bradykinin into inactive metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its 
activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, 
directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The 
diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of irbesartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at 
about 4 hours, while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours. 
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in 
blood pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 
300 mg irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted 
in further placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 
6.1 mm Hg. The combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in an 
overall placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of up to 13.6/11.5 mm Hg. 
Limited clinical data (7 out of 22 patients) suggest that patients not controlled with the 
300 mg/12.5 mg combination may respond when uptitrated to 300 mg/25 mg. In these patients, an 
incremental blood pressure lowering effect was observed for both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (13.3 and 8.3 mm Hg, respectively). 
Once daily dosing with 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide gave systolic/diastolic 
mean placebo-adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 12.9/6.9 mm Hg 
in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Peak effects occurred at 3-6 hours. When assessed by 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the combination 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide once daily produced consistent reduction in blood pressure over the 24 hours 
period with mean 24-hour placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of 15.8/10.0 mm Hg. When 
measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the trough to peak effects of 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg were 100%. The trough to peak effects measured by 
cuff during office visits were 68% and 76% for irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/12.5 mg, respectively. These 24-hour effects were observed 
without excessive blood pressure lowering at peak and are consistent with safe and effective blood-
pressure lowering over the once-daily dosing interval. 
In patients not adequately controlled on 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide alone, the addition of irbesartan 
gave an added placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic mean reduction of 11.1/7.2 mm Hg. 
The blood pressure lowering effect of irbesartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide is apparent 
after the first dose and substantially present within 1-2 weeks, with the maximal effect occurring by 
6-8 weeks. In long-term follow-up studies, the effect of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was maintained 
for over one year. Although not specifically studied with the Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, 
rebound hypertension has not been seen with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide. 
The effect of the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide on morbidity and mortality has 
not been studied. Epidemiological studies have shown that long term treatment with 
hydrochlorothiazide reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. 
There is no difference in response to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, regardless of age or gender. As is 
the case with other medicinal products that affect the renin-angiotensin system, black hypertensive 
patients have notably less response to irbesartan monotherapy. When irbesartan is administered 
concomitantly with a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide (e.g. 12.5 mg daily), the antihypertensive 
response in black patients approaches that of non-black patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for severe hypertension 
(defined as SeDBP ≥ 110 mmHg) was evaluated in a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, active-
controlled, 8-week, parallel-arm study. A total of 697 patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg or to irbesartan 150 mg and systematically force-
titrated (before assessing the response to the lower dose) after one week to 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/25 mg or irbesartan 300 mg, respectively. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study recruited 58% males. The mean age of patients was 52.5 years, 13% were ≥ 65 years of age, 
and just 2% were ≥ 75 years of age. Twelve percent (12%) of patients were diabetic, 34% were 
hyperlipidemic and the most frequent cardiovascular condition was stable angina pectoris in 3.5% of 
the participants. 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the proportion of patients whose SeDBP was 
controlled (SeDBP < 90 mmHg) at Week 5 of treatment. Forty-seven percent (47.2%) of patients on 
the combination achieved trough SeDBP < 90 mmHg compared to 33.2% of patients on irbesartan 
(p = 0.0005). The mean baseline blood pressure was approximately 172/113 mmHg in each treatment 
group and decreases of SeSBP/SeDBP at five weeks were 30.8/24.0 mmHg and 21.1/19.3 mmHg for 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan, respectively (p < 0.0001). 
The types and incidences of adverse events reported for patients treated with the combination were 
similar to the adverse event profile for patients on monotherapy. During the 8-week treatment period, 
there were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 0.6% and 0% of patients 
with hypotension and 2.8% and 3.1% of patients with dizziness as adverse reactions reported in the 
combination and monotherapy groups, respectively. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker. ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of 
cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of 
end-organ damage. VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
diabetic nephropathy. 
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy. 
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dosedependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 (95% CI: 1.23-
1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose response relationship 
was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible association between lip cancer 
(SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched with 63,067 population controls, 
using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response relationship was demonstrated with an 
adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 
7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose (~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4). 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan has no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of either medicinal product. 
Absorption 
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are orally active agents and do not require biotransformation for 
their activity. Following oral administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, the absolute 
oral bioavailability is 60-80% and 50-80% for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. Food 
does not affect the bioavailability of Irbesartan hydrochlorothiazide. Peak plasma concentration occurs 
at 1.5-2 hours after oral administration for irbesartan and 1-2.5 hours for hydrochlorothiazide. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding of irbesartan is approximately 96%, with negligible binding to cellular blood 
components. The volume of distribution for irbesartan is 53-93 litres. Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% 
protein-bound in the plasma, and its apparent volume of distribution is 0.83-1.14 l/kg. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Irbesartan exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg. 
A less than proportional increase in oral absorption at doses beyond 600 mg was observed; the 
mechanism for this is unknown. The total body and renal clearance are 157-176 and 3.0-3.5 ml/min, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of irbesartan is 11-15 hours. Steady-state plasma 
concentrations are attained within 3 days after initiation of a once-daily dosing regimen. Limited 
accumulation of irbesartan (< 20%) is observed in plasma upon repeated once-daily dosing. In a study, 
somewhat higher plasma concentrations of irbesartan were observed in female hypertensive patients. 
However, there was no difference in the half-life and accumulation of irbesartan. No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in female patients. Irbesartan AUC and Cmax values were also somewhat 
greater in older subjects (≥ 65 years) than those of young subjects (18-40 years). However the terminal 
half-life was not significantly altered. No dosage adjustment is necessary in older people. The mean 
plasma half-life of hydrochlorothiazide reportedly ranges from 5-15 hours. 
Biotransformation 
Following oral or intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, 80-85% of the circulating plasma 
radioactivity is attributable to unchanged irbesartan. Irbesartan is metabolised by the liver via 
glucuronide conjugation and oxidation. The major circulating metabolite is irbesartan glucuronide 
(approximately 6%). In vitro studies indicate that irbesartan is primarily oxidised by the 
cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9; isoenzyme CYP3A4 has negligible effect.  
Elimination 
Irbesartan and its metabolites are eliminated by both biliary and renal pathways. After either oral or 
intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, about 20% of the radioactivity is recovered in the urine, 
and the remainder in the faeces. Less than 2% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged 
irbesartan. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidneys. At least 
61% of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the 
placental but not the blood-brain barrier, and is excreted in breast milk. 
Renal impairment 
In patients with renal impairment or those undergoing haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetic parameters 
of irbesartan are not significantly altered. Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. In patients with 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min, the elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was reported to 
increase to 21 hours. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of irbesartan are not 
significantly altered. Studies have not been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The potential toxicity of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination after oral administration was 
evaluated in rats and macaques in studies lasting up to 6 months. There were no toxicological findings 
observed of relevance to human therapeutic use. 
The following changes, observed in rats and macaques receiving the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination at 10/10 and 90/90 mg/kg/day, were also seen with one of the two medicinal products 
alone and/or were secondary to decreases in blood pressure (no significant toxicologic interactions 
were observed): 
• 
kidney changes, characterized by slight increases in serum urea and creatinine, and 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, which are a direct consequence of the 
interaction of irbesartan with the renin-angiotensin system; 
slight decreases in erythrocyte parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit); 
stomach discoloration, ulcers and focal necrosis of gastric mucosa were observed in few rats in 
a 6 months toxicity study at irbesartan 90 mg/kg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 90 mg/kg/day, and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 10/10 mg/kg/day. These lesions were not observed in macaques; 
decreases in serum potassium due to hydrochlorothiazide and partly prevented when 
hydrochlorothiazide was given in combination with irbesartan. 
• 
• 
• 
Most of the above mentioned effects appear to be due to the pharmacological activity of irbesartan 
(blockade of angiotensin II-induced inhibition of renin release, with stimulation of the renin-producing 
cells) and occur also with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. These findings appear to have no 
relevance to the use of therapeutic doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in humans. 
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats given irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination at 
doses that produced maternal toxicity. The effects of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
on fertility have not been evaluated in animal studies, as there is no evidence of adverse effect on 
fertility in animals or humans with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide when administered alone. 
However, another angiotensin II antagonist affected fertility parameters in animal studies when given 
alone. These findings were also observed with lower doses of this other angiotensin II antagonist when 
given in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity with the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination. The carcinogenic potential of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination has not 
been evaluated in animal studies. 
Irbesartan 
There was no evidence of abnormal systemic or target organ toxicity at clinically relevant doses. In 
non-clinical safety studies, high doses of irbesartan (≥ 250 mg/kg/day in rats and ≥ 100 mg/kg/day in 
macaques) caused a reduction of red blood cell parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit). 
At very high doses (≥ 500 mg/kg/day) degenerative changes in the kidneys (such as interstitial 
nephritis, tubular distention, basophilic tubules, increased plasma concentrations of urea and 
creatinine) were induced by irbesartan in the rat and the macaque and are considered secondary to the 
hypotensive effects of the medicinal product which led to decreased renal perfusion. Furthermore, 
irbesartan induced hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular cells (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg/day, in 
macaques at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day). All of these changes were considered to be caused by the 
pharmacological action of irbesartan. For therapeutic doses of irbesartan in humans, the 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the renal juxtaglomerular cells does not appear to have any relevance. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity, clastogenicity or carcinogenicity. 
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected in studies of male and female rats even at 
oral doses of irbesartan causing some parental toxicity (from 50 to 650 mg/kg/day), including 
mortality at the highest dose. No significant effects on the number of corpora lutea, implants, or live 
foetuses were observed. Irbesartan did not affect survival, development, or reproduction of offspring. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in animals indicate that the radiolabelled irbesartan is detected in rat and rabbit foetuses. 
Irbesartan is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. 
Animal studies with irbesartan showed transient toxic effects (increased renal pelvic cavitation, 
hydroureter or subcutaneous oedema) in rat foetuses, which were resolved after birth. In rabbits, 
abortion or early resorption was noted at doses causing significant maternal toxicity, including 
mortality. No teratogenic effects were observed in the rat or rabbit. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Equivocal evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect was found in some experimental models. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate 
Colloidal hydrated silica 
Pregelatinised maize starch 
Red and yellow ferric oxides (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons of 14 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 28 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 98 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 x 1 tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/006-010 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 January 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 27 February 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of irbesartan and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 38.5 mg of lactose (as lactose monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Peach, biconvex, oval-shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2875 engraved on the 
other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken once daily, with or without food.  
Dose titration with the individual components (i.e. irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may be 
recommended. 
When clinically appropriate direct change from monotherapy to the fixed combinations may be 
considered: 
• 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients whose 
blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide or irbesartan 150 mg 
alone; 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by irbesartan 300 mg or by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg. 
• 
• 
Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily are not recommended. 
When necessary, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be administered with another 
antihypertensive medicinal product (see sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not 
recommended for patients with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). Loop 
diuretics are preferred to thiazides in this population. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients 
with renal impairment whose renal creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not indicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. No dosage 
adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for use in children and adolescents 
because the safety and efficacy have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to 
other sulfonamide-derived substances (hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide-derived substance) 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) 
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis 
The concomitant use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with aliskiren-containing 
products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m²) (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypotension - Volume-depleted patients 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva has been rarely associated with symptomatic hypotension in 
hypertensive patients without other risk factors for hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension may be 
expected to occur in patients who are volume and/or sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such conditions should be corrected before initiating 
therapy with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Renal artery stenosis - Renovascular hypertension 
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin-II receptor antagonists. While this is not documented with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, a similar effect should be anticipated. 
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation 
When Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used in patients with impaired renal function, a 
periodic monitoring of potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. There is no 
experience regarding the administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with a 
recent kidney transplantation. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be used in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). Thiazide diuretic-
associated azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function. No dosage adjustment is 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
necessary in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance is ≥ 30 ml/min. However, in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 30 ml/min but <60 ml/min) 
this fixed dose combination should be administered with caution. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin 
II receptor blockers or aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). If dual 
blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy. 
Hepatic impairment 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver 
disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. There is 
no clinical experience with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with hepatic 
impairment. 
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Primary aldosteronism 
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended. 
Metabolic and endocrine effects 
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during 
thiazide therapy. Irbesartan may induce hypoglycaemia, particularly in diabetic patients. In patients 
treated with insulin or antidiabetics an appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be considered; a 
dose adjustment of inslulin or antidiabetics may be required when indicated (see section 4.5).  
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however at the 12.5 mg dose contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, minimal or no 
effects were reported. 
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide 
therapy. 
Electrolyte imbalance 
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals. 
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance are 
dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or cramps, 
muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea 
or vomiting. 
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
irbesartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greatest in patients 
with cirrhosis of the liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving 
inadequate oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with 
corticosteroids or ACTH. Conversely, due to the irbesartan component of Irbesartan 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva hyperkalaemia might occur, especially in the presence of renal 
impairment and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in 
patients at risk is recommended. Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or potassium-
containing salts substitutes should be co-administered cautiously with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva (see section 4.5). 
There is no evidence that irbesartan would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. Chloride 
deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment. 
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function. 
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnaesemia. 
Lithium 
The combination of lithium and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
Anti-doping test 
Hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicinal product could produce a positive analytic result in an 
anti-doping test. 
General 
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute hypotension, 
azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any antihypertensive agent, 
excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischemic cardiopathy or ischemic cardiovascular 
disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of 
allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics. 
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides diuretics (see section 4.8). If 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA. 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless 
continued AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if 
appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Choroidal effusion, acute myopia and secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma 
Sulfonamide or sulfonamide derivative drugs can cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. While 
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide, only isolated cases of acute angle-closure glaucoma have been 
reported so far with hydrochlorothiazide. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure 
glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue drug intake as 
rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular 
pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include 
a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy (see section 4.8). 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) exposure has 
been observed in two epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. 
Photosensitizing actions of HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC. 
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their 
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimize the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8). 
Acute respiratory toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered to patients who previously experienced ARDS 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake. 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Other antihypertensive agents 
The antihypertensive effect of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be increased with the 
concomitant use of other antihypertensive agents. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide (at doses up to 
300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) have been safely administered with other 
antihypertensive agents including calcium channel blockers and beta-adrenergic blockers. Prior 
treatment with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when 
initiating therapy with irbesartan with or without thiazide diuretics unless the volume depletion is 
corrected first (see section 4.4). 
Aliskiren-containing products or ACE-inhibitors 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have been very rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Furthermore, renal clearance of lithium is 
reduced by thiazides so the risk of lithium toxicity could be increased with Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Therefore, the combination of lithium and Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see section 4.4). If the combination proves 
necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 
Medicinal products affecting potassium 
The potassium-depleting effect of hydrochlorothiazide is attenuated by the potassium-sparing effect of 
irbesartan. However, this effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium would be expected to be 
potentiated by other medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other 
kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium). Conversely, based 
on the experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, 
concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g. heparin sodium) 
may lead to increases in serum potassium. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in patients at risk 
is recommended (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium is recommended when Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
(e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non-steroidal anti- 
inflammatory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (> 3 g/day) and non-selective 
NSAIDs), attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. 
As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in 
serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal function. The combination should 
be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter. 
Repaglinide 
Irbesartan has the potential to inhibit OATP1B1. In a clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan 
increased the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 1.3-fold, 
respectively, when administered 1 hour before repaglinide. In another study, no relevant 
pharmacokinetic interaction was reported, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose 
adjustment of antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide may be required (see section 4.4). 
Additional information on irbesartan interactions 
In clinical studies, the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan 
is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant 
pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered 
with warfarin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as 
rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of 
digoxin was not altered by co-administration of irbesartan. 
Additional information on hydrochlorothiazide interactions 
When administered concurrently, the following medicinal products may interact with thiazide 
diuretics: 
Alcohol: potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur; 
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulins): dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic 
medicinal product may be required (see section 4.4); 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colestyramine and Colestipol resins: absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of 
anionic exchange resins. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be taken at least one hour 
before or four hours after these medications; 
Corticosteroids, ACTH: electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalaemia, may be increased; 
Digitalis glycosides: thiazide induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnaesemia favour the onset of 
digitalis-induced cardiac arrhythmias (see section 4.4); 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics in some patients; 
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline): the effect of pressor amines may be decreased, but not 
sufficiently to preclude their use; 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine): the effect of nondepolarizing skeletal 
muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide; 
Antigout medicinal products: dosage adjustments of antigout medicinal products may be necessary as 
hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or 
sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of thiazide diuretics may increase the incidence 
of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol; 
Calcium salts: thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to decreased excretion. If 
calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be 
prescribed, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly; 
Carbamazepine: concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with 
the risk of symptomatic hyponatraemia. Electrolytes should be monitored during concomitant use. If 
possible, another class of diuretics should be used; 
Other interactions: the hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by 
thiazides. Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, beperiden) may increase the bioavailability of 
thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate. Thiazides 
may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine. Thiazides may reduce the renal 
excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
The use of AIIRAs is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy (see section 4.4). The 
use of AIIRAs is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with Angiotensin II 
Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs), similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued 
AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative 
antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When 
pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, 
alternative therapy should be started. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to AIIRA therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3). 
Should exposure to AIIRAs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check 
of renal function and skull is recommended. 
Infants whose mothers have taken AIIRAs should be closely observed for hypotension (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
There is limited experience with hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy, especially during the first 
trimester. Animal studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the 
pharmacological mechanism of action of hydrochlorothiazide its use during the second and third 
trimester may compromise foeto-placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like 
icterus, disturbance of electrolyte balance and thrombocytopenia. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used. 
Since Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains hydrochlorothiazide, it is not recommended 
during the first trimester of pregnancy. A switch to a suitable alternative treatment should be carried 
out in advance of a planned pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
Because no information is available regarding the use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended and alternative 
treatments with better established safety profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while 
nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
It is unknown whether irbesartan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in rats have shown excretion of irbesartan or its 
metabolites in milk (for details see 5.3). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding is not recommended. If Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used during 
breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as possible. 
Fertility 
Irbesartan had no effect upon fertility of treated rats and their offspring up to the dose levels inducing 
the first signs of parental toxicity (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Based on its pharmacodynamic properties, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect 
the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken 
into account that occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of hypertension. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
Among 898 hypertensive patients who received various doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
(range: 37.5 mg/6.25 mg to 300 mg/25 mg) in placebo-controlled trials, 29.5% of the patients 
experienced adverse reactions. The most commonly reported ADRs were dizziness (5.6%), fatigue 
(4.9%), nausea/vomiting (1.8%), and abnormal urination (1.4%). In addition, increases in blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) (2.3%), creatine kinase (1.7%) and creatinine (1.1%) were also commonly observed in 
the trials. 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
trials. 
The frequency of adverse reactions listed below is defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Trials and Spontaneous Reports 
Investigations: 
Common: 
increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 
creatinine and creatine kinase 
Cardiac disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
decreases in serum potassium and sodium 
syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, oedema 
dizziness 
orthostatic dizziness 
headache 
tinnitus 
cough 
nausea/vomiting 
diarrhoea 
dyspepsia, dysgeusia 
abnormal urination 
impaired renal function including isolated cases 
of renal failure in patients at risk (see 
section 4.4) 
swelling extremity 
arthralgia, myalgia 
hyperkalaemia 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
flushing 
fatigue 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
cases of hypersensitivity reactions such as 
angioedema, rash, urticaria 
jaundice 
hepatitis, abnormal liver function 
sexual dysfunction, libido changes 
Additional information on individual components 
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above for the combination product, other adverse reactions 
previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Tables 2 and 3 below detail the adverse reactions reported 
with the individual components of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported with the use of irbesartan alone 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
chest pain 
Not known: 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Not known: 
anaphylactic reaction including anaphylactic 
shock 
hypoglycaemia 
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Investigations: 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders: 
Not known: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Not known: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
electrolyte imbalance (including hypokalaemia 
and hyponatraemia, see section 4.4), 
hyperuricaemia, glycosuria, hyperglycaemia, 
increases in cholesterol and triglycerides 
cardiac arrhythmias 
aplastic anaemia, bone marrow depression, 
neutropenia/agranulocytosis, haemolytic 
anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
vertigo, paraesthesia, light-headedness, 
restlessness 
transient blurred vision, xanthopsia, acute 
myopia and secondary acute angle-closure 
glaucoma, choroidal effusion 
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
(see section 4.4) 
respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and 
pulmonary oedema) 
pancreatitis, anorexia, diarrhoea, constipation, 
gastric irritation, sialadenitis, loss of appetite 
interstitial nephritis, renal dysfunction 
anaphylactic reactions, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, necrotizing angitis (vasculitis, 
cutaneous vasculitis), cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus-like reactions, reactivation of 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus, photosensitivity 
reactions, rash, urticaria 
weakness, muscle spasm 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
postural hypotension 
fever 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice) 
depression, sleep disturbances 
non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The dose dependent adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide (particularly electrolyte disturbances) may 
increase when titrating the hydrochlorothiazide. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. The patient should be closely monitored, and the treatment should be symptomatic and 
supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion and the severity of the symptoms. 
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric lavage. Activated charcoal may be 
useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be monitored frequently. 
If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, with salt and volume 
replacements given quickly. 
The most likely manifestations of irbesartan overdose are expected to be hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia might also occur. 
Overdose with hydrochlorothiazide is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloremia, hyponatraemia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common 
signs and symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle 
spasms and/or accentuate cardiac arrhythmias associated with the concomitant use of digitalis 
glycosides or certain anti-arrhythmic medicinal products. 
Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by 
haemodialysis has not been established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) and diuretics, ATC code: 
C09DA04 
Mechanism of action 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, 
irbesartan, and a thiazide diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an 
additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component 
alone. 
Irbesartan is a potent, orally active, selective angiotensin II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist. It is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors 
results in increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin II levels, and a decrease in plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the recommended doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Irbesartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin II and also 
degrades bradykinin into inactive metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its 
activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, 
directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The 
diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of irbesartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at 
about 4 hours, while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours. 
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in 
blood pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 
300 mg irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted 
in further placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 
6.1 mm Hg. The combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in an 
overall placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of up to 13.6/11.5 mm Hg. 
Limited clinical data (7 out of 22 patients) suggest that patients not controlled with the 
300 mg/12.5 mg combination may respond when uptitrated to 300 mg/25 mg. In these patients, an 
incremental blood pressure lowering effect was observed for both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (13.3 and 8.3 mm Hg, respectively). 
Once daily dosing with 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide gave systolic/diastolic 
mean placebo-adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 12.9/6.9 mm Hg 
in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Peak effects occurred at 3-6 hours. When assessed by 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the combination 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide once daily produced consistent reduction in blood pressure over the 24 hours 
period with mean 24-hour placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of 15.8/10.0 mm Hg. When 
measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the trough to peak effects of 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg were 100%. The trough to peak effects measured by 
cuff during office visits were 68% and 76% for irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/12.5 mg, respectively. These 24-hour effects were observed 
without excessive blood pressure lowering at peak and are consistent with safe and effective blood-
pressure lowering over the once-daily dosing interval. 
In patients not adequately controlled on 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide alone, the addition of irbesartan 
gave an added placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic mean reduction of 11.1/7.2 mm Hg. 
The blood pressure lowering effect of irbesartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide is apparent 
after the first dose and substantially present within 1-2 weeks, with the maximal effect occurring by 
6-8 weeks. In long-term follow-up studies, the effect of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was maintained 
for over one year. Although not specifically studied with the Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, 
rebound hypertension has not been seen with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide. 
The effect of the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide on morbidity and mortality has 
not been studied. Epidemiological studies have shown that long term treatment with 
hydrochlorothiazide reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. 
There is no difference in response to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, regardless of age or gender. As is 
the case with other medicinal products that affect the renin-angiotensin system, black hypertensive 
patients have notably less response to irbesartan monotherapy. When irbesartan is administered 
concomitantly with a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide (e.g. 12.5 mg daily), the antihypertensive 
response in black patients approaches that of non-black patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for severe hypertension 
(defined as SeDBP ≥ 110 mmHg) was evaluated in a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, active-
controlled, 8-week, parallel-arm study. A total of 697 patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg or to irbesartan 150 mg and systematically force-
titrated (before assessing the response to the lower dose) after one week to 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/25 mg or irbesartan 300 mg, respectively. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study recruited 58% males. The mean age of patients was 52.5 years, 13% were ≥ 65 years of age, 
and just 2% were ≥ 75 years of age. Twelve percent (12%) of patients were diabetic, 34% were 
hyperlipidemic and the most frequent cardiovascular condition was stable angina pectoris in 3.5% of 
the participants. 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the proportion of patients whose SeDBP was 
controlled (SeDBP < 90 mmHg) at Week 5 of treatment. Forty-seven percent (47.2%) of patients on 
the combination achieved trough SeDBP < 90 mmHg compared to 33.2% of patients on irbesartan 
(p = 0.0005). The mean baseline blood pressure was approximately 172/113 mmHg in each treatment 
group and decreases of SeSBP/SeDBP at five weeks were 30.8/24.0 mmHg and 21.1/19.3 mmHg for 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan, respectively (p < 0.0001). 
The types and incidences of adverse events reported for patients treated with the combination were 
similar to the adverse event profile for patients on monotherapy. During the 8-week treatment period, 
there were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 0.6% and 0% of patients 
with hypotension and 2.8% and 3.1% of patients with dizziness as adverse reactions reported in the 
combination and monotherapy groups, respectively. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker. ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of 
cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of 
end-organ damage. VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
diabetic nephropathy. 
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy. 
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dosedependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 (95% CI: 1.23-
1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose response relationship 
was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible association between lip cancer 
(SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched with 63,067 population controls, 
using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response relationship was demonstrated with an 
adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 
7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose (~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan has no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of either medicinal product. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are orally active agents and do not require biotransformation for 
their activity. Following oral administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, the absolute 
oral bioavailability is 60-80% and 50-80% for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. Food 
does not affect the bioavailability of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Peak plasma 
concentration occurs at 1.5-2 hours after oral administration for irbesartan and 1-2.5 hours for 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding of irbesartan is approximately 96%, with negligible binding to cellular blood 
components. The volume of distribution for irbesartan is 53-93 litres. Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% 
protein-bound in the plasma, and its apparent volume of distribution is 0.83-1.14 l/kg. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Irbesartan exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg. 
A less than proportional increase in oral absorption at doses beyond 600 mg was observed; the 
mechanism for this is unknown. The total body and renal clearance are 157-176 and 3.0-3.5 ml/min, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of irbesartan is 11-15 hours. Steady-state plasma 
concentrations are attained within 3 days after initiation of a once-daily dosing regimen. Limited 
accumulation of irbesartan (< 20%) is observed in plasma upon repeated once-daily dosing. In a study, 
somewhat higher plasma concentrations of irbesartan were observed in female hypertensive patients. 
However, there was no difference in the half-life and accumulation of irbesartan. No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in female patients. Irbesartan AUC and Cmax values were also somewhat 
greater in older subjects (≥ 65 years) than those of young subjects (18-40 years). However the terminal 
half-life was not significantly altered. No dosage adjustment is necessary in older people. The mean 
plasma half-life of hydrochlorothiazide reportedly ranges from 5-15 hours. 
Biotransformation 
Following oral or intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, 80-85% of the circulating plasma 
radioactivity is attributable to unchanged irbesartan. Irbesartan is metabolised by the liver via 
glucuronide conjugation and oxidation. The major circulating metabolite is irbesartan glucuronide 
(approximately 6%). In vitro studies indicate that irbesartan is primarily oxidised by the 
cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9; isoenzyme CYP3A4 has negligible effect.  
Elimination 
Irbesartan and its metabolites are eliminated by both biliary and renal pathways. After either oral or 
intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, about 20% of the radioactivity is recovered in the urine, 
and the remainder in the faeces. Less than 2% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged 
irbesartan. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidneys. At least 
61% of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the 
placental but not the blood-brain barrier, and is excreted in breast milk. 
Renal impairment 
In patients with renal impairment or those undergoing haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetic parameters 
of irbesartan are not significantly altered. Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. In patients with 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min, the elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was reported to 
increase to 21 hours. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of irbesartan are not 
significantly altered. Studies have not been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The potential toxicity of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination after oral administration was 
evaluated in rats and macaques in studies lasting up to 6 months. There were no toxicological findings 
observed of relevance to human therapeutic use. 
The following changes, observed in rats and macaques receiving the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination at 10/10 and 90/90 mg/kg/day, were also seen with one of the two medicinal products 
alone and/or were secondary to decreases in blood pressure (no significant toxicologic interactions 
were observed): 
• 
kidney changes, characterized by slight increases in serum urea and creatinine, and 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, which are a direct consequence of the 
interaction of irbesartan with the renin-angiotensin system; 
slight decreases in erythrocyte parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit); 
stomach discoloration, ulcers and focal necrosis of gastric mucosa were observed in few rats in 
a 6 months toxicity study at irbesartan 90 mg/kg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 90 mg/kg/day, and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 10/10 mg/kg/day. These lesions were not observed in macaques; 
decreases in serum potassium due to hydrochlorothiazide and partly prevented when 
hydrochlorothiazide was given in combination with irbesartan. 
• 
• 
• 
Most of the above mentioned effects appear to be due to the pharmacological activity of irbesartan 
(blockade of angiotensin II-induced inhibition of renin release, with stimulation of the renin-producing 
cells) and occur also with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. These findings appear to have no 
relevance to the use of therapeutic doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in humans. 
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats given irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination at 
doses that produced maternal toxicity. The effects of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
on fertility have not been evaluated in animal studies, as there is no evidence of adverse effect on 
fertility in animals or humans with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide when administered alone. 
However, another angiotensin II antagonist affected fertility parameters in animal studies when given 
alone. These findings were also observed with lower doses of this other angiotensin II antagonist when 
given in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity with the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination. The carcinogenic potential of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination has not 
been evaluated in animal studies. 
Irbesartan 
There was no evidence of abnormal systemic or target organ toxicity at clinically relevant doses. In 
non-clinical safety studies, high doses of irbesartan (≥ 250 mg/kg/day in rats and ≥ 100 mg/kg/day in 
macaques) caused a reduction of red blood cell parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit). 
At very high doses (≥ 500 mg/kg/day) degenerative changes in the kidneys (such as interstitial 
nephritis, tubular distention, basophilic tubules, increased plasma concentrations of urea and 
creatinine) were induced by irbesartan in the rat and the macaque and are considered secondary to the 
hypotensive effects of the medicinal product which led to decreased renal perfusion. Furthermore, 
irbesartan induced hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular cells (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg/day, in 
macaques at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day). All of these changes were considered to be caused by the 
pharmacological action of irbesartan. For therapeutic doses of irbesartan in humans, the 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the renal juxtaglomerular cells does not appear to have any relevance. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity, clastogenicity or carcinogenicity. 
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected in studies of male and female rats even at 
oral doses of irbesartan causing some parental toxicity (from 50 to 650 mg/kg/day), including 
mortality at the highest dose. No significant effects on the number of corpora lutea, implants, or live 
foetuses were observed. Irbesartan did not affect survival, development, or reproduction of offspring. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in animals indicate that the radiolabelled irbesartan is detected in rat and rabbit foetuses. 
Irbesartan is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. 
Animal studies with irbesartan showed transient toxic effects (increased renal pelvic cavitation, 
hydroureter or subcutaneous oedema) in rat foetuses, which were resolved after birth. In rabbits, 
abortion or early resorption was noted at doses causing significant maternal toxicity, including 
mortality. No teratogenic effects were observed in the rat or rabbit. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Equivocal evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect was found in some experimental models. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Hypromellose 
Silicon dioxide 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coating 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide 
Macrogol 3000 
Red and yellow ferric oxides 
Carnauba wax 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons of 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 28 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 30 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 84 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 90 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 98 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 x 1 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/011-016 
EU/1/06/377/029-030 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 January 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 27 February 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of irbesartan and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 89.5 mg of lactose (as lactose monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Peach, biconvex, oval-shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2876 engraved on the 
other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken once daily, with or without food.  
Dose titration with the individual components (i.e. irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may be 
recommended. 
When clinically appropriate direct change from monotherapy to the fixed combinations may be 
considered: 
• 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients whose 
blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide or irbesartan 150 mg 
alone; 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by irbesartan 300 mg or by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg. 
• 
• 
Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily are not recommended. 
When necessary, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be administered with another 
antihypertensive medicinal product (see sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not 
recommended for patients with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). Loop 
diuretics are preferred to thiazides in this population. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients 
with renal impairment whose renal creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not indicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. No dosage 
adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for use in children and adolescents 
because the safety and efficacy have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to 
other sulfonamide-derived substances (hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide-derived substance) 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) 
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis 
The concomitant use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with aliskiren-containing 
products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m²) (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypotension - Volume-depleted patients 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva has been rarely associated with symptomatic hypotension in 
hypertensive patients without other risk factors for hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension may be 
expected to occur in patients who are volume and/or sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such conditions should be corrected before initiating 
therapy with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Renal artery stenosis - Renovascular hypertension 
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensinII receptor antagonists. While this is not documented with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, a similar effect should be anticipated. 
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation 
When Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used in patients with impaired renal function, a 
periodic monitoring of potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. There is no 
experience regarding the administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with a 
recent kidney transplantation. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be used in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). Thiazide diuretic-
associated azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function. No dosage adjustment is 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
necessary in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min. However, in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥30 ml/min but <60 ml/min) 
this fixed dose combination should be administered with caution. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin 
II receptor blockers or aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). If dual 
blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy. 
Hepatic impairment 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver 
disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. There is 
no clinical experience with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with hepatic 
impairment. 
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Primary aldosteronism 
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended. 
Metabolic and endocrine effects 
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during 
thiazide therapy. Irbesartan may induce hypoglycaemia, particularly in diabetic patients. In patients 
treated with insulin or antidiabetics an appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be considered; a 
dose adjustment of inslulin or antidiabetics may be required when indicated (see section 4.5).  
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however at the 12.5 mg dose contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, minimal or no 
effects were reported. 
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide 
therapy. 
Electrolyte imbalance 
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals. 
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance are 
dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or cramps, 
muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea 
or vomiting. 
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
irbesartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greatest in patients 
with cirrhosis of the liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving 
inadequate oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with 
corticosteroids or ACTH. Conversely, due to the irbesartan component of Irbesartan 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva hyperkalaemia might occur, especially in the presence of renal 
impairment and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in 
patients at risk is recommended. Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or potassium-
containing salts substitutes should be co-administered cautiously with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva (see section 4.5). 
There is no evidence that irbesartan would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. Chloride 
deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment. 
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function. 
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnaesemia. 
Lithium 
The combination of lithium and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
Anti-doping test 
Hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicinal product could produce a positive analytic result in an 
anti-doping test. 
General 
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute hypotension, 
azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any antihypertensive agent, 
excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischemic cardiopathy or ischemic cardiovascular 
disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of 
allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics. 
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides diuretics (see section 4.8). If 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA. 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless 
continued AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if 
appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Choroidal effusion, acute myopia and secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma 
Sulfonamide or sulfonamide derivative drugs can cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. While 
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide, only isolated cases of acute angle-closure glaucoma have been 
reported so far with hydrochlorothiazide. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure 
glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue drug intake as 
rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular 
pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include 
a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy (see section 4.8). 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) exposure has 
been observed in two epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. 
Photosensitizing actions of HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC. 
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their 
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimize the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8). 
Acute respiratory toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered to patients who previously experienced ARDS 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake. 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Other antihypertensive agents 
The antihypertensive effect of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be increased with the 
concomitant use of other antihypertensive agents. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide (at doses up to 
300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) have been safely administered with other 
antihypertensive agents including calcium channel blockers and beta-adrenergic blockers. Prior 
treatment with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when 
initiating therapy with irbesartan with or without thiazide diuretics unless the volume depletion is 
corrected first (see section 4.4). 
Aliskiren-containing products or ACE-inhibitors 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have been very rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Furthermore, renal clearance of lithium is 
reduced by thiazides so the risk of lithium toxicity could be increased with Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Therefore, the combination of lithium and Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see section 4.4). If the combination proves 
necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 
Medicinal products affecting potassium 
The potassium-depleting effect of hydrochlorothiazide is attenuated by the potassium-sparing effect of 
irbesartan. However, this effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium would be expected to be 
potentiated by other medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other 
kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium). Conversely, based 
on the experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, 
concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g. heparin sodium) 
may lead to increases in serum potassium. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in patients at risk 
is recommended (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium is recommended when Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
(e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non-steroidal anti- 
inflammatory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>3 g/day) and non-selective 
NSAIDs), attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. 
As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in 
serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal function. The combination should 
be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter. 
Repaglinide 
Irbesartan has the potential to inhibit OATP1B1. In a clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan 
increased the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 1.3-fold, 
respectively, when administered 1 hour before repaglinide. In another study, no relevant 
pharmacokinetic interaction was reported, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose 
adjustment of antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide may be required (see section 4.4). 
Additional information on irbesartan interactions 
In clinical studies, the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan 
is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant 
pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered 
with warfarin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as 
rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of 
digoxin was not altered by co-administration of irbesartan. 
Additional information on hydrochlorothiazide interactions 
When administered concurrently, the following medicinal products may interact with thiazide 
diuretics: 
Alcohol: potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur; 
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulins): dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic 
medicinal product may be required (see section 4.4); 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Colestyramine and Colestipol resins: absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of 
anionic exchange resins. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be taken at least one hour 
before or four hours after these medications; 
Corticosteroids, ACTH: electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalaemia, may be increased; 
Digitalis glycosides: thiazide induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnaesemia favour the onset of 
digitalis-induced cardiac arrhythmias (see section 4.4); 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics in some patients; 
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline): the effect of pressor amines may be decreased, but not 
sufficiently to preclude their use; 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine): the effect of nondepolarizing skeletal 
muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide; 
Antigout medicinal products: dosage adjustments of antigout medicinal products may be necessary as 
hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or 
sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of thiazide diuretics may increase the incidence 
of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol; 
Calcium salts: thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to decreased excretion. If 
calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be 
prescribed, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly; 
Carbamazepine: concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with 
the risk of symptomatic hyponatraemia. Electrolytes should be monitored during concomitant use. If 
possible, another class of diuretics should be used; 
Other interactions: the hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by 
thiazides. Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, beperiden) may increase the bioavailability of 
thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate. Thiazides 
may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine. Thiazides may reduce the renal 
excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
The use of AIIRAs is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy (see section 4.4). The 
use of AIIRAs is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with Angiotensin II 
Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs), similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued 
AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative 
antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When 
pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, 
alternative therapy should be started. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to AIIRA therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3). 
Should exposure to AIIRAs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check 
of renal function and skull is recommended. 
Infants whose mothers have taken AIIRAs should be closely observed for hypotension (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
There is limited experience with hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy, especially during the first 
trimester. Animal studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the 
pharmacological mechanism of action of hydrochlorothiazide its use during the second and third 
trimester may compromise foeto-placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like 
icterus, disturbance of electrolyte balance and thrombocytopenia. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used. 
Since Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains hydrochlorothiazide, it is not recommended 
during the first trimester of pregnancy. A switch to a suitable alternative treatment should be carried 
out in advance of a planned pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
Because no information is available regarding the use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended and alternative 
treatments with better established safety profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while 
nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
It is unknown whether irbesartan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in rats have shown excretion of irbesartan or its 
metabolites in milk (for details see 5.3). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding is not recommended. If Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used during 
breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as possible. 
Fertility 
Irbesartan had no effect upon fertility of treated rats and their offspring up to the dose levels inducing 
the first signs of parental toxicity (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Based on its pharmacodynamic properties, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect 
the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken 
into account that occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of hypertension. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
Among 898 hypertensive patients who received various doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
(range: 37.5 mg/6.25 mg to 300 mg/25 mg) in placebo-controlled trials, 29.5% of the patients 
experienced adverse reactions. The most commonly reported ADRs were dizziness (5.6%), fatigue 
(4.9%), nausea/vomiting (1.8%), and abnormal urination (1.4%). In addition, increases in blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) (2.3%), creatine kinase (1.7%) and creatinine (1.1%) were also commonly observed in 
the trials. 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
trials. 
The frequency of adverse reactions listed below is defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Trials and Spontaneous Reports 
Investigations: 
Common: 
increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 
creatinine and creatine kinase 
Cardiac disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
decreases in serum potassium and sodium 
syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, oedema 
dizziness 
orthostatic dizziness 
headache 
tinnitus 
cough 
nausea/vomiting 
diarrhoea 
dyspepsia, dysgeusia 
abnormal urination 
impaired renal function including isolated cases 
of renal failure in patients at risk (see 
section 4.4) 
swelling extremity 
arthralgia, myalgia 
hyperkalaemia 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
flushing 
fatigue 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
cases of hypersensitivity reactions such as 
angioedema, rash, urticaria 
jaundice 
hepatitis, abnormal liver function 
sexual dysfunction, libido changes 
Additional information on individual components 
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above for the combination product, other adverse reactions 
previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Tables 2 and 3 below detail the adverse reactions reported 
with the individual components of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported with the use of irbesartan alone 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
chest pain 
Not known: 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia  
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Not known: 
anaphylactic reaction including anaphylactic 
shock 
hypoglycaemia 
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Investigations: 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders: 
Not known: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Not known: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
electrolyte imbalance (including hypokalaemia 
and hyponatraemia, see section 4.4), 
hyperuricaemia, glycosuria, hyperglycaemia, 
increases in cholesterol and triglycerides 
cardiac arrhythmias 
aplastic anaemia, bone marrow depression, 
neutropenia/agranulocytosis, haemolytic 
anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
vertigo, paraesthesia, light-headedness, 
restlessness 
transient blurred vision, xanthopsia, acute 
myopia and secondary acute angle-closure 
glaucoma, choroidal effusion  
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
(see section 4.4) 
respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and 
pulmonary oedema) 
pancreatitis, anorexia, diarrhoea, constipation, 
gastric irritation, sialadenitis, loss of appetite 
interstitial nephritis, renal dysfunction 
anaphylactic reactions, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, necrotizing angitis (vasculitis, 
cutaneous vasculitis), cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus-like reactions, reactivation of 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus, photosensitivity 
reactions, rash, urticaria 
weakness, muscle spasm 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
postural hypotension 
fever 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice) 
depression, sleep disturbances 
non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The dose dependent adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide (particularly electrolyte disturbances) may 
increase when titrating the hydrochlorothiazide. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. The patient should be closely monitored, and the treatment should be symptomatic and 
supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion and the severity of the symptoms. 
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric lavage. Activated charcoal may be 
useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be monitored frequently. 
If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, with salt and volume 
replacements given quickly. 
The most likely manifestations of irbesartan overdose are expected to be hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia might also occur. 
Overdose with hydrochlorothiazide is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloremia, hyponatraemia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common 
signs and symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle 
spasms and/or accentuate cardiac arrhythmias associated with the concomitant use of digitalis 
glycosides or certain anti-arrhythmic medicinal products. 
Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by 
haemodialysis has not been established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) and diuretics, ATC code: 
C09DA04 
Mechanism of action 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, 
irbesartan, and a thiazide diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an 
additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component 
alone. 
Irbesartan is a potent, orally active, selective angiotensin II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist. It is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors 
results in increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin II levels, and a decrease in plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the recommended doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Irbesartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin II and also 
degrades bradykinin into inactive metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its 
activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, 
directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The 
diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of irbesartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at 
about 4 hours, while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours. 
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in 
blood pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 
300 mg irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted 
in further placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 
6.1 mm Hg. The combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in an 
overall placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of up to 13.6/11.5 mm Hg. 
Limited clinical data (7 out of 22 patients) suggest that patients not controlled with the 
300 mg/12.5 mg combination may respond when uptitrated to 300 mg/25 mg. In these patients, an 
incremental blood pressure lowering effect was observed for both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (13.3 and 8.3 mm Hg, respectively). 
Once daily dosing with 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide gave systolic/diastolic 
mean placebo-adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 12.9/6.9 mm Hg 
in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Peak effects occurred at 3-6 hours. When assessed by 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the combination 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide once daily produced consistent reduction in blood pressure over the 24 hours 
period with mean 24-hour placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of 15.8/10.0 mm Hg. When 
measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the trough to peak effects of 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg were 100%. The trough to peak effects measured by 
cuff during office visits were 68% and 76% for irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/12.5 mg, respectively. These 24-hour effects were observed 
without excessive blood pressure lowering at peak and are consistent with safe and effective blood-
pressure lowering over the once-daily dosing interval. 
In patients not adequately controlled on 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide alone, the addition of irbesartan 
gave an added placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic mean reduction of 11.1/7.2 mm Hg. 
The blood pressure lowering effect of irbesartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide is apparent 
after the first dose and substantially present within 1-2 weeks, with the maximal effect occurring by 
6-8 weeks. In long-term follow-up studies, the effect of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was maintained 
for over one year. Although not specifically studied with the Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, 
rebound hypertension has not been seen with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide. 
The effect of the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide on morbidity and mortality has 
not been studied. Epidemiological studies have shown that long term treatment with 
hydrochlorothiazide reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. 
There is no difference in response to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, regardless of age or gender. As is 
the case with other medicinal products that affect the renin-angiotensin system, black hypertensive 
patients have notably less response to irbesartan monotherapy. When irbesartan is administered 
concomitantly with a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide (e.g. 12.5 mg daily), the antihypertensive 
response in black patients approaches that of non-black patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for severe hypertension 
(defined as SeDBP ≥ 110 mmHg) was evaluated in a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, active-
controlled, 8-week, parallel-arm study. A total of 697 patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg or to irbesartan 150 mg and systematically force-
titrated (before assessing the response to the lower dose) after one week to 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/25 mg or irbesartan 300 mg, respectively. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study recruited 58% males. The mean age of patients was 52.5 years, 13% were ≥ 65 years of age, 
and just 2% were ≥ 75 years of age. Twelve percent (12%) of patients were diabetic, 34% were 
hyperlipidemic and the most frequent cardiovascular condition was stable angina pectoris in 3.5% of 
the participants. 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the proportion of patients whose SeDBP was 
controlled (SeDBP < 90 mmHg) at Week 5 of treatment. Forty-seven percent (47.2%) of patients on 
the combination achieved trough SeDBP < 90 mmHg compared to 33.2% of patients on irbesartan 
(p = 0.0005). The mean baseline blood pressure was approximately 172/113 mmHg in each treatment 
group and decreases of SeSBP/SeDBP at five weeks were 30.8/24.0 mmHg and 21.1/19.3 mmHg for 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan, respectively (p < 0.0001). 
The types and incidences of adverse events reported for patients treated with the combination were 
similar to the adverse event profile for patients on monotherapy. During the 8-week treatment period, 
there were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 0.6% and 0% of patients 
with hypotension and 2.8% and 3.1% of patients with dizziness as adverse reactions reported in the 
combination and monotherapy groups, respectively. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker. ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of 
cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of 
end-organ damage. VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
diabetic nephropathy. 
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy. 
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dosedependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 (95% CI: 1.23-
1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose response relationship 
was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible association between lip cancer 
(SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched with 63,067 population controls, 
using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response relationship was demonstrated with an 
adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 
7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose (~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4). 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan has no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of either medicinal product. 
Absorption 
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are orally active agents and do not require biotransformation for 
their activity. Following oral administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, the absolute 
oral bioavailability is 60-80% and 50-80% for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. Food 
does not affect the bioavailability of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Peak plasma 
concentration occurs at 1.5-2 hours after oral administration for irbesartan and 1-2.5 hours for 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding of irbesartan is approximately 96%, with negligible binding to cellular blood 
components. The volume of distribution for irbesartan is 53-93 litres. Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% 
protein-bound in the plasma, and its apparent volume of distribution is 0.83-1.14 l/kg. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Irbesartan exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg. 
A less than proportional increase in oral absorption at doses beyond 600 mg was observed; the 
mechanism for this is unknown. The total body and renal clearance are 157-176 and 3.0-3.5 ml/min, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of irbesartan is 11-15 hours. Steady-state plasma 
concentrations are attained within 3 days after initiation of a once-daily dosing regimen. Limited 
accumulation of irbesartan (< 20%) is observed in plasma upon repeated once-daily dosing. In a study, 
somewhat higher plasma concentrations of irbesartan were observed in female hypertensive patients. 
However, there was no difference in the half-life and accumulation of irbesartan. No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in female patients. Irbesartan AUC and Cmax values were also somewhat 
greater in older subjects (≥ 65 years) than those of young subjects (18-40 years). However the terminal 
half-life was not significantly altered. No dosage adjustment is necessary in older people. The mean 
plasma half-life of hydrochlorothiazide reportedly ranges from 5-15 hours. 
Biotransformation 
Following oral or intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, 80-85% of the circulating plasma 
radioactivity is attributable to unchanged irbesartan. Irbesartan is metabolised by the liver via 
glucuronide conjugation and oxidation. The major circulating metabolite is irbesartan glucuronide 
(approximately 6%). In vitro studies indicate that irbesartan is primarily oxidised by the 
cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9; isoenzyme CYP3A4 has negligible effect.  
Elimination 
Irbesartan and its metabolites are eliminated by both biliary and renal pathways. After either oral or 
intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, about 20% of the radioactivity is recovered in the urine, 
and the remainder in the faeces. Less than 2% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged 
irbesartan. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidneys. At least 
61% of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the 
placental but not the blood-brain barrier, and is excreted in breast milk. 
Renal impairment 
In patients with renal impairment or those undergoing haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetic parameters 
of irbesartan are not significantly altered. Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. In patients with 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min, the elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was reported to 
increase to 21 hours. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of irbesartan are not 
significantly altered. Studies have not been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The potential toxicity of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination after oral administration was 
evaluated in rats and macaques in studies lasting up to 6 months. There were no toxicological findings 
observed of relevance to human therapeutic use. 
The following changes, observed in rats and macaques receiving the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination at 10/10 and 90/90 mg/kg/day, were also seen with one of the two medicinal products 
alone and/or were secondary to decreases in blood pressure (no significant toxicologic interactions 
were observed): 
• 
kidney changes, characterized by slight increases in serum urea and creatinine, and 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, which are a direct consequence of the 
interaction of irbesartan with the renin-angiotensin system; 
slight decreases in erythrocyte parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit); 
stomach discoloration, ulcers and focal necrosis of gastric mucosa were observed in few rats in 
a 6 months toxicity study at irbesartan 90 mg/kg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 90 mg/kg/day, and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 10/10 mg/kg/day. These lesions were not observed in macaques; 
decreases in serum potassium due to hydrochlorothiazide and partly prevented when 
hydrochlorothiazide was given in combination with irbesartan. 
• 
• 
• 
Most of the above mentioned effects appear to be due to the pharmacological activity of irbesartan 
(blockade of angiotensin II-induced inhibition of renin release, with stimulation of the renin-producing 
cells) and occur also with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. These findings appear to have no 
relevance to the use of therapeutic doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in humans. 
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats given irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination at 
doses that produced maternal toxicity. The effects of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
on fertility have not been evaluated in animal studies, as there is no evidence of adverse effect on 
fertility in animals or humans with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide when administered alone. 
However, another angiotensin II antagonist affected fertility parameters in animal studies when given 
alone. These findings were also observed with lower doses of this other angiotensin II antagonist when 
given in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity with the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination. The carcinogenic potential of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination has not 
been evaluated in animal studies. 
Irbesartan 
There was no evidence of abnormal systemic or target organ toxicity at clinically relevant doses. In 
non-clinical safety studies, high doses of irbesartan (≥ 250 mg/kg/day in rats and ≥ 100 mg/kg/day in 
macaques) caused a reduction of red blood cell parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit). 
At very high doses (≥ 500 mg/kg/day) degenerative changes in the kidneys (such as interstitial 
nephritis, tubular distention, basophilic tubules, increased plasma concentrations of urea and 
creatinine) were induced by irbesartan in the rat and the macaque and are considered secondary to the 
hypotensive effects of the medicinal product which led to decreased renal perfusion. Furthermore, 
irbesartan induced hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular cells (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg/day, in 
macaques at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day). All of these changes were considered to be caused by the 
pharmacological action of irbesartan. For therapeutic doses of irbesartan in humans, the 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the renal juxtaglomerular cells does not appear to have any relevance. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity, clastogenicity or carcinogenicity. 
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected in studies of male and female rats even at 
oral doses of irbesartan causing some parental toxicity (from 50 to 650 mg/kg/day), including 
mortality at the highest dose. No significant effects on the number of corpora lutea, implants, or live 
foetuses were observed. Irbesartan did not affect survival, development, or reproduction of offspring. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in animals indicate that the radiolabelled irbesartan is detected in rat and rabbit foetuses. 
Irbesartan is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. 
Animal studies with irbesartan showed transient toxic effects (increased renal pelvic cavitation, 
hydroureter or subcutaneous oedema) in rat foetuses, which were resolved after birth. In rabbits, 
abortion or early resorption was noted at doses causing significant maternal toxicity, including 
mortality. No teratogenic effects were observed in the rat or rabbit. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Equivocal evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect was found in some experimental models. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Hypromellose 
Silicon dioxide 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coating 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide 
Macrogol 3000 
Red and yellow ferric oxides 
Carnauba wax 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons of 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 28 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 30 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 84 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 90 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 98 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 x 1 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/017-022 
EU/1/06/377/031-032 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 January 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 27 February 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of irbesartan and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 53.3 mg of lactose (as lactose monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Pink, biconvex, oval-shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2788 engraved on the 
other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken once daily, with or without food.  
Dose titration with the individual components (i.e. irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may be 
recommended. 
When clinically appropriate direct change from monotherapy to the fixed combinations may be 
considered: 
• 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients whose 
blood pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide or irbesartan 150 mg 
alone; 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by irbesartan 300 mg or by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg may be administered in patients 
insufficiently controlled by Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg. 
• 
• 
Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily are not recommended. 
When necessary, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be administered with another 
antihypertensive medicinal product (see sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not 
recommended for patients with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). Loop 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
diuretics are preferred to thiazides in this population. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients 
with renal impairment whose renal creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not indicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. No dosage 
adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is necessary in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for use in children and adolescents 
because the safety and efficacy have not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to 
other sulfonamide-derived substances (hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide-derived substance) 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6) 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) 
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis 
The concomitant use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with aliskiren-containing 
products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) <60 ml/min/1.73 m²) (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypotension - Volume-depleted patients 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva has been rarely associated with symptomatic hypotension in 
hypertensive patients without other risk factors for hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension may be 
expected to occur in patients who are volume and/or sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such conditions should be corrected before initiating 
therapy with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Renal artery stenosis - Renovascular hypertension 
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with angiotensin 
converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. While this is not documented with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, a similar effect should be anticipated. 
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation 
When Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used in patients with impaired renal function, a 
periodic monitoring of potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. There is no 
experience regarding the administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with a 
recent kidney transplantation. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be used in patients 
with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). Thiazide diuretic-
associated azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function. No dosage adjustment is 
necessary in patients with renal impairment whose creatinine clearance is ≥30 ml/min. However, in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥30 ml/min but <60 ml/min) 
this fixed dose combination should be administered with caution. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin 
II receptor blockers or aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). If dual 
blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy. 
Hepatic impairment 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver 
disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. There is 
no clinical experience with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in patients with hepatic 
impairment. 
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Primary aldosteronism 
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended. 
Metabolic and endocrine effects 
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during 
thiazide therapy. Irbesartan may induce hypoglycaemia, particularly in diabetic patients. In patients 
treated with insulin or antidiabetics an appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be considered; a 
dose adjustment of inslulin or antidiabetics may be required when indicated (see section 4.5).  
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however at the 12.5 mg dose contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, minimal or no 
effects were reported. 
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide 
therapy. 
Electrolyte imbalance 
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals. 
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance are 
dryness of mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or cramps, 
muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea 
or vomiting. 
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
irbesartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greatest in patients 
with cirrhosis of the liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving 
inadequate oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with 
corticosteroids or ACTH. Conversely, due to the irbesartan component of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva hyperkalaemia might occur, especially in the presence of renal 
impairment and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in 
patients at risk is recommended. Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or potassium-
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
containing salts substitutes should be co-administered cautiously with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva (see section 4.5). 
There is no evidence that irbesartan would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. Chloride 
deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment. 
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function. 
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnaesemia. 
Lithium 
The combination of lithium and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see 
section 4.5). 
Anti-doping test 
Hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicinal product could produce a positive analytic result in an 
anti-doping test. 
General 
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute hypotension, 
azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any antihypertensive agent, 
excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischemic cardiopathy or ischemic cardiovascular 
disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of 
allergy or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history. 
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics. 
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides diuretics (see section 4.8). If 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA. 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless 
continued AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if 
appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Choroidal effusion, acute myopia and secondary acute angle-closure glaucoma 
Sulfonamide or sulfonamide derivative drugs can cause an idiosyncratic reaction resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. While 
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide, only isolated cases of acute angle-closure glaucoma have been 
reported so far with hydrochlorothiazide. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or 
ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure 
glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue drug intake as 
rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include 
a history of sulfonamide or penicillin allergy (see section 4.8). 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) exposure has 
been observed in two epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. 
Photosensitizing actions of HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC. 
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their 
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimize the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8). 
Acute respiratory toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered to patients who previously experienced ARDS 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake. 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Other antihypertensive agents 
The antihypertensive effect of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva may be increased with the 
concomitant use of other antihypertensive agents. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide (at doses up to 
300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) have been safely administered with other 
antihypertensive agents including calcium channel blockers and beta-adrenergic blockers. Prior 
treatment with high dose diuretics may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when 
initiating therapy with irbesartan with or without thiazide diuretics unless the volume depletion is 
corrected first (see section 4.4). 
Aliskiren-containing products or ACE-inhibitors 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects 
have been very rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Furthermore, renal clearance of lithium is 
reduced by thiazides so the risk of lithium toxicity could be increased with Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Therefore, the combination of lithium and Irbesartan 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended (see section 4.4). If the combination proves 
necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. 
Medicinal products affecting potassium 
The potassium-depleting effect of hydrochlorothiazide is attenuated by the potassium-sparing effect of 
irbesartan. However, this effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium would be expected to be 
potentiated by other medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other 
kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium). Conversely, based 
on the experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, 
concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g. heparin sodium) 
may lead to increases in serum potassium. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in patients at risk 
is recommended (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium is recommended when Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva is administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
(e.g. digitalis glycosides, antiarrhythmics). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non-steroidal anti- 
inflammatory drugs (i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (>3 g/day) and non-selective 
NSAIDs), attenuation of the antihypertensive effect may occur. 
As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in 
serum potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal function. The combination should 
be administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter. 
Repaglinide 
Irbesartan has the potential to inhibit OATP1B1. In a clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan 
increased the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 1.3-fold, 
respectively, when administered 1 hour before repaglinide. In another study, no relevant 
pharmacokinetic interaction was reported, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose 
adjustment of antidiabetic treatment such as repaglinide may be required (see section 4.4).  
Additional information on irbesartan interactions 
In clinical studies, the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan 
is mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant 
pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered 
with warfarin, a medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as 
rifampicin on the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of 
digoxin was not altered by co-administration of irbesartan. 
Additional information on hydrochlorothiazide interactions 
When administered concurrently, the following medicinal products may interact with thiazide 
diuretics: 
Alcohol: potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur; 
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulins): dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic 
medicinal product may be required (see section 4.4); 
Colestyramine and Colestipol resins: absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of 
anionic exchange resins. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should be taken at least one hour 
before or four hours after these medications; 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corticosteroids, ACTH: electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalaemia, may be increased; 
Digitalis glycosides: thiazide induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnaesemia favour the onset of 
digitalis-induced cardiac arrhythmias (see section 4.4); 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: the administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics in some patients; 
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline): the effect of pressor amines may be decreased, but not 
sufficiently to preclude their use; 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine): the effect of nondepolarizing skeletal 
muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide; 
Antigout medicinal products: dosage adjustments of antigout medicinal products may be necessary as 
hydrochlorothiazide may raise the level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or 
sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of thiazide diuretics may increase the incidence 
of hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol; 
Calcium salts: thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to decreased excretion. If 
calcium supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be 
prescribed, serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly; 
Carbamazepine: concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with 
the risk of symptomatic hyponatraemia. Electrolytes should be monitored during concomitant use. If 
possible, another class of diuretics should be used; 
Other interactions: the hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by 
thiazides. Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, beperiden) may increase the bioavailability of 
thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate. Thiazides 
may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine. Thiazides may reduce the renal 
excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
The use of AIIRAs is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy (see section 4.4). The 
use of AIIRAs is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 
and 4.4). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with Angiotensin II 
Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs), similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued 
AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative 
antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When 
pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, 
alternative therapy should be started. 
Exposure to AIIRA therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3). 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Should exposure to AIIRAs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check 
of renal function and skull is recommended. 
Infants whose mothers have taken AIIRAs should be closely observed for hypotension (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
There is limited experience with hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy, especially during the first 
trimester. Animal studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the 
pharmacological mechanism of action of hydrochlorothiazide its use during the second and third 
trimester may compromise foeto-placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like 
icterus, disturbance of electrolyte balance and thrombocytopenia. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used. 
Since Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains hydrochlorothiazide, it is not recommended 
during the first trimester of pregnancy. A switch to a suitable alternative treatment should be carried 
out in advance of a planned pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
Because no information is available regarding the use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended and alternative 
treatments with better established safety profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while 
nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
It is unknown whether irbesartan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in rats have shown excretion of irbesartan or its 
metabolites in milk (for details see 5.3). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
during breast-feeding is not recommended. If Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used during 
breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as possible. 
Fertility 
Irbesartan had no effect upon fertility of treated rats and their offspring up to the dose levels inducing 
the first signs of parental toxicity (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Based on its pharmacodynamic properties, Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect 
the ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken 
into account that occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of hypertension. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
Among 898 hypertensive patients who received various doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
(range: 37.5 mg/6.25 mg to 300 mg/25 mg) in placebo-controlled trials, 29.5% of the patients 
experienced adverse reactions. The most commonly reported ADRs were dizziness (5.6%), fatigue 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4.9%), nausea/vomiting (1.8%), and abnormal urination (1.4%). In addition, increases in blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) (2.3%), creatine kinase (1.7%) and creatinine (1.1%) were also commonly observed in 
the trials. 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
trials. 
The frequency of adverse reactions listed below is defined using the following convention: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse Reactions in Placebo-Controlled Trials and Spontaneous Reports 
Investigations: 
Common: 
increases in blood urea nitrogen (BUN), 
creatinine and creatine kinase 
Cardiac disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
decreases in serum potassium and sodium 
syncope, hypotension, tachycardia, oedema 
dizziness 
orthostatic dizziness 
headache 
tinnitus 
cough 
nausea/vomiting 
diarrhoea 
dyspepsia, dysgeusia 
abnormal urination 
impaired renal function including isolated cases 
of renal failure in patients at risk (see 
section 4.4) 
swelling extremity 
arthralgia, myalgia 
hyperkalaemia 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
flushing 
fatigue 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
cases of hypersensitivity reactions such as 
angioedema, rash, urticaria 
jaundice 
hepatitis, abnormal liver function 
sexual dysfunction, libido changes 
Additional information on individual components 
In addition to the adverse reactions listed above for the combination product, other adverse reactions 
previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Tables 2 and 3 below detail the adverse reactions reported 
with the individual components of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported with the use of irbesartan alone 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Immune system disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Not known: 
anaemia, thrombocytopenia  
Uncommon: 
chest pain 
Not known: 
Not known: 
anaphylactic reaction including anaphylactic 
shock 
hypoglycaemia 
Table 3: Adverse reactions reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Investigations: 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders: 
Not known: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Not known: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
electrolyte imbalance (including hypokalaemia 
and hyponatraemia, see section 4.4), 
hyperuricaemia, glycosuria, hyperglycaemia, 
increases in cholesterol and triglycerides 
cardiac arrhythmias 
aplastic anaemia, bone marrow depression, 
neutropenia/agranulocytosis, haemolytic 
anaemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
vertigo, paraesthesia, light-headedness, 
restlessness 
transient blurred vision, xanthopsia, acute 
myopia and secondary acute angle-closure 
glaucoma, choroidal effusion 
acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
(see section 4.4) 
respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and 
pulmonary oedema) 
pancreatitis, anorexia, diarrhoea, constipation, 
gastric irritation, sialadenitis, loss of appetite 
interstitial nephritis, renal dysfunction 
anaphylactic reactions, toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, necrotizing angitis (vasculitis, 
cutaneous vasculitis), cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus-like reactions, reactivation of 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus, photosensitivity 
reactions, rash, urticaria 
weakness, muscle spasm 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
postural hypotension 
fever 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice) 
depression, sleep disturbances 
non-melanoma skin cancer (basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma) 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
The dose dependent adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide (particularly electrolyte disturbances) may 
increase when titrating the hydrochlorothiazide. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. The patient should be closely monitored, and the treatment should be symptomatic and 
supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion and the severity of the symptoms. 
Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric lavage. Activated charcoal may be 
useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be monitored frequently. 
If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, with salt and volume 
replacements given quickly. 
The most likely manifestations of irbesartan overdose are expected to be hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia might also occur. 
Overdose with hydrochlorothiazide is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloremia, hyponatraemia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common 
signs and symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle 
spasms and/or accentuate cardiac arrhythmias associated with the concomitant use of digitalis 
glycosides or certain anti-arrhythmic medicinal products. 
Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by 
haemodialysis has not been established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) and diuretics, ATC code: 
C09DA04 
Mechanism of action 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, 
irbesartan, and a thiazide diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an 
additive antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component 
alone. 
Irbesartan is a potent, orally active, selective angiotensin II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist. It is 
expected to block all actions of angiotensin II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source 
or route of synthesis of angiotensin II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors 
results in increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin II levels, and a decrease in plasma 
aldosterone concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at 
the recommended doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Irbesartan does not inhibit ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin II and also 
degrades bradykinin into inactive metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its 
activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, 
directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The 
diuretic action of hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of irbesartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at 
about 4 hours, while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours. 
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in 
blood pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 
300 mg irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted 
in further placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 
6.1 mm Hg. The combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in an 
overall placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of up to 13.6/11.5 mm Hg. 
Limited clinical data (7 out of 22 patients) suggest that patients not controlled with the 
300 mg/12.5 mg combination may respond when uptitrated to 300 mg/25 mg. In these patients, an 
incremental blood pressure lowering effect was observed for both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (13.3 and 8.3 mm Hg, respectively). 
Once daily dosing with 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide gave systolic/diastolic 
mean placebo-adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 12.9/6.9 mm Hg 
in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Peak effects occurred at 3-6 hours. When assessed by 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the combination 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide once daily produced consistent reduction in blood pressure over the 24 hours 
period with mean 24-hour placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of 15.8/10.0 mm Hg. When 
measured by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, the trough to peak effects of 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg were 100%. The trough to peak effects measured by 
cuff during office visits were 68% and 76% for irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/12.5 mg, respectively. These 24-hour effects were observed 
without excessive blood pressure lowering at peak and are consistent with safe and effective blood-
pressure lowering over the once-daily dosing interval. 
In patients not adequately controlled on 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide alone, the addition of irbesartan 
gave an added placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic mean reduction of 11.1/7.2 mm Hg. 
The blood pressure lowering effect of irbesartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide is apparent 
after the first dose and substantially present within 1-2 weeks, with the maximal effect occurring by 
6-8 weeks. In long-term follow-up studies, the effect of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was maintained 
for over one year. Although not specifically studied with the Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, 
rebound hypertension has not been seen with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide. 
The effect of the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide on morbidity and mortality has 
not been studied. Epidemiological studies have shown that long term treatment with 
hydrochlorothiazide reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. 
There is no difference in response to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, regardless of age or gender. As is 
the case with other medicinal products that affect the renin-angiotensin system, black hypertensive 
patients have notably less response to irbesartan monotherapy. When irbesartan is administered 
concomitantly with a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide (e.g. 12.5 mg daily), the antihypertensive 
response in black patients approaches that of non-black patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for severe hypertension 
(defined as SeDBP ≥ 110 mmHg) was evaluated in a multicentre, randomized, double-blind, active-
controlled, 8-week, parallel-arm study. A total of 697 patients were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg or to irbesartan 150 mg and systematically force-
titrated (before assessing the response to the lower dose) after one week to 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/25 mg or irbesartan 300 mg, respectively. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study recruited 58% males. The mean age of patients was 52.5 years, 13% were ≥ 65 years of age, 
and just 2% were ≥ 75 years of age. Twelve percent (12%) of patients were diabetic, 34% were 
hyperlipidemic and the most frequent cardiovascular condition was stable angina pectoris in 3.5% of 
the participants. 
The primary objective of this study was to compare the proportion of patients whose SeDBP was 
controlled (SeDBP < 90 mmHg) at Week 5 of treatment. Forty-seven percent (47.2%) of patients on 
the combination achieved trough SeDBP < 90 mmHg compared to 33.2% of patients on irbesartan 
(p = 0.0005). The mean baseline blood pressure was approximately 172/113 mmHg in each treatment 
group and decreases of SeSBP/SeDBP at five weeks were 30.8/24.0 mmHg and 21.1/19.3 mmHg for 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan, respectively (p < 0.0001). 
The types and incidences of adverse events reported for patients treated with the combination were 
similar to the adverse event profile for patients on monotherapy. During the 8-week treatment period, 
there were no reported cases of syncope in either treatment group. There were 0.6% and 0% of patients 
with hypotension and 2.8% and 3.1% of patients with dizziness as adverse reactions reported in the 
combination and monotherapy groups, respectively. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker. ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of 
cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of 
end-organ damage. VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
diabetic nephropathy. 
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. ACE-inhibitors 
and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy. 
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dosedependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 (95% CI: 1.23-
1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose response relationship 
was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible association between lip cancer 
(SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched with 63,067 population controls, 
using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response relationship was demonstrated with an 
adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 
7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose (~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4). 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan has no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of either medicinal product. 
Absorption 
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are orally active agents and do not require biotransformation for 
their activity. Following oral administration of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, the absolute 
oral bioavailability is 60-80% and 50-80% for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. Food 
does not affect the bioavailability of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Peak plasma 
concentration occurs at 1.5-2 hours after oral administration for irbesartan and 1-2.5 hours for 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding of irbesartan is approximately 96%, with negligible binding to cellular blood 
components. The volume of distribution for irbesartan is 53-93 litres. Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% 
protein-bound in the plasma, and its apparent volume of distribution is 0.83-1.14 l/kg. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Irbesartan exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg. 
A less than proportional increase in oral absorption at doses beyond 600 mg was observed; the 
mechanism for this is unknown. The total body and renal clearance are 157-176 and 3.0-3.5 ml/min, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of irbesartan is 11-15 hours. Steady-state plasma 
concentrations are attained within 3 days after initiation of a once-daily dosing regimen. Limited 
accumulation of irbesartan (< 20%) is observed in plasma upon repeated once-daily dosing. In a study, 
somewhat higher plasma concentrations of irbesartan were observed in female hypertensive patients. 
However, there was no difference in the half-life and accumulation of irbesartan. No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in female patients. Irbesartan AUC and Cmax values were also somewhat 
greater in older subjects (≥ 65 years) than those of young subjects (18-40 years). However the terminal 
half-life was not significantly altered. No dosage adjustment is necessary in older people. The mean 
plasma half-life of hydrochlorothiazide reportedly ranges from 5-15 hours. 
Biotransformation 
Following oral or intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, 80-85% of the circulating plasma 
radioactivity is attributable to unchanged irbesartan. Irbesartan is metabolised by the liver via 
glucuronide conjugation and oxidation. The major circulating metabolite is irbesartan glucuronide 
(approximately 6%). In vitro studies indicate that irbesartan is primarily oxidised by the 
cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9; isoenzyme CYP3A4 has negligible effect.  
Elimination 
Irbesartan and its metabolites are eliminated by both biliary and renal pathways. After either oral or 
intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, about 20% of the radioactivity is recovered in the urine, 
and the remainder in the faeces. Less than 2% of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged 
irbesartan. Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidneys. At least 
61% of the oral dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the 
placental but not the blood-brain barrier, and is excreted in breast milk. 
Renal impairment 
In patients with renal impairment or those undergoing haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetic parameters 
of irbesartan are not significantly altered. Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. In patients with 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min, the elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was reported to 
increase to 21 hours. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of irbesartan are not 
significantly altered. Studies have not been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The potential toxicity of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination after oral administration was 
evaluated in rats and macaques in studies lasting up to 6 months. There were no toxicological findings 
observed of relevance to human therapeutic use. 
The following changes, observed in rats and macaques receiving the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination at 10/10 and 90/90 mg/kg/day, were also seen with one of the two medicinal products 
alone and/or were secondary to decreases in blood pressure (no significant toxicologic interactions 
were observed): 
• 
kidney changes, characterized by slight increases in serum urea and creatinine, and 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, which are a direct consequence of the 
interaction of irbesartan with the renin-angiotensin system; 
slight decreases in erythrocyte parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit); 
stomach discoloration, ulcers and focal necrosis of gastric mucosa were observed in few rats in 
a 6 months toxicity study at irbesartan 90 mg/kg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 90 mg/kg/day, and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 10/10 mg/kg/day. These lesions were not observed in macaques; 
decreases in serum potassium due to hydrochlorothiazide and partly prevented when 
hydrochlorothiazide was given in combination with irbesartan. 
• 
• 
• 
Most of the above mentioned effects appear to be due to the pharmacological activity of irbesartan 
(blockade of angiotensin II-induced inhibition of renin release, with stimulation of the renin-producing 
cells) and occur also with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. These findings appear to have no 
relevance to the use of therapeutic doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in humans. 
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats given irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination at 
doses that produced maternal toxicity. The effects of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
on fertility have not been evaluated in animal studies, as there is no evidence of adverse effect on 
fertility in animals or humans with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide when administered alone. 
However, another angiotensin II antagonist affected fertility parameters in animal studies when given 
alone. These findings were also observed with lower doses of this other angiotensin II antagonist when 
given in combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity with the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination. The carcinogenic potential of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination has not 
been evaluated in animal studies. 
Irbesartan 
There was no evidence of abnormal systemic or target organ toxicity at clinically relevant doses. In 
non-clinical safety studies, high doses of irbesartan (≥ 250 mg/kg/day in rats and ≥ 100 mg/kg/day in 
macaques) caused a reduction of red blood cell parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit). 
At very high doses (≥ 500 mg/kg/day) degenerative changes in the kidneys (such as interstitial 
nephritis, tubular distention, basophilic tubules, increased plasma concentrations of urea and 
creatinine) were induced by irbesartan in the rat and the macaque and are considered secondary to the 
hypotensive effects of the medicinal product which led to decreased renal perfusion. Furthermore, 
irbesartan induced hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular cells (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg/day, in 
macaques at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day). All of these changes were considered to be caused by the 
pharmacological action of irbesartan. For therapeutic doses of irbesartan in humans, the 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the renal juxtaglomerular cells does not appear to have any relevance. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity, clastogenicity or carcinogenicity. 
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected in studies of male and female rats even at 
oral doses of irbesartan causing some parental toxicity (from 50 to 650 mg/kg/day), including 
mortality at the highest dose. No significant effects on the number of corpora lutea, implants, or live 
foetuses were observed. Irbesartan did not affect survival, development, or reproduction of offspring. 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in animals indicate that the radiolabelled irbesartan is detected in rat and rabbit foetuses. 
Irbesartan is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. 
Animal studies with irbesartan showed transient toxic effects (increased renal pelvic cavitation, 
hydroureter or subcutaneous oedema) in rat foetuses, which were resolved after birth. In rabbits, 
abortion or early resorption was noted at doses causing significant maternal toxicity, including 
mortality. No teratogenic effects were observed in the rat or rabbit. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Equivocal evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect was found in some experimental models. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Pregelatinised starch 
Silicon dioxide 
Magnesium stearate 
Red and yellow ferric oxides 
Film-coating 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide 
Macrogol 3350 
Red and black ferric oxides 
Carnauba wax 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons of 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 28 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 30 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 84 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 90 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 98 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium blisters. 
Cartons of 56 x 1 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blisters. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/023-028 
EU/1/06/377/033-034 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 January 2007 
Date of latest renewal: 27 February 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
1 Rue de la vierge 
Ambarès et Lagrave 
33 565 Carbon Blanc Cedex 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 Avenue Gustave Eiffel  
37 100 Tours 
France 
Sanofi-Aventis, S.A. 
Ctra. C-35 (La Batlloria-Hostalric, km. 63,09) 
Riells i Viabrea, 17404 Girona 
Spain 
Zentiva k.s. 
U Kabelovny 130 
102 37 Prague 10 
Czech Republic 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
▪  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCES 
Each tablet contains: irbesartan 150 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: also contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 tablets 
28 tablets 
56 tablets 
56 x 1 tablets 
98 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/001 - 14 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/002 - 28 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/003 - 56 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/004 - 56 x 1 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/005 - 98 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
14 - 28 - 56 - 98 tablets: 
Mon 
Tue 
Wed 
Thu 
Fri 
Sat 
Sun 
56 x 1 tablets 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCES 
Each tablet contains: irbesartan 300 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: also contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 tablets 
28 tablets 
56 tablets 
56 x 1 tablets 
98 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/006 - 14 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/007 - 28 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/008 - 56 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/009 - 56 x 1 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/010 - 98 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
14 - 28 - 56 - 98 tablets: 
Mon 
Tue 
Wed 
Thu 
Fri 
Sat 
Sun 
56 x 1 tablets 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCES 
Each tablet contains: irbesartan 150 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: also contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 tablets 
28 tablets 
30 tablets 
56 tablets 
56 x 1 tablets 
84 tablets 
90 tablets 
98 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/011 - 14 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/012 - 28 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/029 - 30 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/013 - 56 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/014 - 56 x 1 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/015 - 84 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/030 - 90 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/016 - 98 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
14 - 28 - 56 - 84 - 98 tablets: 
Mon 
Tue 
Wed 
Thu 
Fri 
Sat 
Sun 
30 - 56 x 1 - 90 tablets 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCES 
Each tablet contains: irbesartan 300 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: also contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 tablets 
28 tablets 
30 tablets 
56 tablets 
56 x 1 tablets 
84 tablets 
90 tablets 
98 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/017 - 14 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/018 - 28 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/031 - 30 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/019 - 56 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/020 - 56 x 1 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/021 - 84 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/032 - 90 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/022 - 98 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
104 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
14 - 28 - 56 - 84 - 98 tablets: 
Mon 
Tue 
Wed 
Thu 
Fri 
Sat 
Sun 
30 - 56 x 1 - 90 tablets 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCES 
Each tablet contains: irbesartan 300 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: also contains lactose monohydrate. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 tablets 
28 tablets 
30 tablets 
56 tablets 
56 x 1 tablets 
84 tablets 
90 tablets 
98 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/377/023 - 14 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/024 - 28 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/033 - 30 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/025 - 56 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/026 - 56 x 1 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/027 - 84 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/034 - 90 tablets 
EU/1/06/377/028 - 98 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
108 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Zentiva k.s.  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
14 - 28 - 56 - 84 - 98 tablets: 
Mon 
Tue 
Wed 
Thu 
Fri 
Sat 
Sun 
30 - 56 x 1 - 90 tablets 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Angiotensin 
II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels causing them to tighten. 
This results in an increase in blood pressure. Irbesartan prevents the binding of angiotensin II to these 
receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased 
urine output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva work together to lower blood 
pressure further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used to treat high blood pressure, when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
▪ 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or any other sulfonamide-derived medicines 
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section) 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems 
if you have difficulty in producing urine 
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in 
your blood 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and if any of the following 
apply to you: 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplant 
if you suffer from heart problems 
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes 
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart 
beat), particularly if you are being treated for diabetes.  
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) 
if you suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the 
hormone aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood 
pressure). 
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
o 
an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems. 
aliskiren. 
o 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, seek medical 
attention immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. 
potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva”. 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are 
more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see 
pregnancy section). 
▪ 
You should also tell your doctor: 
▪ 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
▪ 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle 
pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an 
excessive effect of hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva) 
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn 
(such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics 
if you have decrease in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the 
vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye (glaucoma) 
and can happen within hours to weeks of taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. This 
can lead to permanent vision loss, if not treated. If you earlier have had a penicillin or 
sulfonamide allergy, you can be at higher risk of developing this. You should discontinue 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva treatment and seek prompt medical attention. 
▪ 
▪ 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping 
test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children and adolescents 
(under 18 years). 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
may have an effect on other medicines. Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva without close supervision by your doctor. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets) 
some laxatives 
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements 
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins) 
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol 
resins for lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with food and drink 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken with or without food. 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, if you drink 
alcohol while on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on 
standing up, specially when getting up from a sitting position. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva before you become pregnant or as 
soon as you know you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early 
pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to 
your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor 
may choose another treatment for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, 
or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
However, occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If 
you experience these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains sodium. This medicine contains less than 1 mmol 
sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Dosage 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is one or two tablets a day. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous 
treatment did not reduce your blood pressure enough. Your doctor will instruct you how to switch 
from the previous treatment to Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of 
fluid (e.g. one glass of water). You can take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with or without 
food. Try to take your daily dose at about the same time each day. It is important that you continue to 
take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
Children should not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children under 18 years of age. If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you take more Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal. Do not take a double dose to 
make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of these effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips 
and/or tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan. 
If you get any of the above symptoms or get short of breath, stop taking Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and contact your doctor immediately. 
The frequency of the side effects listed below is defined using the following convention: 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
▪ 
nausea/vomiting 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position) 
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function 
(creatine kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea 
nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea  
low blood pressure  
fainting  
heart rate increased  
flushing  
swelling  
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
Side effects reported since the launch of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since marketing of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the ears, 
cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual 
component cannot be excluded.  
Side effects associated with irbesartan alone 
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being 
short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale) and decrease in the number of platelets (a 
blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes); inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, 
often with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; lack of white blood cells, 
which can result in frequent infections, fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by 
tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney 
disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of 
the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease characterized by the peeling of the 
skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified by a rash that may appear 
on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; altered heart rate; reduced 
blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; high sugar levels in the 
blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels in the blood, 
which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
▪ 
acute respiratory distress (signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and 
confusion). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): skin and lip cancer (non-
melanoma skin cancer); decrease in vision or pain in your eyes due to high pressure (possible signs of 
fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute angle-closure 
glaucoma). 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains 
▪ 
The active substances are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Each tablet of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg contains 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, lactose 
monohydrate, magnesium stearate, colloidal hydrated silica, pregelatinised maize starch, red and 
yellow ferric oxides (E172). Please see section 2 “Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
contains lactose”. 
▪ 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets are peach, biconvex, oval-shaped, 
with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2775 engraved on the other side. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets are supplied in blister packs of 14, 28, 
56 or 98 tablets. Unit dose blister packs of 56 x 1 tablet for delivery in hospitals are also available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
1 Rue de la vierge 
Ambarès et Lagrave 
33 565 Carbon Blanc Cedex 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 Avenue Gustave Eiffel  
37 100 Tours 
France 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +32 280 86 420 
PV-Belgium@zentiva.com 
България 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Тел: +35924417136 
PV-Bulgaria@zentiva.com 
Česká republika 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +420 267 241 111 
PV-Czech-Republic@zentiva.com 
Danmark 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +45 787 68 400 
PV-Denmark@zentiva.com 
Deutschland 
Zentiva Pharma GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 800 53 53 010 
PV-Germany@zentiva.com 
Eesti 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +372 52 70308 
PV-Estonia@zentiva.com 
Ελλάδα 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +30 211 198 7510 
PV-Greece@zentiva.com 
España 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +34 931 815 250 
PV-Spain@zentiva.com 
Lietuva 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +370 52152025 
PV-Lithuania@zentiva.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +352 208 82330 
PV-Luxembourg@zentiva.com 
Magyarország 
Zentiva Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 299 1058 
PV-Hungary@zentiva.com 
Malta 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +356 2778 0890 
PV-Malta@zentiva.com 
Nederland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +31 202 253 638 
PV-Netherlands@zentiva.com 
Norge 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +47 219 66 203 
PV-Norway@zentiva.com 
Österreich 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +43 720 778 877 
PV-Austria@zentiva.com 
Polska 
Zentiva Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 375 92 00 
PV-Poland@zentiva.com 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Zentiva France 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219  
PV-France@zentiva.com 
Hrvatska 
Zentiva d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6641 830 
PV-Croatia@zentiva.com 
Ireland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +353 818 882 243 
PV-Ireland@zentiva.com 
Ísland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Sími: +354 539 0650 
PV-Iceland@zentiva.com 
Italia 
Zentiva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39-02-38598801 
PV-Italy@zentiva.com 
Κύπρος 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +357 240 30 144 
PV-Cyprus@zentiva.com 
Latvija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +371 67893939 
PV-Latvia@zentiva.com 
Portugal 
Zentiva Portugal, Lda 
Tel: +351210601360 
PV-Portugal@zentiva.com 
România 
ZENTIVA S.A. 
Tel: +4 021.304.7597 
PV-Romania@zentiva.com 
Slovenija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +386 360 00 408 
PV-Slovenia@zentiva.com 
Slovenská republika 
Zentiva, a.s. 
Tel: +421 2 3918 3010 
PV-Slovakia@zentiva.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Puh/Tel: +358 942 598 648 
PV-Finland@zentiva.com 
Sverige 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tel: +46 840 838 822 
PV-Sweden@zentiva.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 090 2408 
PV-United-Kingdom@zentiva.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Angiotensin 
II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels causing them to tighten. 
This results in an increase in blood pressure. Irbesartan prevents the binding of angiotensin II to these 
receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased 
urine output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva work together to lower blood 
pressure further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used to treat high blood pressure, when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
▪ 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or any other sulfonamide-derived medicines 
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section) 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems 
if you have difficulty in producing urine 
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in 
your blood 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren.  
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and if any of the following 
apply to you: 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplant 
if you suffer from heart problems 
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes 
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart 
beat), particularly if you are being treated for diabetes.  
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) 
if you suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the 
hormone aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood 
pressure). 
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
o 
an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems. 
aliskiren. 
o 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, seek medical 
attention immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. 
potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva”. 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are 
more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see 
pregnancy section). 
▪ 
You should also tell your doctor: 
▪ 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
▪ 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle 
pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an 
excessive effect of hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva) 
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn 
(such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics 
if you have decrease in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the 
vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye (glaucoma) 
and can happen within hours to weeks of taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. This 
can lead to permanent vision loss, if not treated. If you earlier have had a penicillin or 
sulfonamide allergy, you can be at higher risk of developing this. You should discontinue 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva treatment and seek prompt medical attention. 
▪ 
▪ 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping 
test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children and adolescents 
(under 18 years). 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
may have an effect on other medicines. Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva without close supervision by your doctor. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets) 
some laxatives 
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements 
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins) 
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol 
resins for lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with food and drink 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken with or without food. 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, if you drink 
alcohol while on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on 
standing up, specially when getting up from a sitting position. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva before you become pregnant or as 
soon as you know you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early 
pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to 
your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor 
may choose another treatment for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, 
or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
However, occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If 
you experience these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains sodium. This medicine contains less than 1 mmol 
sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Dosage 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is one tablet a day. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous treatment 
did not reduce your blood pressure enough. Your doctor will instruct you how to switch from the 
previous treatment to Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of 
fluid (e.g. one glass of water). You can take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with or without 
food. Try to take your daily dose at about the same time each day. It is important that you continue to 
take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
Children should not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children under 18 years of age. If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you take more Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal. Do not take a double dose to 
make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of these effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips 
and/or tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan. 
If you get any of the above symptoms or get short of breath, stop taking Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and contact your doctor immediately. 
The frequency of the side effects listed below is defined using the following convention: 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
▪ 
nausea/vomiting 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position) 
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function 
(creatine kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea 
nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea  
low blood pressure  
fainting  
heart rate increased  
flushing  
swelling  
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
Side effects reported since the launch of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since marketing of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the ears, 
cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual 
component cannot be excluded.  
Side effects associated with irbesartan alone 
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being 
short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale) and decrease in the number of platelets (a 
blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes); inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, 
often with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; lack of white blood cells, 
which can result in frequent infections, fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by 
tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney 
disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of 
the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease characterized by the peeling of the 
skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified by a rash that may appear 
on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; altered heart rate; reduced 
blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; high sugar levels in the 
blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels in the blood, 
which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
▪ 
acute respiratory distress (signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and 
confusion). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): skin and lip cancer (non-
melanoma skin cancer); decrease in vision or pain in your eyes due to high pressure (possible signs of 
fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute angle-closure 
glaucoma). 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains 
▪ 
The active substances are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Each tablet of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg contains 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, lactose 
monohydrate, magnesium stearate, colloidal hydrated silica, pregelatinised maize starch, red 
and yellow ferric oxides (E172). Please see section 2 “Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
contains lactose”. 
▪ 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets are peach, biconvex, oval-shaped, 
with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2776 engraved on the other side. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg tablets are supplied in blister packs of 14, 28, 
56 or 98 tablets. Unit dose blister packs of 56 x 1 tablet for delivery in hospitals are also available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
1 Rue de la vierge 
Ambarès et Lagrave 
33 565 Carbon Blanc Cedex 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 Avenue Gustave Eiffel 
37 100 Tours 
France 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +32 280 86 420 
PV-Belgium@zentiva.com 
България 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Тел: +35924417136 
PV-Bulgaria@zentiva.com 
Česká republika 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +420 267 241 111 
PV-Czech-Republic@zentiva.com 
Danmark 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +45 787 68 400 
PV-Denmark@zentiva.com 
Deutschland 
Zentiva Pharma GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 800 53 53 010 
PV-Germany@zentiva.com 
Eesti 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +372 52 70308 
PV-Estonia@zentiva.com 
Ελλάδα 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +30 211 198 7510 
PV-Greece@zentiva.com 
España 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +34 931 815 250 
PV-Spain@zentiva.com 
Lietuva 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +370 52152025 
PV-Lithuania@zentiva.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +352 208 82330 
PV-Luxembourg@zentiva.com 
Magyarország 
Zentiva Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 299 1058 
PV-Hungary@zentiva.com 
Malta 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +356 2778 0890 
PV-Malta@zentiva.com 
Nederland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +31 202 253 638 
PV-Netherlands@zentiva.com 
Norge 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +47 219 66 203 
PV-Norway@zentiva.com 
Österreich 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +43 720 778 877 
PV-Austria@zentiva.com 
Polska 
Zentiva Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 375 92 00 
PV-Poland@zentiva.com 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Zentiva France 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219  
PV-France@zentiva.com 
Hrvatska 
Zentiva d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6641 830 
PV-Croatia@zentiva.com 
Ireland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +353 818 882 243 
PV-Ireland@zentiva.com 
Ísland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Sími: +354 539 0650 
PV-Iceland@zentiva.com 
Italia 
Zentiva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39-02-38598801 
PV-Italy@zentiva.com 
Κύπρος 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +357 240 30 144 
PV-Cyprus@zentiva.com 
Latvija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +371 67893939 
PV-Latvia@zentiva.com 
Portugal 
Zentiva Portugal, Lda 
Tel: +351210601360 
PV-Portugal@zentiva.com 
România 
ZENTIVA S.A. 
Tel: +4 021.304.7597 
PV-Romania@zentiva.com 
Slovenija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +386 360 00 408 
PV-Slovenia@zentiva.com 
Slovenská republika 
Zentiva, a.s. 
Tel: +421 2 3918 3010 
PV-Slovakia@zentiva.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Puh/Tel: +358 942 598 648 
PV-Finland@zentiva.com 
Sverige 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tel: +46 840 838 822 
PV-Sweden@zentiva.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 090 2408 
PV-United-Kingdom@zentiva.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Angiotensin 
II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels causing them to tighten. 
This results in an increase in blood pressure. Irbesartan prevents the binding of angiotensin II to these 
receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased 
urine output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva work together to lower blood 
pressure further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used to treat high blood pressure, when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
▪ 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or any other sulfonamide-derived medicines 
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section) 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems 
if you have difficulty in producing urine 
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in 
your blood 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and if any of the following 
apply to you: 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplant 
if you suffer from heart problems 
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes 
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart 
beat), particularly if you are being treated for diabetes.  
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) 
if you suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the 
hormone aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood 
pressure). 
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
o 
an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems. 
aliskiren. 
o 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, seek medical 
attention immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. 
potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva”. 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are 
more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see 
pregnancy section). 
▪ 
You should also tell your doctor: 
▪ 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
▪ 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle 
pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an 
excessive effect of hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva) 
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn 
(such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics 
if you have decrease in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the 
vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye (glaucoma) 
and can happen within hours to weeks of taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. This 
can lead to permanent vision loss, if not treated. If you earlier have had a penicillin or 
sulfonamide allergy, you can be at higher risk of developing this. You should discontinue 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva treatment and seek prompt medical attention. 
▪ 
▪ 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping 
test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children and adolescents 
(under 18 years). 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
may have an effect on other medicines. Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva without close supervision by your doctor. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets) 
some laxatives 
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements 
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins)  
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol 
resins for lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with food and drink 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken with or without food. 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, if you drink 
alcohol while on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on 
standing up, specially when getting up from a sitting position. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva before you become pregnant or as 
soon as you know you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early 
pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to 
your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor 
may choose another treatment for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, 
or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
However, occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If 
you experience these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains sodium. This medicine contains less than 1 mmol 
sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Dosage 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is one or two tablets a day. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous 
treatment did not reduce your blood pressure enough. Your doctor will instruct you how to switch 
from the previous treatment to Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of 
fluid (e.g. one glass of water). You can take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with or without 
food. Try to take your daily dose at about the same time each day. It is important that you continue to 
take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
Children should not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children under 18 years of age. If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you take more Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal. Do not take a double dose to 
make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of these effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips 
and/or tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan. 
If you get any of the above symptoms or get short of breath, stop taking Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and contact your doctor immediately. 
The frequency of the side effects listed below is defined using the following convention: 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
▪ 
nausea/vomiting 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position) 
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function 
(creatine kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea 
nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea 
low blood pressure 
fainting 
heart rate increased 
flushing 
swelling 
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
Side effects reported since the launch of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since marketing of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the ears, 
cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual 
component cannot be excluded. 
Side effects associated with irbesartan alone 
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being 
short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale) and decrease in the number of platelets (a 
blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes); inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, 
often with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; lack of white blood cells, 
which can result in frequent infections, fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by 
tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney 
disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of 
the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease characterized by the peeling of the 
skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified by a rash that may appear 
on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; altered heart rate; reduced 
blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; high sugar levels in the 
blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels in the blood, 
which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
▪ 
acute respiratory distress (signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and 
confusion). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): skin and lip cancer (non-
melanoma skin cancer); decrease in vision or pain in your eyes due to high pressure (possible signs of 
fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute angle-closure 
glaucoma). 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains 
▪ 
The active substances are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Each film-coated tablet of 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg contains 150 mg irbesartan and 
12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose 
sodium, hypromellose, silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate, titanium dioxide, macrogol 3000, 
red and yellow ferric oxides, carnauba wax. Please see section 2 “Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose”. 
▪ 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are peach, biconvex, oval-
shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2875 engraved on the other side. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are supplied in blister 
packs of 14, 28, 30, 56, 84, 90 or 98 film-coated tablets. Unit dose blister packs of 56 x 1 film-coated 
tablet for delivery in hospitals are also available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
1 Rue de la vierge 
Ambarès et Lagrave 
33 565 Carbon Blanc Cedex 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 Avenue Gustave Eiffel  
37 100 Tours 
France 
Sanofi-Aventis, S.A. 
Ctra. C-35 (La Batlloria-Hostalric, km. 63,09) 
Riells i Viabrea, 17404 Girona 
Spain 
Zentiva k.s. 
U Kabelovny 130 
102 37 Prague 10 
Czech Republic 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +32 280 86 420 
PV-Belgium@zentiva.com 
България 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Тел: +35924417136 
PV-Bulgaria@zentiva.com 
Česká republika 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +420 267 241 111 
PV-Czech-Republic@zentiva.com 
Danmark 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +45 787 68 400 
PV-Denmark@zentiva.com 
Deutschland 
Zentiva Pharma GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 800 53 53 010 
PV-Germany@zentiva.com 
Eesti 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +372 52 70308 
PV-Estonia@zentiva.com 
Lietuva 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +370 52152025 
PV-Lithuania@zentiva.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +352 208 82330 
PV-Luxembourg@zentiva.com 
Magyarország 
Zentiva Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 299 1058 
PV-Hungary@zentiva.com 
Malta 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +356 2778 0890 
PV-Malta@zentiva.com 
Nederland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +31 202 253 638 
PV-Netherlands@zentiva.com 
Norge 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +47 219 66 203 
PV-Norway@zentiva.com 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +30 211 198 7510 
PV-Greece@zentiva.com 
España 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +34 931 815 250 
PV-Spain@zentiva.com 
France 
Zentiva France 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219  
PV-France@zentiva.com 
Hrvatska 
Zentiva d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6641 830 
PV-Croatia@zentiva.com 
Ireland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +353 818 882 243 
PV-Ireland@zentiva.com 
Ísland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Sími: +354 539 0650 
PV-Iceland@zentiva.com 
Italia 
Zentiva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39-02-38598801 
PV-Italy@zentiva.com 
Κύπρος 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +357 240 30 144 
PV-Cyprus@zentiva.com 
Latvija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +371 67893939 
PV-Latvia@zentiva.com 
Österreich 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +43 720 778 877 
PV-Austria@zentiva.com 
Polska 
Zentiva Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 375 92 00 
PV-Poland@zentiva.com 
Portugal 
Zentiva Portugal, Lda 
Tel: +351210601360 
PV-Portugal@zentiva.com 
România 
ZENTIVA S.A. 
Tel: +4 021.304.7597 
PV-Romania@zentiva.com 
Slovenija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +386 360 00 408 
PV-Slovenia@zentiva.com 
Slovenská republika 
Zentiva, a.s. 
Tel: +421 2 3918 3010 
PV-Slovakia@zentiva.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Puh/Tel: +358 942 598 648 
PV-Finland@zentiva.com 
Sverige 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tel: +46 840 838 822 
PV-Sweden@zentiva.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 090 2408 
PV-United-Kingdom@zentiva.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Angiotensin 
II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels causing them to tighten. 
This results in an increase in blood pressure. Irbesartan prevents the binding of angiotensin II to these 
receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased 
urine output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva work together to lower blood 
pressure further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used to treat high blood pressure, when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
▪ 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or any other sulfonamide-derived medicines 
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section) 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems 
if you have difficulty in producing urine 
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in 
your blood 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and if any of the following 
apply to you: 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplant 
if you suffer from heart problems 
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes 
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart 
beat), particularly if you are being treated for diabetes.  
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) 
if you suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the 
hormone aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood 
pressure). 
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
o 
an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems. 
aliskiren. 
o 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, seek medical 
attention immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. 
potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva”. 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are 
more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see 
pregnancy section). 
▪ 
You should also tell your doctor: 
▪ 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
▪ 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle 
pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an 
excessive effect of hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva) 
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn 
(such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics  
if you have decrease in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the 
vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye (glaucoma) 
and can happen within hours to weeks of taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. This 
can lead to permanent vision loss, if not treated. If you earlier have had a penicillin or 
sulfonamide allergy, you can be at higher risk of developing this. You should discontinue 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva treatment and seek prompt medical attention. 
▪ 
▪ 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping 
test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children and adolescents 
(under 18 years). 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
may have an effect on other medicines. Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva without close supervision by your doctor. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets) 
some laxatives 
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements 
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins)  
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol 
resins for lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with food and drink 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken with or without food. 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, if you drink 
alcohol while on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on 
standing up, specially when getting up from a sitting position. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva before you become pregnant or as 
soon as you know you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early 
pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to 
your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor 
may choose another treatment for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, 
or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
However, occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If 
you experience these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains sodium. This medicine contains less than 1 mmol 
sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Dosage 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is one tablet a day. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous treatment 
did not reduce your blood pressure enough. Your doctor will instruct you how to switch from the 
previous treatment to Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of 
fluid (e.g. one glass of water). You can take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with or without 
food. Try to take your daily dose at about the same time each day. It is important that you continue to 
take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
Children should not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children under 18 years of age. If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you take more Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal. Do not take a double dose to 
make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of these effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips 
and/or tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan. 
If you get any of the above symptoms or get short of breath, stop taking Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and contact your doctor immediately. 
The frequency of the side effects listed below is defined using the following convention: 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
▪ 
nausea/vomiting 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position) 
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function 
(creatine kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea 
nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea 
low blood pressure 
fainting 
heart rate increased 
flushing 
swelling 
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
Side effects reported since the launch of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since marketing of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the ears, 
cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual 
component cannot be excluded. 
Side effects associated with irbesartan alone 
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being 
short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale) and decrease in the number of platelets (a 
blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes); inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, 
often with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; lack of white blood cells, 
which can result in frequent infections, fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by 
tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney 
disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of 
the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease characterized by the peeling of the 
skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified by a rash that may appear 
on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; altered heart rate; reduced 
blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; high sugar levels in the 
blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels in the blood, 
which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
▪ 
acute respiratory distress (signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and 
confusion). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): skin and lip cancer (non-
melanoma skin cancer); decrease in vision or pain in your eyes due to high pressure (possible signs of 
fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute angle-closure 
glaucoma). 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains 
▪ 
The active substances are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Each film-coated tablet of 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg contains 300 mg irbesartan and 
12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose 
sodium, hypromellose, silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate, titanium dioxide, macrogol 3000, 
red and yellow ferric oxides, carnauba wax. Please see section 2 “Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose”. 
▪ 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are peach, biconvex, oval-
shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2876 engraved on the other side. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are supplied in blister 
packs of 14, 28, 30, 56, 84, 90 or 98 film-coated tablets. Unit dose blister packs of 56 x 1 film-coated 
tablet for delivery in hospitals are also available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
1 Rue de la vierge 
Ambarès et Lagrave 
33 565 Carbon Blanc Cedex 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 Avenue Gustave Eiffel 
37 100 Tours 
France 
Sanofi-Aventis, S.A. 
Ctra. C-35 (La Batlloria-Hostalric, km. 63,09) 
Riells i Viabrea, 17404 Girona 
Spain 
Zentiva k.s. 
U Kabelovny 130 
102 37 Prague 10 
Czech Republic 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +32 280 86 420 
PV-Belgium@zentiva.com 
България 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Тел: +35924417136 
PV-Bulgaria@zentiva.com 
Česká republika 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +420 267 241 111 
PV-Czech-Republic@zentiva.com 
Danmark 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +45 787 68 400 
PV-Denmark@zentiva.com 
Deutschland 
Zentiva Pharma GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 800 53 53 010 
PV-Germany@zentiva.com 
Eesti 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +372 52 70308 
PV-Estonia@zentiva.com 
Lietuva 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +370 52152025 
PV-Lithuania@zentiva.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +352 208 82330 
PV-Luxembourg@zentiva.com 
Magyarország 
Zentiva Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 299 1058 
PV-Hungary@zentiva.com 
Malta 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +356 2778 0890 
PV-Malta@zentiva.com 
Nederland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +31 202 253 638 
PV-Netherlands@zentiva.com 
Norge 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +47 219 66 203 
PV-Norway@zentiva.com 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +30 211 198 7510 
PV-Greece@zentiva.com 
España 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +34 931 815 250 
PV-Spain@zentiva.com 
France 
Zentiva France 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219  
PV-France@zentiva.com 
Hrvatska 
Zentiva d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6641 830 
PV-Croatia@zentiva.com 
Ireland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +353 818 882 243 
PV-Ireland@zentiva.com 
Ísland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Sími: +354 539 0650 
PV-Iceland@zentiva.com 
Italia 
Zentiva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39-02-38598801 
PV-Italy@zentiva.com 
Κύπρος 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +357 240 30 144 
PV-Cyprus@zentiva.com 
Latvija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +371 67893939 
PV-Latvia@zentiva.com 
Österreich 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +43 720 778 877 
PV-Austria@zentiva.com 
Polska 
Zentiva Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 375 92 00 
PV-Poland@zentiva.com 
Portugal 
Zentiva Portugal, Lda 
Tel: +351210601360 
PV-Portugal@zentiva.com 
România 
ZENTIVA S.A. 
Tel: +4 021.304.7597 
PV-Romania@zentiva.com 
Slovenija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +386 360 00 408 
PV-Slovenia@zentiva.com 
Slovenská republika 
Zentiva, a.s. 
Tel: +421 2 3918 3010 
PV-Slovakia@zentiva.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Puh/Tel: +358 942 598 648 
PV-Finland@zentiva.com 
Sverige 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tel: +46 840 838 822 
PV-Sweden@zentiva.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 090 2408 
PV-United-Kingdom@zentiva.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin II receptor antagonists. Angiotensin 
II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels causing them to tighten. 
This results in an increase in blood pressure. Irbesartan prevents the binding of angiotensin II to these 
receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased 
urine output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva work together to lower blood 
pressure further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is used to treat high blood pressure, when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
▪ 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or any other sulfonamide-derived medicines 
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section) 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems 
if you have difficulty in producing urine 
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in 
your blood 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and if any of the following 
apply to you: 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplant 
if you suffer from heart problems 
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes 
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart 
beat), particularly if you are being treated for diabetes. 
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) 
if you suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the 
hormone aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood 
pressure). 
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
o 
an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems. 
aliskiren. 
o 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, seek medical 
attention immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. 
potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva”. 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are 
more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see 
pregnancy section). 
▪ 
You should also tell your doctor: 
▪ 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
▪ 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle 
pain or cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an 
excessive effect of hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva) 
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn 
(such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics  
if you have decrease in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the 
vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye (glaucoma) 
and can happen within hours to weeks of taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. This 
can lead to permanent vision loss, if not treated. If you earlier have had a penicillin or 
sulfonamide allergy, you can be at higher risk of developing this. You should discontinue 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva treatment and seek prompt medical attention. 
▪ 
▪ 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping 
test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children and adolescents 
(under 18 years). 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
may have an effect on other medicines. Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva without close supervision by your doctor. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets) 
some laxatives 
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements 
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins)  
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol 
resins for lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with food and drink 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva can be taken with or without food. 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva, if you drink 
alcohol while on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on 
standing up, specially when getting up from a sitting position. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva before you become pregnant or as 
soon as you know you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended in early 
pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to 
your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor 
may choose another treatment for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, 
or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
However, occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If 
you experience these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose. If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains sodium. This medicine contains less than 1 mmol 
sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Dosage 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is one tablet a day. Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous treatment 
did not reduce your blood pressure enough. Your doctor will instruct you how to switch from the 
previous treatment to Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of 
fluid (e.g. one glass of water). You can take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva with or without 
food. Try to take your daily dose at about the same time each day. It is important that you continue to 
take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
Children should not take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva should not be given to children under 18 years of age. If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you take more Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal. Do not take a double dose to 
make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of these effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips 
and/or tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan. 
If you get any of the above symptoms or get short of breath, stop taking Irbesartan 
Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva and contact your doctor immediately. 
The frequency of the side effects listed below is defined using the following convention: 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
▪ 
nausea/vomiting 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position) 
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function 
(creatine kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea 
nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea 
low blood pressure 
fainting 
heart rate increased 
flushing 
swelling 
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
Side effects reported since the launch of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since marketing of Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide 
Zentiva. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the ears, 
cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual 
component cannot be excluded. 
Side effects associated with irbesartan alone 
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being 
short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale) and decrease in the number of platelets (a 
blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone 
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes); inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, 
often with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; lack of white blood cells, 
which can result in frequent infections, fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by 
tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney 
disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of 
the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease characterized by the peeling of the 
skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified by a rash that may appear 
on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; altered heart rate; reduced 
blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; high sugar levels in the 
blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels in the blood, 
which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
▪ 
acute respiratory distress (signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and 
confusion). 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): skin and lip cancer (non-
melanoma skin cancer); decrease in vision or pain in your eyes due to high pressure (possible signs of 
fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute angle-closure 
glaucoma). 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains 
▪ 
The active substances are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. Each film-coated tablet of 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg contains 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose 
sodium, hypromellose, silicon dioxide, magnesium stearate, titanium dioxide, macrogol 3350, 
red, yellow and black ferric oxides, pregelatinized starch, carnauba wax. Please see section 2 
“Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva contains lactose”. 
▪ 
What Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets are pink, biconvex, oval-
shaped, with a heart debossed on one side and the number 2788 engraved on the other side. 
Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Zentiva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets are supplied in blister packs 
of 14, 28, 30, 56, 84, 90 or 98 film-coated tablets. Unit dose blister packs of 56 x 1 film-coated tablet 
for delivery in hospitals are also available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Zentiva k.s.  
U Kabelovny 130  
102 37 Prague 10  
Czech Republic 
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
1 Rue de la vierge 
Ambarès et Lagrave 
33 565 Carbon Blanc Cedex 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
30-36 Avenue Gustave Eiffel  
37 100 Tours 
France 
Zentiva k.s. 
U Kabelovny 130 
102 37 Prague 10 
Czech Republic  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +32 280 86 420 
PV-Belgium@zentiva.com 
България 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Тел: +35924417136 
PV-Bulgaria@zentiva.com 
Česká republika 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +420 267 241 111 
PV-Czech-Republic@zentiva.com 
Danmark 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +45 787 68 400 
PV-Denmark@zentiva.com 
Deutschland 
Zentiva Pharma GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 800 53 53 010 
PV-Germany@zentiva.com 
Eesti 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +372 52 70308 
PV-Estonia@zentiva.com 
Ελλάδα 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +30 211 198 7510 
PV-Greece@zentiva.com 
Lietuva 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +370 52152025 
PV-Lithuania@zentiva.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tél/Tel: +352 208 82330 
PV-Luxembourg@zentiva.com 
Magyarország 
Zentiva Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 299 1058 
PV-Hungary@zentiva.com 
Malta 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +356 2778 0890 
PV-Malta@zentiva.com 
Nederland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +31 202 253 638 
PV-Netherlands@zentiva.com 
Norge 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tlf: +47 219 66 203 
PV-Norway@zentiva.com 
Österreich 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +43 720 778 877 
PV-Austria@zentiva.com 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +34 931 815 250 
PV-Spain@zentiva.com 
France 
Zentiva France 
Tél: +33 (0) 800 089 219  
PV-France@zentiva.com 
Hrvatska 
Zentiva d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6641 830 
PV-Croatia@zentiva.com 
Ireland 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +353 818 882 243 
PV-Ireland@zentiva.com 
Ísland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Sími: +354 539 0650 
PV-Iceland@zentiva.com 
Italia 
Zentiva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39-02-38598801 
PV-Italy@zentiva.com 
Κύπρος 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Τηλ: +357 240 30 144 
PV-Cyprus@zentiva.com 
Latvija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +371 67893939 
PV-Latvia@zentiva.com 
Polska 
Zentiva Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 375 92 00 
PV-Poland@zentiva.com 
Portugal 
Zentiva Portugal, Lda 
Tel: +351210601360 
PV-Portugal@zentiva.com 
România 
ZENTIVA S.A. 
Tel: +4 021.304.7597 
PV-Romania@zentiva.com 
Slovenija 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +386 360 00 408 
PV-Slovenia@zentiva.com 
Slovenská republika 
Zentiva, a.s. 
Tel: +421 2 3918 3010 
PV-Slovakia@zentiva.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Puh/Tel: +358 942 598 648 
PV-Finland@zentiva.com 
Sverige 
Zentiva Denmark ApS 
Tel: +46 840 838 822 
PV-Sweden@zentiva.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Zentiva, k.s. 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 090 2408 
PV-United-Kingdom@zentiva.com 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
