SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.  Introduction 
This application has been submitted as an informed consent application in accordance with Article 10c 
of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
Therefore, consent from the MAH of the APROVEL application, which had been submitted as a full 
application under Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, has been given allowing access to 
Module 2 to Module 5 of the initial dossier of this authorised product and any subsequent post-
marketing procedures submitted, assessed and approved. 
As a consequence, quality, safety and efficacy of the IRBESARTAN WINTHROP medicinal product 
is identical to the up-to-date quality, safety and efficacy profile of APROVEL. Information on the 
scientific discussions can be found in the APROVEL CHMP assessment report and in the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of essential hypertension. Treatment of renal disease in 
patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus as part of an antihypertensive drug regimen”. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the APROVEL application, the quality data in support 
of the IRBESARTAN WINTHROP application are identical to the up-to-date quality data of the 
APROVEL dossier which have been assessed and approved (including all post-marketing procedures). 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the APROVEL application, the non-clinical data in 
support of the IRBESARTAN WINTHROP application are identical to the up-to-date non-clinical 
data of the APROVEL dossier, which have been assessed and approved (including all post-marketing 
procedures). 
The applicant will submit an updated Environmental Risk Assessment as a post authorisation follow 
up measure.  
4.  Clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the APROVEL application, the clinical data in support 
of the IRBESARTAN WINTHROP application are identical to the up-to-date clinical data of the 
APROVEL dossier, which have been assessed and approved (including all post-marketing 
procedures). 
•  User consultation 
The applicant has committed to perform the user consultation of the English Patient Information 
Leaflet and to report the results within two months of marketing authorisation  
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
As requested by the MAH and agreed by the CHMP, the PSUR cycle of IRBESARTAN WINTHROP 
will correspond to the one attributed to the cross-referred product, APROVEL, until otherwise 
specified. 
©EMEA 2007 
1/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the MAA to submit a risk management plan beyond the provision of 
adequate information in the SPC and suitable packaging, as well as ongoing pharmacovigilance 
activities to continuously monitor the safety profile of the product due to the following points: 
• 
• 
safety profile of the cross-referred product APROVEL has been established in both clinical trials 
and in post-marketing experiences 
identified and/or potential safety events of interest related to the cross-referred product APROVEL 
has been continuously assessed, documented and closely monitored through global 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Since this application is an informed consent of the APROVEL application, the CHMP considered that 
the risk-benefit balance of IRBESARTAN WINTHROP was favourable and therefore recommended 
the granting of the marketing authorisation for the following indication: 
Treatment of essential hypertension.  
Treatment  of  renal  disease  in  patients  with  hypertension  and  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  as  part  of  an 
antihypertensive drug regimen. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
