SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.  Introduction 
This application has been submitted as an informed consent application in accordance with Article 10c 
of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
Therefore, consent from the MAH of the COAPROVEL application, which had been submitted as a 
full application under Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, has been given allowing 
access to Module 2 to Module 5 of the initial dossier of this authorised product and any subsequent 
post-marketing procedures submitted, assessed and approved. 
As a consequence, quality, safety and efficacy of the IRBESARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE 
WINTHROP medicinal product is identical to the up-to-date quality, safety and efficacy profile of 
COAPROVEL. Information on the scientific discussions can be found in the COAPROVEL CHMP 
assessment report and in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
The approved indication is: “Treatment of essential hypertension. This fixed dose combination is 
indicated in patiens whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on Irbesartan or 
Hydrochlorothiazide alone”. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Since  this  application  is  an  informed  consent  of  the  COAPROVEL  application,  the  quality  data  in 
support of the IRBESARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE WINTHROP application are identical to 
the  up-to-date  quality  data  of  the  COAPROVEL  dossier  which  have  been  assessed  and  approved 
(including all post-marketing procedures). 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the COAPROVEL application, the non-clinical data in 
support of the IRBESARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE WINTHROP application are identical to 
the up-to-date non-clinical data of the COAPROVEL dossier, which have been assessed and approved 
(including all post-marketing procedures). 
The applicant will submit an updated Environmental Risk Assessment as a post authorisation follow 
up measure.  
4.  Clinical aspects 
Since this application is an informed consent of the COAPROVEL application, the clinical data in 
support of the IRBESARTAN HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE WINTHROP application are identical to 
the up-to-date clinical data of the COAPROVEL dossier, which have been assessed and approved 
(including all post-marketing procedures). 
•  User consultation 
The product information of the informed consent application remains identical to that of the cross-
referred product COAPROVEL. The applicant submitted a justification for not performing the user 
consultation based on the fact that the cross-referred product was first approved in August 1997 and 
the Package Leaflet has been available to patients in the EU for more than 8 years; therefore 
consultations with target patient groups on the draft package leaflet were not included in this 
submission. This was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
©EMEA 2007 
1/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
PSUR 
As requested by the MAH and agreed by the CHMP, the PSUR cycle of IRBESARTAN 
HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE WINTHROP will correspond to the one attributed to the cross-referred 
product, COAPROVEL, until otherwise specified. 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The  CHMP  did  not  require  the  MAA  to  submit  a  risk  management  plan  beyond  the  provision  of 
adequate  information  in  the  SPC  and  suitable  packaging  as  well  as  ongoing  pharmacovigilance 
activities to continuously monitor the safety profile of the product due to the following points: 
• 
• 
safety  profile  of  the  cross-referred  product  COAPROVEL  has  been  established  in  both  clinical 
trials and in post-marketing experiences 
identified  and/or  potential  safety  events  of  interest  related  to  the  cross-referred  product 
COAPROVEL has been continuously assessed, documented and closely monitored through global 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Since this application is an informed consent of the COAPROVEL application, the CHMP considered 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  IRBESARTAN  HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE  WINTHROP  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation for the following 
indication  “Treatment  of  essential  hypertension.  This  fixed  dose  combination  is  indicated  in  patiens 
whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on Irbesartan or Hydrochlorothiazide alone”. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
