ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of irbesartan and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of irbesartan and 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of irbesartan and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Light pink to pink, film-coated capsule shaped tablet. One side of the tablet debossed with the number "93". 
The other side of the tablet debossed with the number "7238". 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Light pink to pink, round film-coated tablet. One side of the tablet debossed with the number "2" and plain 
on the other side. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
Pink to dark pink, round film-coated tablet. One side of the tablet debossed with the number "3" and plain on 
the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of essential hypertension.  
This fixed dose combination is indicated in adult patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled 
on irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva can be taken once daily, with or without food.   
Dose titration with the individual components (i.e. irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide) may be 
recommended. 
When clinically appropriate direct change from monotherapy to the fixed combinations may be considered:  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients whose blood 
pressure is not adequately controlled with hydrochlorothiazide or irbesartan 150 mg alone;  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg may be administered in patients insufficiently 
controlled by irbesartan 300 mg or by Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg may be administered in patients insufficiently 
controlled by Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg.   
Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily are not recommended. When 
necessary, Irbesartan/HydrochlorothiazideTeva may be administered with another antihypertensive 
medicinal product (see sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1). 
Special Populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended for 
patients with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min). Loop diuretics are preferred to 
thiazides in this population. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment whose 
renal creatinine clearance is ≥ 30 ml/min (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
Hepatic impairment 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not indicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Thiazides 
should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function. No dosage adjustment of 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is necessary in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment (see 
section 4.3).  
Elderly population 
No dosage adjustment of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is necessary in older people.  
Paediatric population 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended for use in children and adolescents because the 
safety and efficacy have not been established. No data are available..   
Method of Administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, or to other 
sulfonamide-derived substances (hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide-derived substance)  
Second and third trimester of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6)  
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min)  
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia  
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis 
The concomitant use of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with aliskiren-containing products is 
contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (GFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see 
sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypotension - Volume-depleted patients 
The combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide has been rarely associated with symptomatic 
hypotension in hypertensive patients without other risk factors for hypotension. Symptomatic hypotension 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may be expected to occur in patients who are volume and/or sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such conditions should be corrected before initiating therapy 
with Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva.  
Renal artery stenosis - Renovascular hypertension 
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral renal 
artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with angiotensin converting 
enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists. While this is not documented with 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, a similar effect should be anticipated.  
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation 
When Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is used in patients with impaired renal function, a periodic 
monitoring of potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. There is no experience 
regarding the administration of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva in patients with a recent kidney 
transplantation. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva should not be used in patients with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). Thiazide diuretic-associated azotaemia may 
occur in patients with impaired renal function. No dosage adjustment is necessary in patients with renal 
impairment whose creatinine clearance is ≥ 30 ml/min. However, in patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 30 ml/min but < 60 ml/min) this fixed dose combination should be 
administered with caution.  
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren 
increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure). 
Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
If dual blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure. 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy. 
Hepatic impairment 
Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function or progressive liver disease, 
since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate hepatic coma. There is no clinical 
experience with Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva in patients with hepatic impairment.  
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral stenosis, or 
obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.  
Primary aldosteronism 
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products acting 
through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended.  
Metabolic and endocrine effects 
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during 
thiazide therapy. Irbesartan may induce hypoglycaemia, particularly in diabetic patients. In patients treated 
with insulin or antidiabetics an appropriate blood glucose monitoring should be considered; a dose 
adjustment of inslulin or antidiabetics may be required when indicated (see section 4.5).  
Increases in cholesterol and triglyceride levels have been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; however 
at the 12.5 mg dose contained in the irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide combination, minimal or no effects 
were reported.  
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in certain patients receiving thiazide therapy.  
Electrolyte imbalance 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals.  
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (hypokalaemia, 
hyponatraemia, and hypochloremic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte imbalance are dryness of 
mouth, thirst, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or cramps, muscular fatigue, 
hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea or vomiting.  
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with irbesartan 
may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greatest in patients with cirrhosis of 
the liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving inadequate oral intake of 
electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or ACTH. Conversely, due to 
the irbesartan component of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva hyperkalaemia might occur, especially in 
the presence of renal impairment and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Adequate monitoring of serum 
potassium in patients at risk is recommended. Potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements or 
potassium-containing salts substitutes should be co-administered cautiously with 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva (see section 4.5).  
There is no evidence that irbesartan would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. Chloride 
deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment.  
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of serum 
calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia may be evidence 
of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out tests for parathyroid 
function.  
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnaesemia.  
Lithium 
The combination of lithium and Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended (see section 4.5).  
Anti-doping test 
Hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicinal product could produce a positive analytic result in an 
anti-doping test.  
General 
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin-II receptor antagonists that affect this system has been associated with acute hypotension, 
azotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see section 4.5). As with any anti-hypertensive agent, 
excessive blood pressure decrease in patients with ischemic cardiopathy or ischemic cardiovascular disease 
could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke.  
Hypersensitivity reactions to hydrochlorothiazide may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy 
or bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history.  
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics.  
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazides diuretics (see section 4.8).  If 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment.  If a 
re-administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the sun 
or to artificial UVA.   
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) should not be initiated during pregnancy.  Unless continued 
AIIRA therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative anti-
hypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When pregnancy is 
diagnosed, treatment with AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy 
should be started (see sections 4.3 and 4.6). 
Choroidal effusion, acute Myopia and Secondary Acute Angle-Closure Glaucoma 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
Sulfonamide drugs or sulfonamide derivative drugs can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in 
choroidal effusion with visual field defect, transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. While 
hydrochlorothiazide is a sulfonamide, only isolated cases of acute angle-closure glaucoma have been 
reported so far with hydrochlorothiazide. Symptoms include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular 
pain and typically occur within hours to weeks of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma 
can lead to permanent vision loss. The primary treatment is to discontinue drug intake as rapidly as possible. 
Prompt medical or surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains 
uncontrolled. Risk factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide 
or penicillin allergy (see section 4.8). 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell 
carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) exposure has been 
observed in two epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. Photosensitizing 
actions of HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC. 
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their skin for 
any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive measures such as 
limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate protection should be advised to 
the patients in order to minimize the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious skin lesions should be promptly 
examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. The use of HCTZ may also need to be 
reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC (see also section 4.8). 
Acute respiratory toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops within minutes to 
hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, fever, pulmonary 
deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered to 
patients who previously experienced ARDS following hydrochlorothiazide intake. 
Excipient 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Other antihypertensive agents 
The antihypertensive effect of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva may be increased with the concomitant 
use of other antihypertensive agents. Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide (at doses up to 300 mg 
irbesartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide) have been safely administered with other antihypertensive agents 
including calcium channel blockers and beta-adrenergic blockers. Prior treatment with high dose diuretics 
may result in volume depletion and a risk of hypotension when initiating therapy with irbesartan with or 
without thiazide diuretics unless the volume depletion is corrected first (see section 4.4).  
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during concomitant 
administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Similar effects have been very 
rarely reported with irbesartan so far. Furthermore, renal clearance of lithium is reduced by thiazides so the 
risk of lithium toxicity could be increased with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide combinations. Therefore, 
the combination of lithium and Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended (see section 4.4). If 
the combination proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended.  
Medicinal products affecting potassium 
The potassium-depleting effect of hydrochlorothiazide is attenuated by the potassium-sparing effect of 
irbesartan. However, this effect of hydrochlorothiazide on serum potassium would be expected to be 
potentiated by other medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kaliuretic diuretics, laxatives, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium). Conversely, based on the 
experience with the use of other medicinal products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, concomitant use 
of potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium or other 
medicinal products that may increase serum potassium levels (e.g. heparin sodium) may lead to increases in 
serum potassium. Adequate monitoring of serum potassium in patients at risk is recommended (see section 
4.4).  
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances 
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium is recommended when Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is 
administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances (e.g. digitalis glycosides, 
antiarrhythmics).  
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
When angiotensin II antagonists are administered simultaneously with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(i.e. selective COX-2 inhibitors, acetylsalicylic acid (> 3 g/day) and non-selective NSAIDs), attenuation of 
the antihypertensive effect may occur.  
As with ACE inhibitors, concomitant use of angiotensin II antagonists and NSAIDs may lead to an increased 
risk of worsening of renal function, including possible acute renal failure, and an increase in serum 
potassium, especially in patients with poor pre-existing renal function. The combination should be 
administered with caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and 
consideration should be given to monitoring renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy, and 
periodically thereafter.  
Repaglinide 
Irbesartan has the potential to inhibit OATP1B1. In a clinical study, it was reported that irbesartan increased 
the Cmax and AUC of repaglinide (substrate of OATP1B1) by 1.8-fold and 1.3-fold, respectively, when 
administered 1 hour before repaglinide. In another study, no relevant pharmacokinetic interaction was 
reported, when the two drugs were co-administered. Therefore, dose adjustment of antidiabetic treatment 
such as repaglinide may be required (see section 4.4). 
Additional information on irbesartan interactions 
In clinical studies, the pharmacokinetic of irbesartan is not affected by hydrochlorothiazide. Irbesartan is 
mainly metabolised by CYP2C9 and to a lesser extent by glucuronidation. No significant pharmacokinetic or 
pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when irbesartan was coadministered with warfarin, a 
medicinal product metabolised by CYP2C9. The effects of CYP2C9 inducers such as rifampicin on the 
pharmacokinetic of irbesartan have not been evaluated. The pharmacokinetic of digoxin was not altered by 
co-administration of irbesartan.  
Additional information on hydrochlorothiazide interactions 
When administered concurrently, the following medicinal products may interact with thiazide diuretics:  
Alcohol 
Potentiation of orthostatic hypotension may occur;  
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulins) 
Dosage adjustment of the antidiabetic medicinal product may be required (see section 4.4);  
Colestyramine and Colestipol resins 
Absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva should be taken at least one hour before or four hours after these 
medications;  
Corticosteroids, ACTH 
Electrolyte depletion, particularly hypokalaemia, may be increased;  
Digitalis glycosides 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thiazide induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnaesemia favour the onset of digitalis-induced cardiac 
arrhythmias (see section 4.4);  
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
The administration of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and 
antihypertensive effects of thiazide diuretics in some patients;  
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline) 
The effect of pressor amines may be decreased, but not sufficiently to preclude their use;  
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine) 
The effect of nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants may be potentiated by hydrochlorothiazide;  
Antigout medicinal products 
Dosage adjustments of antigout medicinal products may be necessary as hydrochlorothiazide may raise the 
level of serum uric acid. Increase in dosage of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. 
Co-administration of thiazide diuretics may increase the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to 
allopurinol;  
Calcium salts 
Thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to decreased excretion. If calcium supplements or 
calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be prescribed, serum calcium levels should 
be monitored and calcium dosage adjusted accordingly;  
Carbamazepine 
Concomitant use of carbamazepine and hydrochlorothiazide has been associated with the risk of 
symptomatic hyponatraemia. Electrolytes should be monitored during concomitant use. If possible, another 
class of diuretics should be used; 
Other interactions 
The hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by thiazides. Anticholinergic 
agents (e.g. atropine, beperiden) may increase the bioavailability of thiazide-type diuretics by decreasing 
gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate. Thiazides may increase the risk of adverse effects 
caused by amantadine. Thiazides may reduce the renal excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products (e.g. 
cyclophosphamide, methotrexate) and potentiate their myelosuppressive effects. 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS) through 
the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated with a higher 
frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
The use of AIIRAs is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy (see section 4.4). The use of 
AIIRAs is contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors during 
the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk cannot be excluded. 
Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists 
(AIIRAs), similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued AIIRAs therapy is considered 
essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative anti-hypertensive treatments which 
have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with 
AIIRAs should be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be started. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to AIIRAs therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human foetotoxicity 
(decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal toxicity (renal 
failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3). Should exposure to AIIRAs have occurred from the 
second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check of renal function and skull is recommended. 
Infants whose mothers have taken AIIRAs should be closely observed for hypotension (see sections 4.3 and 
4.4). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
There is limited experience with hydrochlorothiazide during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester. 
Animal studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the pharmacological 
mechanism of action of hydrochlorothiazide its use during the second and third trimester may compromise 
foeto-placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like icterus, disturbance of electrolyte 
balance and thrombocytopenia. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or preeclampsia 
due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a beneficial effect on the 
course of the disease. 
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used. 
Since Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains hydrochlorothiazide, it is not recommended during the 
first trimester of pregnancy. A switch to a suitable alternative treatment should be carried out in advance of a 
planned pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Angiotensin II Receptor Antagonists (AIIRAs) 
Because no information is available regarding the use of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva during 
breast-feeding, Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended and alternative treatments with 
better established safety profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while nursing a newborn or 
preterm infant. 
It is unknown whether irbesartan or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. 
Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in rats have shown excretion of irbesartan or its metabolites 
in milk (for details see 5.3). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing intense 
diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva during breast 
feeding is not recommended. If Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is used during breast feeding, doses 
should be kept as low as possible. 
Fertility 
Irbesartan had no effect upon fertility of treated rats and their offspring up to the dose levels inducing the 
first signs of parental toxicity (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on its pharmacodynamic properties, Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is unlikely to affect the 
ability to drive and use machines. When driving vehicles or operating machines, it should be taken into 
account that occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of hypertension. 
4.8  
Undesirable effects 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination 
Among 898 hypertensive patients who received various doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
(range: 37.5 mg/6.25 mg to 300 mg/25 mg) in placebo-controlled trials, 29.5% of the patients 
experienced adverse reactions. The most commonly reported ADRs were dizziness (5.6%), fatigue 
(4.9%), nausea/vomiting (1.8%), and abnormal urination (1.4%). In addition increases in blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN) (2.3%), creatine kinase (1.7%) and creatinine (1.1%) were also commonly observed in the 
trials. 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
trials. 
The frequency of adverse reactions listed below is defined using the following convention:  
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in 
order of decreasing seriousness.  
Table 1.  Adverse Reactions In Placebo-Controlled Trials and Spontaneous Reports 
Investigations: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Common: 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Not known: 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Not known:  
Uncommon: 
Common: 
Immune system disorders: 
Not known: 
10 
Increases in blood urea nitrogen 
(BUN), creatinine and creatine 
kinase 
Decreases in serum potassium 
and sodium 
Syncope, hypotension, 
tachycardia, oedema 
Dizziness 
Orthostatic dizziness 
Headache 
Tinnitus 
Cough 
Nausea/vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia, dysgeusia 
Abnormal urination 
Impaired renal function 
including isolated cases of renal 
failure in patients at risk (see 
section 4.4) 
Swelling extremity 
Arthralgia, myalgia 
Hyperkalaemia 
Flushing 
Fatigue 
Cases of hypersensitivity 
reactions such as angioedema, 
rash, urticaria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders: 
Uncommon: 
Not known: 
Uncommon: 
Jaundice 
Hepatitis, abnormal liver 
function 
Sexual dysfunction, libido 
changes 
Additional information on individual components: in addition to the adverse reactions listed above for the 
combination product, other adverse reactions previously reported with one of the individual components may 
be potential adverse reactions with Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva.  Tables 2 and 3 below detail the 
adverse reactions reported with the individual components of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva.   
Table 2.  Adverse reactions reported with the use of irbesartan alone  
Uncommon: 
Chest pain 
Not known: 
Anaemia, thrombocytopenia 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Anaphylactic reaction including 
anaphylactic shock 
Hypoglycaemia 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Immune system disorders: 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders: 
Table 3.  Adverse reactions reported with the use of hydrochorothiazide alone 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl cysts and 
polyps) 
Not known 
Investigations: 
Not known: 
Cardiac disorders: 
Not known: 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders: 
Not known: 
Nervous system disorders: 
Not known: 
Eye disorders: 
Not known: 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders: 
Very rare: 
Not known: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: 
Not known: 
11 
Non-melanoma skin cancer 
(Basal cell carcinoma and 
Squamous cell carcinoma) 
Electrolyte imbalance 
(including hypokalaemia and 
hyponatraemia, see section 4.4), 
hyperuricaemia, glycosuria, 
hyperglycaemia, increases in 
cholesterol and triglycerides 
Cardiac arrhythmias 
Aplastic anaemia, bone marrow 
depression, 
neutopenia/agranulocytosis, 
haemolytic anaemia, 
leucopenia, thrombocytopenia 
Vertigo, paraesthesia, light-
headedness, restlessness 
Transient blurred vision, 
xanthopsia, choroidal effusion, 
acute myopia and secondary 
acute angle-closure glaucoma 
Acute respiratory distress 
syndrome (ARDS) (see section 
4.4) 
Respiratory distress (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary 
oedema) 
Pancreatitis, anorexia, 
diarrhoea, constipation, gastric 
irritation, sialadenitis, loss of 
appetite 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal and urinary disorders: 
Not known: 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders: 
Not known 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders: 
Vascular disorders: 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions: 
Hepatobiliary disorders: 
Psychiatric disorders: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Not known: 
Interstitial nephritis, renal 
dysfunction 
Anaphylactic reactions, toxic 
epidermal necrolysis, 
necrotizing angitis (vasculitis, 
cutaneous vasculitis), cutaneous 
lupus erythematosus-like 
reactions, reactivation of 
cutaneous lupus erythematosus, 
photosensitivity reactions, rash, 
urticaria 
Weakness, muscle spasm 
Postural hypotension 
Fever 
Jaundice (intrahepatic 
cholestatic jaundice) 
Depression, sleep disturbances 
The dose dependent adverse events of hydrochlorothiazide (particularly electrolyte disturbances) may 
increase when titrating the hydrochlorothiazide. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Non-melanoma skin cancer: Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose-
dependent association between HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are asked 
to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V.  
4.9  Overdose 
No specific information is available on the treatment of overdose with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide 
combinations. The patient should be closely monitored, and the treatment should be symptomatic and 
supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion and the severity of the symptoms. Suggested 
measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric lavage. Activated charcoal may be useful in the 
treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and creatinine should be monitored frequently. If hypotension 
occurs, the patient should be placed in a supine position, with salt and volume replacements given quickly.  
The most likely manifestations of irbesartan overdose are expected to be hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia might also occur.  
Overdose with hydrochlorothiazide is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, hypochloremia, 
hyponatraemia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common signs and symptoms 
of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle spasms and/or accentuate 
cardiac arrhythmias associated with the concomitant use of digitalis glycosides or certain anti-arrhythmic 
medicinal products.  
Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The degree to which hydrochlorothiazide is removed by 
haemodialysis has not been established. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: angiotensin-II antagonists, combinations 
ATC code: C09D A04 
Mechanism of action 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a combination of an angiotensin-II receptor antagonist, irbesartan, 
and a thiazide diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an additive 
antihypertensive effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component alone.  
Irbesartan is a potent, orally active, selective angiotensin-II receptor (AT1 subtype) antagonist. It is expected 
to block all actions of angiotensin-II mediated by the AT1 receptor, regardless of the source or route of 
synthesis of angiotensin-II. The selective antagonism of the angiotensin-II (AT1) receptors results in 
increases in plasma renin levels and angiotensin-II levels, and a decrease in plasma aldosterone 
concentration. Serum potassium levels are not significantly affected by irbesartan alone at the recommended 
doses in patients without risk of electrolyte imbalance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). Irbesartan does not inhibit 
ACE (kininase-II), an enzyme which generates angiotensin-II and also degrades bradykinin into inactive 
metabolites. Irbesartan does not require metabolic activation for its activity. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of antihypertensive effect of thiazide diuretics is 
not fully known. Thiazides affect the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte reabsorption, directly 
increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. The diuretic action of 
hydrochlorothiazide reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, increases aldosterone secretion, 
with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, and decreases in serum potassium. 
Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, co-administration of irbesartan 
tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these diuretics. With hydrochlorothiazide, onset of 
diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at about 4 hours, while the action persists for 
approximately 6-12 hours. 
The combination of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan produces dose-related additive reductions in blood 
pressure across their therapeutic dose ranges. The addition of 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide to 300 mg 
irbesartan once daily in patients not adequately controlled on 300 mg irbesartan alone resulted in further 
placebo-corrected diastolic blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 6.1 mmHg. The 
combination of 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide resulted in an overall placebo-subtracted 
systolic/diastolic reductions of up to 13.6/11.5 mmHg.  
Limited clinical data (7 out of 22 patients) suggest that patients not controlled with the 300 mg/12.5 mg 
combination may respond when uptitrated to 300 mg/25 mg. In these patients, an incremental blood pressure 
lowering effect was observed for both systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) 
(13.3 and 8.3 mmHg, respectively).  
Once daily dosing with 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide gave systolic/diastolic mean 
placebo-adjusted blood pressure reductions at trough (24 hours post-dosing) of 12.9/6.9 mmHg in patients 
with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Peak effects occurred at 3-6 hours. When assessed by ambulatory blood 
pressure monitoring, the combination 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide once daily 
produced consistent reduction in blood pressure over the 24 hours period with mean 24-hour placebo-
subtracted systolic/diastolic reductions of 15.8/10.0 mmHg. When measured by ambulatory blood pressure 
monitoring, the trough to peak effects of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg were 100 %. The 
trough to peak effects measured by cuff during office visits were 68 % and 76 % for 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg and irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 300 mg/12.5 mg, 
respectively. These 24-hour effects were observed without excessive blood pressure lowering at peak and are 
consistent with safe and effective blood-pressure lowering over the once-daily dosing interval.  
In patients not adequately controlled on 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide alone, the addition of irbesartan gave an 
added placebo-subtracted systolic/diastolic mean reduction of 11.1/7.2 mmHg.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The blood pressure lowering effect of irbesartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide is apparent after 
the first dose and substantially present within 1-2 weeks, with the maximal effect occurring by 6-8 weeks. In 
long-term follow-up studies, the effect of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide was maintained for over one year. 
Although not specifically studied with irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, rebound hypertension has not been 
seen with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide.  
The effect of the combination of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide on morbidity and mortality has not been 
studied. Epidemiological studies have shown that long term treatment with hydrochlorothiazide reduces the 
risk of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.  
There is no difference in response to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, regardless of age or gender. As is the 
case with other medicinal products that affect the renin-angiotensin system, black hypertensive patients have 
notably less response to irbesartan monotherapy. When irbesartan is administered concomitantly with a low 
dose of hydrochlorothiazide (e.g. 12.5 mg daily), the antihypertensive response in black patients approaches 
that of non-black patients.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide as initial therapy for severe hypertension (defined as 
SeDBP ≥ 110 mmHg) was evaluated in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, 8-week, 
parallel-arm study.  A total of 697 patients were randomised in a 2:1 ratio to either 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 150 mg/12.5 mg or to irbesartan 150 mg and systemically force-titrated 
(before assessing the response to the lower dose) after one week to irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
300 mg/25 mg or irbesartan 300 mg, respectively.   
The study recruited 58 % males.  The mean age of patients was 52.5 years, 13 % were ≥ 65 years of age, and 
just 2 % were ≥ 75 years of age.  Twelve percent (12 %) of patients were diabetic, 34 % were hyperlipidemic 
and the most frequent cardiovascular condition was stable angina pectoris in 3.5 % of the participants.   
The primary objective of this study was to compare the proportion of patients whose SeDBP was controlled 
(SeDBP < 90 mmHg) at Week 5 of treatment.  Forty-seven percent (47.2 %) of patients on the combination 
achieved trough SeDBP < 90 mmHg compared to 33.2 % of patients on irbesartan (p = 0.0005).  The mean 
baseline blood pressure was approximately 172/113 mmHg in each treatment group and decreases of 
SeSBP/SeDBP at five weeks were 30.8/24.0 mmHg and 21.1/19.3 mmHg for irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
and irbesartan, respectively (p < 0.0001). 
The types and incidences of adverse events reported for patients treated with the combination were similar to 
the adverse event profile for patients on monotherapy.  During the 8-week treatment period, there were no 
reported cases of syncope in either treatment group.  There were 0.6 % and 0 % of patients with hypotension 
and 2.8 % and 3.1 % of patients with dizziness as adverse reactions reported in the combination and 
monotherapy groups, respectively. 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in combination with 
Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs Nephropathy in Diabetes)) 
have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an angiotensin II receptor blocker. 
ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, 
or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of end-organ damage. VA NEPHRON-D was a study in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy. 
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as compared to 
monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these results are also relevant 
for other ACE- inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in patients 
with diabetic nephropathy. 
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) was a 
study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor or an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease, 
cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk of adverse 
outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the aliskiren group than 
in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest (hyperkalaemia, hypotension 
and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren group than in the placebo group. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer: Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose-
dependent association between HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population 
comprised of 71,533 cases of BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population 
controls, respectively. High HCTZ use (≥50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 
(95% CI: 1.23-1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose response 
relationship was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible association between lip 
cancer (SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched with 63,067 population controls, 
using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response relationship was demonstrated with an 
adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 7.7 
(5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose (~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Concomitant administration of hydrochlorothiazide and irbesartan has no effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
either medicinal product.  
Absorption  
Irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide are orally active agents and do not require biotransformation for their 
activity. Following oral administration of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide, the absolute oral bioavailability is 
60-80% and 50-80% for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. Food does not affect the 
bioavailability of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide. Peak plasma concentration occurs at 1.5-2 hours after oral 
administration for irbesartan and 1-2.5 hours for hydrochlorothiazide. 
Distribution  
Plasma protein binding of irbesartan is approximately 96%, with negligible binding to cellular blood 
components. The volume of distribution for irbesartan is 53-93 litres. Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% protein-
bound in the plasma, and its apparent volume of distribution is 0.83-1.14 l/kg. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Irbesartan exhibits linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg. A 
less than proportional increase in oral absorption at doses beyond 600 mg was observed; the mechanism for 
this is unknown. The total body and renal clearance are 157-176 and 3.0-3.5 ml/min, respectively. The 
terminal elimination half-life of irbesartan is 11-15 hours. Steady-state plasma concentrations are attained 
within 3 days after initiation of a once-daily dosing regimen. Limited accumulation of irbesartan (< 20%) is 
observed in plasma upon repeated once-daily dosing. In a study, somewhat higher plasma concentrations of 
irbesartan were observed in female hypertensive patients. However, there was no difference in the half-life 
and accumulation of irbesartan. No dosage adjustment is necessary in female patients. Irbesartan AUC and 
Cmax values were also somewhat greater in older subjects (≥ 65 years) than those of young subjects (18-
40 years). However the terminal half-life was not significantly altered. No dosage adjustment is necessary in 
older people. The mean plasma half-life of hydrochlorothiazide reportedly ranges from 5-15 hours. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Following oral or intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, 80-85% of the circulating plasma 
radioactivity is attributable to unchanged irbesartan. Irbesartan is metabolised by the liver via glucuronide 
conjugation and oxidation. The major circulating metabolite is irbesartan glucuronide (approximately 6 %). 
In vitro studies indicate that irbesartan is primarily oxidised by the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2C9; 
isoenzyme CYP3A4 has negligible effect.  
Elimination 
Irbesartan and its metabolites are eliminated by both biliary and renal pathways. After either oral or 
intravenous administration of 14C irbesartan, about 20 % of the radioactivity is recovered in the urine, and the 
remainder in the faeces. Less than 2 % of the dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged irbesartan. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolized but is eliminated rapidly by the kidneys. At least 61 % of the oral 
dose is eliminated unchanged within 24 hours. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placental but not the 
blood-brain barrier, and is excreted in breast milk.  
Renal impairment 
In patients with renal impairment or those undergoing haemodialysis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of 
irbesartan are not significantly altered. Irbesartan is not removed by haemodialysis. In patients with 
creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min, the elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide was reported to increase to 
21 hours.  
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate cirrhosis, the pharmacokinetic parameters of irbesartan are not significantly 
altered. Studies have not been performed in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The potential toxicity of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination after oral administration was 
evaluated in rats and macaques in studies lasting up to 6 months. There were no toxicological findings 
observed of relevance to human therapeutic use.  
The following changes, observed in rats and macaques receiving the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination at 10/10 and 90/90 mg/kg/day, were also seen with one of the two medicinal products alone 
and/or were secondary to decreases in blood pressure (no significant toxicologic interactions were observed):  
• 
kidney changes, characterized by slight increases in serum urea and creatinine, and 
hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the juxtaglomerular apparatus, which are a direct consequence of the 
interaction of irbesartan with the renin-angiotensin system;  
slight decreases in erythrocyte parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit);  
stomach discoloration, ulcers and focal necrosis of gastric mucosa were observed in few rats in a 
6 months toxicity study at irbesartan 90 mg/kg/day, hydrochlorothiazide 90 mg/kg/day, and 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 10/10 mg/kg/day. These lesions were not observed in macaques; 
decreases in serum potassium due to hydrochlorothiazide and partly prevented when 
hydrochlorothiazide was given in combination with irbesartan.  
• 
• 
• 
Most of the above mentioned effects appear to be due to the pharmacological activity of irbesartan (blockade 
of angiotensin-II-induced inhibition of renin release, with stimulation of the renin-producing cells) and occur 
also with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. These findings appear to have no relevance to the use of 
therapeutic doses of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in humans.  
No teratogenic effects were seen in rats given irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination at doses 
that produced maternal toxicity. The effects of the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination on fertility 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
have not been evaluated in animal studies, as there is no evidence of adverse effect on fertility in animals or 
humans with either irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide when administered alone. However, another 
angiotensin-II antagonist affected fertility parameters in animal studies when given alone. These findings 
were also observed with lower doses of this other angiotensin-II antagonist when given in combination with 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
There was no evidence of mutagenicity or clastogenicity with the irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination. The carcinogenic potential of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide in combination has not been 
evaluated in animal studies. 
Irbesartan 
There was no evidence of abnormal systemic or target organ toxicity at clinically relevant doses. In non-
clinical safety studies, high doses of irbesartan (≥ 250 mg/kg/day in rats and ≥ 100 mg/kg/day in macaques) 
caused a reduction of red blood cell parameters (erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit). At very high doses 
(≥ 500 mg/kg/day) degenerative changes in the kidneys (such as interstitial nephritis, tubular distention, 
basophilic tubules, increased plasma concentrations of urea and creatinine) were induced by irbesartan in the 
rat and the macaque and are considered secondary to the hypotensive effects of the medicinal product which 
led to decreased renal perfusion. Furthermore, irbesartan induced hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the 
juxtaglomerular cells (in rats at ≥ 90 mg/kg/day, in macaques at ≥ 10 mg/kg/day). All of these changes were 
considered to be caused by the pharmacological action of irbesartan. For therapeutic doses of irbesartan in 
humans, the hyperplasia/hypertrophy of the renal juxtaglomerular cells does not appear to have any 
relevance.  
There was no evidence of mutagenicity, clastogenicity or carcinogenicity.  
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected in studies of male and female rats even at oral doses 
of irbesartan causing some parental toxicity (from 50 to 650 mg/kg/day), including mortality at the highest 
dose. No significant effects on the number of corpora lutea, implants, or live foetuses were observed. 
Irbesartan did not affect survival, development, or reproduction of offspring. Studies in animals indicate that 
the radiolabelled irbesartan is detected in rat and rabbit foetuses. Irbesartan is excreted in the milk of 
lactating rats. 
Animal studies with irbesartan showed transient toxic effects (increased renal pelvic cavitation, hydroureter 
or subcutaneous oedema) in rat foetuses, which were resolved after birth. In rabbits, abortion or early 
resorption was noted at doses causing significant maternal toxicity, including mortality. No teratogenic 
effects were observed in the rat or rabbit.  
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Equivocal evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect was found in some experimental models. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core:  
Povidone  
Pregelatinized starch (maize) 
Poloxamer 188  
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium  
Colloidal anhydrous silica  
Magnesium stearate 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Film-coating for  
150 mg/12.5 mg and 300 mg/12.5 mg strengths:   
Hypromellose 
Titanium Dioxide 
Polyethylene Glycol 6000 (Macrogol) 
Polyethylene Glycol 400 (Macrogol) 
Iron Oxide Red 
Iron Oxide Yellow 
Iron Oxide Black 
Film-coating for  
300 mg/25 mg strength:  
Hypromellose 
Titanium Dioxide 
Polyethylene Glycol 6000 (Macrogol) 
Polyethylene Glycol 400 (Macrogol) 
Iron Oxide Red 
Indigotine (Indigo carmine aluminium lake FD&C blue #2) 
Iron Oxide Black 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
White opaque PVC-PVdC – Aluminium blisters: Do not store above 30°C.  
Aluminium – Aluminium blisters: This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  
Nature and contents of container 
White opaque PVC-PVdC - Aluminium blisters or Aluminium – Aluminium blisters.   
Pack sizes of 7, 14, 15, 20, 28, 30, 56, 60, 84, 90, 98 and 100 film-coated tablets in non-perforated blisters. 
Pack size of 50x1 film coated tablet in unit dose blisters. 
Pack size of 28 film-coated tablets in non-perforated calendar blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/09/583/001-024 
EU/1/09/583/073 
EU/1/09/583/076 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/09/583/025-048  
EU/1/09/583/074 
EU/1/09/583/077 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/09/583/049-072 
EU/1/09/583/075 
EU/1/09/583/078 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 26 November 2009 
Date of latest renewal: 11 November 2014 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Teva Operations Poland Sp.z.o.o 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Kraków 
Poland  
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13. 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Pharmachemie B.V.  
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem  
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance 
with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management plan 
Not applicable.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Conditions to the MA 
The MAH must ensure that the manufacturing processes of the finished product is 
reviewed for the potential risk of formation of N-nitrosamines and changed as 
necessary to minimise nitrosamine contamination as much as possible in line with 
the recommendations adopted by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human 
Use on 25 June 2020 in the procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 on Nitrosamines impurities in human medicinal products. 
Due date 
26 September 
2022 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
7 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
15 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
84 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets  
50x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use.   
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
White opaque PVC-PVdC - Aluminium blisters: Do not store above 30°C.  
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/583/001-024 
EU/1/09/583/073 
EU/1/09/583/076 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
27 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
LOT 
5. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
CALENDAR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
LOT 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
7 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
15 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
84 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets  
50x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use.   
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
White opaque PVC-PVdC - Aluminium blisters: Do not store above 30°C. 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/583/025-048  
EU/1/09/583/074 
EU/1/09/583/077 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
32 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
LOT 
5. 
OTHER 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
CALENDAR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
LOT 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
7 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
15 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
84 fim-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets  
50x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use.   
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
White opaque PVC-PVdC - Aluminium blisters: Do not store above 30°C.  
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/09/583/049-072 
EU/1/09/583/075 
EU/1/09/583/078 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
37 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
LOT 
5. 
OTHER 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
CALENDAR BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
LOT 
5. 
OTHER 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Package leaflet: information for the patient 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
 
  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5.  
6. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
How to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide.  Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin-II receptor 
antagonists.  Angiotensin-II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels 
causing them to tighten.  This results in an increase in blood pressure.  Irbesartan prevents the binding of 
angiotensin-II to these receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased urine 
output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva work together to lower blood pressure 
further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is used to treat high blood pressure,  when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Do not take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazole or to any other sulfonamide-derived medicines  
if you are more than 3 months pregnant (it is also better to avoid Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section). 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems. 
if you have difficulty in producing urine.   
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in your 
blood. 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure lowering 
medicine containing aliskiren. 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and if any of the following apply to 
you: 
 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplantation  
if you suffer from heart problems    
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes   
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart beat), 
particularly if you are being treated for diabetes. 
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE)   
if your suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the hormone 
aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood pressure)   
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
- an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you    
  have diabetes-related kidney problems. 
- aliskiren 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase the 
risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin from sun 
exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva  
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath or 
difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, seek medical attention 
immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. potassium) 
in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva”.  
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant.  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are more than 3 months pregnant, 
as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see pregnancy section). 
 
You should also tell your doctor: 
 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle pain or 
cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an excessive effect of 
hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva).   
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn (such as 
redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics 
if you have changes in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. This could be a sign of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer 
of the eye (choroidal effusion) or that you are developing glaucoma, increased pressure in your eye(s). 
You should discontinue Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva treatment and seek medical attention. 
 
 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva should not be given to children and adolescents (under 18 years). If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
Other medicines and Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking,  have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiaizde Teva may have 
an effect on other medicines. Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiaizde Teva without close supervision by your doctor. 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets)   
some laxatives   
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements   
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins) 
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol resins for 
lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with alcohol 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, if you drink alcohol while 
on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on standing up, especially 
when getting up from a sitting position.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally advise 
you to stop taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva before you become pregnant or as soon as you know 
you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended during pregnancy, and must not be taken 
when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month 
of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment 
for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines.  However, 
occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If you experience 
these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure.  
Dosage 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is one or two tablets a day.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous treatment 
for high blood pressure did not provide appropriate blood pressure reduction. Your doctor will instruct you 
how to switch from the previous treatment to Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of fluid 
(e.g. one glass of water). You can take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with or without food. Try to take 
your daily dose at about the same time each day. It is important that you continue to take 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
If you take more Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal.  Do not take a double dose to make 
up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  Some of these 
effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips and/or 
tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan.  If you get any of these symptoms or get short of 
breath, stop taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and contact your doctor immediately. 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with the combination of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
nausea/vomiting  
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position)  
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function (creatine 
kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea 
low blood pressure 
fainting 
heart rate increased 
flushing 
swelling 
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since the marketing of the combination of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ears, cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual component 
cannot be excluded.  
Side effects associated with  irbesartan alone:   
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being short of 
breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale), decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone are:  
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice seen as yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes; inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, often 
with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; decrease in vision or pain in your eyes 
due to high pressure (possible signs of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal 
effusion) or acute angle-closure glaucoma); lack of white blood cells, which can result in frequent infections, 
fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased 
number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when 
exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of 
fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease 
characterized by the peeling of the skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified 
by a rash that may appear on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; 
altered heart rate; reduced blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; 
high sugar levels in the blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels 
in the blood, which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): Acute respiratory distress (signs include severe 
shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and confusion). 
Frequency ‘not known’: Skin and lip cancer (Non-melanoma skin cancer) 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix 
V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
 How to store Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date that is stated on the carton and on the blister after EXP.  The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
For Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva packaged in white opaque PVC-PVdC – aluminium blisters: Do 
not store above 30°C.  
For Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva packaged in aluminium – aluminium blisters: This medicinal 
product does not require any special storage conditions.   
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains 
  The active ingredients are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide.   
Each Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablet contains 150 mg 
irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
  The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: povidone, pregelatinized starch (maize), poloxamer 188, microcrystalline cellulose, 
croscarmellose sodium, colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate.   
Tablet coating for 150 mg/12.5 mg strength: hypromellose, titanium dioxide, polyethylene glycol 6000 
(macrogol), polyethylene glycol 400 (macrogol), iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow and iron oxide 
black. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 150 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are light pink to pink, film coated 
capsule shaped tablets. One side of the tablet is debossed with the number “93" and the other side of the 
tablet is debossed with the number "7238". 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is available in pack sizes of 7, 14, 15, 20, 28, 30, 56, 60, 84, 90, 98 and 
100 film-coated tablets in non-perforated blisters; pack sizes of 50 x 1 film coated tablet in unit dose blisters 
and pack size of 28 film-coated tablets in non-perforated calendar blisters. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturers: 
Teva Operations Poland Sp.z.o.o 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Kraków 
Poland  
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG  
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373  
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България  
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG  
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika  
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 251007111  
Magyarország  
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400  
Danmark  
Teva Denmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 44985511  
Deutschland 
Teva GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Malta  
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Τel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland  
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400  
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o 
Tel: + 385 13720000 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Slovenská republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
47 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: information for the patient 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
 
  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5.  
6. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
How to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide.  Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin-II receptor 
antagonists.  Angiotensin-II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels 
causing them to tighten.  This results in an increase in blood pressure.  Irbesartan prevents the binding of 
angiotensin-II to these receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased urine 
output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva work together to lower blood pressure 
further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is used to treat high blood pressure,  when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Do not take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazole or to any other sulfonamide-derived medicines  
if you are more than 3 months pregnant (it is also better to avoid Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section). 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems. 
if you have difficulty in producing urine.   
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in your 
blood. 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure lowering 
medicine containing aliskiren. 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and if any of the following apply to 
you: 
 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplantation  
if you suffer from heart problems    
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes   
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart beat), 
particularly if you are being treated for diabetes. 
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE)   
if your suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the hormone 
aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood pressure)   
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
- an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you  
  have diabetes-related kidney problems. 
- aliskiren 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase the 
risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin from sun 
exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva  
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath or 
difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, seek medical attention 
immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. potassium) 
in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva”.  
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant.  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are more than 3 months pregnant, 
as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see pregnancy section). 
 
You should also tell your doctor: 
 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle pain or 
cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an excessive effect of 
hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva).   
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn (such as 
redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics 
if you have changes in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. This could be a sign of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer 
of the eye (choroidal effusion) or that you are developing glaucoma, increased pressure in your eye(s). 
You should discontinue Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva treatment and seek medical attention. 
 
 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva should not be given to children and adolescents (under 18 years). If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
Other medicines and Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking,  have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiaizde Teva may have 
an effect on other medicines.  Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiaizde Teva without close supervision by your doctor. 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets)   
some laxatives   
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements   
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins) 
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines or colestyramine and colestipol resins for 
lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with alcohol 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, if you drink alcohol while 
on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on standing up, specially 
when getting up from a sitting position.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally advise 
you to stop taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva before you become pregnant or as soon as you know 
you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended during pregnancy, and must not be taken 
when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month 
of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment 
for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines.  However, 
occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If you experience 
these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure.  
Dosage 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is one tablet a day.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous treatment 
for high blood pressure did not provide appropriate blood pressure reduction.  Your doctor will instruct you 
how to switch from the previous treatment to Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of fluid 
(e.g. one glass of water).  You can take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with or without food.  Try to 
take your daily dose at about the same time each day.  It is important that you continue to take 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
If you take more Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal.  Do not take a double dose to make 
up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  Some of these 
effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips and/or 
tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan.  If you get any of these symptoms or get short of 
breath, stop taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and contact your doctor immediately. 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with the combination of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
nausea/vomiting  
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position)  
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function (creatine 
kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea 
low blood pressure 
fainting 
heart rate increased 
flushing 
swelling 
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since the marketing of the combination of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the 
ears, cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual component 
cannot be excluded.  
Side effects associated with  irbesartan alone:   
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being short of 
breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale), decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone are:  
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice seen as yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes; inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, often 
with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; decrease in vision or pain in your eyes 
due to high pressure (possible signs of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal 
effusion) or acute angle-closure glaucoma); lack of white blood cells, which can result in frequent infections, 
fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased 
number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when 
exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of 
fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease 
characterized by the peeling of the skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified 
by a rash that may appear on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; 
altered heart rate; reduced blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; 
high sugar levels in the blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels 
in the blood, which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): Acute respiratory distress (signs include severe 
shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and confusion). 
Frequency ‘not known’: Skin and lip cancer (Non-melanoma skin cancer) 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix 
V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date that is stated on the carton and blister after EXP.  The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.  
For Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva packaged in white opaque PVC-PVdC – aluminium blisters: Do 
not store above 30°C.  
For Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva packaged in aluminium – aluminium blisters: This medicinal 
product does not require any special storage conditions.   
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains 
  The active ingredients are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide.   
Each Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablet contains 300 mg 
irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
  The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: povidone, pregelatinized starch (maize), poloxamer 188, microcrystalline cellulose, 
croscarmellose sodium, colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate.   
Tablet coating for 300 mg/12.5 mg strength: hypromellose, titanium dioxide, polyethylene glycol 6000 
(macrogol), polyethylene glycol 400 (macrogol), iron oxide red, iron oxide yellow and iron oxide 
black. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/12.5 mg film-coated tablets are light pink to pink, round film 
coated tablets. One side of the tablet debossed with the number “2” and plain on the other side. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is available in pack sizes of 7, 14, 15, 20, 28, 30, 56, 60, 84, 90, 98 and 
100 film-coated tablets in non-perforated blisters; pack sizes of 50 x 1 film coated tablet in unit dose blisters 
and pack size of 28 film-coated tablets in non-perforated calendar blisters.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturers: 
Teva Operations Poland Sp.z.o.o 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Kraków 
Poland  
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG  
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373  
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България  
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG  
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika  
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 251007111  
Magyarország  
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400  
Danmark  
Teva Denmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 44985511  
Deutschland 
Teva GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Malta  
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Τel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland  
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400  
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o 
Tel: + 385 13720000 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Slovenská republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
55 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 Package leaflet: information for the patient 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets 
irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
 
  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5.  
6. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
How to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Possible side effects 
How to store Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is and what it is used for 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a combination of two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide.  Irbesartan belongs to a group of medicines known as angiotensin-II receptor 
antagonists.  Angiotensin-II is a substance produced in the body that binds to receptors in blood vessels 
causing them to tighten.  This results in an increase in blood pressure.  Irbesartan prevents the binding of 
angiotensin-II to these receptors, causing the blood vessels to relax and the blood pressure to lower.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is one of a group of medicines (called thiazide diuretics) that causes increased urine 
output and so causes a lowering of blood pressure. 
The two active ingredients in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva work together to lower blood pressure 
further than if either was given alone. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is used to treat high blood pressure,  when treatment with 
irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone did not provide adequate control of your blood pressure. 
2. 
What you need to know before you take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Do not take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
 
 
 
if you are allergic to irbesartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazole or to any other sulfonamide-derived medicines  
if you are more than 3 months pregnant (it is also better to avoid Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva in early pregnancy – see pregnancy section). 
if you have severe liver or kidney problems. 
if you have difficulty in producing urine.   
if your doctor determines that you have persistently high calcium or low potassium levels in your 
blood. 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure lowering 
medicine containing aliskiren. 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and if any of the following apply to 
you: 
 
 
if you get excessive vomiting or diarrhoea 
if you suffer from kidney problems or have a kidney transplantation  
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if you suffer from heart problems    
if you suffer from liver problems 
if you suffer from diabetes   
if you develop low blood sugar levels (symptoms may include sweating, weakness, hunger, 
dizziness, trembling, headache, flushing or paleness, numbness, having a fast, pounding heart beat), 
particularly if you are being treated for diabetes. 
if you suffer from lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE)   
if your suffer from primary aldosteronism (a condition related to high production of the hormone 
aldosterone, which causes sodium retention and, in turn, an increase in blood pressure)   
if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure: 
- an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems. 
- aliskiren 
if you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase the 
risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin from sun 
exposure and UV rays while taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva  
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath or 
difficulty breathing after taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, seek medical attention 
immediately. 
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes (e.g. potassium) 
in your blood at regular intervals. 
See also information under the heading “Do not take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva”. 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant.  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are more than 3 months pregnant, 
as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see pregnancy section). 
 
You should also tell your doctor: 
 
if you are on a low-salt diet 
 
if you have signs such as abnormal thirst, dry mouth, general weakness, drowsiness, muscle pain or 
cramps, nausea, vomiting, or an abnormally fast heart beat which may indicate an excessive effect of 
hydrochlorothiazide (contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva).   
if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with symptoms of sunburn (such as 
redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than normal 
if you are going to have an operation (surgery) or be given anaesthetics 
if you have changes in your vision or pain in one or both of your eyes while taking 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. This could be a sign of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer 
of the eye (choroidal effusion) or that you are developing glaucoma, increased pressure in your eye(s). 
You should discontinue Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva treatment and seek medical attention. 
 
 
The hydrochlorothiazide contained in this medicine could produce a positive result in an anti-doping test. 
Children and adolescents 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva should not be given to children and adolescents (under 18 years). If a 
child swallows some tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
Other medicines and Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking,  have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Your doctor may need to change your dose and/or to take other precautions: 
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not take 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva” and “Warnings and precautions”). 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diuretic agents such as the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiaizde Teva may have 
an effect on other medicines.  Preparations containing lithium should not be taken with 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiaizde Teva without close supervision by your doctor. 
You may need to have blood checks if you take: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potassium supplements 
salt substitutes containing potassium 
potassium sparing medicines or other diuretics (water tablets)   
some laxatives   
medicines for the treatment of gout 
therapeutic vitamin D supplements   
medicines to control heart rhythm 
medicines for diabetes (oral agents as repaglinide or insulins) 
carbamazepine (a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy). 
It is also important to tell your doctor if you are taking other medicines to reduce your blood pressure, 
steroids, medicines to treat cancer, pain killers, arthritis medicines, or colestyramine and colestipol resins for 
lowering blood cholesterol. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with alcohol 
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide contained in Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, if you drink alcohol while 
on treatment with this medicine, you may have an increased feeling of dizziness on standing up, especially 
when getting up from a sitting position.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally advise 
you to stop taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva before you become pregnant or as soon as you know 
you are pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is not recommended during pregnancy, and must not be taken 
when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month 
of pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment 
for you if you wish to breast-feed, especially if your baby is newborn, or was born prematurely. 
Driving and using machines 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines.  However, 
occasionally dizziness or weariness may occur during treatment of high blood pressure. If you experience 
these, talk to your doctor before attempting to drive or use machines.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per film-coated tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure.  
Dosage 
The recommended dose of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is one tablet a day.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva will usually be prescribed by your doctor when your previous treatment 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for high blood pressure did not provide appropriate blood pressure reduction.  Your doctor will instruct you 
how to switch from the previous treatment to Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. 
Method of administration 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is for oral use. Swallow the tablets with a sufficient amount of fluid 
(e.g. one glass of water).  You can take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva with or without food.  Try to 
take your daily dose at about the same time each day.  It is important that you continue to take 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva until your doctor tells you otherwise. 
The maximal blood pressure lowering effect should be reached 6-8 weeks after beginning treatment. 
If you take more Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva than you should 
If you accidentally take too many tablets, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
If you accidentally miss a daily dose, just take the next dose as normal.  Do not take a double dose to make 
up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  Some of these 
effects may be serious and may require medical attention. 
Rare cases of allergic skin reactions (rash, urticaria), as well as localised swelling of the face, lips and/or 
tongue have been reported in patients taking irbesartan.  If you get any of these symptoms or get short of 
breath, stop taking Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva and contact your doctor immediately. 
Side effects reported in clinical studies for patients treated with the combination of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide were: 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
nausea/vomiting  
abnormal urination 
fatigue 
dizziness (including when getting up from a lying or sitting position)  
blood tests may show raised levels of an enzyme that measures the muscle and heart function (creatine 
kinase) or raised levels of substances that measure kidney function (blood urea nitrogen, creatinine). 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of these side effects causes you problems, talk to your doctor. 
diarrhoea 
low blood pressure 
fainting 
heart rate increased 
flushing 
swelling 
sexual dysfunction (problems with sexual performance) 
blood tests may show lowered levels of potassium and sodium in your blood. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Some undesirable effects have been reported since the marketing of the combination of irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. Undesirable effects where the frequency is not known are: headache, ringing in the 
ears, cough, taste disturbance, indigestion, pain in joints and muscles, liver function abnormal and impaired 
kidney function, increased level of potassium in your blood and allergic reactions such as rash, hives, 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat. Uncommon cases of jaundice (yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes) have also been reported. 
As for any combination of two active substances, side effects associated with each individual component 
cannot be excluded.  
Side effects associated with  irbesartan alone:   
In addition to the side effects listed above, chest pain, severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia – symptoms may include tiredness, headaches, being short of 
breath when exercising, dizziness and looking pale), decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell 
essential for the clotting of the blood) and low blood sugar levels have also been reported. 
Side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide alone are:  
Loss of appetite; stomach irritation; stomach cramps; constipation; jaundice seen as yellowing of the skin 
and/or whites of the eyes; inflammation of the pancreas characterised by severe upper stomach pain, often 
with nausea and vomiting; sleep disorders; depression; blurred vision; decrease in vision or pain in your eyes 
due to high pressure (possible signs of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal 
effusion) or acute angle-closure glaucoma); lack of white blood cells, which can result in frequent infections, 
fever; decrease in the number of platelets (a blood cell essential for the clotting of the blood), decreased 
number of red blood cells (anaemia) characterised by tiredness, headaches, being short of breath when 
exercising, dizziness and looking pale; kidney disease; lung problems including pneumonia or build-up of 
fluid in the lungs; increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun; inflammation of blood vessels; a skin disease 
characterized by the peeling of the skin all over the body; cutaneous lupus erythematosus, which is identified 
by a rash that may appear on the face, neck, and scalp; allergic reactions; weakness and muscle spasm; 
altered heart rate; reduced blood pressure after a change in body position; swelling of the salivary glands; 
high sugar levels in the blood; sugar in the urine; increases in some kinds of blood fat; high uric acid levels 
in the blood, which may cause gout. 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): Acute respiratory distress (signs include severe 
shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and confusion). 
Frequency ‘not known’: Skin and lip cancer (Non-melanoma skin cancer) 
It is known that side effects associated with hydrochlorothiazide may increase with higher doses of 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix 
V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date that is stated on the carton and on the blister after EXP.  The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
For Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva packaged in white opaque PVC-PVdC - aluminium blisters: Do not 
store above 30°C.  
For Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva packaged in aluminium – aluminium blisters: This medicinal 
product does not require any special storage conditions.   
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains 
 
 
The active ingredients are irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide.   
Each Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablet contains 300 mg 
irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: povidone, pregelatinized starch (maize), poloxamer 188, microcrystalline cellulose, 
croscarmellose sodium, colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate.   
Tablet coating for 300 mg/25 mg strength: hypromellose, titanium dioxide, polyethylene glycol 6000 
(macrogol), polyethylene glycol 400 (macrogol), iron oxide red, Indigotine (Indigo carmine 
aluminium lake FD&C blue #2) and iron oxide black. 
What Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva looks like and contents of the pack 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 300 mg/25 mg film-coated tablets are pink to dark pink, round film 
coated tablets. One side of the tablet debossed with the number "3" and plain on the other side.  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is available in pack sizes of 7, 14, 15, 20, 28, 30, 56, 60, 84, 90, 98 and 
100 film-coated tablets in non-perforated blisters; pack sizes of 50 x 1 film coated tablet in unit dose blisters 
and pack size of 28 film-coated tablets in non-perforated calendar blisters.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturers: 
Teva Operations Poland Sp.z.o.o 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Kraków 
Poland  
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
Debrecen H-4042 
Hungary 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG  
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373  
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България  
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG  
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Česká republika  
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 251007111  
Magyarország  
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400  
Danmark  
Teva Denmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 44985511  
Deutschland 
Teva GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Malta  
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Τel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland  
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400  
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o 
Tel: + 385 13720000 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Slovenská republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
63 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
