European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Irbesartan / Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
International Nonproprietary Names: Irbesartan / Hydrochlorothiazide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001112 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 9 
Clinical Aspects ....................................................................................................................... 9 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 18 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 19 
2/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The  applicant  Teva  Pharma  B.V    submitted  on  03  December  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, 
in accordance with the centralised procedure falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 
726/2004 under Article 3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The legal basis for this application refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2007/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
(cid:131)  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA: 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength(s), pharmaceutical form(s): CoAprovel 150 mg/12.5 mg, 
300 mg/12.5 mg and 300 mg/25 mg tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 1998-10-15 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/98/086/001-034  
(cid:131)  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community 
provisions in force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate 
bioavailability studies: 
(cid:131)  Product name, strength(s), pharmaceutical form(s):CoAprovel 150 mg/12.5 mg tablets and 
300 mg/12.5 mg tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder4: Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC 
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 1998-10-15 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation(s) granted by: Community 
Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/98/086/001-022, EU/1/98/086/0029-30, 
EU/1/98/086/0032-33 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Concepción Prieto Yerro 
3/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific Advice: 
Not applicable 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 08 December 2008. 
The procedure started on 24 December 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  20  March 
2009 . 
During  the  meeting  from  20  -  23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on  23 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 May 
2009. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 09 July 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20  –  23  July  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
24 August 2009. 
During the meeting from 21 - 24 September 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  on  24  September 
2009.  
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Teva  Pharma  has  applied  for  a  marketing  authorisation  via  the  centralized  procedure  for 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva,  a  generic  medicinal  product  of  a  reference  medicinal  product 
authorised by the Community in accordance with Regulation EC 726/2004 article 3.3. The reference 
product for this generic application is CoAprovel 150/12.5; 300/12.5; 300/25 mg film coated tablets 
(Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC, Germany), registration number EU/1/98/001-034 date of 
registration: 15.10.1998.  
For  one  bioequivalence  study  (in  vivo),  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  300/12.5  mg  film  coated 
tablets  (Teva)  has  been  used  and  as  reference  product  CoAprovel  300/12.5  mg  film-coated  tablets 
(Sanofi  Pharma  Bristol-Myers  Squibb).  For  another  study,  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  150/12.5 
mg film coated tablets (Teva) has been used and as reference product CoAprovel 150/12.5 mg film-
coated tablets (Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb).  
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  is  a  combination  of  an  angiotensin  II  receptor  blocker  and  a 
thiazide diuretic, which is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. 
In  general  doses  higher  that  300  mg  irbesartan/  25  mg  hydrochlorothiazide  once  daily  are  not 
recommended. 
4/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Irbesartan  /  Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  150/12.5  mg,  300/12.5 mg 
and 300/25 mg of irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide respectively. The 150/12.5 mg and 300/12.5 mg 
strengths are light pink to pink capsule-shaped, film-coated tablets and the 300/25 mg strength is pink 
to  dark  pink  capsule-shaped,  film-coated  tablets.  They contain both active substances irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipients used in the preparation of the core tablets Irbesartan Hydrochlorothiazide Teva are well 
known excipients used in solid dosage forms such as povidone, starch, pregelatinised, poloxamer 188, 
cellulose microcrystalline, croscarmellose sodium, silica colloidal anhydrous, magnesium stearate. 
The tablets are packed in (PVC/PVdC white opaque/ Al) blister and Aluminium/Aluminium blisters.  
Active Substance  
IRBESARTAN 
Irbesartan (INN) is an active substance only described in USP pharmacopoeia.  
The applicant has used the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) procedure and including the open 
part and the restricted part as well as a letter of authorisation from the ASMF holder 
The  structural  formula  of  Irbesartan  is  provided  below  and  general  properties  such  as  appearance, 
melting point, solubility, partition coefficient and water content have been adequately detailed. 
Irbesartan is obtained by chemical synthesis to yield a purified active substance. The manufacturing 
process is adequately described. Information related to the control of materials, intermediates, process 
development  and  validation  can  be  found  in  the  restricted  part  of  the  ASMF  and  were  found 
satisfactory. 
Studies  were  conducted  for  elucidating  the  structure  of  Irbesartan  using  the  following  techniques: 
Infrared  spectrophotometry  (FTIR),  Nuclear  magnetic  resonance  (1H-NMR  and  13C-NMR) 
spectroscopy,  Mass  spectrometry.  The  physico-chemical  studies  including  hygroscopicity  and 
polymorphism  were  presented  and  the  synthesis  support  unequivocally  the  proposed  chemical 
structure. The copy of the spectra and interpretation of results were included. 
Irbesartan  is  not  hygroscopic  and  regarding  polymorphism,  two  crystal  forms  of  Irbesartan  are 
described  in  the  literature:  form  A  and  form  B.  Teva  consistently  produces  one  form.  The  X-Ray 
Diffractometry analyses (XRD) showed the consistency of the polymorphic content in various batches. 
An  extensive  discussion  on  the  impurities  (inorganic,  organic  and  residual  solvents)  was  enclosed 
including their characterisation when necessary.  Impurities level was adequately controlled and below 
qualification  limits,  and  in  accordance  with  the  European  and  ICH  guidelines.  In  particular  for  the 
residual  solvents,  limits  were  below  the  ICH  Q3C  Guidance  and  European  Pharmacopoeia 
requirements. 
5/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Correct  specifications  were  proposed  for  Irbesartan  by  Teva  and  included  the  following  parameters: 
description  (visual),  identification  (FT-IR  and  HPLC,  XRD),  water  content  (Karl  Fischer),  heavy 
metals  content  (PhEur.),  sulphated  ash  (PhEur.),  related  substances  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  residual 
solvents (GC). 
Since Irbesartan is not yet described in the official European Pharmacopoeia. Teva has developed its 
own  test  methods  for  the  quality  control  of  the  active  substance,  following  European  Pharmacopeia 
General Methods section. The methods used for the quality control of active substance are appropriate 
to guarantee the relevant quality from batch to batch. 
All  the  validation  studies  were  found  acceptable  and  followed  the  ICH-guideline  “Validation  of 
Analytical Procedures”ICH Q2R1.  
A total of 6 production-scale batches of Irbesartan from the different manufacturers were obtained and 
results were in line with the proposed specification. 
The  active  substance  is  filled  into  double  aluminium  laminate  bags,  placed  in  a  closed  HDPE 
container.  The  primary  packaging  (aluminium  bag)  has  been  adequately  analysed  and  certificates  of 
analysis provided. 
Stability  studies  under  various  conditions  (forced  degradation  studies,  photostability  studies,    long 
term and accelerated studies) have been carried out by the applicant on Irbesartan. 
According  to  CPMP/QWP/122/02 rev1 corr the applicant submitted a discussion about the potential 
degradation pathways of the substance under forced degradation studies.  
The photostability studies indicated that the active substance was not light sensitive when in the solid 
state but would be when in solution. 
Formal  stability  studies  were  conducted  on  production  batches  kept  in  double  aluminium  laminate 
bags under ICH conditions (up to 24 months at 25C/60% RH and 6 months at 40C/75%RH).  
The  following  parameters  were  studied:  description,  identification  (HPLC),  water  content,  related 
substances and assay. Those tests are stability indicating. Data to confirm that the polymorphic form 
of the API is maintained during stability have been provided. 
No significant changes could be observed under accelerated and long term stability conditions. 
The  stability  studies  support  the  proposed  re-test  period  of  the  active  substance  when  kept  in  the 
commercial packaging. No special condition of storage is necessary.  
None of the starting materials used for the manufacture of irbesartan contain materials or have been in 
contact with materials of animal or human origin, during their manufacture. Therefore no TSE risk is 
anticipated. 
HYDROCHLOROTHIAZIDE 
For this active substance Hydrochlorothiazide (INN), a Certificate of suitability to the monograph of 
European Pharmacopeia (CEP) has been provided. 
6/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General  properties  have  been  satisfactorily  described  (appearance,  solubility  and  polymorphism). 
Although  Hydrochlorothiazide  shows  polymorphism,  the  manufacturer  Teva  consistently  produces 
only  one  polymorphic  form.  The  polymorphic  form  of  hydrochlorothiazide  is  maintained  during 
stability studies. 
For both active substances, particle size distribution, bulk and tapped density were set according to 
customer  request  and  needs,  and  are  part  of  the  specifications  set  for  the  Company’s  customers. 
Adequate specifications and batch analysis were provided for 4 batches of Irbesartan and 2 batches of 
Hydrochlorothiazide. 
Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Choice  of  the  active  substances:  Particle  size  and  polymorphism  are  very  important  parameters  for 
Irbesartan  due  to  its  low  solubility.  The  polymorphic  form  is  maintained  during  manufacturing  and 
stability of the medicinal product. Concerning the particle size adequate limits have been chosen. 
Hydrochlorothiazide  is  a  highly  water  soluble  drug  so  neither  polymorphism  nor  particle  size 
distribution can affect the quality or performance of the finish product.  
This (particle size and polymorphism) was extensively discussed and limits were fully justified. 
Choice  of  the  excipients:  they  are  all  standard  and  are  commonly  used  for  solid  oral  dosage  forms. 
These are expected to be chemically compatible with irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipients chosen were selected to provide an optimal solubility and stability of the active substance 
during  manufacturing  and  storage.  The  ability  of  these  excipients  to  provide  their  intender 
functionality is well-known. 
The  aim  of  the  pharmaceutical  development  was  to  obtain  an  immediate-release  tablet  containing 
qualitatively  and  quantitatively  the  same  active  substance  as  the  product  already  on  the  market 
CoAprovel film coated tablets.  
Manufacturing  process  development:  Due  to  the  high  percentage  of  the  active  substances  in  the 
formulation, wet granulation process was selected. 
Container  closure  systems  selected  were:  PVC/PVdC-aluminium  blister  packs  and  Aluminium-
aluminium blister packs. Specifications and certificates of analysis for PVC/PVdC film and aluminium 
foil  were  provided.  The  quality  of  these  materials  are  correctly  defined  and  the  suitability  of  these 
containers have been justified by stability data  
Manufacturing process 
The manufacturing process can be divided in 9 main steps. The process can be summarised as follow:  
Premixing, Granulation, Drying and Milling, Mixing of blend, Final blend, Compression, Coating and 
Packaging  
Adequate in-process controls and control of intermediates were set up. 
Process  validation:  The  manufactured  process  is  a  standard  process.  The  validation  has  been 
carried out on 2 pilot-scale batches of each strength according to CPMP/QWP/848/96 guideline. 
Results were satisfactory and should ensure a consistent manufacture of the medicinal product. 
Furthermore  the  process  validation  schemes  for  commercial  batch  sizes  proposed  of  the 
medicinal product have been submitted. 
The compendial excipients used in the film-coated tablets are described as follow along with their 
role: povidone (binder), starch, pregelatinised (binder-disintegrant), poloxamer 188 (surfactant-
solubilising agent), cellulose microcrystalline (diluent- disintegrant), croscarmellose sodium 
(disintegrant), silica colloidal anhydrous (glidant-antiadherent), magnesium stearate (lubricant). 
For the film-coatings the ingredients are: titanium oxide E171 (opacifier), hypromellose  2910 (film-
former), macrogol 6000 and 400 (plasticiser), iron oxides E172 red yellow and black (colorants), 
7/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indigotine E132 (colorant). They are all PhEur. excipients apart from the colorants that are described 
in internal monographs but comply with the latest directive amended EC Directive on colorants.  
Certificates of analysis of the excipients have been submitted. 
None  of  the  excipients  used  for  the  manufacture  contain  materials  and  have  been  in  contact  with 
materials of animal or human origin during their manufacture. 
Specifications of the medicinal product 
Appropriate  and  justified  specifications  have  been  set  for  all  the dosage strengths and the following 
parameters  have  been  included:  description  (visual),  identification  (PDA  and  HPLC),  dissolution 
(HPLC),  uniformity  of  dosage  unit  (content  uniformity  by  HPLC),  thickness,  hardness  (  PhEur.), 
friability  (PhEur.),  assay  for  each  active  substance  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  microbial 
quality ( PhEur.), water content (Karl Fischer).  
All the analytical methods were described satisfactorily and validated in line with the ICH-guideline 
“Validation of Analytical Procedures”ICH Q2R1.  
Analysis  for  six  pilot-scale  batches  of  medicinal  product  (2  pilot  batches  for  each  strength)  were 
provided. All batches were in compliance with the proposed specification.  
Specifications and certificates of analysis (including IR spectrum) for the packaging material used for 
the  storage  of  bulk  tablets  are  provided.  Stability  results  showed  that  this  packaging  material  was 
suitable.  
Stability 
Formal stability studies have been conducted on the bulk product and the product in its commercial 
packaging.  
Bulk stability studies were carried out for each strength. Results meet the specifications.      
The stability study of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide medicinal product was performed on pilot-scale 
batches under ICH conditions (36 months at 25C/60% RH, 12 months at 30C/65% RH, 6 months at 
40C/75% RH) kept in both packagings and according to the EMEA guideline CPMP/QWP/122/02 rev 
1 corr. 
Analytical methods used are those used for the quality control of the medicinal product.  
The  following  criteria  were  controlled:  appearance,  water  content,  related  substances,  assay, 
dissolution, microbial quality. 
Photostability of the product was confirmed. 
No significant change could be observed during stability studies and therefore the results support the 
shelf 
strength  of 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 150/12.5. 300/12.5 and 300/25 mg film coated tablets packed in either 
white opaque PVC/PVdC-aluminium blisters or in aluminium-aluminium blisters. 
storage  conditions  as  defined 
the  SPC 
for  each 
and 
life 
in 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substances  Irbesartan  and 
Hydrochlorothiazide and medicinal product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of 
tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality 
characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic. 
8/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
The  level  of  impurities  found  in  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  film-coated  tablets  are  in  line 
with ICH Topic Q3 requirements.   
Since  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  is  essentially  similar  product  to  reference  product,  no 
additional safety and toxicology studies were considered necessary. 
No  ERA  has  been  submitted  and  the  Applicant  has  presented  a  justification.  It  is  accepted  that  the 
introduction of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is unlikely to result in any significant increase in 
the combined sales volumes for all Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide containing products. The risk of an 
environmental impact from the use of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide is of no concern. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The CHMP assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of a bioequivalence study. 
GCP 
It is stated that all clinical work has been conducted in compliance with Good Clinical Practices (GCP) 
as referenced in the ICH guidelines (ICH E6), local regulatory requirements, and the principles 
enunciated in the Declaration of Helsinki. 
Both  studies  were  carried  out  in  the  clinical  and  analytical  facilities  of  a  CRO  in  Canada.  These 
facilities  have  been  inspected  by  European  Regulatory  Agencies  as  well  as  by  inspections  from  the 
French  (AFSSAPS)  and  Portuguese  (INFARMED)  Agencies  in  addition  to  ANVISA,  FDA  and 
HPFB. This is considered sufficient demonstration of the reliability of the study taking into account 
t h a t   n o   c o n c e r n   o n   t h i s   r e s p e c t   h a s   b e e n   o b s e r v e d   d u r i n g   t h e   s t u d y   a s s e s s men t . 
Clinical studies 
This application is a generic application, therefore, demonstration of therapeutic equivalence is shown 
by  means  of  pharmacokinetic  bioavailability  studies.  New  clinical  studies  are  neither  required  nor 
submitted. Bioequivalence between the test product and the reference product has been shown in two 
cross-over studies after a single dose in fasting conditions of the 150/12.5 mg film coated tablet and 
the  300/12.5  mg  film-coated  tablet.  A  waiver  for  the  300/25  mg  strength  is  applied  based  on  the 
bioequivalence results and dissolution profiles obtained with the proportional strength of 150/12.5 mg 
since both formulations are manufactured in the same plant with the same process and the kinetics of 
both drugs is linear.  
9/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics  
Study for the 150/12.5 mg strength  
Methods 
Study  was  a  randomized,  open-label,  2-way  crossover,  bioequivalence  study  of  irbesartan/HCT 
150/12.5 mg tablet and CoAprovel (reference) following a 150/12.5 mg dose in healthy subjects under 
fasting conditions. Blood samples for irbesartan and HCT were each drawn into blood collection tubes 
containing EDTA K2 prior to drug administration and at 0.33, 0.67, 1.00, 1.33, 1.67, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 
5, 6, 8, 12, 16, 24, 36, and 48 hours post-dose in each period. For irbesartan only additional sample 
was obtained 72 hours post-dose. The treatment phases were separated by a washout period of 7 days. 
This study was performed by a qualified investigator in the clinical facility of the CRO.  
The clinical study protocol (dated 02/02/2007) was approved by the Ethics Committee on 15/02/2007. 
Amended study protocol 1 (dated 10/04/2007) was approved by the Ethics Committee on 17/04/2007.  
The clinical phase was performed in two groups. Subjects of group 1 were tested between 23/03/2007 
and 03/04/2007. Subjects of group 2 were dosed between 14/05/2007 and 25/05/2007 
The analysis of the samples was conducted in the period from 02/07/2007 to 18/07/2007.  
Test and reference products 
Treatment  A:  irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  150/12.5  mg  film-coated  tablets.  Teva  Pharmaceuticals 
Industries Ltd., Israel. Manufacture Date: Jan. 28 2007.  
Treatment B: CoAprovel (irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide), Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, France 
Expiration date: 01/2009. 
Population studied 
Fifty-six subjects were included in the study. All 56 subjects received at least one dose of the study 
medication  and,  therefore,  comprised  the  safety  population.  Fifty-three  individuals  who  completed 
both treatment periods were included in the pharmacokinetic analyses. After period 1 one subject was 
withdrawn  due  to  adverse  events  and  two  subjects  withdrew  consent  for  personal  reasons.  These 
subjects  were  not  replaced.  One  subject  was  excluded  from  the  pharmacokinetic  and  statistical 
analysis  involving  AUC0-t  due  to  lack  of  appropriate  samples.  As  per  CHMP  request  applicant 
demonstrated that bioequivalence criteria are still met after inclusion of this patient into analysis. 
Analytical method 
A  high  performance  liquid  chromatographic  method  for  determination  of  both  irbesartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide in human EDTA K2 plasma was used in this study.  
A  total  of  2131  study  samples  were  analyzed  and  22  repeat  analyses  (1.03  %)  corresponding  to  22 
study  samples  were  performed.  Two  samples  were  reanalysed  because  of  unacceptable  internal 
standard response, 13 samples were reanalysed due to the internal standard response being lower than 
or equal to 5% of the mean internal standard responses and 7 samples because sample concentration 
being above upper limit of quantitation. 
10/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 2028 study samples were analyzed and 111 repeat analyses (5.47 %) corresponding to 111 
study  samples  were  performed.  Twenty-nine  samples  were  reanalysed  because  of  unacceptable 
internal  standard  response,  3  samples  were  reanalysed  due  to  the  internal  standard  response  being 
lower  than  or  equal  to  5%  of  the  mean  internal  standard  responses,  2  samples  because  sample 
concentration  being  above  upper  limit  of  quantitation  and  77  samples  because  sample  concentration 
being above or below modified calibration range. 
The validation of the analytical method is satisfactory. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Standard pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated through non-compartmental analyses of 
pharmacokinetic parameters and statistical analyses using Bioequiv (release 3.50), a proprietary 
software developed and tested for bioequivalence studies. 
Statistical methods 
For both irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, analysis of variance was performed on the ln-transformed 
data of AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. ANOVA was also carried out on the untransformed data of T1/2 
el  and  Kel.  A  conventional  statistical  analysis  was  performed  with  the  model  including  sequence, 
subject within sequence, period and treatment as factors. The sequence effect was tested using subjects 
within  sequence  effect  as  the  error  term.  The  treatment  and  period  effects  were  tested  against  the 
residual mean square error. 
Criteria for bioequivalence for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide were 90% geometric CI of the ratio 
of least-squares in means from the ANOVA of the ln-transformed AUC0-t and Cmax should be within 
80% to 125%. 
Results 
All pre-dose samples were found to be below the LLOQ for both drugs. 
For irbesartan Tmax median was 1.33 h for test and 1.33 h for reference. For hydrochlorothiazide Tmax 
was  1.67  for  the  test  and  2.00  for  the  reference.  The  non-parametric  analysis  of  Tmax  shows  no-
statistical significant difference in both cases. The non-parametric 90% CI has not been provided. 
Only one profile for irbesartan showed Cmax in the first sampling time (0.33 h). 
For irbesartan the minimum Cmax value was 1173.36 ng/mL and the maximum Cmax value was 9563.18 
ng/mL.  For  hydrochlorothoazide  the  minimum  Cmax  value  was  27.89  ng/mL  and  the  maximum  Cmax 
value was 163.94 ng/mL 
No statistically significant difference (α = 0.05) was detected between the periods or the sequences for 
the primary variables of the study (Cmax, AUCt). 
11/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol deviations: 
There were 5 deviations reported in this study. Two deviations were related to unacceptable humidity 
level  in  medication  storage,  one  deviation  was  linked  to  inappropriate  blood  sampling.  Two 
participants failed to complete post-study procedures within requested timeframe. These deviations are 
considered normal and acceptable since they do not alter the validity of the study conclusion. 
Safety data 
The  safety  analysis  includes  the  56  subjects  who  entered  the  study  and  received  at  least  one  of  the 
treatments.  A  total  of  47  post-dose  adverse  events  were  reported  by  23  subjects.  23  adverse  events 
were reported in subjects receiving the test and 24 adverse events were reported in those receiving the 
reference product. 
The safety profile of both products seems to be comparable although the design was not powered to 
compare the safety profile. No difference in the safety profile is anticipated. 
13/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study for the 300/12.5 mg strength 
Methods 
Study was a single centre, single dose, randomized, open-label, 2-way crossover, bioequivalence study 
of  irbesartan-HCT  300/12.5  mg  tablet  and  CoAprovel  (reference)  following  a  300/12.5  mg  dose  in 
healthy subjects under fasting conditions. Blood samples for irbesartan and HCT were each drawn into 
blood collection tubes containing EDTA K2 prior to drug administration and at 0.33, 0.67, 1.00, 1.33, 
1.67, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 16, 24, 36, and 48 hours post-dose in each period. For irbesartan only 
additional sample was obtained 72 hours post-dose. The treatment phases were separated by a washout 
period of 7 days. 
This study was performed by a Qualified Investigator in clinical facilities of the CRO.  
The clinical study protocol (dated 07/02/2007) was approved by the Ethics Committee on 15/02/2007. 
Amended study protocol 1 (dated 10/04/2007) was approved by the Ethics Committee on 17/04/2007.  
The clinical phase was performed in two groups. Subjects of group 1 were tested between 22/03/2007 
and 01/04/2007. Subjects of group 2 were dosed between 24/05/2007 and 03/06/2007 
The analysis of the samples was conducted in the period from 15/06/2007 to 07/07/2007.  
Test and reference products 
Treatment  A:  irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide  300/12.5  mg  film-coated  tablets.  Teva  Pharmaceuticals 
Industries Ltd., Israel. Manufacture Date: 28/01/2007.  
Treatment B: CoAprovel TM (irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide), Sanofi Winthrop Industrie, France 
Expiration date: 03/2009. 
Population studied 
Fifty-six healthy subjects were included in the study. All 56 subjects received at least one dose of the 
study  medication  and,  therefore,  comprised  the  safety  population.  Fifty-two  individuals  who 
completed  both  treatment  periods  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  analyses.  During  period  1 
three  subjects  were  withdrawn  due  to  various  adverse  events  and  one  subject  withdrew  consent  for 
personal reasons. In pre-dose period two subjects were withdrawn due to a positive drug screen and 
another two due to adverse events. These subjects were replaced. One subject was excluded from the 
pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis involving AUC0-t due to lack of appropriate samples. As per 
CHMP request applicant demonstrated that bioequivalence criteria are still met after inclusion of this 
patient into analysis. 
Analytical method 
The same bioanalytical method and the same centre were employed as for the previous study. 
A  total  of  2128  study  samples  of  irbesartan  were  analyzed  and  67  repeat  analyses  (3.15  %) 
corresponding  to  46  study  samples  were  performed.  Six  samples  were  reanalysed  because  of 
unacceptable internal standard response, 22 due to loss of sample during processing, 9 samples were 
reanalysed due to the internal standard response being lower than or equal to 5% of the mean internal 
standard responses, 28 samples because sample concentration being above upper limit of quantitation 
and 2 samples were reanalyzed to obtain confirming value. 
14/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For hydrochlorothiazide a total of 2022 study samples were analyzed and 169 repeat analyses (8.37 %) 
corresponding to 169 study samples were performed. Eleven samples were reanalysed because of loss 
of sample during processing, 1 sample was reanalysed due to the internal standard response is lower 
than or equal to 5% of the mean internal standard responses, 5 samples because sample concentration 
above upper limit of quantitation and 152 samples were repeated or re-injected by error. 
The validation of the analytical method is satisfactory 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Standard pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated through non-compartmental analyses of 
pharmacokinetic parameters and statistical analyses using Bioequiv (release 3.50), a proprietary 
software developed and tested for bioequivalence studies. 
Statistical methods 
For both irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide, analysis of variance was performed on the ln-transformed 
data of AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. ANOVA was also carried out on the untransformed data of T1/2 
el  and  Kel.  A  conventional  statistical  analysis  was  performed  with  the  model  including  sequence, 
subject within sequence, period and treatment as factors. The sequence effect was tested using subjects 
within  sequence  effect  as  the  error  term.  The  treatment  and  period  effects  were  tested  against  the 
residual mean square error. 
Criteria for bioequivalence for irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide were 90% geometric CI of the ratio 
of least-squares in means from the ANOVA of the ln-transformed AUC0-t and Cmax should be within 
80% to 125%. 
Results 
All  pre-dose  samples  were  found  to  be  below  the  LLOQ  for  both  drugs,  except  in  one  case  with 
irbesartan. 
For irbesartan Tmax median was 1.00 h for test and 1.33 h for reference. For hydrochlorothiazide Tmax 
was 1.67 for the test and 2.00 for the reference. The non-parametric analysis of Tmax shows a statistical 
significant difference in both cases, which is considered clinically irrelevant. The non-parametric 90% 
CI has not been provided. 
For  irbesartan  the  minimum  Cmax  value  was  1455.36  ng/mL  and  the  maximum  Cmax  value  was 
12354.54  ng/mL.  For  hydrochlorothoazide  the  minimum  Cmax  value  was  44.73  ng/mL  and  the 
maximum Cmax value was 165.94 ng/mL. 
No statistically significant difference (α = 0.05) was detected between the periods or the sequences for 
the primary variables of the study (Cmax, AUCt). 
15/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16/19  
© EMEA 2009 
Protocol deviations 
There were 8 deviations reported in this study. Three deviations were related to unacceptable humidity 
level in medication storage, four deviations were linked to consumption of prohibited food by study 
participants. One participant failed to complete post-study procedures. These deviations are considered 
normal  and  acceptable  since  they  do  not  alter  the  validity  of  the  study  conclusion. 
Safety data 
The  safety  analysis  includes  the  56  subjects  who  entered  the  study  and  received  at  least  one  of  the 
treatments. A total of 116 post-dose adverse events were reported by 41 subjects. 45 adverse events 
were reported in subjects receiving the test and 71 adverse events were reported in those receiving the 
reference product. 
The safety profile of both products seems to be comparable although the design was not powered to 
compare the safety profile. No difference in the safety profile is anticipated. 
Biowaiver 
According  to  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 a bioequivalence study investigating only one strength may be acceptable if a 
new  application  concerns  several  strengths  of  the  active  substance.  However  the  choice  of  the  strength 
used should be justified on analytical, pharmacokinetic and safety grounds. The selection of the dose has 
been  done  according  to  the  recommended  doses  normally  administered  to  patients  (respecting  the 
therapeutic range), and in order to obtain measurable plasma concentrations after administration. 
Furthermore all of the following conditions should be fulfilled: 
• 
the pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process, 
17/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic range (if this is not the case the 
strengths where the sensitivity is largest to identify differences in the two products should be 
used), 
the qualitative compositions of the different strengths is the same, 
the ratio between amounts of active substance and excipients is the same, or, in the case of 
preparations containing a low concentration of the active substance (less than 5%), the ratio 
between the amounts of excipents is similar, 
the dissolution profile should be similar under identical conditions for the additional strength and 
strength of the batch used in bioequivalence study. 
Bullet point 1 is justified by a Declaration of the Manufacturer: “The 150/12.5 mg and 300/25 mg strengths 
of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Film-Coated Tablets are produced by the same manufacturer, Teva 
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Kfar Saba, Israel. Both strengths are manufactured using the same 
manufacturing process applying well-established wet granulation technology”. 
With regard to bullet point 2 the literature data on irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide confirm that the 
pharmacokinetics of both compounds is linear: 
- The innovator, CoAprovel, Summary of Product Characteristics states “Irbesartan exhibits linear and 
dose proportional pharmacokinetics over the dose range of 10 to 600 mg”. 
- According to the article “Pharmacokinetics of Hydrochlorothiazide in Man” (B. Beermann and 
Margaretha Groschinsky-Grind European Journal of Clinical Pharmacology 12, 297-303 (1977), included 
in Annex IV), the gastrointestinal absorption of hydrochlorothiazide is linear in the dose range of 5-75 mg 
Bullet points 3 and 4 are fulfilled taking in account the composition of the core of the tablets. 
Bullet  point  5  is  addressed  by  comparative  dissolution  profiles  that  demonstrate  similar  dissolution 
profiles  of  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  150/12.5  mg  and  300/25  mg,  which  by  initial  CHMP 
assessment  was  not  sufficiently  demonstrated.  After  repeated  assessment  it  was  concluded  that 
dissolution  profiles  are  not  similar,  but  the  difference  is  similar  to  that  observed  in  the  reference 
product and, therefore, it is acceptable. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence studies Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is 
considered bioequivalent with CoAprovel. 
The results of the study with the 150/12,5 mg formulation can be extrapolated to the 300/25 
mg strength, according to conditions in Note for Guidance on the Investigation of 
Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, section 5.4. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No  post-marketing  data  are  available.  The  medicinal  product  has  not  been  marketed  in  any 
country.   
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131)  PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. 
(cid:131)  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
18/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market. 
(cid:131)  Risk Management Plan 
The application is based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring 
specific risk minimization activities have been identified. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The  application  contains  adequate  quality,  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has 
been shown. A benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered by consensus that the benefit/risk 
ratio  of  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide  Teva  in  the  treatment  of  hypertension  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
19/19  
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
