EMA/477286/2015 
EMEA/H/C/001112 
EPAR summary for the public 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva. It explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the 
medicine to reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations 
on the conditions of use for Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva. 
What is Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva? 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a medicine that contains two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. It is available as tablets (150 mg or 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide; and 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide). 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the 
European Union (EU) called CoAprovel. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-
and-answer document here. 
What is  Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva used for? 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is used in adults who have essential hypertension (high blood 
pressure) that is not adequately controlled by irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone. ‘Essential’ 
means that the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva used? 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is taken by mouth. The dose of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide 
Teva to be used depends on the dose of irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide that the patient was taking 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
before. Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once a day are not 
recommended. Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva may be added to other treatments for 
hypertension. 
How does Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva work? 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva contains two active substances, irbesartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Irbesartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a 
hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance 
that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, 
irbesartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic, which is another type of treatment for hypertension. It works by 
increasing urine output, reducing the amount of fluid in the blood and lowering the blood pressure. 
The combination of the two active substances has an additive effect, reducing the blood pressure more 
than either medicine alone. By lowering the blood pressure, the risks associated with high blood 
pressure, such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
How has Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva been studied? 
Because Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a generic medicine, studies in people have been 
limited to tests to determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, CoAprovel. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva? 
Because Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to CoAprovel. Therefore, the 
CHMP’s view was that, as for CoAprovel, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee 
recommended that Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva on 26 November 2009.  
The full EPAR for Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva, read the package leaflet (also 
part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2015. 
Irbesartan/Hydrochlorothiazide Teva  
EMA/477286/2015  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
