European Medicines Agency  
Iressa 
gefitinib 
EPAR summary for the public 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/280173/2009 
EMEA/H/C/1016 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Iressa? 
Iressa is a medicine that contains the active substance gefitinib. It is available as brown tablets 
(250 mg). 
What is Iressa used for? 
Iressa is used to treat adults who have non-small cell lung cancer that is locally advanced or metastatic 
(when cancer cells have spread from the original site to other parts of the body). It is used in patients 
whose cancer cells have a mutation in the genes that make a protein called epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR). 
How is Iressa used? 
Treatment with Iressa should be started and supervised by a doctor who has experience with 
anticancer treatments. The recommended dose is one tablet once a day. The tablet can be dispersed in 
water for patients who have difficulty swallowing. 
How does Iressa work? 
The active substance in Iressa, gefitinib, is a protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor. This means that it 
blocks specific enzymes known as tyrosine kinases. These enzymes can be found on the surface of 
cancer cells, such as EGFR on the surface of non-small cell lung cancer cells. EGFR is involved in the 
growth and spread of cancer cells. By blocking EGFR, Iressa helps to slow down the growth and 
spread of the cancer. Iressa works only in non-small cell lung cancer cells that have a mutation in their 
EGFR. 
How has Iressa been studied? 
The effects of Iressa were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. 
In one main study involving 1,217 adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer, Iressa was compared with a combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel (other anticancer 
medicines). The main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients lived without the disease 
getting worse. 
In a second main study involving 1,466 patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell 
lung cancer, Iressa was compared with docetaxel (another anticancer medicine). The main measure of 
effectiveness was survival (how long the patients lived). Both studies included patients with and 
without the EGFR mutation. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefit has Iressa shown during the studies? 
In the first main study, Iressa was more effective at preventing the cancer from worsening than the 
combination. Among patients with the EGFR mutation, those who took Iressa lived for an average of 
nine and a half months without the disease getting worse, compared with about six months for those 
who took the combination therapy. In the second main study, patient survival among all patients who 
took Iressa was similar to those who took docetaxel. 
What is the risk associated with Iressa? 
The most common side effects with Iressa (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are loss of appetite, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea (feeling sick), stomatitis (inflammation of the lining of the mouth), 
increased level of alanine aminotransferase (a liver enzyme) in the blood, skin reactions such as 
pustular rash, and asthenia (weakness). There is also a risk of interstitial lung disease in patients taking 
Iressa. For the full list of all side effects reported with Iressa, see the Package Leaflet. 
Iressa should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to gefitinib or any of the 
other ingredients. It must not be used in mothers who are breastfeeding. 
Why has Iressa been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Iressa’s benefits are 
greater than its risks for the treatment of adults with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung 
cancer with activating mutations of EGFR. The Committee recommended that Iressa be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Iressa: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Iressa to AstraZeneca AB on 24 June 2009. 
The full EPAR for Iressa can be found here. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
