Summary of risk management plan for ISCOVER (Clopidogrel hydrogen 
sulfate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ISCOVER. The RMP details 
important risks of ISCOVER how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about ISCOVER’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
ISCOVER’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how ISCOVER 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for ISCOVER should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ISCOVER’s RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR  
ISCOVER is indicated in adults for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
recent myocardial infarction (MI), recent ischemic stroke (IS) or established peripheral 
arterial disease (PAD), and moderate to high-risk transient ischemic attack (TIA) or minor IS, 
and in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) including non-ST segment elevation ACS and ST 
segment elevation acute MI. It is also indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic and 
thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation (AF) (see SmPC for the full indications). It 
contains clopidogrel as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of and ISCOVER’s benefits can be found in 
ISCOVER’s (EMA/H/C/000175) EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available 
on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpages:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/iscover 
II. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of ISCOVER together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about ISCOVER’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
PL and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of ISCOVER are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of ISCOVER. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table 1   List of important risks and missing information (ISCOVER)  
Important identified risk 
Major bleeding (including ICHa) 
Important potential risk 
Missing information 
None 
None 
a 
ICH is applicable especially in TIA/mIS indication of DAPT for the first 21 days after TIA/mIS events, this indication 
cumulating multiple risks of bleeding particularly in patients ≥75 years of age. 
DAPT: Dual Antiplatelet Therapy; ICH: Intracranial Hemorrhage; mIS: Minor Ischemic Stroke; TIA: Transient Ischemic Attack. 
II.B 
Summary of important risks  
 Table 2   Important risks and missing information with corresponding risk minimization 
activities and additional pharmacovigilance activities if any: Important identified risk: Major 
bleeding (including ICHa)  
Important identified risk: Major bleeding (including ICHa) 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Postmarketing experience, clinical and epidemiological data, and literature. 
Generally, treated patients are at risk of increased bleeding in certain clinical 
circumstances, such as trauma, surgery or other pathological conditions. In some 
indications (eg, ACS), clopidogrel may be prescribed together with other antiplatelet 
agents or other medicinal products acting on hemostasis, which may increase the 
propensity or intensity of bleeding in these circumstances. Thus, special warnings 
and precautions for use are necessary for co-administration of clopidogrel with 
ASA, GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, thrombolytics or heparin. Concomitant use of clopidogrel 
with OAC (eg, warfarin) is not recommended. Concomitant use of SSRIs should be 
undertaken with caution, since they can increase the propensity to bleed due to 
their spectrum of action on platelets. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, 
including COX-2 inhibitors, should also be co-administered with caution, since they 
may increase the propensity to bleed, especially occult gastrointestinal bleeding. 
Overall, patients concomitantly treated with any drugs known to cause bleeding can 
also be considered at risk due a potential additive effect with clopidogrel. 
Very elderly patients: 
In ACTIVE A study, in very elderly patients who are at greater risk for bleeding, as 
in the overall ACTIVE A population, the rate of adjudicated major bleeding was 
greater in the clopidogrel in combination with ASA group than in the ASA alone 
 
Important identified risk: Major bleeding (including ICHa) 
group (8.32% versus 5.98%); this increase was also noted for severe bleeding 
(6.19% versus 4.22%). Overall, the rates of major bleeding, severe bleeding, and 
ICH with clopidogrel in combination with ASA compared with ASA alone was 
independent of all relevant baseline demographic or previous history covariates 
(including bleeding risk or previous stroke, CHADS2 score, and geographic region 
subgroups). 
In POINT and CHANCE Pool analysis, a limited number of very elderly patient 
experienced ICH, reason why pooled data have been used for determining the risk 
of bleeding in population ≥75 years of age. No difference between treatment group 
regarding frequency was identified in this population. 
Table 2a - Intracranial hemorrhage, CHANCE and POINT Pooled Analysis 
Dataset (ITT)  
Age  
(N Exposed 
patients)   
75-84 years 
(N = 1618) 
≥85 years 
(N = 361) 
Total  
(N = 10 051) 
No. of ICH in the 
clopidogrel + ASA 
group  
No. of ICH in the 
ASA group 
Total 
4 (0.5%; 4/781) 
3 (0.4%; 3/837) 
7 (0.4; 7/1618) 
1 (0.5%; 1/201) 
0 (0,0%; 0/160) 
 1 (0.3; 1/361) 
13 (0.3%; 13/5016) 
11 (0.2%;11/ 
5035) 
24 (0.2; 
24/10 051) 
ASA: Acetylsalicylic Acid; CHANCE: Clopidogrel in High-risk patients with Acute Non-disabling 
Cerebrovascular Event; ICH: Intracranial Hemorrhage; ITT: Intent To Treat; POINT: Platelet-
Oriented Inhibition In New Transient Ischemic Attack And Minor Ischemic Stroke.  
Off-label use: No clinical benefit of clopidogrel has been demonstrated outside of 
approved indications while patients remained at risk of bleeding. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC:  
Labeled in section 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 of ISCOVER SmPC. 
PL:  
Labeled in section 2, 3 and 4 of ISCOVER PL.  
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
a 
ICH is applicable especially in TIA/mIS indication of DAPT for the first 21 days after TIA/mIS events, this indication 
cumulating multiple risks of bleeding particularly in patients ≥75 years of age. 
ACTIVE: Atrial Fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for Prevention of Vascular Event; ACS: Acute Coronary Syndrome; 
ASA: Acetylsalicylic Acid; CHADS: Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age, Diabetes, prior Stroke; CHANCE: Clopidogrel 
in High-risk patients with Acute Non-disabling Cerebrovascular Event; COX: Cyclo-Oxygenase; DAPT: Dual Antiplatelet 
Therapy; ICH: Intracranial Hemorrhage; ITT: Intent To Treat; mIS: Minor Ischemic Stroke; OAC: Oral Anti-Coagulant; 
PL: Package Leaflet; POINT: Platelet-Oriented Inhibition In New Transient Ischemic Attack And Minor Ischemic Stroke; 
SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics; SSRI: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor; TIA: Transient Ischemic Attack. 
II.C 
Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.I 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of ISCOVER. 
II.C.II 
Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
There are no studies required for ISCOVER. 
 
