1. 
Introduction 
This variation application is submitted to request the addition of a sentence in the approved non-ST 
segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (NSTEACS)  indication  in  order  to  make  clear  that 
patients  undergoing  a  stent  implantation  following  percutaneous  coronary  intervention  (PCI)  are 
included in the indication. The rewording applied for is as follows: 
“Non-ST  segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial 
infarction),  including  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  following  percutaneous  coronary 
intervention, in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).” 
Clopidogrel efficacy in NSTEACS patients undergoing a coronary stent placement following PCI has 
been evaluated in a post-hoc analysis of the CURE study (Clopidogrel in Unstable angina to prevent 
Recurrent ischemic Events), in the subset of patients who underwent an intra-coronary stent placement 
following  PCI  [Stent-CURE  population  (CURE  restricted  to  stent  PCI)].  The  MAH  also  reviewed 
recently  published  experience  with  clopidogrel  in  patients  with  coronary  stenting.  Safety  was 
primarily  assessed  on  the  basis  of  Stent-CURE.  Additional  safety  data  from  two  studies  [EFC7086 
(CREDO) and EFC3401 (CLASSICS)] in stent-related populations were also taken into account. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
2.1  Rationale for the proposed change 
PCI  causes  trauma  to  the  vessel  wall,  rendering  the  endoluminal  surface  thrombogenic.  As  a 
consequence  of  mechanical  plaque  rupture  by  angioplasty,  subendothelial  components  are  exposed 
inducing  platelet  adhesion  to  the  injured  endothelium  and  platelet  aggregation.  Stent  utilisation 
amplifies  platelet  activation  compared  to  angioplasty.  With  ASA  alone,  thrombotic  complications 
following PCI remain high. Studies have demonstrated that the adjunctive use of ticlopidine with ASA 
reduced subacute thrombosis after stent placement and was superior to anticoagulant regimens (ASA 
with  heparin  or  warfarin).  However,  ticlopidine  has  uncommon  but  potentially  lethal  side  effects 
(neutropenia  ~1%,  thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  and  aplastic  anemia)  that  have  limited  its 
routine use in PCI. 
Clopidogrel  is  a  newer  thienopyridine,  which  produces  active  metabolite(s)  with  antiaggregatory 
effects  and  displays  a  better  safety  profile  than  ticlopidine  (lower  risk  of  neutropenia  and 
thrombocytopenic  thrombotic  purpura).  Efficacy  and  safety  of  clopidogrel  for  the  prevention  and 
treatment of atherothrombotic events has been demonstrated by four Phase III randomised controlled 
trials (CAPRIE, CURE, CLARITY-TIMI 28, and COMMIT/CCS-2). 
The  use  of  clopidogrel  in  the  treatment  of  NSTEACS  patients  in  the  context  of  PCI  is  widely 
generalised. A multinational registry of 401, 255 patients of all ages hospitalised with ACS at 100 sites 
in 14 countries over a 5-year period (1999-2004) revealed that ACS patients from Europe frequently 
received  clopidogrel  during  hospitalisation  (52%).  The  administration  of  clopidogrel  was  strongly 
associated with the performance of PCI at all sites (range of use from 82% to 90%). 
International Guidelines in Europe and America contain a Class I recommendation for the routine use 
of clopidogrel in addition to ASA in the treatment of NSTEACS patients and recommend 9-12 month 
administration of clopidogrel for these patients when managed with PCI and stenting. 
2.2  Analysis of data submitted 
The justification for the applied rewording of the NSTEACS indication is mainly based on a post-hoc 
analysis  of  the  CURE  study,  specifically  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  who  underwent  intra-coronary 
stent placement following PCI i.e the Stent-CURE population.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1  Design of CURE and Stent-CURE. 
CURE  was  a  large  scale,  multicentre  and  multinational  trial  which  investigated  the  efficacy  and  the 
safety of clopidogrel 75 mg daily after an initial loading dose of 300 mg, in addition to ASA (75 to 
325  mg/day,  left  to  the  Investigators'  decision)  and  other  background  therapy,  in  a  population  of 
patients  with  NSTEACS  (UA  or  NQMI)  treated  for  a  minimum  of  3  months  and  a  maximum  of  12 
months. 
This  double-blind,  randomised,  parallel-group  trial  of  clopidogrel  (+  ASA)  versus  placebo  (ASA), 
provides information on the clinical benefit of clopidogrel in a broad range of patients in the presence 
of  numerous  and  representative  concomitant  therapies.  It  was  the  largest  ever  performed  trial  to 
evaluate  antiplatelet  agents  in  this  indication  and  also  the  largest  completed  study  involving  ACS 
patients with stent. 
The study has already been assessed in the context of a Type II variation (II/24 of Plavix and II/22 of 
Iscover).  The  Scientific  Discussion  module  of  the  EPAR  provides  a  detailed  summary  of  the  study 
design and the results. Hence, only a brief general summary will be included in this report. 
2.2.2.  Methods of CURE and Stent-CURE. 
Inclusion criteria. Patients were eligible if they presented within 24 hours of onset of ischaemic chest 
pain or angina-equivalent symptoms suspected to be NSTEACS. 
Randomisation had to be performed within 24 hours of onset of the most recent episode of chest pain 
or  angina  equivalent  symptoms.  Study  drugs,  as  well  as  ASA  (continued  if  patients  were  already 
taking ASA prior to entry into the study), were to be started immediately after randomisation. Regular 
follow-up assessments ended, as specified in the protocol, either 90 days after the randomisation of the 
last patient (study end date) or one year after randomisation, whichever date came first. 
Concomitant  therapies,  including  usual  therapy  for  ACS,  were  unrestricted,  except  for  those  that 
might  interfere  with  the  assessment  of  the  clinical  benefit.  Specifically,  concomitant  oral 
anticoagulants, antithrombins (other than heparins), open-label use of thienopyridines (clopidogrel or 
ticlopidine at the investigator’s discretion) and dipyridamole were not allowed. If patients underwent 
stent placement after entry into CURE, blinded medication could be stopped for up to 2 to 4 weeks to 
allow  substitution  with  an  open-label  non-investigational  thienopyridine  (clopidogrel  or  ticlopidine) 
during this short period. The use of GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors was allowed in connection with PCI. 
The  first  co-primary  efficacy  outcome  was  the  first  occurrence  of  any  component  of  the  composite 
cluster  of  cardiovascular  (CV)  death,  MI  or  stroke  (ischemic,  hemorrhagic  or  of  uncertain  type). 
Cardiovascular death in this cluster was defined to exclude only deaths due to a well-documented non-
vascular cause. MI was defined as a new acute MI (differentiated from index-MI) which fulfilled at 
least  2  of  the  accepted  3  criteria:  characteristic  symptoms,  consistent  new  ECG  changes  and  (re) 
elevation of cardiac enzymes or troponin levels [twice the upper limit of the normal reference range, 3 
times this limit if the event occurred after a percutaneous intervention or 5 times this limit if the event 
occurred post coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG)]. 
The  second  co-primary  efficacy  outcome  was  the  first  occurrence  of  any  component  of  the  first 
composite  or  of  refractory  ischaemia.  The  refractory  ischaemia  definition  depended  on  whether  the 
patient was still in his/her initial hospitalisation or if the event occurred after discharge. The refractory 
ischaemia definition during initial hospitalisation had very stringent criteria: the patient was to have 
recurrent chest pain or ischaemic symptoms lasting longer than 5 minutes while on optimal medical 
therapy and leading to additional intervention (thrombolysis for threatened MI, cardiac catheterisation, 
insertion  of  intra-aortic  balloon  pump  or  revascularisation  procedure,  ie,  percutaneous  transluminal 
coronary angioplasty PTCA/stent or CABG surgery) or transfer for these procedures by midnight of 
the next day. The post-discharge definition, “rehospitalisation for UA”, was less stringent and included 
any  hospital  stay  for  at  least  24  hours  with  clinical  symptoms  of  typical  prolonged  chest  pain 
unresponsive  to  the  patient's  usual  medication  associated  with  ECG  changes  consistent  with  acute 
myocardial ischaemia.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup  analyses.  The  variables  of  specific  clinical  interest  were  prior  ASA  and  thienopyridine 
(clopidogrel/ticlopidine)  use,  prior  PTCA/CABG  surgery,  concomitant  use  of  heparins/hirudin,  oral 
anticoagulants, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), intravenous (IV) GPIIb/IIIa receptor 
antagonists, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and lipid-lowering agents 
and  ASA  dose.  Other  factors  examined  included  elevated  cardiac  enzymes/troponin  levels  at 
randomisation, ST depression ≥1 mm a randomisation, history of diabetes, peripheral arterial disease, 
MI and stroke, and diagnosis at discharge (non-Q-wave MI, unstable angina, other). The occurrence of 
PTCA (with or without stent) and PTCA/CABG surgery was also used as a covariate, although these 
and  the  concomitant  medication  subgroups  were  recognised  as  improper  subgroups  since  they  were 
defined on the basis of post-randomisation events. In this case, the results could be confounded with 
treatment  effects  and  are  to  be  interpreted  with  caution.  The  occurrence  of  periprocedural  events 
within  7  days  after  PTCA/CABG  surgery  was  also  analysed.  Other  factors  examined  included  age, 
gender, race, and smoking status. 
The  main  efficacy  analysis  was  an  ITT  analysis  including  all  patients  randomised  in  the  study 
regardless  of  whether  they  actually  received  study  drug.  All  events  occurring  during  the  follow-up 
period, but not beyond 365 days or the study end date were counted, including events occurring after 
permanent  discontinuation  of  study  drug.  Data  from  patients  lost  to  follow-up  were  considered  as 
censored  at  the  last  date  the  patient  was  known  to  be  alive  for  those  patients  without  an  event. 
However, for patients experiencing an event prior to being lost to follow-up, that patient’s event was 
included in the analysis. 
The  number  of  patients  with  outcome  events  was  summarised  by  treatment  group  using  counts  and 
percentages  and  in  the  form  of  event  rate  curves.  The  event  rate  curves  were  estimated  using  the 
Kaplan-Meier method. The relative risk reduction (RRR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) from the 
Cox proportional hazards model were reported along with Kaplan-Meier estimates of 1-, 2-, 3-, 7-, and 
15-day, and 1-, 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month event rates. 
Safety  parameters.  The  safety  analyses  included  the  rate  of  life-threatening  bleeding  and  serious 
adverse  events  (SAEs).  Safety  data  were  to  be  recorded  from  randomization  up  to  365  days  or  the 
study end date (06 December 2000). The safety population analysed in CURE was based on the ITT 
analysis of the subset of patients who underwent stent following PCI, so that benefit and risk could be 
assessed in the same population. 
Sample Size. A total of 12,562 patients were enrolled in CURE: 6,259 in the clopidogrel treatment 
group and 6,303 in the placebo group. Of the 12,562 enrolled patients, 2,172 (1,080 in the clopidogrel 
treatment group and 1,092 in the placebo group) underwent a stent placement following PCI. These 
2,172 patients (17.3% of the entire CURE population) represent the Stent-CURE population and have 
been subjected to post-hoc subgroup analysis. 
2.2.3. Results 
2.2.3.1. Extent of Exposure 
The  extent  of  exposure  is  described  in  Table  1.  Of  the  2172  patients,  50.8%  of  patients  in  the 
clopidogrel  group  and  51.9%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  were  followed  up  for  more  than  9 
months, including, respectively, 32.6% and 35.4% followed up for at least 12 months. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Summary of duration of drug treatment (months) – Stent-CURE 
Approximately 18.0% (18.6% in the clopidogrel group, and 17.4% in the placebo group) permanently 
discontinued study drug before 12 months, common study end date, or death (see Table 2). The main 
reasons for discontinuation of study drug were withdrawal of patient consent and AEs.  
Table 2 Summary of patient accountability during the study period 
3.2.1.2. Demographics and baseline characteristics 
Demographic and baseline medical data were similar and well balanced between groups, as shown in 
Table 3. 
It should be mentioned that in the original CURE trial an association of the treatment with clopidogrel 
and a significant decrease of refractory ischemia during hospitalisation (Relative Risk (RR) 0.68, 
95%CI 0.52-0.89, p=0.005), resulting in fewer early revascularisation procedures (RR 0.92, p=0.03), 
was identified. However, in the Stent-CURE population no significant differences in the timing of 
stent placement were observed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 Demographic and Baseline data 
 
 
 
Table 4 Medical and surgical history 
2.2.3.2. Efficacy results 
A  total  of  237  patients  (10.9%)  experienced  a  first  co-primary  outcome  confirmed  by  adjudication. 
Among these were 192 MIs (81.0%), 19 strokes (8.0%), and 26 other CV deaths (11.0%). The results 
for the first co-primary endpoint are shown in Table 5: 101 (9.4%) patients in the clopidogrel group 
versus 136 (12.5%) patients in the placebo group experienced the first co-primary outcome, resulting 
in a significant relative risk reduction of 26.2% in favour of clopidogrel (95% CI: 4.5%, 42.9%, p = 
0.020). The positive result was driven by a reduction in MI. 
Table 5 Summary of frequency of first co-primary endpoint outcome  
The Kaplan-Meier curve in Figure 1 displays the first co-primary outcome event rate over time in each 
treatment  group.  The  clopidogrel  and  the  placebo  curves  group  start  to  diverge  rapidly  after  study 
start.  The  divergence  is  present  until  the  end  of  the  follow-up,  i.e.  after  12  month.  A  Relative  Risk 
Reduction (RRR) of 31.9% was observed for the first co-primary endpoint (95% CI, 2.1%-52.6%, p = 
0.038) within the first 30 days after randomisation; and a RRR of 19.8% (95% CI, - 15.6% - 44.4%, p 
= 0.237) was observed beyond 30 days (up to 1 year). 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Proportion of patients remaining event-free over time for first co-primary outcome 
(adjudicated outcome events) (CLOP, clopidogrel group; PLAC, placebo group) 
Second co-primary endpoint. A total of 227 (21.0%) patients in the clopidogrel group versus 290 
(26.6%) patients in the placebo group experienced the second co-primary outcome (MI, stroke, CV 
death, refractory ischaemia), resulting in a significant relative risk reduction of 23.9% in favour of 
clopidogrel (95% CI: 9.5%, 36.1%, p = 0.002). The results are displayed in Table 6. 
Table 6 Summary of frequency of second co-primary endpoint outcome 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 Summary of frequency of co-primary outcomes up to 30 days and beyond 30 days in 
Stent-CURE 
Comparision of results in subpopulations of the Stent-CURE population. The results obtained in the 
demographic subgroups analysed were consistent with the results in the overall population. The 
efficacy observed with clopidogrel was independent of all covariates examined. In all subgroups, the 
treatment difference was in favour of clopidogrel. The results of the analyses according to prior and 
concomitant medication/therapy also showed that efficacy observed with clopidogrel was independent 
of all parameters examined. In particular, the efficacy was independent of other concomitant acute and 
long-term cardiovascular therapies, such as heparins (LMWH/UFH)/hirudin, IV GPIIb/IIIa receptor 
antagonists, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, ASA and lipid-lowering drugs. 
Comparision of the Stent-CURE population with the CURE population without stent. As displayed in 
Table 8, the 2 subsets of patients (with intracoronary stent and without intracoronary stent) contributed 
to  the  positive  results  in  the  entire  CURE  population  [RR  =  0.80  (95%  CI  0.72-  0.90,  p<  0.001)], 
without significant interaction (p = 0.47). 
Table 8 Summary of primary outcome in the subset of patients who underwent stent placement 
following PCI 
Optimum Treatment Duration 
One  of  the  aspects  more  thoroughly  debated  by  CHMP  was  the  optimum  treatment  duration  in  this 
clinical  setting,  considering  that  patients  in  CURE  were  treated  for  a  minimum  of  3  months  and  a 
maximum  of  12  months.  This  point  was  also  intensely  debated  at  the  time  of  the  approval  of  the 
NSTEACS indication (see relevant Scientific Discussion in EPAR). 
In a recent trial intended to show the superior efficacy of a slow-release, polymer-based, paclitaxel-
eluting  stent  in  reducing  the  risk  of  clinical  and  angiographic  restenosis  compared  to  a  bare-metal 
stent, clopidogrel was administered during a 6-month period. The authors empirically recommended a 
6-month post-procedural clopidogrel treatment, while experimental data have demonstrated equivalent 
rates  of  endothelialisation  with  slow-release  paclitaxel-eluting  stents  and  bare-metal  stents.  The 
authors  reported  that  no  late  stent  thrombosis  was  observed  after  clopidogrel  discontinuation  at  6 
months.  In  this  study,  patients  with  complex  coronary  lesions,  such  as  thrombus  containing  lesions, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bifurcations,  and  calcified  stenoses  were  excluded  from  the  study.  In  addition,  the  population  with 
drug-eluting stent was broader than ACS patients only, and therefore did not necessarily integrate the 
higher risk potentially inherent to ACS.  
As newer reports are emerging, indicating a continued risk of late stent thrombosis at 1 year as well as 
increased mortality when antithrombotic treatment with ASA and clopidogrel is discontinued even at 
such late stage in patients with drug-eluting stents, international guidelines recommend administering 
75  mg/day  clopidogrel  with  ASA  for  up  to  12  months  for  ACS  and  for  patients  undergoing  a  PCI, 
irrespective of the type of stent placed. It states that stent patients should initially receive a higher-dose 
ASA of at least 325 mg/day for less than a month for bare-metal stents, for 3 months for sirolimus-
eluting stents, and more than 6 months for paclitaxel-eluting stents, followed by 75 to 162 mg/ day.  
The 2005 European Guidelines for Percutaneous Coronary Interventions recommend that clopidogrel 
should  be  started  and  continued  up  to  12  months  after  drug-eluting  stent  implantation  (Class  1C 
evidence). 
Further to a Request from CHMP concerning the optimal duration of the treatment with clopidogrel, 
the MAH presented data comparing the frequency of the first co-primary efficacy outcome up to 30 
days  and  for the  time  beyond 30 days post-randomisation  in  the stent-CURE  and  the  overall  CURE 
population, as seen in the table below.  
Table 9 Summary of the Frequency of the first Co-Primary Outcome (Adjudicated Outcome 
Events) up to 30 Days and beyond 30 Days in the Stent-CURE And overall CURE populations 
Although,  during  the  first  30  days  post-randomisation,  the  RRR  in  the  Stent-CURE  population  was 
higher than in the overall CURE population, possibly due to the higher placebo event rate in the higher 
risk  Stent-CURE  population,  the  RRR  were  similar  and  quite  large  in  both  populations  beyond  30 
days.  Actually,  the  event  rates  in  the  Stent-CURE  population,  both  in  the  placebo  group  and  the 
clopidogrel group, were similar to those in the overall population at the end of this long-term period, 
indicating that the long-term risk levels and risk reductions are similar in both populations.  
The  cumulative  event  rates  for  the  first  co-primary  outcome  (Table  10)  showed  that  the  absolute 
difference between the group treated with clopidogrel and placebo increased over the whole 12-month 
treatment and follow-up period.  
 
 
 
 
Table 10 Summary of event rates for first co-primary outcome (adjudicated outcome events, 
ITT) in the Stent-CURE population 
Moreover,  the  Cox’s  proportional  hazard  model  used  for  the  calculation  of  the  RRR  of  the  primary 
endpoint revealed no significant difference in the risk of any event in the treatment group and placebo 
over  the  time,  suggesting  a  consistency  of  the  benefit  of  clopidogrel  treatment  up  to  the  end  of  the 
study duration. 
The  overall  analysis  of  the  first  co-primary  endpoint  in  the  Stent-CURE  population  using  a  Cox's 
proportional hazards model showed a 26.2 % RRR favouring clopidogrel. This model using time as a 
variable assumes that,  even though rates of events can change over time, the risk of an event in the 
treated group relative to the placebo group is constant over time. A test of this assumption was non-
significant (p>0.5), therefore showing the lack of interaction with time, and further demonstrating, as 
was shown in the overall CURE population, the consistency of the benefit over time. Thus, although 
we can find different estimates of the RRR with different periods of time, the estimate from the overall 
model (26.2%) applies across the whole time period. 
In  order  to  explore  the  optimum  treatment  duration  within  the  12-month  study  duration,  and  help 
support  a  medical  decision  to  terminate  clopidogrel  treatment  before  12  months,  the  effect  of 
discontinuing  clopidogrel  prematurely  was  assessed  for  the  first  co-primary  endpoint  using  a  Cox 
proportional  hazards  model,  which  included  a  time-dependent  covariate  for  discontinuation  of  study 
drug. These post-hoc analyses are very similar to those performed for the entire CURE population to 
address  the  CHMP  concerns  in  the  context  of  the  variation  for  the  NSTEACS  indication,  but  have 
been further refined by dividing premature permanent discontinuations into 3 groups:  
1. All permanent discontinuations: N= 392  
2. All inappropriate permanent discontinuations (for non-AE reason): N= 287  
3. Permanent discontinuations for withdrawn consent only: N= 172 
As  expected,  the  loss  of  protection  resulting  from  clopidogrel  discontinuation  translates  into  no 
difference between the clopidogrel and placebo groups in first co-primary endpoint event rates at the 
end of the study. 
2.2.3.3. Safety results 
Primary safety data of Stent-CURE. 
Safety  evaluations  in  the  Stent-CURE  population  were  the  same  as  those  performed  in  the  overall 
CURE  population.  The  safety  evaluation  was  based  on  the  ITT  analysis  of  the  Stent-CURE 
population,  so  that  benefit  and  risk  could  be  assessed  in  the  same  population.  The  frequency  of 
bleeding events is displayed in Table 11. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 Summary of number (%) of patients with bleeding events 
There  was  no  significant  difference  in  bleeding,  adjudicated  major/life  threatening  bleeding,  either 
according to bleeding characteristics or site of bleeding. 
The  frequency  of  other  adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events,  deaths,  adverse  events  leading  to 
withdrawal is shown in Table 12. 
Table 12 Overall incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, treatment emergent serious 
adverse events, deaths, and adverse events leading to permanent discontinuation of study drug 
(Stent-CURE) 
There was no significant difference between the clopidogrel group and the placebo group in any of the 
AE categories depicted in the table above. 
Additional safety data in stent-related populations undergoing long-term treatment with clopidogrel. 
The double-blind trial CLASSICS was a safety study of clopidogrel versus ticlopidine on top of ASA 
325  mg  with  the  primary  endpoint  consisting  of  major  peripheral  or  bleeding  complications, 
neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or the early discontinuation of the study drug for noncardiac adverse 
events. The primary endpoint occurred more frequently among patients treated with ticlopidine (9.1%) 
than in the clopidogrel group (4.6%) (p = 0.005), supporting a superior safety profile of clopidogrel. 
However, bleeding occurred more frequently in the clopidogrel 75 mg group than in the other study 
groups. The overall rate of AEs, SAEs, and permanent discontinuations due to an AE was higher in the 
ticlopidine group than in the clopidogrel groups. Skin disorders, primarily rash, were the most frequent 
reason for discontinuing therapy, with incidences of 2.6% in ticlopidine users and 0.6% in clopidogrel 
users.  One  ticlopidine  patient  developed  neutropenia  (neutrophil  <0.1  x  109/l)  28  days  after 
randomization and four clopidogrel patients had mild and transient thrombocytopenia. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CREDO was a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel group study to evaluate the effects of 
long-term treatment (12 months) with clopidogrel (75 mg once daily) on top of ASA 325 mg in the 
prevention  of  vascular  events  and  all-cause  mortality  in  patients  undergoing  PCI.  In  addition,  the 
effects  of  a  preprocedural  loading  dose  of  clopidogrel  (300  mg)  were  examined.  All  randomised 
patients received clopidogrel 75 mg with or without a 300 mg loading dose plus ASA 325 mg once 
daily for 28 days. After the short-term therapy of 28 days, patients who had received a loading dose 
continued treatment with clopidogrel 75 mg plus ASA (81 to 325 mg) once daily for up to 365 days. 
Those who had not received a loading dose continued treatment with placebo plus ASA (81 to 325 mg 
once  daily)  for  up  to  365  days.  In  the  population  that  initially  received  a  loading  dose,  there  was  a 
trend toward an increase in major bleeding in patients treated with clopidogrel for 1 year (p = 0.07). 
On the contrary, there was no difference regarding the incidence of minor bleeding episodes between 
the  two  study  groups.  None  of  the  major  bleeding  events  were  intracranial  haemorrhages,  and  none 
were fatal. Furthermore, most of the major bleeding events were related to a procedure (angiography, 
PCI, CABG, other surgery). 
In GRACE, a large prospective, international clinical registry (94 hospitals in 14 countries), a 
significant increase in major bleeding with the use of thienopyridines in the overall population (2.8% 
with thienopyridines versus 2.2% without thienopyridines; p= 0.002) was found. In contrast, no 
difference was observed when limiting the analysis to patients undergoing PCI, with or without 
stenting or CABG (3.1% with thienopyridines vs 3.7% without thienopyridines; p= 0.22). 
Further to a request from CHMP, the MAH presented the frequency of life-threatening bleeding events 
in Stent-CURE of the clopidogrel and the placebo group compared over time (Table 13).  
Table 13 Number (%) of patients experiencing life-threatening bleeding events by pooled 
category and time – Randomized patients in Stent-CURE 
The rate of life-threatening bleeding events was comparable in both the clopidogrel and the placebo 
study groups, and also when comparing the Stent-CURE and the overall CURE population. Therefore 
the application of the current routine safety monitoring was suggested. 
3. 
Discussion 
Efficacy 
The main data provided to support the rewording of the NSTEACS indication to specifically mention 
patients undergoing PCI are derived from a post-hoc analysis of the CURE trial in the subset of 
patients who underwent an intra-coronary stent placement following PCI (Stent-CURE). The CURE 
trial has previously been assessed in the context of the NSTEACS indication. At the time of the 
evaluation, the CHMP was of the opinion that CURE was a well designed, well conducted and 
generally consistent study, performed according to the current standards. The main criticism to this 
study highlighted by the CHMP was the failure to establish an optimal treatment duration. 
The results in Stent-CURE show that treatment with clopidogrel resulted in a significant relative risk 
reduction of the first and the second co-primary endpoint. The 2 subsets of patients (with intracoronary 
stent,  i.e.  the  Stent-CURE  population,  and  without  intracoronary  stent)  contributed  to  the  positive 
results in the entire CURE population without significant interaction  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  main  issue  discussed  by  the  CHMP  was  the  validity  of  the  post-hoc  design  of  the  subgroup 
analysis in Stent-CURE to support the proposed change in the indication. There was no doubt that, in 
general, subgroup analyses which are not predefined in the study protocol are less valuable from the 
methodological point of view and also in terms of statistical power, as stated in the CHMP guidline 
CPMP/EWP/908/99 (The Points to Consider on Multiplicity Issues in Clinical Trials). However, the 
CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  patients  undergoing  PCI  and  subsequent  stent  placement  are  already 
included  in  the  current  indication.  Therefore  the  CHMP  considered  the  applied  rewording  to  be  a 
clarification of the indication granted rather than an extension of the indication, i.e. a new indication, 
so that the CHMP guideline does not apply. The CHMP further acknowledged that the conduct of a 
new clinical trial comparing clopidogrel and ASA in patients undergoing PCI and stenting would be 
ethically  difficult  to  perform,  since  clopidogrel  is  already  commonly  used  and  accepted  in  this 
indication. Moreover, international guidelines highly recommend the routine use of clopidogrel in the 
management of patients with NSTEACS receiving a stent. Since the efficacy of clopidogrel has been 
confirmed in the CURE study also for the subset of patients undergoing PCI (PCI-CURE) and stenting 
is a widely accepted routine management following PCI, the CHMP stated that the re-analysis of the 
Stent-CURE population is adequate to support the applied rewording of the NSTEACS indication. 
As with the CURE study and the NSTEACS indication, the CHMP questioned the optimal duration of 
treatment.  The  MAH  presented  data  indicating  an  increase  in  the  number  of  cardiovascular  events 
following premature treatment discontinuation. Since the benefit/risk ratio remained comparable over 
the entire duration of the study, the CHMP agreed with the MAH that there is no need to change the 
current wording in section 4.2 of the SPC, which states that  
“The optimal duration of treatment has not been formally established. Clinical trial data support use 
up to 12 months, and the maximum benefit was seen at 3 months (see section 5.1).” 
The  CHMP  requested  the  update  of  section  5.1  of  the  SPC  to  reflect  the  results  of  the  Stent-CURE 
post-hoc analysis as follows: 
“In the CURE trial, 17% of the total population underwent stent placement. A post-hoc analysis of the 
data showed that, in this subgroup of patients, Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg 
daily)  compared  to  placebo,  demonstrated  a  significant  relative  risk  reduction  (RRR)  of  26.2% 
favoring Clopidogrel for the co-primary endpoint (CV death, MI or stroke) and also a significant RRR 
of 23.9% for the second coprimary endpoint (CV death, MI, stroke, or refractory ischemia). Moreover, 
the  safety  profile  of  clopidogrel  in  this  subgroup  of  patients  did  not  raise  any  particular  concern. 
Thus, the results from this subset of patients seem to be in line with the overall trial results.” 
Safety 
The safety of clopidogrel has been already assessed during the initial NSTEACS indication evaluation. 
The results in Stent-CURE do not differ from those observed in the overall CURE population, which 
was previously assessed in the context of the NSTEACS indication. Despite the methodical weakness 
of post-hoc subgroup analysis, the CHMP was of the opinion that the safety data of Stent-CURE are 
reliable, since they match the overall CURE outcomes such as in case of the efficacy results. 
Since  the  Stent-CURE  population,  i.e.  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  represent  a  group  of 
high-risk  patients,  the  possibility  of  a  specific  safety  monitoring  programme  was  discussed  by  the 
CHMP. Taking into account the extensive clinical and post-marketing experience in the treatment of 
NSTEMI  with  clopidogrel  and  the  well-known  safety  profile  of  clopidogrel,  it  was  deemed 
unnecessary. 
4. 
Conclusions and Benefit / Risk Assessment 
The Applicant presented a re-analysis of the CURE trial in the subset of patients who underwent an 
intra-coronary stent placement following PCI (Stent-CURE) to support a rewording of the NSTEACS 
indication, i.e. the insertion of a sentence pointing out that patients with stent after PCI are included in 
the 
the 
recommendation  of  treatment  guidelines  to  use  clopidogrel  in  NSTEMI  patients  with  PCI  and 
the  widely  generalised  use  of  clopidogrel  and 
target  population.  Acknowledging 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subsequent stenting, the CHMP considered the applied rewording to be a clarification of the existing 
indication rather than a new indication. Despite the drawbacks due to the post-hoc design, recognised 
by  the  CHMP,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  presented  data  are  sufficient  to  support  the 
applied rewording. 
Importantly, the Stent-CURE outcomes showed a similar positive benefit / risk ratio for the subset of 
NSTEACS  patients  undergoing  stent  placement  after  PCI  as  for  the  overall  NSTEACS  population 
investigated in the CURE trial. It is acknowledged that clopidogrel is already routinely used in patients 
receiving  a  stent  after  PCI.  The  same  recommendations  on  treatment  duration  as  for  the  overall 
NSTEACS population apply to PCI patients. 
 
