SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Iscover  and  for  subsequent 
procedures  until 1September 2004. For information on changes after this date please refer to module 
8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Atherosclerosis is a major pathological process causing death and disability in the Western World. The 
initial  clinical  presentation  of  the  atherosclerotic  disease  depends  upon  the  vascular  bed  where  the 
atherosclerotic process is the most advanced.  
Therapeutic  interventions  are  usually  aimed  at  the  vascular  territory  causing  the  clinically 
symptomatic disease.  
Patients who suffered from an ischaemic event such as myocardial infarction (MI), stroke or who have 
peripheral arterial disease with intermittent claudication, represent a group who is at the highest risk of 
further  atherosclerotic/thrombotic  events.  Prevention  of  vascular  ischaemic  events  can  be  achieved 
with  oral  anticoagulation  or  through  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation.  Furthermore  life  style 
modifications are encouraged (dietary changes, lipid control, exercise and smoking cessation). 
Inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  with  acetyl  salicylic  acid  (ASA),  besides  being  more  practical  and 
safer  than  anticoagulation,  has  been  shown  to  be  effective.  The  meta-analysis  conducted  by  the 
Antiplatelet  Trialists'  Collaboration  (APTC)  included  145  randomised  trials,  involving  100,000 
patients  at  risk  of  vascular  events.  Of  these,  over  70,000  were  considered  high-risk.  The  results 
showed a risk reduction of 25% of vascular events in all high-risk subgroups. The doses of ASA were 
in the range of 75 to 325 mg daily. There is no evidence that higher doses of ASA confer an increased 
benefit. 
When  considering  such  long-term  therapy,  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  the  anti-platelet  agent  is  a 
major  consideration.  ASA  is  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  gastrointestinal  ulceration  and 
haemorrhage.  Ticlopidine,  another  commonly  used  antiplatelet  agent,  has  a  higher  rate  of  diarrhoea 
and  rash  versus  ASA,  which  albeit  not  clinically  serious,  can  cause  drug  withdrawal.  Although 
infrequently, ticlopidine causes neutropaenia and thrombocytopaenia which can be serious and usually 
appear in the first three months of long-term therapy. 
Iscover tablets contain clopidogrel, a new thienopyridine molecule analogue of ticlopidine, which has 
been developed as an inhibitor of platelet aggregation for use in the prevention of vascular ischaemic 
events in patients with established atherosclerotic disease.  
2. 
Part II: Chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Composition 
Iscover is formulated as conventional tablets containing 97.875 mg of clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate 
equivalent to 75 mg of clopidogrel base, and conventional excipients.  
The medicinal product is supplied in clear or opaque PVC/PVDC blister packs sealed with aluminium 
foil or all aluminium blisters packs in cardboard cartons of 28, 50, and 84 tablets.  
Pharmaceutical development 
Clopidogrel  is  the  S-enantiomer  of  a  new  thienopyridine  molecule  analogue  containing  one  single 
chiral  centre.  The  chemical  stability  and  compatibility  of  different  excipients  with  four  different 
clopidogrel  salts  were  investigated.  The  final  choice  was  given  to  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate, 
which has optimal stability and compatibility.  
The first pharmaceutical formulation used in the clinical trials was a capsule. In view of marketing, a 
tablet form was developed and was film-coated to mask the very bitter taste of the drug substance. The 
tablet formulation intended for marketing was considered to be optimal. Further slight modifications 
were  introduced  after  the  final  bioequivalence  study,  but  these  did  not  affect  the  tablets  dissolution 
characteristics.  
1/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
After  the  Marketing  Authorisation,  a  new  crystalline  form  (clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate 
polymorphic  Form  II)  has  been  identified  and  found  to  be  more  thermodynamically  stable  than  the 
initial  Form  I.  Consequently,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  applied  for  a  change  of  the 
formulation.  Based  on  the  submitted  pharmaceutical  data  and  demonstration  of  bioequivalency  and 
equipotency, this new formulation was subsquently approved. 
Method of preparation 
The  manufacturing  formula  for  the  film-coated  tablets  was  provided.  Validation  data  from  35  semi-
industrial batches and 1 industrial batch demonstrated that the manufacturing process is under control 
and  ensures  both,  batch-to-batch  reproducibility  and  compliance  with  specifications.  A  revised 
validated manufacturing process was provided for the new formulation.  
Control of starting materials 
The synthetic pathway is presented as a Drug Master File. The manufacturers of the active substance 
are  Sanofi  Chimie  and  Orgamol  LTD  companies.  The  analytical  methods  used  to  control  starting 
materials  as  well  as  intermediates  of  synthesis  are  acceptable  and  identical  for  both  manufacturers. 
The  impurity  profile  is  well  characterised  and  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  All  other 
ingredients entering in the preparation of the tablets are adequately controlled.  
The  synthetic  route,  control  tests  and  specifications  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  are  acceptable 
and  identical  for  both  manufacturers.  The  quality  of  the  active  substance  is  guaranteed  by  the 
established specifications and the proposed analytical methods are adequately validated. 
The  method  of  preparation  of  Form  II  for  the  new  formulation  was  provided.  Specifications  and 
impurity  profile  were  defined  and  stability  data  confirmed  the  good  stability  of  the  active  substance 
under specified storage conditions.  
Control tests on the finished product 
The  analytical  methods  are  suitable  to  ensure  consistent  quality  of  the  finished  product.  No 
degradation products have been detected upon storage.  
Proposed  specifications,  methods  procedures  and  validations,  and  batch  analysis  results  ensured 
consistent quality for the new formulation. 
Stability 
Drug substance 
Results from primary stability studies and additional stability data provided (3 semi and industrial 
batches, 24 months at 25°C/60% RH and at 30°C/60% RH) support a retest period of 3 years. For the 
new polymorphic form, the data obtained on 3 batches stored for 18 months at 25°C/60% RH and at 
30°C/60% RH support a retest period of 3 years. 
Finished product 
Results  from  primary  stability  studies  performed  on  3  batches  for  36  months  at  25°C/60%  RH, 
together with supportive stability studies clearly justified the 3 years shelf-life. The end of shelf-life 
specifications were adjusted to tightened values following discussion with the company. The company 
submitted data available at three years stability studies at 25°C/60% RH. For the new formulation, the 
data for three batches after 12 months and on the experience with the previous formulation justified a 
shelf-life of 24 months.  
3. 
Part III: Pharmacological and toxicological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  antiaggregating  activity  was  evaluated  in  ex  vivo  and  in  vitro  models.  Oral  and  intravenous 
administration of clopidogrel inhibited the ex vivo ADP (adenosine diphosphate) induced aggregation 
of platelets, thereby affecting ADP-dependent activation of the GPIIb-IIIa complex, the major receptor 
for  fibrinogen  on  the  platelet  surface.  This  effect  was  observed  in  all  animal  species  investigated 
(mouse, rat, rabbit and baboon). The R-enantiomer was completely inactive and the S-enantiomer was 
2/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
approximately  twice  more  potent  than  the  racemic  mixture.  No  effect  on  platelet  aggregation  was 
observed  when  clopidogrel  was  tested  in  vitro.  Biotransformation  of  clopidogrel  is  necessary  to 
produce inhibition of platelet aggregation. 
Clopidogrel exerted an antithrombotic action in various models of thrombosis in rats with a potency at 
least  50-fold  higher  than  that  of  ticlopidine.  The  R-enantiomer  of  clopidogrel  was  devoid  of  any 
protective action. 
The  mechanism of the  antiaggregating action is related to the specific inhibition of ADP (adenosine 
diphosphate)  receptors  on  platelets.  In  vitro  studies  showed  that  following  incubation  of  clopidogrel 
with  rat  liver  microsomes,  an  active  metabolite  is  generated  which  binds  to  platelet  ADP  receptors, 
thus  inhibiting  platelet  aggregation  induced  by  ADP.  This  metabolite  has  been  isolated  and  its 
structure characterised as a thiol derivative of 2-oxo clopidogrel. The irreversible modification of the 
ADP-receptor site could be explained by the formation of a disulfur bridge between the reactive thiol 
and a cysteine residue of a platelet protein. The company was asked to comment further on the identity 
of  the  active  metabolite,  the  site  of,  and  the  enzymes  involved  in,  the  metabolic  activation  of 
clopidogrel.  This  issue,  and  its  relevance  in  terms  of  efficacy  and  possible  interactions,  was  further 
discussed  during  the  hearing  held  on  24th  February  1998.  The  CPMP  considered  that  this  issue  had 
been satisfactorily addressed by the company and that it was resolved. 
Low  levels  of  the  R-enantiomer  were  detected  in  mice,  rats  and  baboons.  This  racemisation  of  S-
enantiomer  was  observed  in  vivo,  and  comparative  toxicology  studies  revealed  that  clopidogrel  was 
less  toxic  than  the  racemic  compound  and  the  R-enantiomer.  Metabolic  inversion  was,  however, 
insignificant in human subjects. 
Safety pharmacology studies did not reveal any relevant effects to the central nervous, cardiovascular, 
respiratory, gastrointestinal and renal systems.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Metabolism and disposition of clopidogrel were assessed from several in vitro and in vivo studies.  
Studies  conducted  in  the  rat  with  14C-labelled  clopidogrel  showed  that  60%  of  clopidogrel  was 
absorbed  in  the  intestine  within  60  minutes.  Clopidogrel  undergoes  extensive  first-pass  metabolism 
and the main metabolite found in plasma, the carboxylic acid derivative, is inactive. The peak plasma 
concentration values were observed 1 to 2 hours after dosing. Administration with food decreased the 
maximal plasma concentration, but did not affect the AUC.  
An  extensive  binding  of  clopidogrel  and  the  main  circulating  metabolite  to  plasma  proteins  was 
observed (87% in mice, 95% in rats and 92% in baboons). Plasma radioactivity was partly covalently 
bound to plasma proteins, and in the baboon the decrease of this binding was characterised by a half-
life of approximately 8 days. Clopidogrel and its carboxylic acid derivative showed little affinity for 
red blood cells (<20 %). 
Clopidogrel  was  widely  distributed  in  the  tissues.  In  a  repeated  dose  study  in  rats,  accumulation  of 
radioactivity in most of the organs raised over the duration of the study (21 days). Radioactivity was 
slowly  eliminated  from  the  tissues,  but  21  days  after  the  suspension  of  clopidogrel  several  tissues 
(arterial  wall,  thyroid  gland,  cartilage,  skin,  spleen)  maintained  radioactivity  levels  similar  to  those 
observed on the last day of administration.  
Clopidogrel  undergoes  extensive  metabolism.  Twenty  metabolites  were  identified.  The  main 
circulating compound was the carboxylic acid derivative of clopidogrel (SR 26334), which is inactive.  
The major route of elimination is biliary. The majority of radioactivity was excreted within 48 hours. 
A  significant  entero-hepatic  recirculation  of  radioactivity  was  observed.  It  accounted  for  45-95%  of 
clopidogrel derived activity and had no effect on platelet aggregation. 
In lactating rats, clopidogrel and/or its metabolites levels in milk were 0.5 to 2.6 times higher than the 
maternal  plasma  levels.  Transfer  of  the  radioactivity  to  the  developing  foetus  was  observed  in 
pregnant rats.  
Toxicology 
3/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
Single dose toxicity of clopidogrel was evaluated in the rat, mouse and in the baboon. Repeated dose 
toxicity by the oral route was conducted in the mouse for up to 3 months, in the rat for up to 52 weeks 
and in the baboon for up to one year. 
After single oral administration to rats, mice and baboons, toxicity occurred only at very high doses. 
The  target  organs  were  mainly  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  the  kidney  and  the  lung.  After  intravenous 
administration to rats and mice, the main target organs were the kidney and the lung. 
The toxicity on the digestive tract was also shown in the repeated dose toxicity studies; in particular in 
rats and baboons treated orally with high doses (from 400 mg/kg/day and upwards).  
The main toxicological finding at doses up to 400 mg/kg/day corresponded to increased liver weight 
associated  with  hypertrophy  of  the  smooth  endoplasmic  reticulum  in  centrilobular  hepatocytes 
corresponding to an effect on hepatic enzymes. The no-effect level, based on increased liver weight, 
were 27 mg/kg/day in rats and 65 mg/kg/day in baboons and correspond to an exposure of at least 7 
times  (rats)  and  more  than  10  times  (baboons)  higher  than  that  observed  in  humans  at  the 
recommended therapeutic dose 
A slight decrease in heart rate and a slight increase in QT interval were observed in rats and baboons 
at very high doses (1,000 mg/kg/day in rats, and 400 mg/kg/day in baboons). However, there was no 
prolongation  of  QTc-interval.  An  in  vitro  electrophysiological  study  on  rabbit  Purkinje  fibres  was 
submitted with the responses to the consolidated list of questions. Although the results did not reveal a 
proarrhythmic  potential,  the  highest  concentration  tested  (~  9.6  mg/l)  was  only  three  times  the  Cmax 
obtained in humans with the therapeutic dose (~ 2.7 mg/l). This issue and its clinical relevance were 
further discussed during the hearing held on 24th February 1998. The CPMP considered that this issue 
had been satisfactorily addressed by the company and that it was resolved. 
The R-enantiomer of clopidogrel revealed a higher toxicity than the active compound, namely on the 
central nervous system. The impact of the toxicity of this impurity on the overall toxicological profile 
of  clopidogrel  formulation  seems  to  be  minor  due  to  its  low  concentration  in  the  test  compound. 
Furthermore, there is no evidence of epimerisation in man.  
The  reproduction  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits  did  not  reveal  any  teratogenic  or  faetotoxic 
potential for clopidogrel even at borderline maternally toxic doses. Male and female fertility, growth 
and  development  of  the  F1  offspring  were  not  affected.  High  doses  of  clopidogrel  induced  a  slight 
delay  in  the  development  of  the  offspring  of  lactating  rats  possibly  due  to  the  effect  of  the  drug 
excreted in the lactating milk. The effect was reversible after weaning. In the light of these findings, 
and in the absence of significant experience in pregnant women, clopidogrel is contraindicated during 
breast-feeding and not recommended during pregnancy. 
A battery of in vitro studies and one in vivo mouse micronucleus assay did not reveal any mutagenic, 
genotoxic  or  clastogenic  potential  of  clopidogrel.  No  immunogenic,  antigenic,  phototoxic  or 
photoallergenic potential was observed. 
The carcinogenic potential of clopidogrel was investigated in two life-span studies in the rat and in the 
mouse.  Both  studies  were  negative.  The  company  was  requested  to  discuss  the  clinical  relevance  of 
the increased incidence of thyroid cysts observed in the rat carcinogenicity study taking into account 
the high level of sustained radioactivity observed in the thyroid gland in the tissue distribution studies. 
The company stated that developmental cysts are embryonic vestiges and do not represent lesions with 
neoplastic potential. This explanation was considered satisfactory.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects  
The  clinical  documentation  includes  an  extensive  clinical  programme  of  51  clinical  pharmacology 
studies  involving  1,150  subjects  and  one  comparative  international  multicentre  clinical  trial  (the 
"CAPRIE" study, Clopidogrel versus ASA in Patients at Risk of Ischaemic Events) involving 19,185 
patients. 
Human pharmacology  
The  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  clopidogrel  in  humans  were  evaluated  in  several  studies  both  in 
healthy subjects and in patients, after single or repeated administration. The selection of the dose was 
4/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
based  on  two  surrogate  markers  of  pharmacological  activity,  inhibition  of  ADP-induced  platelet 
aggregation and prolongation of bleeding time.  
The precise correlation between the degree of inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation and the 
reduction in ischaemic events is unknown. Dose selection for clopidogrel therefore aimed to identify 
that  dose  which  inhibits  ADP-induced  platelet  aggregation  and  prolongs  bleeding  time  to  the  same 
extent as the proven effective dose of ticlopidine (250 mg twice daily).  
Results  from  three  phase  I  dose  ranging  studies  indicated  that  a  daily  dose  of  75  mg  of  clopidogrel 
would give the same level of ADP-induced platelet aggregation and prolongation of bleeding time as 
250 mg of ticlopidine twice daily. 
These  findings  were  confirmed  in  a  study  performed  in  150  atherosclerotic  patients.  The 
pharmacological  activity  of  repeated  administration  (28  days)  of  5  dose  levels  (10-100  mg  per  day) 
was  compared  to  ticlopidine  (250  mg  twice  a  day)  and  placebo.  The  dose  of  75  mg  once  daily  was 
superior  to  50  mg,  and  comparable  to  100  mg  once  daily  in  terms  of  inhibition  of  ADP-induced 
platelet aggregation.  
Based  on  the  results  of  the  above  studies,  it  was  considered  that  a  daily  dose  of  75  mg  clopidogrel 
would be effective and well tolerated in the target population. Consequently this dose was chosen for 
the phase III clinical programme. 
Clopidogrel selectively inhibits the binding of ADP to its platelet receptor, and the subsequent ADP-
mediated  activation  of  the  GPIIb/IIIa  complex,  thereby  inhibiting  platelet  aggregation.  Dose 
dependent inhibition of platelet aggregation is observed 2 hours after single oral dose of clopidogrel. 
Repeated  doses  of  75  mg  per  day  inhibit  ADP-induced  platelet  aggregation  on  the  first  day,  and 
inhibition reaches steady state between day 3 and day 7. At steady state, the average inhibition level 
was between 40% and 60%.  
The pharmacological activity is maintained with long-term use of clopidogrel. One study showed that 
the  level  of  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  and  prolongation  of  bleeding  time  were  similar  at  one 
week  and  after  80  days  of  treatment.  After  discontinuation,  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  and 
bleeding time returned to baseline values approximately 5 days after the last dose.  
These findings are consistent with the mode of action of clopidogrel, namely that the active metabolite 
binds  irreversibly  to  the  platelet  ADP  receptor,  therefore  affecting  the  platelets  for  the  remainder  of 
their life span. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic profile was evaluated in 27 clinical trials carried out in healthy volunteers and 
special populations with either single or repeated administration. 
Clopidogrel is rapidly absorbed and extensively metabolised by the liver. However, plasma levels of 
the parent compound are very low and below the quantification limit (0.00025 mg/l) beyond 2 hours. 
The main circulating metabolite, which is inactive, is the carboxylic acid derivative which represents 
about 85%  of  the  circulating compound in  plasma. Peak plasma levels  of this  metabolite (approx.  3 
mg/l after repeated 75 mg oral doses) occurred approximately 1 hour after dosing. 
Clopidogrel  is  a  prodrug.  The  active  metabolite,  a  thiol  derivative,  is  formed  by  oxidation  of 
clopidogrel to 2-oxo-clopidogrel and subsequent hydrolysis. The oxidative step is regulated primarily 
by  Cytochrome  P450  isoenzymes  2B6  and  3A4  and  to  a  lesser  extent  by  1A1,  1A2  and  2C19.  The 
active  thiol  metabolite,  which  has  been  isolated  in  vitro,  binds  rapidly  and  irreversibly  to  platelet 
receptors, thus inhibiting platelet aggregation. This metabolite has not been detected in plasma. 
Consequently, though useful as a marker of absorption, the relevance of conventional pharmacokinetic 
studies of this inactive  metabolite is limited. Thus, many aspects of the behaviour of clopidogrel, in 
special populations or potential interactions with other drugs, were studied using the dynamic markers, 
inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation and prolongation of bleeding time.  
In vitro studies showed that clopidogrel and SR 26334 bind reversibly to plasma proteins (98 % and 
94 % respectively). Due to this high level of binding and the potential for interactions with products 
5/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
with a known affinity for albumin, specific in vitro interaction studies were performed. These studies 
showed that there was no potential for interaction with such products.  
A  low  level  of  covalent  binding  to  proteins  was  observed  in  in  vivo  studies.  Theoretically  covalent 
binding  to  proteins  could  result  in  allergic  reactions,  but  specific  immunotoxicity  studies  in  animals 
did not indicate clopidogrel had the potential to cause such effects.  
The elimination half-life of SR 26334 after a single and repeated administration of 75 mg once daily 
of clopidogrel is approximately 8 hours. 
The excretion of clopidogrel following a single dose of 75 mg of 14C clopidogrel given alone or at the 
end  of  a  ten-day  dosing  period  of  unlabelled  drug  accounted  for  92-98%  of  the  radioactive  dose 
administered,  equivalent  percentages  excreted  through  the  faecal  and  urinary  routes  (46  and  50% 
respectively).  The  terminal  half-life  of  radioactivity  was  approximately  7  days.  This  relatively  long 
half-life is consistent with the platelet turnover.  
Interactions 
The  interaction  between  clopidogrel  and  several  other  drugs  (e.g.  heparin,  non-steroidal  anti 
inflammatory  drugs,  theophylline  and  digoxine)  has  been  investigated.  The  findings  are  reflected  in 
the summary of product characteristics and in the package leaflet.  
Hepatic  microsomal  studies  indicated  that  clopidogrel  could  inhibit  one  of  the  cytochrome  P450 
enzymes, CYP 2C9. This could lead to elevated plasma levels of drugs, which are substrates for this 
isoenzyme  (e.g.  phenytoin,  warfarin,  tolbutamide  and  certain  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs 
such as piroxicam and diclofenac). Furthermore in vitro studies on human liver microsomes showed 
that  the  main  circulating  compound  of  clopidogrel  could  minimally  inhibit  one  of  the  two  main 
pathways  through  which  glibenclamide  is  cleared.  Data  from  the  CAPRIE  study  indicate  that 
phenytoin, tolbutamide and glibenclamide can be safely coadministered with clopidogrel.  
Two studies were undertaken to assess the potential interaction of ASA with clopidogrel. ASA did not 
modify  the  clopidogrel-mediated  inhibition  of  ADP-induced  platelet  aggregation,  but  clopidogrel 
potentiated  the  effect  of  ASA  on  collagen-induced  platelet  aggregation.  However,  concomitant 
administration  of  500  mg  of  ASA  twice  a  day  for  one  day  did  not  significantly  increase  the 
prolongation of bleeding time induced by clopidogrel intake. A pharmacodynamic interaction between 
clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  is  possible,  leading  to  increased  risk  of  bleeding.  Therefore, 
concomitant use should be undertaken with caution 
Due to the use of too high a dose of warfarin (30-40 mg), the study to assess the potential interaction 
of warfarin with clopidogrel was prematurely discontinued. Although this study was inconclusive it is 
reasonable  to  assume  that  the  risk  of  bleeding  would  be  increased  by  the  association  of  these  two 
agents.  Consequently,  the  concomitant  administration  of  clopidogrel  with  warfarin  can  not  be 
recommended.  
The  experience  with  the  coadministration  of  clopidogrel  with  thrombolytic  agents  is  limited.  In  one 
open uncontrolled study regrouping 116 patients, the concomitant administration of clopidogrel, rt-PA 
and heparin was assessed in patients with recent myocardial infarction. The incidence of moderate to 
severe bleeding was 1.7%. No data exist for the concomitant administration of clopidogrel with other 
thrombolytic  agents.  One  interaction  study  of  combined  administration  of  heparin/clopidogrel  and 
heparin/ASA resulted in one case of bleeding and 4 cases of  haematoma at the injection site for the 
heparin/clopidogrel group (n=15) compared to no bleeding events in the heparin/ASA group (n=13). 
However, it should be noted that clopidogrel treatment started with a loading dose of 375 mg on day 1 
followed by a dose of 75 mg daily. A pharmacodynamic interaction between clopidogrel and heparin 
is  possible,  leading  to  increased  risk  of  bleeding.  Therefore,  concomitant  use  should  be  undertaken 
with caution. 
Special populations 
A  small  comparative  study  without  control  groups  showed  that  there  is  no  basis  for  expecting  any 
differences in terms of efficacy and safety in patients with renal impairment. No dosage adjustment of 
clopidogrel  is  required.  The  limited  relevant  clinical  experience  regarding  the  therapeutic  use  of 
clopidogrel  in  renally  impaired  patients  was  further  addressed  during  the  hearing  on  24th  February 
1998. However in view of the limited data and the fact that patients with severe renal impairment were 
6/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
excluded  from  the  CAPRIE  study,  clopidogrel  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  renal 
impairment. 
The  company  provided  results  of  a  pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics  study  of  clopidogrel  in  12 
subjects  with  cirrhosis,  compared  with  12  healthy  volunteers.  As  expected  from  the  extensive  first 
pass  metabolism,  the  plasma  level  of  clopidogrel  was  markedly  elevated  in  cirrhotic  patients.  The 
inhibitory effect on  platelets and the incidence of adverse events were globally comparable between 
the two groups. The mean inhibition of platelet aggregation was similar with a much larger variability 
in patients with hepatic impairment. The limited relevant clinical experience regarding the therapeutic 
use  of  clopidogrel  in  hepatically  impaired  patients  was  further  addressed  during  the  hearing  on  24th 
February 1998. 
Taking  into  consideration  that  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  were  excluded  from  the  CAPRIE 
study,  that  they  may  have  bleeding  diatheses,  and  that  liver  metabolism  plays  a  key  role  in  the 
generation  of  the  active  metabolite,  clopidogrel  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  severe  liver 
impairment.  Furthermore,  clopidogrel  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  moderate  liver 
impairment who may have bleeding diatheses.  
Clinical experience 
Design 
CAPRIE was a randomised, international multicentre double blind comparative trial designed to assess 
the relative efficacy of clopidogrel (75 mg once daily) and ASA (325 mg once daily) in reducing the 
risk of a composite outcome cluster of ischaemic stroke, myocardial infarction, or vascular death. The 
relative safety was also assessed.  
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  based  on  the  first  occurrence  of  an  event  in  the  composite 
outcome  cluster  of  fatal  or  non-fatal  ischaemic  stroke,  fatal  or  non-fatal  myocardial  infarction  and 
vascular death.  
The CAPRIE study included 19,185 patients with atherothrombosis as manifested by recent ischaemic 
stroke  (IS)  (between  7  days  and  6  months),  recent  myocardial  infarction  (MI)  (<35  days),  or 
established peripheral arterial disease (PAD).  
9,599 (50.0%) were assigned to receive clopidogrel and 9,586 (50.0%) were assigned to receive ASA. 
The two groups were similar with respect to demographic characteristics, although there was a slight 
but statistically significant imbalance in the proportion of non-Caucasians in the two groups (p=0.02). 
The mean age was 62.5 (standard deviation 11.08) years with a range from 21 to 94 years.  
The  median  duration  of  participation  was  between  20.4-23.9  months.  2,286  patients  (23.8%)  who 
received  clopidogrel  and  2,311  patients  (24.1%)  who  received  ASA  permanently  discontinued  the 
study drug early. The majority of cases were due to adverse events or to patients who withdrew their 
consent for study participation.  
Results and discussion 
Clopidogrel  significantly  reduced  the  incidence  of  new  ischaemic  events  (combined  end  point  of 
myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke and vascular death) compared to ASA. In the intention to treat 
analysis, 939 events were observed in the clopidogrel group and 1,020 events with ASA (relative risk 
reduction  (RRR)  8.7%,  [95%  CI:  0.2  to16.4];  p=0.045).  This  corresponds  for  every  1,000  patients 
treated for  2  years,  to  10 [CI:  0 to 20]  additional  patients being  prevented  from  experiencing a  new 
ischaemic  event.  The  cumulative  proportion  of  patients  who  experienced  an  event  in  the  primary 
outcome  cluster  shows  that  the  benefit  of  clopidogrel  over  ASA  appears  at  an  early  stage  of  the 
treatment and continues to increase over time. 
Two  secondary  endpoint  clusters  (ischaemic  stroke,  myocardial  infarction,  amputation,  or  vascular 
death;  and  vascular  death  alone)  showed  that  there  were  more  events  in  the  ASA  group  than  in  the 
clopidogrel  group,  although  the  differences  were  not  statistically  significant.  Analysis  of  total 
mortality  as  a  secondary  endpoint  did  not  show  a  significant  difference  between  clopidogrel  (5.8%) 
and ASA (6.0%).  
7/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
The CAPRIE trial was powered to detect a realistic treatment effect in the whole study cohort but not 
in each of the three clinical subgroups.  
A test for heterogeneity of the three treatment effects was statistically significant suggesting that the 
true  benefit  may  not  be  identical  across  the  three  clinical  subgroups.  In  a  subgroup  analysis  by 
qualifying  condition  (myocardial  infarction,  ischaemic  stroke,  and  PAD),  the  benefit  appeared  to  be 
strongest  (achieving  statistical  significance  at  p=0.003)  in  patients  enrolled  due  to  PAD  (especially 
those who also had a history of myocardial infarction) (RRR= 23.7%; CI : 8.9 to 36.2) and weaker (not 
significantly different from ASA) in stroke patients (RRR= 7.3% ; CI : -5.7 to 18.7). In patients who 
were  enrolled  in  the  trial  on  the  sole  basis  of  a  recent  myocardial  infarction,  clopidogrel  was 
numerically inferior, but not statistically different from ASA (RRR= -4.0%; CI: -22.5 to 11.7).  
Since the CAPRIE trial was not powered to evaluate efficacy of individual subgroups, it is not clear 
whether  the  differences  in  relative  risk  reduction  across  qualifying  conditions  are  real,  or  a  result  of 
chance. 
This  issue  of  subgroup  heterogeneity  regarding  qualifying  conditions,  and  the  implications  for  the 
therapeutic indication with regard to efficacy and especially safety (all cause mortality, vascular death, 
sudden death) in the myocardial infarction subgroup were further discussed during the hearing held on 
24th  February  1998,  and  during  the  March  CPMP  meeting.  The  final  recommendation  regarding 
initiation of clopidogrel in patients with myocardial infarction agreed by the CPMP is reflected in the 
agreed therapeutic indication.  
Using the appropriate trials from the APTC meta-analysis (i.e. those in the same clinical syndromes), 
the efficacy of clopidogrel versus a putative placebo was estimated. These analyses strongly supported 
the  superiority  of  clopidogrel  over  placebo  in  the  overall  CAPRIE  population  and  in  the  IS  and  MI 
subgroup.  
Oral explanations were provided during the hearing held on 24th February 1998 on the time to onset of 
action in view of the lack of new data to document the efficacy of clopidogrel at the first few days of 
an  acute  situation.  The  final  recommendation  agreed  by  the  CPMP  is  that  clopidogrel  should  not  be 
initiated within the first few days following myocardial infarction, and that in view of the lack of data, 
clopidogrel can not be recommended in unstable angina, PTCA (stenting), CABG and acute ischaemic 
stroke (less than 7 days). 
An unplanned subgroup-analysis by age suggested that the benefit of clopidogrel in patients over 75 
years  was  less  than  that  observed  in  patients  <75  years.  There  were  243  patients  with  events  in  the 
clopidogrel group compared to 220 in the ASA group (efficacy odds ratio: 1.176; CI: 0.980 to 1.412). 
Efficacy  and  safety  in  patients  over  75  years  of  age,  together  with  the  possible  interaction  with  the 
qualifying condition of myocardial infarction, and effects on sudden deaths were addressed during the 
hearing held on 24th February 1998. The issue was considered as satisfactorily addressed by the CPMP 
and  no  specific  recommendation  was  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  for 
patients over 75 years of age.  
Safety 
Clinical pharmacology studies 
The safety profile of clopidogrel was based on the experience from the CAPRIE study and also from 
51  clinical  pharmacology  studies  including  1,150  healthy  volunteers  and  patients  receiving 
clopidogrel, placebo and/or another drug.  
As  expected  from  its  pharmacological  action,  platelet  clotting  and  bleeding  disorders  were  more 
common on clopidogrel (10% at 75 mg once daily of compared to 3.9% on placebo). Haematoma and 
purpura, including bruising were the other most common events. Gastrointestinal tract adverse events 
occurred in 10.5% compared to 7.1% on placebo, though diarrhoea was the only individual event seen 
more  frequently  on  clopidogrel  (2.8%  at  75  mg  once  daily  compared  to  0.7%  on  placebo).  Its 
incidence did not increase with higher doses and was rarely severe. Rash was noted in 1% of subjects 
on 75 mg once daily and 2.5% at higher doses compared to 0.7% on placebo. 
The clinical pharmacology studies showed that adverse events commonly seen with ticlopidine such as 
diarrhoea  and  rash  were  less  common  with  clopidogrel.  Severe  cases  were  rare.  More  importantly 
8/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
there was no evidence of clinically relevant thrombocytopaenia, neutropaenia or impairment of liver 
function.  
CAPRIE study 
The extent of exposure to clopidogrel 75 mg once daily as well as to ASA 325 mg once daily in the 
CAPRIE study provided a strong basis for a reliable comparison of the safety profile of the two drugs.  
The  mean  treatment  duration  was  19.5  months  (Standard  deviation  10.18  months  for  both  treatment 
groups) allowing over 15,500 patient years experience with each drug. Only 56 patients were lost to 
follow-up: 30 on clopidogrel and 26 on ASA.  
A comparable rate of adverse events was reported under the two treatments: 86.3% on the clopidogrel 
group and  86.5% patients on the ASA  group reported at least one adverse event. This was expected 
given the length of the treatment and the severity of the underlying condition.  
The  overall  frequency  of  serious  adverse  events  was  similar  for  both  treatment  groups  (40.4%  on 
clopidogrel and  41.1% on ASA). The incidence  of death resulting from an adverse event that began 
under  treatment  was  similar  in  both  treatment  groups:  4.1%  and  4.3%  on  clopidogrel  and  ASA 
respectively. Very few deaths were considered as related to the study drug : 11 on clopidogrel and 13 
on ASA. 
Gastrointestinal  adverse  events  were  statistically  more  frequent  in  the  ASA  group  (p<0.001). 
Diarrhoea was rarely severe and was reported at a higher frequency on clopidogrel compared to ASA 
(4.5% vs. 3.4%). 
Cardiovascular  system  (p=0.002),  central  and  peripheral  nervous  (p=0.016),  heart  rate  and  rhythm 
(p=0.011) and red blood cell (p=0.024) disorders were significantly more frequent in the ASA group 
than in the clopidogrel group.  
There was no statistically significant difference between treatments groups in the incidence of adverse 
events in the urinary, biliary and hepatic systems.  
There  were  no  differences  between  treatments  groups  in  the  frequency  of  potentially  clinically 
significant  liver  function  abnormalities  (AST,  ALT  and  alkaline  phosphatase),  although  the 
clopidogrel group had a small mean increase in total bilirubin (0.01-0.03 mg/dl) relative to ASA.  
Skin and appendage disorders were more frequent in the clopidogrel group (p<0.001) than in the ASA 
group. Specifically, rash was experienced by significantly more patients in the clopidogrel group than 
in the ASA group (p=0.012). Patients in the clopidogrel group experienced significantly more pruritus 
(p<0.001). 
Hyperuricaemia (p=0.015) was experienced by significantly more patients in the ASA group. Asthenia 
(p=0.017)  and  gout  (p=0.026)  were  experienced  by  significantly  more  patients  in  the  clopidogrel 
group.  
The  percentage  of  patients  with  a  platelet,  bleeding  or  clotting  disorder  did  not  differ  significantly 
between treatment groups. However significantly more patients experienced purpura (bruising) in the 
clopidogrel group (5.27%) than in the ASA group (3.68%) (p<0.001).  
The overall incidence of neutropaenia was low and did not differ between groups. Neutropaenia was 
seen  in  0.08%  of  the  clopidogrel  group  and  in  0.15%  of  the  ASA  group.  Only  4  cases  (0.04%)  on 
clopidogrel  and  2  cases  (0.02%)  on  ASA  had  severe  low  neutrophil  count  below  0.450x109/l.  Two 
cases of agranulocytosis occurred in patients taking clopidogrel.  
No  significant  difference  between  clopidogrel  and  ASA  was  found  either  in  the  frequency  of 
thrombocytopaenia  (<100  G/L)  0.33%  in  both  groups,  or  the  frequency  of  severe  (<80  G/L) 
thrombocytopaenia (0.16% vs. 0.08%). 
One  serious  unexpected  case  of  aplastic  anaemia  occurred  during  the  CAPRIE  study  and  seemed 
probably  related  to  clopidogrel.  The  patient  however  was  also  on  other  medication  known  to  be 
associated with haemotoxic effects. The patient was not rechallenged with clopidogrel. 
The overall incidence of any bleeding did not differ statistically significantly between the two groups 
(9.3  %  in  both  groups).  The  occurrence  of  gastrointestinal  bleeding  was  slightly  but  significantly 
higher  in  the  ASA  group  (2.7%versus  2%,  p=0.002).  Three  patients  died  from  gastrointestinal 
9/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
bleeding  (one  in  the  clopidogrel  group  and  two  in  the  ASA  group).  There  was  no  statistically 
significant difference in the incidence of intracranial bleeding. 
The  incidence  of  other  bleeding  was  higher  in  patients  that  received  clopidogrel  compared  to  ASA 
(7.3%  vs.  6.5%).  However,  the  incidence  of  severe  events  was  similar  in  both  treatment  groups 
(0.6% vs.  0.4%).  The  most  frequently  reported  events 
treatment  groups  were: 
purpura/bruising/haematoma,  and  epistaxis.  Other  less  frequently  reported  events  were  haematoma, 
haematuria, and eye bleeding (mainly conjunctival). 
in  both 
Of the 75 patients in the clopidogrel group with eye bleeding only five had a severe event. In the ASA 
group, 46 patients experienced eye bleeding with only one patient having a severe event.  
A substantial number of patients (clopidogrel n=382, ASA n=387) underwent cardiac catheterisation 
with  angiography,  PTCA  or  stenting.  A  slight  excess  of  bleeding  events  (clopidogrel  n=46,  ASA 
n=38)  or  haematoma  (clopidogrel  n=18,  ASA  n=14)  was  seen  in  the  clopidogrel  treatment  group  as 
compared to the ASA group. Another clinical study has evaluated the safety of clopidogrel compared 
to  aspirin  in  patients  undergoing  PTCA.  In  this  study  a  higher  incidence  of  bleeding  or  haematoma 
was  observed  in  the  clopidogrel  group  (5/15  patients  versus  0/13).  It  should  however  be  noted  that 
clopidogrel was given as loading dose of 375 mg followed by 75 mg once daily.  
5. 
Overall conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Benefit risk assessment 
The CAPRIE trial showed that clopidogrel at a dose of 75 mg once daily is an effective antithrombotic 
agent which reduced by 8.7% (p=0.045) compared to ASA (325 mg once daily) the incidence of new 
ischaemic events (combined end point of myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke and vascular death) 
in patients with clinical evidence of atherosclerosis. In the intention to treat analysis, 939 events were 
observed  in  the  clopidogrel  group  and  1,020  events  with  ASA  (relative  risk  reduction  (RRR)  8.7%, 
[95% CI: 0.2 to16.4]; p=0.045), which corresponds for every 1,000 patients treated for 2 years, to 10 
[CI:0 to 20] additional patients being prevented from experiencing a new ischaemic event. 
The safety profile shows that clopidogrel is at least as well tolerated as ASA. Overall clopidogrel was 
well  tolerated,  having  an  adverse  event  profile  comparable  to  ASA,  but  with  better  gastrointestinal 
tolerability.  Only  rash,  purpura  (bruising)  and  diarrhoea  were  notable  in  the  clopidogrel  group  but 
were  rarely  severe.  There  is  no  evidence  that  clopidogrel  shares  the  risk,  seen  with  ticlopidine,  of 
neutropaenia  or  thrombocytopaenia.  The  company  has  additionally  been  requested  to  provide  as  a 
follow-up to the marketing authorisation together with the periodic safety update reports an analysis of 
the haematological effects of clopidogrel.  
Conclusion 
The quality of the medicinal product is considered satisfactory. No major objections on the chemical 
and pharmaceutical aspects of the dossier prevent the approval of the medicinal product. However a 
number of follow-up measures have been addressed by the applicant.  
The pharmacodynamic activity of clopidogrel was adequately evaluated. Clopidogrel is a prodrug. The 
active  metabolite  binds  rapidly  and  irreversibly  to  platelet  receptors,  thus  inhibiting  platelet 
aggregation.  
The overall animal toxicological profile of clopidogrel (hydrogen sulphate salt form) was adequately 
evaluated and no major findings were described at doses at least up to 100 mg/kg/day in all species. 
The systemic exposure of the several animal species to that dose as compared to the human exposure 
expected at therapeutic dose of 75 mg/day is satisfactorily higher and does not suggest safety concerns 
in relation to the human use of the drug.  
Although the explanation provided by the company regarding the increased incidence of thyroid cysts 
in  rats  may  be  acceptable,  no  further  explanation  was  provided  on  the  high  level  of  sustained 
radioactivity  observed  in  the  tissue  distribution  studies.  Therefore,  the  company  is  requested  to 
provide  as  a  post  marketing  surveillance  follow-up  measure  clinical  safety  data  on  the  thyroid 
function.  
10/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Clinical efficacy is based on the results of the CAPRIE trial which showed that clopidogrel at a dose 
of 75 mg once daily reduces by 8.7% (p=0.045) the incidence of new ischaemic events (combined end 
point of myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke and vascular death) in patients with clinical evidence 
of atherosclerosis, over ASA (325 mg once daily). Overall clopidogrel was well tolerated, having an 
adverse event profile comparable to ASA, but with better gastrointestinal tolerability.  
The CPMP considered the benefit/risk ratio to be favourable and issued on 25 March 1998 a positive 
opinion for granting a marketing authorisation for Iscover.  
6. 
New indication in Acute Coronary Syndrome 
Introduction 
Acute  coronary  syndromes  (ACS)  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  MI)  is  defined  as  any  clinical 
syndrome of acute cardiac ischaemia related to coronary artery disease (CAD), including those with or 
without  persistent  ST  segment  elevation.  ACS  patients  with  persistent  ST  segment  elevation  (i.e. 
rapidly  evolving  into  Acute  MI)  require  urgent  recanalisation  (either  by  thrombolytic  or  mechanical 
reperfusion), and were not prospectively evaluated in CURE and, therefore, are beyond the scope of 
this  variation.  In  contrast,  non-ST  segment  elevation  ACS  (NSTEACS),  which  includes  the  closely 
related  conditions  of  Unstable  Angina  (UA)  and  non-ST  segment  elevation  MI  (NSTEMI),  do  not 
benefit  from  urgent  recanalisation.  These  NSTEACS  share  similar  pathogenesis  and  clinical 
presentation,  and  require  similar  clinical  management  to  prevent  transmural  MI  and  other  serious 
cardiovascular  events.  Apart  from  symptomatic  treatment,  the  aim  of  therapeutic  interventions  in 
NSTEACS patients is to prevent thrombosis extending to complete coronary occlusion and MI. Anti-
platelet therapy is a logical therapeutic approach given the key pathophysiological role of platelets. 
The objectives of the therapeutic management of patients with NSTEACS are: 
1.  Immediate treatment of the ischaemic symptoms: chest pain and haemodynamic instability, with 
or without associated cardiac rhythm disturbances.  
2.  Early  and  long-term  prevention  of  atherothrombotic  events,  not  only  of  those  complicating  the 
culprit  coronary  lesion  which  triggered  the  ACS  (related  MI),  but  also  those  complicating 
atherosclerotic lesions in other vascular beds of these “vascular” patients (e.g., AMI, strokes…). 
Prior to CURE, ASA alone was the front line pharmacological treatment for patients with NSTEACS, 
with a recommendation to start therapy as soon as possible and to continue it indefinitely. For those 
patients intolerant to ASA, a thienopyridine (ticlopidine) was recommended as an effective alternative. 
Both  European  and  North  American  Recommendations  for  the  treatment  of  ACS  are  based  on  a 
considerable  amount  of  information  from  sound  clinical  trials,  and  can  be  considered  as  evidence-
based  guidelines.  The  American  College  of  Cardiology  and  the  American  Heart  Association 
(ACC/AHA  Guidelines  for  the  Management  of  Patients  with  UA  and  NSTEMI,  2000)  propose  the 
following (Recommendations Class I for Antithrombotic therapy): 
- 
- 
Possible ACS: ASA (75-325 mg/day) 
Likely  or  Definite  ACS:  ASA  +  Subcutaneous  low  molecular  weight  heparin  or  Intravenous 
heparin 
-  Definite  ACS  with  continuing  ischaemia  or  other  high  risk  features  (eg.  diabetes,  recent  MI, 
elevated  troponin  T  or  I)  or  planned  interventions:  ASA  +  Intravenous  heparin  +  Intravenous 
platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists. 
The Recommendations of the European Society of Cardiology Task Force are similar, suggesting that 
high-risk patients (recurrent pain, ST segment elevation or depression, elevated troponin, patients with 
haemodynamic  instability,  major  arrhythmias  or  early  post  infarction  UA)  should  receive  platelet 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists in addition to ASA and heparin. In low risk patients (no recurrence of 
chest pain within the observational period, no elevation of troponin or other biochemical markers of 
myocardial necrosis, without ST-segment depression or elevation but rather negative T waves, flat T 
waves or normal ECG), platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists are not suggested and discontinuation 
of heparin should be considered, if a second troponin measurement is negative.  
Patients with NSTEMI and ACS may be at increased risk of cardiac death and AMI (8 to 16%, one 
month after the episode); beyond the first month the risk exists but shows a progressive decrease. At 
present, the place of thienopyridines in ACS is a second choice of antiplatelet therapy, if patients are 
11/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
intolerant to ASA; if a stent procedure takes place, ticlopidine in addition to ASA is indicated as a first 
line  therapy.  From  a  pharmacological  basis  it  is  reasonable  to  hypothesise  that  the  combination  of 
clopidogrel  with  ASA  would  provide  better  efficacy  for  the  prevention  of  adverse  outcomes  in 
NSTEACS patients, since clopidogrel blocks the ADP platelet receptor, a pathway complementary to 
that of ASA.  
The present application seeks approval for the indication of clopidogrel as a first line therapy together 
with ASA, both for early and long-term treatment, in all patients presenting with ACS. 
Clinical aspects 
Pharmacology: dose regimen 
Inhibition  of  ADP-induced  platelet  aggregation  is  the  most  appropriate  way  to  measure  the 
pharmacodynamic  activity  of  this  clopidogrel  in  vivo.  Although  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  is 
noted 2 hours after the administration of 75 mg of clopidogrel, a steady-state level of inhibition (40-
60%) is reached only 3 - 7 days after the first dose.  
The  dose  regimen  of  ASA  to  be  used  as  background  therapy  in  every  patient  in  CURE,  whereby 
investigators  chose  a dose within  the  established  therapeutic  range of  75 to 325  mg once daily, was 
selected  according  to  the  existing  clinical  documentation  and  international  recommendations 
(Recommendations  of  the  Task  Force  of  the  European  Society  of  Cardiology.  Eur  Heart  J  2000; 
21(17): 1406-32). This strategy was later supported by the results of a pharmacology study in healthy 
subjects demonstrating the additive activity of clopidogrel and ASA on the final inhibition of platelet 
aggregation induced by collagen and the earlier inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation with a 
clopidogrel loading dose. 
The  long-term  benefit  of  clopidogrel  75  mg  once  daily  dose  was  clinically  assessed  in  the  CAPRIE 
trial,  which  demonstrated  superior  efficacy  to  ASA  in  atherosclerotic  patients  at  risk.  An  initial  300 
mg loading dose was used in order to reach a steady-state level of pharmacodynamic activity earlier. 
Further data (eg: CLASSICS study comparing ASA +clopidrogrel 300mg on day 1 followed by 75mg 
daily  to  ASA  +  ticlopidine  250mg  twice,  in  the  prevention  of  acute  coronary  closure  after  a  stent) 
supported this dosing strategy.  
Clinical data 
The  claimed  indication  is  based  on  the  results  of  the  CURE  (Clopidrogrel  in  Unstable  Angina  to 
Prevent  Recurrent  Event)  study.  This  was  a  multinational  trial  comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of 
clopidogrel 75 mg daily after an initial loading dose of 300 mg to matching placebo in patients with 
NSTEACS (Unstable angina or Non-ST segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction) treated with ASA 
(75-325 mg/day, left to the investigators' decision) and other concomitant therapy for a minimum of 3 
months and a maximum of 12 months. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  clopidogrel  relative  to  placebo  in  preventing 
ischaemic  complications.  The  secondary  objective  was  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  clopidogrel  in  this 
setting. Patients over 21 years of age presenting with ischaemic symptoms suspected to represent an 
ACS (defined as UA or MI without ST segment elevation greater than 1 mm) and electrocardiogram 
(ECG) changes compatible with new ischaemia or already elevated cardiac enzymes or troponin I or T 
were  randomised  within  24  hours  of  onset  of  the  most  recent  episode  of  chest  pain/ischaemic 
symptoms.  These  inclusion  criteria  were  adopted  following  a  protocol  modification  to  include  the 
requirement of ECG changes and/or cardiac marker elevation for all patients, independently of age, in 
order to further secure the diagnosis of coronary disease. Follow-up was a minimum of 3 months and 
maximum of 12 months. The dose was 4 tablets on Day 1 and 1 tablet once daily starting on Day 2. 
Exclusion criteria included known contraindications to ASA and/or clopidogrel and factors affecting 
the  evaluation  of  the  effect  of  the  study  drug  such  as  concomitant  use  of  oral  anticoagulants, 
antithrombins (other than heparins), open-label use of thienopyridines (clopidogrel or ticlopidine) and 
dipyridamole.  
12/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were two composite co-primary endpoints. The first endpoint was the first occurrence of any of 
the following outcomes: cardiovascular (CV) death, MI, or stroke over the duration of the follow-up; 
the second endpoint was the first occurrence of CV death, MI, stroke or refractory ischaemia over the 
duration  of  the  follow-up.  All  primary  outcome  events  were  blindly  adjudicated  by  an  Independent 
Adjudication Committee (IAC). Refractory ischaemia during initial hospitalisation had very stringent 
criteria:  
• 
• 
recurrent chest pain or  
ischaemic symptoms lasting longer than 5 minutes while on optimal therapy and leading to: 
− 
− 
− 
additional intervention (thrombolysis for threatened MI, cardiac catheterisation, insertion of 
intra-aortic balloon pump) or 
revascularisation procedure, (i.e. PTCA/stent or CABG surgery) or 
transfer for these procedures by midnight of the next day. 
The post-discharge definition, "rehospitalisation for UA", was less stringent and included any hospital 
stay for at least 24 hours with clinical symptoms of typical prolonged chest pain unresponsive to the 
patient's usual medication associated with ECG changes consistent with acute myocardial ischaemia.  
Other  planned  outcomes  were:  i)  CV  death,  total  death,  MI,  and  stroke  (subdivided  as  ischaemic, 
haemorrhagic  or  of  uncertain  type)  considered  separately;  ii)  severe  ischaemia  during  initial 
hospitalisation; iii) recurrent angina during initial hospitalisation; iv) mechanical or pharmacological 
coronary revascularisation (percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty [PTCA], coronary artery 
bypass graft [CABG surgery] or thrombolytic therapy). 
Safety  criteria  for  evaluation  were  the  occurrence  of  life-threatening  bleeding  and  serious  adverse 
events  (SAEs).  Life-threatening  and  major  bleeding  events  were  adjudicated  by  the  IAC  and  were 
defined as follows: 
•  Life-threatening bleeding: fatal bleeding or bleeding leading to a drop in haemoglobin >5 g/dl, or 
significant  hypotension  with  need  for  inotropes,  or  surgery  (other  than  vascular  site  repair),  or 
symptomatic  intracranial  hemorrhage,  or  transfusion  of  4  or  more  units  of  red  blood  cells  or 
equivalent whole blood. 
•  Major bleeding: significantly disabling, intraocular bleeding leading to significant loss of vision or 
bleeding requiring transfusion of 2 or 3 units of red blood cells or equivalent whole blood. 
•  Minor bleeding: any other bleeding requiring temporary/permanent discontinuation of study drug. 
Any  life-threatening/major  bleeding  had  to  be  reported  as  a  SAE  by  the  Investigator,  with  the 
exception  of  haemorrhagic  stroke,  which  was  a  study  outcome.  Any  other  bleeding  event  was  to  be 
reported on the minor bleeding form of the case report form, but not on the adverse event (AE) form.  
An initial sample size of 9,000 patients was planned, but after a review of the first 3,500 patients, the 
study sample size was increased to 12,500 patients due to a lower than expected event rate. Regarding 
the statistical methods, the main efficacy analysis was an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis including all 
patients randomized in the study regardless of whether they actually received study drug. The relative 
efficacy  of  clopidogrel  and  placebo  was  assessed  by  comparing  the  survival  curves  for  the  2 
treatments  using  the  logrank  test.  Treatment  effect,  measured  by  the  hazard  ratio  and  its  associated 
95% confidence interval (CI), was derived by employing Cox’s proportional hazards model. In order 
to  maintain  an  overall  type  I  error  rate  of  5%,  the  primary  outcomes  were  tested  at  adjusted  alpha 
levels. Statistical significance was claimed if the computed p-value for the first cluster of CV death, 
MI  or  stroke  was  <  0.045  (0.044  adjusted  for  two  interim  analyses)  or  the  p-value  for  the  cluster 
including  refractory  ischemia  was  <  0.01.  The  safety  analyses  were  based  on  the  ITT  population. 
Statistical comparisons of safety data were made using Pearson’s Chi-squared tests.  
Results 
13/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study enrolled a total of 12,562 patients. Only 13 patients (6 clopidogrel, 7 placebo) were declared 
lost-to-follow-up.  Slightly  more  patients  permanently  discontinued  study  drug  prematurely  in  the 
clopidogrel group (21.1% vs. 18.8% with placebo), primarily due to the difference in AE-related study 
drug discontinuations (5.8% clopidogrel vs 3.9% placebo). The mean duration of study participation 
was  9.4  months  and  the  total  number  of  patient-years  on  study  drug  was  4318  for  clopidogrel  and 
4376 for placebo. Demographic data  and medical/surgical history were well  balanced between the 2 
treatment  groups,  i.e.  age,  sex,  time  to  onset  of  pain  to  randomisation,  heart  rate,  arterial  blood 
pressure, diagnosis at entry (UA, MI), medical history, ECG, medication(s) at time of randomisation. 
Regarding  efficacy,  clopidogrel  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of  the  first  co-primary  endpoint 
compared to placebo (p=0.00009). A total of 582 (9.3%) patients in the clopidogrel group versus 719 
(11.4%)  patients  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  the  first  co-primary  outcome.  The  relative  risk 
reduction  (RRR)  was  19.6%  (95%  CI:  10.3%,  27.9%).  The  relative  risk  of  the  second  co-primary 
endpoint  was  also  significantly  reduced  with  clopidogrel  (RRR  13.7%;  95%  CI:  6.2%,  20.6%, 
p=0.0005). 
Table 1 Primary Outcome Events – Number (%) of Patients and Relative Risk Reduction 
p-Value 
0.00009 
0.00052 
Clopidogrel 
(N = 6259) 
582 (9.30%) 
Placebo 
(N = 6303) 
719 (11.41%) 
RRR (%) 
(95% CI) 
19.6 (10.3, 27.9) 
1035 (16.54%) 
1187 (18.83%) 
1st co-primary outcome 
(CV death/MI/Stroke) 
2nd co-primary outcome
(CV death/MI/Stroke/ 
Refractory ischaemia) 
Primary Outcome Events: individual outcome events 
CV death 
MI (fatal or not) 
Stroke (fatal or not)   
Refractory ischemia:  
- initial hospitalisation 
- rehospitalisation for 
UA 
SP death * 
*Total number of deaths during the Study Period (includes CV and non-CV death). 
85 (1.36)  
470 (7.51)  
359 (5.74) 
126 (2.00)  
469 (7.44)  
390 (6.19) 
345 (5.47) 
419 (6.65)  
87 (1.38)  
318 (5.08) 
324 (5.18) 
75 (1.20)  
13.7 (6.2, 20.6) 
7.5 (-7.7, 20.6) 
23.0 (11.0, 33.4) 
13.6 (-17.1, 36.6) 
32.1 (10.8, 48.3) 
-0.7 (-14.4, 11.4)  
7.6 (-6.6, 20.0) 
The  benefit  of  clopidogrel  was consistent  for  each  individual outcome event (CV death, MI, stroke) 
and  for the total number of deaths during the study  period (SP  deaths). This  was evident  early after 
randomisation and was maintained over the course of the study (up to 12 months). The predominant 
and only statistically significant benefit was the reduction of MI, mainly in the first 30 days. This is 
also  the  period  with  greater  risk  of  cardiac  death  and  acute  MI.  The  positive  trend  in  the  beneficial 
effect of clopidogrel was not maintained in the post-discharge refractory ischaemia, probably related 
to its less stringent definition. 
The cumulative event rates for the first co-primary efficacy endpoint against time are shown below: 
14/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E
T
A
R
T
N
E
V
E
E
V
I
T
A
L
U
M
U
C
0.14
0.12
0.10
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
0.00
 CLOP
 PLAC
 0
CLOP:   6259
PLAC:   6303
 9
 6
 3
  3576
  4728
  5828
  3521
  4620
  5751
MONTHS OF FOLLOW-UP
12
  2418
  2388
The cumulative event rates for the second co-primary efficacy endpoint are similar to the above. The 
co-primary  event  rate  curves  started  to  diverge  very  early  after  randomisation,  with  a  significant 
difference in  the first and  second  co-primary  outcomes as  early as 7 days and 24  hours  respectively 
after  randomisation.  The  curves  continue  to  diverge  throughout  the  course  of  the  trial  (up  to  12 
months), with a RRR for the first co-primary outcome of 22.0% (p = 0.002) during the first 30 days 
after randomisation and 17.4% (95% CI, 3.9-28.9%) beyond 30 days (up to 1 year). However, after 3 
months  the  event  curves  cease  to  deviate  and  tend  towards  a  plateau,  suggesting  that  the  number  of 
additional events after 3 months is similar in both groups. The results thus confirm that the majority of 
treatment effect was obtained in the first 3 months, as expected from the physiopathology of ACS. 
In  view  of  the  conspicuous  decrease  in  efficacy  after  the  first  3  months  and  given  the  significant 
incidence  of  bleeding  with  clopidogrel,  the  CPMP  requested  the  MAH  to  focus  on  patients  who 
discontinued  treatment  and  carrry  out  post-hoc  analyses  of  the  co-primary  endpoints  event  rates 
according  to  the  time  of  discontinuation,  ie.  2-3-4  months  (as  well  as  before  and  after).  The  results 
demonstrate the loss of protection with clopidogrel when the treatment is discontinued after 2 months 
or later.  Indeed,  when clopidogrel is discontinued  during the 3rd  month or later,  patients experience 
the first co-primary event twice as frequently as in the placebo group (4.6% vs 2.3%).  
A consistent effect on the RRR of the first co-primary endpoint was observed regardless of the patient 
or disease characteristics,  as shown in  post-hoc  subgroup analyses  –  see figure below. Although the 
data suggest that the effect in women and diabetics may be less than that observed in males and non-
diabetics, the relevant subgroups are probably too small to observe a statistically significant benefit in 
this post-hoc analysis. 
15/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Hazard Ratio for Patient Baseline Characteristics and On-Study Concomitant 
Medications/Interventions for the CURE Study 
Percent Events
PLAVIX
(+aspirin)*
Placebo
(+aspirin)*
N
PLAVIX Better
Placebo Better
Baseline
Characteristics
Overall
Gender
Diagnosis
Elev Card Enzy
ST Depr >1.0mm
Diabetes
Previous MI
Previous Stroke
12562    
Female     4836   
Male         7726   
Non-Q-W  3295   
Unst Ang  8298   
968  
Other       
9381   
No
3176   
Yes
7273   
No
5288   
Yes
9721   
No
2840   
Yes
8517   
No
4044   
Yes
12055    
No
506 
Yes
Concomitant
Medication / Therapy
Heparin/LMWH
Aspirin
GPIIb/IIIa Antag
Beta-Blocker
ACEI
Lipid-Lowering
PTCA/CABG
No
Yes
951  
11611     
<100mg       1927   
100-200mg   7428   
>200mg       3201   
11739    
823 
2032   
10530    
4813   
7749   
4461   
8101   
7977   
4585   
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
9.3 
9.5 
9.1 
12.7   
7.3 
15.1   
8.8 
10.7   
7.5 
11.8   
7.9 
14.2   
7.8 
12.5   
8.9 
17.9   
4.9 
9.7 
8.5 
9.2 
9.9 
8.9 
15.7   
9.9 
9.2 
6.3 
11.2   
10.9   
8.4 
8.1 
11.4   
11.4   
10.7   
11.9   
15.5   
8.7 
19.7   
10.9   
13.0   
8.9 
14.8   
9.9 
16.7   
9.5 
15.4   
11.0   
22.4   
7.7 
11.7   
9.7 
10.9   
13.7   
10.8   
19.2   
12.0   
11.3   
8.1 
13.5   
13.1   
10.5   
10.0   
13.8   
*Other standard therapies were used as appropriate
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
Hazard Ratio (95% CI)
Given the higher bleeding risk with clopidogrel in the CABG and PCI group, the CPMP requested the 
MAH to perform a specific benefit analysis in these patients. The results shown below indicate that the 
efficacy of clopidogrel was independent of PCI and/or CABG cardiac interventions. Nonetheless, the 
RRR  for  the  1st  co-primary  outcome  in  the  the  9901  patients  treated  conservatively  was  slightly 
inferior  to  that  observed  in  the  overall  patient  population  (17%  vs  20%),  clearly  inferior  to  patients 
undergoing PTCA (~30%) and higher than in patients undergoing CABG surgery (~10%), suggesting 
that patients undergoing PTCA seem have the most benefit. 
Interaction 
Variable 
PTCA/CABG 
surgery 
PTCA 
CABG surgery 
No. With Event/No. in 
subgroup (%) 
Clopidogrel 
Placebo 
Subgroup 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
324/4002 (8.1) 
258/2257 (11.4) 
456/4943 (9.2) 
126/1316 (9.6) 
434/5245 (8.3) 
148/1014 (14.6) 
397/3975 (10.0) 
322/2328 (13.8) 
542/4958 (10.9) 
177/1345 (13.2) 
547/5236 (10.4)  
172/1067 (16.1) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) 
0.80 (0.69, 0.92) 
0.82 (0.69,0.96) 
0.83 (0.74, 0.94) 
0.71 (0.57,0.90) 
0.78 (0.69, 0.89)  
0.90 (0.72, 1.12) 
p-Value for 
Interaction 
0.844 
0.240 
0.276 
A  further  risk/benefit  assessment  carried  out  in  the  highest  risk  patients,  such  as  those  treated  with 
GPIIb/IIIa antagonists during the first month, those undergoing PCI during the first month, and those 
16/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receiving  GPIIb/IIIa  antagonists  during  the  first  month  and  undergoing  PCI,  evidenced  that  these 
patients  seemed  to  receive  more  benefit  from  the  dual  clopidogrel  +  ASA  therapy,  and  the  risk  of 
bleeding in these subgroups was similar between both treatment arms (with the exception for the PCI 
group where bleedings did not require permanent or temporary discontinuation of the study drug). 
Regarding possible effects of concomitant therapies, there was an increased frequency in the incidence 
of  the  1st  co-primary  outcome  in  both  groups  with  increasing  doses  of  ASA.  Despite  this  apparent 
ASA  dose  effect,  the  efficacy  of  clopidogrel  was  independent  of  the  ASA  dose  (p  for  interaction  = 
0.133). There were no differences in the ASA dose distribution between treatment groups.  
Fewer  clopidrogrel-treated  patients  required  concomitant  GPIIb/IIIa  antagonists  but  the  efficacy  of 
clopidogrel  was 
therapies.  Regarding  other  concomitant 
cardiovascular  therapies  (beta  blockers,  ACEIs  and  lipid  lowering  drugs),  statistical  analyses 
demonstrated that they did not interact with the efficacy of clopidogrel. 
these  concomitant 
independent  of 
Analysis  of  the  other  efficacy  endpoints  showed  that,  consistently  with  the  decrease  in  MI  and 
refractory  ischaemia  during  initial  hospitalisation,  fewer  patients  in  the  clopidogrel  group  required 
GPIIb/IIIa antagonists (5.9% vs 7.2% for placebo, p = 0.0031) or thrombolytics (1.13% vs 2.00% for 
placebo, p = 0.0001). Similarly, fewer patients in the clopidogrel group underwent PCI and/or CABG 
during  the  initial  hospitalisation  (20.8%  vs  22.7%  for  placebo,  p  =  0.01).  However,  no  significant 
differences  in  interventional  cardiology  were  observed  during  the  overall  study  follow-up  between 
treatment  groups.  Fewer  patients  in  the  clopidogrel  group  presented  with  radiological  evidence  of 
heart  failure  during  the  initial  hospitalisation  (3.66%  vs  4.44%  for  placebo,  p  =  0.026).  As  regards 
unstable angina, the rehospitalisation rates were similar in both treatment groups.  
Safety 
There was  no statistically significant difference between the two treatment  groups in  the  rate  of  life 
threatening  bleeding;  in  particular,  no  excess  in  fatal  bleeding  or  intracranial  haemorrhage  was 
observed in the clopidogrel group. Life-threatening bleeding was mainly observed during the 1st month 
of  treatment  at  surgical,  gastrointestinal  or  puncture  sites  in  both  treatment  groups.  There  was  a 
significant excess in all other types of bleeding with clopidogrel, as shown in the table below. 
Summary of bleeding results  
No (%) With Event 
Outcome 
% Difference 
clopidogrel – placebo 
(95% CI) 
p-Value 
Clopidogrel 
(N = 6259) 
135 (2.16)  
11 (0.18) 
125 (2.00) 
100 (1.60) 
322 (5.14) 
727 (11.62) 
Placebo 
(N = 6303) 
112 (1.78)  
15 (0.24) 
99 (1.57) 
65 (1.03) 
153 (2.43) 
421 (6.68) 
Life-threatening bleeding 
         Fatal bleeding 
         Non-fatal bleeding 
Major bleeding 
Minor bleeding* 
Other bleeding** 
*The total does include some events (6 cases in the clopidogrel group and 2 cases in the placebo group) reported as life-
threatening or major bleeding, but adjudicated to minor bleeding. 
** Minor bleeding forms which did not lead to study drug discontinuation. 
0.38 (-0.12, 0.88) 
-0.06 (-0.24, 0.11) 
0.43 (-0.05, 0,91) 
0.57 (0.15, 0.98) 
2.72 (2.04, 3.40) 
4.94 (3.91, 5.96) 
0.0053 
<0.00001 
0.1251 
Over half of the bleedings observed in both treatment groups were identified during the first month of 
treatment. More than half of major bleedings occurred after 30 days (see table). A total of 177 patients 
(2.8%) in the clopidogrel group had a transfusion (= 2 units) compared with 137 patients (2.2%) in the 
placebo group (p=0.019) 
17/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of patients with adjudicated bleeding events up to 30 days and beyond 30 days 
Period < 30 days 
Clopidogrel 
(N = 6259) 
81 (1.29) 
Placebo 
(N = 6303) 
62 (0.98) 
Period > 30 days 
Clopidogrel 
(N = 6259) 
54 (0.86) 
Placebo 
(N = 6303) 
50 (0.79) 
48 (0.77) 
39 (0.62) 
52 (0.83) 
26 (0.41) 
Life-threatening 
bleeding 
Major bleeding 
Data  from  subgroup  analyses  according  to  interventions  confirms  that  invasive  surgical  procedures 
increase  the  risk  of  bleeding  in  both  treatment  groups,  but  do  not  support  any  further  differential 
between clopidogrel and placebo. 
Summary of Adjudicated Life-Threatening/Major Bleeding According to Interventions 
No. With Event/No. in 
subgroup (%) 
Subgroup 
Clopidogrel 
Placebo 
Interaction 
Variable 
97/4002 (2.42) 
56/3975 (1.41) 
p-Value for 
Interaction 
0.1125 
PTCA/CABG 
surgery 
No 
PTCA 
Yes 
No 
YES 
134/2257 (5.94) 
113/2328 (4.85) 
185/4943 (3.74) 
128/4958 (2.58) 
0.3287 
46/1316 (3.50) 
41/1345 (3.05) 
CABG surgery  No 
134/5245 (2.55) 
89/5236 (1.70) 
0.4746 
Yes 
97/1014 (9.57) 
80/1067 (7.50) 
A number of covariate analyses taking into account patient characteristics and concomitant therapies 
were  performed  on  the  adjudicated  bleedings.  Elderly  patients  and  kidney-impaired  patients 
experienced more adjudicated bleeding (both factors are well-known to increase the risk of bleeding), 
although  the  relative  rate  of  adjudicated  bleeding  with  combined  treatment  was  independent  of  the 
patient  characteristics.  Similarly,  the  relative  rate  of  adjudicated  bleeding  with  clopidogrel  was 
independent  of  the  following  therapies:  dose  of  ASA,  heparins,  GPIIb/IIIa  antagonists  and  oral 
Anticoagulant and Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs (NSAID). 
The  overall  rate  of  SAEs  leading  to  non-CV  death  was  similar  between  the  2  treatment  groups. 
Similarly, there was no apparent difference in the rate of non-haemorrhagic SAEs. In addition, there 
was  no  difference  in  non-haemorrhagic  AEs  between  treatment  groups,  except  for  an  increased 
frequency  of  rash  and  fatigue  with  clopidogrel.  This  excess  of  rash  explains  the  higher  rate  of 
permanent  discontinuation of study drug due to  non-haemorrhagic AEs in  the  clopidogrel group.  Of 
note,  no  cases  of  thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura,  agranulocytosis  or  aplastic  anaemia  were 
reported in any group. 
Discussion 
The CURE trial is a well designed, well conducted generally consitent study, performed according to 
the current standards and represents a major attempt to demonstrate benefit in the use of clopidogrel in 
the prevention of atherotrombotic events  in patients with ACS. The choice  of primary endpoints for 
CURE is adequate and in general agreement with current CPMP recommendations, and the observed 
individual outcomes were defined according to stringent criteria and reflect medical practice. The lack 
of  formal  dose-exploration  studies  is  acceptable  as  there  is  sufficient  evidence  of  efficacy  from 
previous  trials  to  support  the  chosen  dose  regimen.  The  main  criticism  to  the  study  is  the  failure  to 
establish optimal treatment durations. 
18/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding efficacy, the results show a clinically and statistically significant reduction in the first and 
secondary co-primary endpoints at the end of scheduled 12 months of treatment. This is mainly due to 
the  significant  reduction  in  the  occurrence  on  MI  and  refractory  ischaemia  following  initial 
hospitalisation.  The  trends  observed  for  CV  death  and  stroke,  although  not  significant,  are  in 
agreement with the overall protective effect. The only notable exception is the slight non-significant 
increase in rehospitalisation for UA. Analysis of the cumulative event rate curves for both co-primary 
endpoints clearly shows that the maximum benefit of the clopidogrel + ASA is observed up to the first 
3 months of treatment. Thereafter, the number of additional events tends to even out in both treatment 
groups.  
In  the  light  of  the  significantly  increased  risk  of  haemorrhage  with  clopidogrel  –  see  efficacy 
discussion,  this  conspicuous  difference  in  efficacy  between  the  initial  3  months  and  the  subsequent 
treatment period (up to the studied 12 months) has prompted extensive discussions by the CPMP as to 
whether dual therapy should be stopped after the first 3 months. However, it is difficult to compare the 
two treatment groups after the first 3 months of therapy, since any post-hoc analysis on comparative 
event rates at fixed time points after randomisation compares populations no longer balanced for risk, 
since  the  clopidogrel  group  becomes  increasingly  enriched  with  higher  risk  patients  over  time  and 
given  the  discontinuations  of  high-risk  patients  in  the  ASA  arm  due  to  the  occurrence  of  events. 
Nonetheless,  despite  the  high  risk  population  “enrichment’  in  the  clopidogrel  arm,  patients  in  this 
group  experience  fewer  first  co-primary  events  during  any  period  after  randomisation,  provided 
treatment is  continued. Moreover, it would appear that the initial CV protection  was  not maintained 
when  clopidogrel  was  prematurely  discontinued,  although  this  observation  is  based  on  a  post-hoc 
analysis. The results of the trial and the concerns raised during its assessment  have been adequately 
reflected  in  section  5.1  with  the  inclusion  of  the  results  for  the  different  time  intervals  and  a  clear 
statement regarding the benefit observed beyond 3 months of treatment in relation to the increased risk 
of haemorrhage. Similarly, section 4.2 has been amended to reflect the facts that the optimal duration 
of treatment has not been established and that the trial data support use up to 12 months although the 
maximum benefit was seen up to 3 months. 
During  the  CPMP  discussions  it  was  acknowledged  that  the  proposed  wording  of  the  indication 
section was too complicated and should be simplified for the benefit of the prescriber. For the sake of 
consistency and although outside the scope of this variation procedure, the wording of the indication 
approved at the time of the granting of the MA has also been simplified, following the consent of the 
MAH. Thus, the indication has been reworded to make it clearer and to reflect the intention behind the 
administered treatment - as opposed to the observed  outcome(s), which in the case of clopidogrel is 
the prevention of atherothrombotic events. Hence, the information on outcomes and relevant findings 
pertaining to the trials supporting the approved indications has been inserted primarily in sections 5.1 
and  4.8.  These  changes  are  in  line  with  the  European  Commission  Guideline  on  the  Summary  of 
Product Characteristics (December 1999).  
There  was  consistent  benefit  of  clopidogrel  across  all  groups,  including  both  high-risk  and  low-risk 
patients,  except  for  the  post-discharge  refractory  ischaemia  group,  as  shown  through  different 
subgroup analyses. Benefits were observed regardless of other medications utilised i.e. beta-blockers, 
statins, ACE inhibitors, and heparin. This information is reflected in section 5.1. 
Regarding safety, the lack of significant excess in life-threatening bleeding and in non-CV mortality 
observed in the clopidogrel arm, and the similar incidence of intracranial bleeding in both groups, is 
reassuring. There was, however, a significant increase in all other types of bleeding in the clopidogrel 
arm. The risk of bleeding for both arms decreased during the course of the trial and, as expected, the 
major bleeding event rate for both treatment arms was dose-dependent on ASA. There was no excess 
in  major  bleeds  within  7  days  after  coronary  bypass  graft  surgery  in  patients  who  stopped  therapy 
more  than  five  days  prior  to  surgery,  and  in  patients  who  remained  on  therapy  within  five  days  of 
bypass  graft  surgery,  the  event  rate  was  significantly  higher  in  the  clopidogrel  arm.  All  of  these 
findings have been included in section 4.8 of the SPC and do not reveal any new safety concerns.  
In  conclusion,  the  CURE  study  demonstrated  a  significant  reduction  of  atherothrombotic  events  in 
patients  with  non-ST  segment  elevation  ACS  treated  with  clopidogrel  +  ASA  versus  ASA  alone. 
19/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, although a 12-month treatment period has been validated, the optimal duration of treatment 
has not been established, given that the maximum benefit was observed in the initial 3 months and the 
risk of bleeding is significantly higher with clopidogrel + ASA.  
7. 
Post-Marketing Safety 
Warnings and interactions 
Due  to  the  risk  of  bleeding  and  haematological  undesirable  effects,  blood  cell  count  determination 
and/or  other  appropriate  testing  should  be  promptly  considered  whenever  clinical  symptoms 
suggestive  of  bleeding  arise  during  the  course  of  treatment.  As  with  other  antiplatelet  agents, 
clopidogrel  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  who  may  be  at  risk  of  increased  bleeding  from 
trauma,  surgery  or  other  pathological  conditions  and  in  patients  receiving  treatment  with  ASA, 
nonsteroidal  anti-inflammatory  drugs,  heparin,  glycoprotein  IIb/IIIa  inhibitors  or  thrombolytics. 
Patients should be followed carefully for any signs of bleeding including occult bleeding, especially 
during the first weeks of treatment and/or after invasive cardiac procedures or surgery. 
Thrombotic  Thrombocytopenic  Purpura  (TTP)  has  been  reported  very  rarely  following  the  use  of 
clopidogrel,  sometimes  after  a  short  exposure.  It  is  characterised  by  thrombocytopenia  and 
microangiopathic hemolytic anaemia associated with either neurological findings, renal dysfunction or 
fever. TTP is a potentially fatal condition requiring prompt treatment including plasmapheresis. 
Adverse Drug reactions 
Bleeding is the  most commonly reported adverse  drug reaction,  with  most cases reported  during the 
first month. Some cases were reported with fatal outcome (especially intracranial, gastrointestinal and 
retroperitoneal  haemorrhage).  Cases  of  serious  haemorrhage  have  been  reported  in  patients  taking 
clopidogrel concomitantly with ASA, or clopidogrel with ASA and heparin.  
Very rare cases of Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP) (1/200,000 exposed patients), severe 
thrombocytopenia,  agranulocytosis,  anaemia  and  aplastic  anaemia/pancytopenia  have  been  reported. 
Hypersensitivity  reactions,  including  skin  reactions  (maculopapular  or  erythematous  rash,  urticaria, 
Stevens Johnson Syndrome...) and/or pruritus, have been reported. Very rare cases of bronchospasm, 
angioedema or anaphylactoid reactions, fever, arthralgia, myalgia and arthritis have been reported.  
Cases  of  renal  disorders,  abnormal  creatinine  levels,  abnormal  liver  function  test  and  hepatitis  have 
been  very  rarely  reported.  In  addtion,  very  rare  cases  of  taste  disorders,  confusion,  hallucinations, 
pancreatitis, colitis, vasculitis and hypotension have been observed.  
20/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
