EMA/154552/2018  
EMEA/H/C/000860 
Isentress (raltegravir) 
An overview of Isentress and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Isentress and what is it used for? 
Isentress is an HIV medicine that is used in combination with other HIV medicines to treat patients 
who are infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Isentress contains the active substance raltegravir. 
How is Isentress used? 
Isentress can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the management of HIV infection. 
The medicine is available as tablets to be swallowed (400 and 600 mg), chewable tablets (25 and 
100 mg) and sachets containing granules for an oral suspension (each sachet containing 100 mg). The 
granules are to make a mixture for babies and children to drink, the chewable tablets are for bigger 
children, and the 400- and 600-mg tablets are for different dose regimens in older children and adults, 
as recommended by the doctor. Equivalent doses of these different forms do not all produce the same 
levels of raltegravir in the body, so they must not be used interchangeably.  
For more information about using Isentress see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Isentress work? 
The active substance in Isentress, raltegravir, is an integrase inhibitor. It blocks an enzyme called 
integrase, which is involved in a step in the reproduction of HIV. When the enzyme is blocked, the 
virus cannot reproduce normally, slowing down the spread of infection. Isentress, taken in combination 
with other HIV medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Isentress 
does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may hold off the damage to the immune system and the 
development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Isentress have been shown in studies? 
Isentress has been studied in six main studies. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
Two studies involved a total of 699 ‘treatment-experienced’ patients who were already receiving 
treatment for HIV infection that was not working. The studies compared Isentress with placebo (a 
dummy treatment), which were added to ‘optimised background therapy’ (a combination of other 
HIV medicines chosen for each patient as it had the best chances of reducing the levels of HIV in 
the blood). The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in the levels of HIV in the blood 
(viral load) after 16 weeks; 77% of the patients who took Isentress had viral loads below 400 
copies/ml after 16 weeks, compared with 42% of those who took placebo. The response was 
sustained for at least 48 weeks; 
•  A third study involved 566 patients who had not taken HIV treatment before and compared 
Isentress with efavirenz (another HIV medicine). All of the patients also took tenofovir and 
emtricitabine (other HIV medicines). The main measure of effectiveness was the number of 
patients who had ‘undetectable’ viral loads (below 50 copies per millilitre of blood) after 48 weeks. 
Isentress was as effective as efavirenz. After 48 weeks, 86% of the patients taking Isentress had 
viral loads below 50 copies/ml (241 out of 281), compared with 82% of those taking efavirenz 
(230 out of 282); 
•  A fourth study in 802 patients who had not taken HIV treatment before showed that giving 
Isentress as a single dose of 1,200 mg once daily was as effective as giving 400 mg twice daily. 
Patients also received the medicine Truvada (emtricitabine with tenofovir disoproxil). After 48 
weeks, 89% (472 of 531) of those on the once daily dose and 88% (235 of 266) of those taking 
Isentress twice daily had viral loads less than 40 copies/ml; 
• 
Isentress has also been studied in a fifth study involving 126 HIV-1 infected children between 2 
and 18 years whose existing treatment for HIV infection was not working. The study showed that 
Isentress, given as tablets to be swallowed or chewable tablets, was safe in children and levels of 
the medicine obtained in the blood in children were similar to those obtained in adults. Therefore, 
the effectiveness observed in adults is also expected in children. 
•  A sixth study included 26 children aged 4 weeks to 2 years who were given Isentress oral granules 
made into a suspension. This study looked at viral loads after 24 and 48 weeks. Isentress 
treatment led to a reduction in viral load and after 48 weeks 53% of the children had viral loads 
below 50 copies/ml.   
•  Additional supportive studies established doses that provide similar effective levels of Isentress in 
newborn infants as in young children. 
What are the risks associated with Isentress? 
The most common side effects with Isentress (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
headache, abdominal pain (stomach ache) and nausea (feeling sick). Side effects in children were 
comparable to those in adults. The most common serious side effects are immune reconstitution 
syndrome (symptoms of infection caused by a recovering immune system) and rash. There have also 
been uncommon reports of rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle fibres). For the full list of side 
effects and restrictions with Isentress, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Isentress authorised in the EU? 
Isentress has been shown to be effective in helping control HIV when used with other HIV medicines. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Isentress’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Isentress (raltegravir)  
EMA/154552/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Isentress? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Isentress have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Isentress are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Isentress are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Isentress: 
Isentress received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Isentress on 20 December 2007. This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 14 July 2009.  
Further information on Isentress can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. 
This overview was last updated in 03-2018. 
Isentress (raltegravir)  
EMA/154552/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
