SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
At the end of 2005 it was estimated that approximately 40 million people are living worldwide with an 
infection  with  the  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV)  or  AIDS  (acquired  immunodeficiency 
syndrome with HIV being the etiologic agent). AIDS continues to be a leading cause of mortality with 
approximately 3 million deaths per year.  
Treatment  for  HIV  infection  has  evolved  rapidly  and  highly  active  antiretroviral  therapy  (HAART) 
has resulted in a significant decrease in mortality and morbidity so that HIV infection is now managed 
as a chronic disease. However, HAART is still limited by intolerance of complicated dosing regimens, 
long-term toxicities and multi-drug resistance.  
In  particular  intra-class  resistance  has  become  common  and  often  limits  the  choice  and  efficacy  of 
antiretroviral  therapies  (ARTs)  for  patients  failing  their  current  regimens.  In  patients  infected  with 
multi-drug  resistant  virus  therapy  is  more  successful  if  an  agent  from  an  ART  class  to  which  the 
patient has not been previously exposed is combined with at least one other active ART. Therefore, the 
development of ARTs with novel mechanisms of action remains very important, especially for those 
with few remaining treatment options.  
ISENTRESS  contains  raltegravir  as  active  substance.  Raltegravir  blocks  HIV-1  replication  by 
inhibiting the strand transfer activity of the HIV-encoded enzyme integrase and as such is an Integrase 
Strand Transfer Inhibitor (InSTI). Integration of the viral genome is an essential and characteristic step 
in  the  life  cycle  of  all  retroviruses  including  HIV-1.  The  rationale  behind  the  development  of 
ISENTRESS  is  that  the  inhibition  of  the  HIV  integrase  represents  a  new  therapeutic  target  for  the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection. 
A so-called full application has been submitted for the marketing authorisation. The assessment was 
made under accelerated timetable based on a request from the applicant. The CHMP did accept this 
request as it was considered that there is an unmet medical need for a novel antiretroviral agent that 
can  deliver  efficacy  against  multiple  drug  resistant  HIV  and  that  the  information  provided  with  the 
request  for  accelerated  assessment  suggested  that  raltegravir  may  indeed  meet  this  unmet  need. 
Therefore, it was possible to concur that there could be a potential for raltegravir to constitute a major 
public  health  interest  based  on  its  potential  to  benefit  HIV-infected  patients  with  few  remaining 
treatment options. 
In the initial Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) the applicant did not apply for a conditional 
marketing  authorisation.  During  the  evaluation  however  the  CHMP  considered  -  after  having 
consulted  with  the  applicant  -  that  the  application  would  meet  the  criteria  for  conditional  approval 
according to Article 14(7) of Regulation (EC) 726/2004 in conjunction with Commission Regulation 
(EC) 507/2006: 
− 
− 
ISENTRESS  is  proposed  to  be  indicated  for  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection,  which  is  a  life-
threatening disease, and so falls within the scope of the legislative framework on conditional 
marketing authorisations as defined in Article 2(1) of Regulation (EC) 507/2006. 
In  support  of  the  MAA  the  applicant  provided  complete  24-week  data  from  two  Phase  3 
studies.  Comprehensive  clinical  data  up  to  48  weeks  would  be  needed  to  further  assess 
important  issues  including  long-term  viral  suppression,  the  safety  profile  and  the  resistance 
pattern. Such data will be generated but were not available in the timeframe of the assessment. 
In addition, it was considered that further monitoring of resistance to raltegravir and the risk 
for malignancies is required.  
−  Based  on  the  available  data  the  risk-benefit  analysis  was  considered  to  be  positive.  The 
product  fulfils  an  unmet  medical  need  as  it  has  a  novel  mechanism  of  action  that  results  in 
activity  against  HIV  that  is  resistant  to  many  other  antiretroviral  agents.  It  likely  has  an 
acceptable safety profile and a limited potential for drug interactions. On this basis it could be 
considered that the benefit to public health of allowing ISENTRESS to be marketed without 
1/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
undue delay may outweigh the risks inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 
the  requirements  for  a  Conditional  Marketing 
Therefore, 
Authorisation as defined in Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) 507/2006. 
the  application  fulfilled 
ISENTRESS  is  available  in  film-coated  tablet  containing  400 mg  of  raltegravir  (as  potassium).  The 
recommended dosage is 400 mg administered twice daily.  
The  initially  claimed  indication  was  “ISENTRESS  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other  anti-
retroviral agents for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in treatment-
experienced patients with evidence of HIV-1 replication despite ongoing antiretroviral therapy.” 
The approved indication is: 
“ISENTRESS is indicated in combination with other anti-retroviral medicinal products for the 
treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in treatment-experienced adult 
patients with evidence of HIV-1 replication despite ongoing anti-retroviral therapy. 
This indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials of 24 weeks duration in treatment-experienced patients (see section 5.1)” 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
ISENTRESS  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  the  active  substance  raltegravir  as  the 
potassium  salt.  The  applicant  has  utilised  a  design  space  approach  in  developing  both  the  drug 
substance and drug product. 
Active Substance  
is 
Raltegravir 
N-[(4-Fluorophenyl)methyl]-1,6-dihydro-5-hydroxy-1-methyl-2-[1-methyl-1-[[(5-
methyl-1,3,4-oxadiazol-2-yl)carbonyl]amino]ethyl]-6-oxo-4-pyrimidinecarboxamide  monopotassium 
salt.  It  is  a  white  powder,  soluble  in  water,  slightly  soluble  in  methanol,  very  slightly  soluble  in 
acetonitrile  and  ethanol  and  insoluble  in  isopropyl  alcohol.  It  has  no  chiral  centres  although 
polymorphism is observed.  Concerning lipophilicity of raltegravir in terms of octanol/water partition, 
the Dow and LogDow results at pH=7.4 are 2.80 ± 0.08 and 0.45 ± 0.01, respectively. 
•  Manufacture 
Raltegravir is manufactured utilizing a commercial process that is well described and the potentially 
critical parameters have been investigated and controls applied as appropriate.  
The  active  ingredient  has  been  fully  characterised  by  conventional  spectroscopic  techniques.  Three 
polymorphic  forms  have  been  identified.  The  synthetic  route  routinely  results  in  the  commercially 
marketed form, distinguishable by melting point and XRPD.  
Based on laboratory runs the optimum synthetic conditions have been defined using a ‘design space’ 
concept. Further studies have investigated the main critical variables and there is evidence of a good 
understanding  of  the  process,  which  in  turn  has  enabled  the  design  space  limits  for  each  step  of 
synthesis to be defined within agreed boundaries. 
•  Specification 
The specification includes relevant tests with justified limits for identification (IR, flame test for K+), 
assay (HPLC), residual solvents, and mean particle size.  
2/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential  impurities,  including  process  impurities,  degradation  products  as  well  as  potential 
contaminants  such  as,  residual  solvents  have  been  investigated  in  detail.  Analytical  methods  are 
acceptable  and  generally,  appropriate  validation  data  have  been  provided.  The  limits  proposed  for 
individual impurity limits are acceptable and all specified impurities are either qualified or below the 
qualification threshold.  
•  Stability 
High  stress  studies  have  served  to  identify  potential  degradants  and  the  active  substance  has  been 
studied  under  ICH  storage  conditions.    Results  at  25°C/60%  RH,  and  40°C/75%  RH  for  three  drug 
substance lots manufactured using the commercial process are provided and the data confirm that there 
are no significant degradation products observed for the drug substance when stored in the proposed 
containers. A justified retest period has been defined and agreed.  
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Based on an in situ rat intestinal perfusion study, the measured permeability of raltegravir was similar 
to  that  of  the  high  permeability  reference  compound  metoprolol.  Raltegravir  is  classified  as  a  BCS 
class II compound, i.e. high permeability and low solubility at physiological pH. 
Bearing this in mind, the aim of the development program has been to develop a robust formulation 
and  manufacturing  process  using  by  defining  a  design  space  (as  for  the  synthesis  of  the  active 
substance), and comprehensive studies have been carried out with this approach.  
The  formulation  of  the  tablet  is  standard,  based  on  a  matrix  of  microcrystalline  cellulose,  lactose 
monohydrate,  calcium  phosphate  dibasic,  hypromellose  and  poloxamer  407.  The  excipients  were 
selected  to  provide  a  tablet  that  would  erode  rather  than  disintegrate  with  physical  and  chemical 
stability  and  appropriate  dissolution  characteristics.  The  tablet  cores  were  film-coated  to  mask  the 
bitter taste of the active ingredient using a conventional ‘OpadryTM’ formulation with good adhesion 
properties.  
A  number  of  prototype  formulations  were  investigated  in  vivo.  The  study  results  indicated  that  the 
plasma concentration profile for the chosen 400 mg formulation showed a flatter profile, with lower 
Cmax  and  longer  Tmax,  consistent  with  formulation  design  considerations  in  line  with  the  intended 
desirable  profile.  Based  on  the  positive  pharmacokinetic  data  and  results  from  the  biocomparison 
study, this formulation was selected as the candidate for development to a market formulation. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
Raltegravir Tablets are manufactured utilizing a standard commercial process that is commonly used 
for  film-coated  tablets  of  this  type.  It  is  well  described  and  the  potentially  critical  parameters  have 
been investigated and controls applied as appropriate. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specification includes tests with validated limits for identity (NIR/HPLC), assay (HPLC) 
degradation products (HPLC), dose uniformity, dissolution, microbial contamination etc. 
Batch analytical profiles confirm the satisfactory uniformity of the product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies have been performed in line with current CHMP/ICH guidelines. 
3/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The packaged product was stored at the long term conditions of 25°C/60%RH and 30°C/65%RH and 
at  the  accelerated  condition  of  40°C/75%RH.  One  of  the  batches  was  evaluated  for  photostability. 
Results were available for at least 52 weeks for samples stored at 25°C/60%RH and 30°C/65%RH and 
for at least 6 months for batches stored at 40°C/75%RH. No significant changes were observed after 
storage under these conditions with no significant photodegradation. 
Overall, the accumulated stability data confirm the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the 
SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Comprehensive information has been presented to show that the development and manufacture of the 
active  substance  and  finished  product  are  sound  and  satisfactory.  The  applicant  has  taken  the 
opportunity  to  define  a  workable  design  space  for  the  active  substance  and  product,  based  on  an 
understanding of relevant processes in both cases. Satisfactory batch control specifications are in place 
and batch analytical data confirm the satisfactory uniformity of the product, and this in turn indicates 
that  the  product  should  perform  consistently  in  the  clinic,  from  batch  to  batch.  The  accumulated 
stability data have been used to support a validated retest period and shelf-life and storage conditions. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
A  comprehensive  set  of  nonclinical  toxicity  studies  was  conducted  prior  to  and  in  parallel  with  the 
clinical programme. These studies included acute and repeated dose oral studies, safety pharmacology 
studies, a battery of both in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies, and developmental and reproductive 
toxicity  studies.  The  rat  and  dog  were  chosen  as  the  preclinical  toxicology  species  for  raltegravir 
development. 
The pivotal non-clinical toxicity studies were conducted in compliance with current international good 
laboratory  practice  (GLP)  standards.  Amongst  the  toxicokinetic  studies  the  quantification  of  the 
glucuronide  metabolite  of  raltegravir  in  plasma  was  not  GLP-compliant.  Also,  in  the  repeat  dose 
toxicity  studies  in  the  dog  the  determination  of  the  concentration  of  copper  in  the  bile  was  not 
conducted under GLP conditions. However, this was not considered to be critical for the assessment. 
Pharmacology 
The mode of action related to antiviral activity and resistance aspects is also discussed in the section 
“Clinical aspects, Pharmacodynamics”. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Integrase inhibition 
The ability of raltegravir to inhibit the enzymatic activity of purified recombinant HIV-1 integrase was 
evaluated  in  an  in  vitro  assay.  Using  a  pre-assembled  complex  of  HIV-1  integrase  with  a  double-
stranded “donor” oligonucleotide mimicking one end of the mature HIV-1 cDNA the assay measured 
the  ability  of  integrase  to  catalyse  the  covalent  joining  or  strand  transfer  of  the  donor  DNA  into  a 
target  DNA.  Raltegravir  inhibited  this  reaction  with  an  apparent  IC50  of  approximately  10  nM.  The 
results indicated that raltegravir inhibits the third step of the integration process (i.e. strand transfer) 
and is therefore designated an Integrase Strand Transfer Inhibitor (InSTI). 
Activity against laboratory and primary HIV-1 isolates 
Antiviral  assays  were  multiple-cycle  replication  assays  in  which  replication  was  detected  by 
measuring  the  accumulation  of  HIV-1  and  -2  gag  proteins  (p24  and  p27)  in  cell  culture  supernatant 
4/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fluids.  
−  Raltegravir  inhibited  replication  of  the  laboratory  HIV-1  isolate  H9IIIB  in  MT4  cells  with  a 
95% cell inhibitory concentration (CIC95) of 18.7 ± 14 nM (n=77) in the presence of 10% fetal 
bovine serum (FBS).  
−  In the presence of 50% normal human serum the apparent antiviral activity of raltegravir against 
H9IIIB was reduced with a CIC95 of 31 ± 20 nM (n=90). 
−  The  15  primary  HIV-1  isolates  tested  included  six  subtypes  representing  both  syncytium-
inducing and non-syncytium-inducing isolates. Raltegravir inhibited replication of these isolates 
in primary human PBMCs in the presence of 20% FBS with CIC95 values from 6 to 50 nM. 
−  Raltegravir inhibited replication of a laboratory HIV-2 isolate in CEMx174 cells and 10% FBS 
with an average CIC95 of 6.3 nM. 
Antiviral mechanism of raltegravir in cell culture 
Cells  from  the  human  T  cell  line  SupT1  were  infected  with  a  laboratory  HIV-1  isolate  with  and 
without 1 µM raltegravir. The progress of infection was evaluated at different times using a series of 
quantitative PCR assays to measure the abundance of various HIV-1 DNA forms. 
Raltegravir  at  1  µM  did  not  significantly  inhibit  the  synthesis  of  HIV-1  DNA,  but  1 µM  raltegravir 
reduced  detectable  integration  at  48  hr  by  approximately  50-fold.  In  addition,  the  presence  of 
raltegravir  resulted  in  a  15.8-fold  increase  in  the  abundance  of  2-LTR  circles  as  consequence  of 
reduced integration activity. 
Mutations in HIV-1 integrase that reduce susceptibility to raltegravir 
The  potential  for  HIV-1  to  develop  resistance  to  raltegravir  was  evaluated  by  culturing  a  laboratory 
HIV-1 isolate in human T lymphoid H9 cells in increasing concentrations of the agent over a period of 
months.  Viruses  able  to  replicate  in  higher  concentrations  of  raltegravir  emerged  at  the  end  of  most 
passages and were characterised in detail by amplifying and molecularly cloning their integrase genes 
and determining the nucleotide sequences. A series of specific amino acid changes occurred over time 
during culture in increasing raltegravir concentrations.  
The first change observed was Q148K, which arose during growth in 25 to 50 nM i.e. exceeding the 
IC95. After passage in 1 µM, mutations E138A and G140A were sequentially incorporated. Additional 
mutations in the integrase gene appeared increasing raltegravir concentrations suggesting correlation 
of raltegravir with the appearance of mutations in the integrase gene. 
The  introduction  of  observed  mutations  in  a  wild-type  HIV-1  isolate  and  the  testing  of  resultant 
viruses  in  a  single-cycle  HIV-1  infectivity  assay  showed  that  the  Q148K,  E138A/Q148  and 
E138A/G140A/Q148K  mutations  resulted  in  average  fold-shift  IC50  values  of  46-fold,  90-fold  and 
508-fold, respectively.   
Other mutations were observed in the integrase genes of viruses isolated from HIV-1-infected patients 
who  failed  ART  regimens  including  raltegravir.  These  mutations,  including  the  primary  mutations 
N155H, Q148H, and Q148R, each conferred a greater than 10-fold increase in the IC50. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Raltegravir  was  evaluated  in  a  series  of  in  vitro  assays  to  investigate  its  potential  to  act  on  human 
targets. The evaluation of specificity of raltegravir in RNA-dependent DNA Polymerase activity assay 
showed  that  raltegravir  is  not  an  inhibitor  of  HIV-1  reverse  transcriptase  polymerase  activity  at  the 
highest concentration tested (100 µM-IC50 > 50 µM). 
In an in vitro biochemical assay to test inhibition of RNase H activity of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase, 
no  relevant  activity  of  raltegravir  up  to  25  µM  (the  highest  concentration  tested)  was  observed. 
Inhibition  of  HIV-1  reverse  transcription  is,  therefore,  not  responsible  for  the  antiviral  activity  of 
5/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
raltegravir (IC50 > 25 µM). Raltegravir did not inhibit human DNA polymerases α, β, or γ by more 
than 50% at the highest concentration tested (i.e., IC50 >50 µM for each of the three polymerases). 
Raltegravir  was  also  tested  in  a  series  of  enzyme  activity  assays,  transporter  assays,  and  receptor-
ligand  displacement  assays.  Raltegravir  did  not  significantly  inhibit  any  of  the  166  enzymes, 
transporters and receptors included in the screening panel (IC50 > 10 µM for all assays).  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Three GLP compliant studies to evaluate effects of raltegravir on the cardiovascular, respiratory and 
central nervous systems were performed.  
−  A  cardiovascular  telemetry  study,  performed  in  dogs,  after  a  single  5,  15  or  45  mg/kg  dose, 
resulted  in  the  absence  of  any  change  in  cardiovascular  indices  attributable  to  raltegravir 
treatment, reaching Cmax of 3.6, 10 and 25 µM, respectively, at 1 hour after dosing.  
−  Raltegravir  potential  to  affect  respiratory  or  neurobehavioural  system  was  tested  following 
single oral administration of 30, 90 or 120 mg/kg to Sprague Dawley rats. Both studies showed 
that  raltegravir  does  not  induce  any  treatment  related  changes.  A  maximum  concentration  of 
approximately 30 µM was reached at the highest dose, as estimated from toxicokinetic data.  
Ancillary  pharmacology  studies  were  performed  to  determine  the  effects  of  raltegravir  in 
cardiovascular, respiratory, and renal function in dogs, and CNS and gastrointestinal motility in mice. 
Single or multiple IV or oral doses ranging from 1 to 5 mg/kg of in dogs showed that: (i) raltegravir do 
not  affect  mean  arterial  pressure,  heart  rate  or  cardiac  intervals  (PR,  QRS,  QTc)  in  dogs;  (ii)  the 
respiratory  function,  evaluated  by  respiratory  ventilation,  mechanics,  blood  pH,  arterial  gases, 
haemostasis or platelet function is not affected by raltegravir; (iii) with respect to the renal function, 
raltegravir does not induce treatment related changes in renal plasma flow, glomerular filtration, urine 
excretion, sodium and potassium excretion. The effects of raltegravir on the CNS in CD-1 mice after a 
single  100  mg/kg  dose  administration  showed  that  raltegravir  did  not  affect  behaviour,  locomotion, 
grip strength in this study. 
Gastrointestinal motility was evaluated in CD-1 mice after administration of a single 10 or 30 mg/kg 
oral dose. No treatment-related effect on gastrointestinal motility at 10 mg/kg was observed, while an 
increase  in  gastrointestinal  motility  resulted  at  the  highest  dose.  This  is  of  minimal  toxicological 
significance  to  humans  as  confirmed  by  the  absence  of  signs  of  increased  intestinal  transit  in  the 
completed chronic toxicology studies in rats and dogs and in human clinical trials. 
An additional cellular electrophysiological in vitro evaluation of a HIV Integrase Inhibitor on HERG 
was  performed,  on  CHO-K1  cells.  Raltegravir  had  a  very  small  effect  on  HERG  current  at 
concentrations  of  30  µM  (0.94  ±  0.02  of  control,  n=8,  for  both  voltage  step  and  voltage  ramp)  and 
100 µM  (0.84  ±  0.04  of  control,  n=6,  voltage  step;  0.84  ±  0.06  of  control,  n=6,  voltage  ramp). 
Raltegravir inhibited the HERG current by 16% ± 4% at the highest testable concentration of 100 µM 
when elicited with 2 voltage-clamp protocols, a voltage step or voltage ramp. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
To assess the potential for synergy or antagonism, the antiviral activity of raltegravir was evaluated in 
cell  culture  in  combination  with  18  licensed  antiviral  agents  from  all  4  classes  (protease  inhibitors, 
nucleoside/nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors, non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, 
and  entry  inhibitor).  Each  antiviral  agent,  including  raltegravir,  was  tested  over  a  wide  range  of 
concentrations spanning its IC50 in the replication assay.  
The results showed that when both test compounds were present at lower concentrations (below the 
95%  cell  culture  inhibitory  concentration),  the  effect  of  adding  raltegravir  to  other  licensed 
antiretroviral agents was null or additive. At higher compound concentrations, typically in excess of 
their IC50 values, raltegravir displayed synergistic activity with all other antiviral compounds tested. 
6/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The ADME properties of raltegravir have been evaluated in rat and dog studies with additional studies 
in rabbits and mice, and a number of in vitro assays. A majority of the in vivo pharmacokinetic studies 
was conducted in male animals only. 
Absorption/Bioavailability 
Raltegravir  is  a  low-  (dog)  to  intermediate-  (rat)  clearance  compound,  with  a  short  plasma  half-life 
(≤ 1.6  hr)  and  a  volume  of  distribution  ranging  from  ~0.4  to  2  L/kg.  In  both  rats  and  dogs,  the 
compound is rapidly absorbed (Tmax ≤ 0.6 hrs) and is orally bioavailable (> 60%).  
The  dose  dependence  of  the  oral  pharmacokinetics  of  raltegravir  was  evaluated  after  single 
administration of raltegravir at four dose levels to male rats (40, 80, 120, 240 mg/kg) and male dogs 
(5, 15, 45, and 135 mg/kg). In rats, the AUC was nearly linear over the dose range of 40 to 120 mg/kg, 
but  there  was  no  further  increase  in  exposure  with  increased  dose.  Above  the  120  mg/kg  dose 
absorption of raltegravir was saturable as a result of limited aqueous solubility. 
In dogs, the plasma AUC and Cmax increased proportionally with dose over the dose range of 5 to 45 
mg/kg; the increase in either parameter was less than dose-proportional when the dose was increased 
to 135 mg/kg. Absorption of raltegravir was saturable at doses higher than 45 mg/kg. 
Distribution 
After  oral  administration  of  [14C]raltegravir  to  rats,  radioactivity  is  distributed  rapidly  and  widely 
throughout the body. In addition to plasma, the highest concentrations of radioactivity are observed in 
the  gastrointestinal  tract  and  organs of excretion (stomach,  small  intestine,  liver,  kidney  and urinary 
bladder). A small amount of radioactivity was detected in the brain. The compound crosses the rat and 
rabbit placenta and is excreted extensively in the milk of lactating rats. Raltegravir binds to the plasma 
proteins of the mouse (70%), the rat (74%), the dog (70%) and the human (83%). 
The  partitioning  of  raltegravir  (0.9-18 µM)  into  blood  cells  was  studied  and  the  blood-to-plasma 
concentration ratios were determined to be 0.7, 0.9, and 0.6 for rat, dog, and human, respectively. 
Raltegravir was evaluated in vitro as a potential inhibitor of P-gp Over a concentration range of 1 to 
100 µM raltegravir did not affect [3H]-vinblastine (VBL) accumulation in L-MDR1 and KB-V1 cell 
lines. In contrast, in the presence of a typical P-gp inhibitor, cyclosporin A, cellular accumulation of 
[3H]-VBL was increased 10- and 12-fold in L-MDR1 and KB-V1 cells, respectively. Though in vitro 
studies indicated that raltegravir is a substrate of P-gp mediated transport, P-gp is unlikely to have a 
significant  effect  on  the  absorption  and  elimination  of  raltegravir.  Potential  drug  interactions  have 
been addressed in section 4.5 of the SPC. 
Metabolism/Excretion 
Metabolism of raltegravir was assessed in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies in mice, rats, dogs and 
humans.  
In vitro studies 
The in vitro metabolism of raltegravir was studied in hepatic microsomes and hepatocytes from rats, 
dogs,  and  humans.  No  significant  metabolism  of  raltegravir  was  observed  in  NADPH-fortified 
microsomal  incubations  from  any  of  the  species.  In  contrast,  raltegravir  underwent  metabolism  in 
hepatocytes,  with  the  major  metabolite  in  all  three  species  being  the  glucuronide  derivative  of  the 
parent compound (M2). Small quantities of the glucose derivative (M1) of the parent compound and 
the  acetyl  hydrazine  derivative  (M3)  also  were  detected.  In  addition,  the  data  indicated  that 
glucuronidation  of  the  parent  compound  was  the  major  metabolic  pathway  in  all  species  and  that 
raltegravir is not a substrate, nor an inducer or inhibitor of cytochrome P450 enzymes. 
7/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further studies showed that the glucuronidation of raltegravir is mainly catalyzed by UGT1A1 with a 
minor contribution from UGT1A9 and 1A3. Raltegravir was found to be an inhibitor of UGT1A1 or 
UGT2B7 with IC50 values of >50 µM for both UGT activities. Raltegravir is unlikely to interfere with 
metabolism of other compounds because Raltegravir was found to have very low potential to inhibit 
CYP  1A2,  2C8,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6,  3A4,  or  2B6  enzymes,  and  no  potential  to  induce  CYP3A4. 
Raltegravir is reported to be neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 enzymes. It might 
be  subject  to  drug-drug  interactions  when  co-administered  with  compounds  that  are  known  to  be 
UGT1A1 inducers (e.g. rifampicin) or inhibitors (e.g. atazanavir, an HIV-protease inhibitor). 
In vivo studies 
The  metabolism  of  [14C]raltegravir  was  assessed  in  mice  (20  mg/kg  PO),  rats  (3 mg/kg  IV),  dogs 
(1.5 mg/kg IV), and humans (200 mg PO). The glucuronide of raltegravir (M2) was identified as the 
major radioactive entity in bile of mice, and in bile and urine of rats and dogs accounting for 62% and 
31% of the administered dose, respectively. The glucose conjugate of the parent compound (M1; rat 
urine,  dog  urine  and  bile)  and  the  acetyl  hydrazine  derivative  (M3,  rat  urine)  were  the  only  other 
metabolites detected in rats and dogs and each metabolite represented <2% of the dose. The fraction of 
the dose excreted in urine and bile as unchanged parent compound was 10% in rats and 30% in dogs 
indicating that metabolism (via glucuronidation) is the major mechanism of clearance of raltegravir in 
preclinical species. The only metabolite detected in humans was M2 which accounted for 72% of the 
dose  recovered  in  urine  and  was  the  major  circulating  metabolite  in  all  species  (mouse,  rat,  dog,  and 
human).  Although  M2  circulates  at  significant  levels  in  humans  the  pharmacological  activity  can  be 
attributed to the parent compound since M2 has no activity against HIV-1. 
Metabolism via glucuronidation is also the principal mode of clearance of raltegravir in humans since 
the majority of the dose recovered in urine was due to M2, and since a significant fraction of the parent 
compound observed in faeces is likely derived from the hydrolysis of M2 secreted in bile as observed in 
preclinical species. 
Raltegravir is mainly excreted in the faeces (50 to 74%) in all species, with the remainder appearing in 
urine. The high recovery of the dose in faeces after IV administration indicates that biliary secretion is 
the primary mode of elimination of raltegravir-related radioactivity consistent with results observed in 
bile-duct  cannulated  rats.  In  rats,  the  recovery  of  the  dose  in  urine  was  independent  of  the  route  of 
administration suggesting that absorption of the compound was complete in this species. In dogs, the 
lower recovery of dose in urine after P.O. administration relative to the IV route suggests that absorption 
of raltegravir is incomplete. 
Raltegravir  is  excreted  into  the  milk  of  lactating  rats.  The  concentrations  of  the  parent  compound  in 
maternal plasma and milk on lactational day (LD) 14 following daily oral administration of raltegravir at 
300 or 600 mg/kg/day from Gestational Day (GD) 6 to LD 14 were measured.  At 2 hours post the last 
dose LD 14, the milk-to-plasma concentration ratios were ~3 at both doses. 
Toxicology 
The toxicity of raltegravir was studied in mouse, rat, rabbit and dog models, investigating single- and 
repeat  dose  studies,  genotoxicity,  carcinogenicity  (on-going),  reproductive  toxicity  studies  and  a 
number of non-pivotal additional toxicity studies 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Five  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  raltegravir  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  to  determine  its 
approximate acute toxicity following a single oral dose. Raltegravir was well tolerated in mice and at 
oral doses up to 2000 mg/kg (LD50 >2000 mg/kg). 
Intravenous  dosing  in  rats  of  raltegravir,  as  a  potassium  salt  in  0.9%  (w/v)  sodium  chloride,  caused 
treatment-related mortality at ≥200 mg/kg. Treatment-related physical signs were observed at 100, 200 
8/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and 400 mg/kg/day; No treatment-related body weight effects were noted in the surviving animals at 
100  and  200  mg/kg.  Based  on  these  results  the  highest  tolerated  dose  was  100  mg/kg/day.  A  no-
observed-effect-level (NOEL) was not determined. 
In oral dosing in dogs, raltegravir was well tolerated up to 250 mg/kg, a dose determined to be within 
the plateau of exposure to raltegravir following a single administration. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat dose toxicity and toxicokinetic studies with raltegravir were conducted in mice (doses 50-5000 
mg/kg/day),  rats  (doses  30-1200  mg/kg/day),  dogs  (doses  5-500  mg/kg/day)  and  rabbits  (one 
toxicokinetic study). Pivotal GLP toxicity studies after repeat doses were performed over 14 weeks in 
the mouse, 27 weeks in the rat and 53 weeks in the dog.  
Repeat dose studies in mice 
In  a  14-week  oral  range-finding  study,  treatment-related  findings  at  dosages  ≥1000 mg/kg/day  of 
raltegravir  included  mortality,  a  variety  of  physical  signs  (typically  distended  abdomen,  laboured 
breathing,  audible  respiratory  noises,  decreased  activity,  and  eye  partially  closed),  and  body  weight 
loss and/or decreases in body weight gain. The histopathological observations were limited to changes 
in the stomach of animals that died early, suggesting an irritant effect of the compound.  The no-effect 
level for this study is 50 mg/kg/day. 
Repeat dose studies in rats 
Raltegravir was administered in oral toxicity studies of 5, 14, and 27 weeks duration. In the 5-week 
oral  toxicity  study,  target  organ  toxicity  was  not  observed  and  only  minor  increases  in  ALT  and 
evidence  of  stomach  mucosa  irritation  were  found.  In  the  14  week  repeat  dose  study,  the  only  drug 
related effect observed up to 120 mg/kg/day was post-dose salivation which was reported to be related 
to poor palatability of the compound. Raltegravir caused mortality at 600 mg/kg/day in the 27-week 
study  that  was  associated  with  body  weight  loss,  urine  staining  and/or  decreased  food  consumption 
prior to death. Up to 17% decreases in mean body weight gain were observed in surviving male rats at 
600 mg/kg/day. There were no other significant findings in the antemortem parameters of these studies 
including haematology, serum biochemistry, and urinalysis evaluations.  Degeneration of the glandular 
mucosa  of  the  stomach  was  observed  at  600  mg/kg/day  and  120 mg/kg/day  upon  histopathological 
evaluation  of  the  tissues.  Additional  observations  were  likely  due  to  poor  palatability,  aspiration 
and/or irritation of the compound, including stomach inflammation in the 5-week study and postdosing 
salivation audible respiratory sounds, and inflammation in the nose and nasopharynx in the 27-week 
study. The NOAEL was considered to be 120 mg/kg/day which provides an exposure margin of 1.6-
fold above the expected exposure of the 400 mg/BID dose in patients. 
Repeat dose studies in dogs 
Oral studies: In dogs, raltegravir was studied in repeat dose oral toxicity studies of 5, 14, 27 and 53 
weeks  duration.  No  deaths  associated  with  drug  treatment  were  observed  during  any  of  the  dog 
studies. With the exception of emesis with or without body weight loss, and there were no treatment-
related changes during the antemortem phase of the studies. Emesis was transient and/or intermittent 
and the underlining mechanism is unknown. There were no treatment-related changes in the gross or 
histopathological appearance of tissues examined from these studies in dogs. Therefore, the no-effect 
level in dogs, with the exception of emesis, following 53 weeks of treatment was >360 mg/kg/day. 
Intravenous studies: Repeat dose i.v. toxicity studies in dogs revealed changes to liver enzymes and 
kidney  function  biochemistry.  The  3-Day  escalating  toxicity  i.v.  study  in  dogs  showed  treatment-
related  changes  in  serum  biochemistry  at  100  mg/kg/day  including  increases  in  AST,  ALT,  and 
alkaline  phosphatase.  Treatment-related  histopathological  changes  consisted  of 
interstitial 
inflammation of the renal cortex in the female. The inflammation was considered very slight and was 
characterized by mixtures of lymphocytes and macrophages in association with tubular dilatation. No 
9/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment-related  histopathological  changes  in  the  liver  were  observed.  Based  on  the  mortality 
observed  in  this  study  during  intravenous  administration  of  358 mg/kg,  likely  due  to  cardiac 
arrhythmia  secondary  to  the  amount  of  administered  potassium  (raltegravir  potassium  salt)  the 
maximum  tolerated  dose  of  raltegravir,  when  formulated  as  a  monopotassium  salt  and  administered 
intravenously, is considered to be <358 mg/kg. Treatment-related changes observed in the 7-days i.v. 
toxicity study at both doses (30 or 100 mg/kg/day) included transient postdosing emesis/retching and 
local  changes  at  the  injection  sites  (swelling  and/or  induration,  and  red/purple  discoloration). 
Additional changes at 100 mg/kg/day consisted of persistent swelling and red/purple discoloration of 
the  forelimbs,  body  weight  loss,  minimal  increases  in  serum  urea  nitrogen,  increases  in  alanine 
aminotransferase  activity,  alkaline  phosphatase  activity,  and  cholesterol,  and  very  slight,  multifocal 
tubular dilatation in the cortex of the kidneys. Based on the physical signs seen at 30 mg/kg/day, the 
NOEL  for  treatment-related  changes  was  considered  to  be  <30 mg/kg/day.  At  the  NOEL  safety 
margins were 6.5-fold or 24-fold the AUC and Cmax of the 400-mg/BID MRD. 
Toxicokinetic data 
The toxicokinetic programme was performed in the context of the repeat dose toxicity studies. With 
respect  to  toxicokinetics  the  results  showed  no  significant  sex-differences  in  systemic  exposure  to 
raltegravir and no accumulation of raltegravir after repeated exposure. 
Furthermore,  toxicokinetic  studies  in  mice  were  conducted  in  parallel  with  the  ongoing  main 
carcinogenicity study: 
−  Results from a 27-week study in mice indicate that at the high dose, 400 mg/kg/day in females 
and  250  mg/kg/day  in  males,  systemic  exposure  is  approximately  2-fold  greater  (females)  or 
equal  to  (males)  the  AUC  (54  mM•hr)  at  the  400-mg/BID  MRD  when  adjusted  for  30%  and 
17% unbound drug in mice and humans, respectively. 
−  Results from a 26-week study in rats indicate that at 300 to 600 mg/kg/day in females and 150 
to 300 mg/kg/day in males, systemic exposure is approximately 10.3-fold greater (females) or 
1.7-fold greater (males) the AUC (54 mM•hr) at the 400-mg/BID MRD when adjusted for 26% 
and 17% unbound drug in rats and humans, respectively. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Raltegravir  has  been  tested  for  genotoxicity  in  four  GLP  studies.  Raltegravir  did  not  show  any 
mutagenic/genotoxic  effects  in  the  (i)  in  vitro  bacterial  mutation  assay  (Salmonella  typhimurium 
strains  and  Escherichia  coli  strain);  (ii)  alkaline  elution/rat  hepatocyte  assay  (Primary  Rat 
hepatocytes);  (iii)  chromosome  aberration  assay  (Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  cells);  (iv)  in  vivo  in  the 
mouse  micronucleus  assay  (Mouse/CRL).  All  studies  were  conducted  using  a  range  of  doses;  at  the 
highest  dose,  there  was  evidence  of  cytotoxicity  and/or  drug  insolubility.  The  results  are  uniformly 
negative, indicating the absence of genotoxic potential for raltegravir.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
No short term carcinogenicity studies (e.g. with use of a transgenic model) were conducted. 
Long-term studies 
Two-year  GLP  carcinogenicity  studies  in  mice  and  rats  are  currently  ongoing  and  scheduled  to  be 
completed in 4Q 2007 with a draft report expected in 3Q-4Q 2008. In mice, oral doses of 50, 250, and 
400  mg/kg/day  in  females  and  50,  100  and  250  mg/kg/day  in  males  were  selected  for  the 
carcinogenicity  study.  In  rats,  oral  doses  of  50,  150,  and  300  mg/kg/day  in  males  and  50,  300  and 
600 mg/kg/day in females were selected for the carcinogenicity study. 
1-year interim data has shown high mortality rates: up to 38% in female mice dosed 400 mg/kg/day; 
up to 26% in female rats dosed 600 mg/kg/day and up to 20% in male rats dosed 300 mg/kg/day. The 
cause of these deaths was attributed to aspiration of dosing material into the nose/nasopharynx. Effects 
10/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of drug irritation to the nose/nasopharynx were seen and include chronic inflammation and epithelial 
hyperplasia and metaplasia. 
The  CHMP  considered  it  acceptable  that  the  carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  yet  been  completed. 
According  to  the  guideline  on  carcinogenicity  evaluation  of  medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of 
HIV infection (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/194898/2006) the submission of the results of the carcinogenicity 
studies  as  a  post-approval  commitment  may  be  accepted  for  products  intended  for  the  treatment  of 
patients  with  limited  treatment  options  or  of  a  clearly  demonstrable  added  value.  The  applicant  did 
commit to provide the final study report within a defined time-frame.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The potential for raltegravir to affect reproductive system was studied in rats and rabbits. 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
Raltegravir  was  administered  orally  to  female  rats  at  dose  levels  of  150,  300,  or  600  mg/kg/day  for 
14 days prior to cohabitation, during cohabitation, and through GD 7. There were no treatment-related 
findings in the F0 generation and there were no treatment-related effects on embryonic/fetal survival in 
the F1 generation. Based on these data, the no-effect level for effects of raltegravir on fertility in F0 
female rats was ≥600 mg/kg/day. 
Male rats were administered raltegravir orally once daily at doses of 100, 300, or 600 mg/kg/day for 
approximately  8  weeks.  There  were  no  treatment-related  effects  on  mortality,  physical  signs,  body 
weights,  food  consumption,  mating  performance,  fertility,  embryonic/fetal  survival,  sperm  count,  or 
sperm motility. There were no treatment-related gross changes in the thoracic or abdominal cavities. 
There were no treatment-related alterations in testicular weights nor were there gross or microscopic 
changes  in  the  testes  or  epididymides.  Based  on  these  findings,  the  no-effect  level  for  routine 
antemortem  and  postmortem  parameters  in  male  rats  was  ≥600  mg/kg/day.  The  no-effect  level  for 
male fertility was ≥600 mg/kg/day. 
Embryo-fetal, prenatal and postnatal development including maternal function 
In an oral range-finding reproduction study in female rats, raltegravir was administered once daily at 
doses of 150, 300, 450, or 600 mg/kg/day to pregnant rats from GD 6 through LD 20. There was no 
evidence  of  significant  treatment-related  maternal  or  developmental  toxicity.  Based  on  these  results, 
the  recommended  high-dose  level  for  the  subsequent  developmental  toxicity  study  in  rats  was  600 
mg/kg/day. 
In  an  oral  developmental  and  reproduction  study  in  female  rats  (with  post-weaning  assessment), 
raltegravir  was  administered  to  female  rats  once  daily  at  doses  of  100,  300,  or  600  mg/kg/day  from 
GD 6 through 20 or through LD 20. There were no treatment-related findings in the F0 generation. In 
the F1 generation, the only treatment-related finding was an increase in the incidence of supernumerary 
ribs  in  the  600-mg/kg/day  group  as  compared  to  concurrent  control  and  to  historical  control.  There 
were no treatment-related findings in the F2 generation. Based on the results of this study, the no-effect 
level  for  maternal  toxicity  was  ≥600 mg/kg/day.  Based  on  the  treatment-related  increase  in 
supernumerary ribs in the F1 generation at 600-mg/kg/day group, the no-effect level for developmental 
toxicity was 300 mg/kg/day. 
In an oral range-finding study in pregnant rabbits, raltegravir was administered to pregnant rabbits at 
doses of 125, 250, 500, or 1000 mg/kg/day from GD 7 though 20. There was no evidence of treatment-
related  maternal  toxicity  or  developmental  toxicity  in  the  raltegravir-treated  groups.  Based  on  these 
results,  the  recommended  high-dose  level  for  the  subsequent  oral  developmental  toxicity  study  of 
raltegravir in rabbits was 1000 mg/kg/day. 
In an oral developmental toxicity study in pregnant rabbits, raltegravir was administered once daily to 
pregnant  rabbits  at  doses  of  100,  500,  or  1000  mg/kg/day  from  GD  7  through  20.  There  were  no 
11/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indications of maternal toxicity or developmental toxicity at any dose level. Based on these results, the 
no-effect level of raltegravir for maternal and developmental toxicity was ≥1000 mg/kg/day. 
The safety margin at the NOEL for developmental toxicity is reported to be approximately 3.4-fold the 
value at the maximum recommended dose (MRD). In rabbits, no developmental toxicity was found at 
the maximum dose of 1000 mg/kg/day, resulting in a safety margin of about 3.7-fold relative to the 
AUC in patients at the MRD.  
Relevant findings have been appropriately addressed in sections 4.6 and 5.3 of the SPC.  
Oral toxicity study in juvenile rats 
In an oral range-finding toxicity study in juvenile rats, raltegravir was administered once daily at doses 
of 150, 300, 450, or 600 mg/kg/day from postnatal day (PND) 5 to postnatal week (PNW) 9. The only 
indication  of  toxicity  was  slightly  decreased  mean  serum  glucose  values  in  males  of  the  450 
mg/kg/day and 600 mg/kg/day groups. Based on these results, in a subsequent oral toxicity study in 
juvenile rats, raltegravir was administered to groups of 43 or 44 juvenile rats per sex at dose levels of 
50, 200, or 600 mg/kg/day from PND 5 to PNW 8. A total of 19 deaths were reported during the study, 
but none of the deaths were considered to be treatment-related. 
In the remaining study animals the applicant reported that there was no evidence of toxicity based on 
ante  mortem  parameters  of  mortality,  physical  signs,  body  weights,  developmental  signs, 
haematology,  serum  biochemistry,  ophthalmologic  examination,  behavioural  assessments,  and 
reproductive performance, including embryonic/fetal survival. 
Treatment-related  histopathological  findings  consisted  of  vacuolation  of  the  nonglandular  mucosa  at 
the  limiting  ridge  at  ≥200 mg/kg/day  as  well  as  inflammation  which  occurred  at ≥200  mg/kg/day  in 
males  and  at  600 mg/kg/day  in  females.  This  difference  has  been  related  to  the  absolute  amount  of 
drug  deposited  directly  on  the  stomach  mucosa,  which  is  higher  in  males  due  to  their  body  weight. 
treatment  for 
Both  vacuolar  and 
approximately  6  weeks.  The  mucosal  epithelial  vacuolation  and  associated  increased  inflammation 
were consistent with raltegravir causing very slight irritation to the limiting ridge of the nonglandular 
stomach  of  orally  gavaged  rats.  Based  on  the  histopathological  results,  the  no-effect  level  for 
treatment-related  changes  in  juvenile  rats  was  50  mg/kg/day.  These  findings  in  juvenile  rats  were 
consistent with the stomach irritation effects seen in adult rats.  
inflammatory  changes  recovered  following  cessation  of 
•  Local tolerance  
A total of 7 local tolerance studies were conducted: three in vitro, two in mice (topical administration) 
and two in rabbits (dermal administration). Raltegravir is classified as a mild irritant for the free base 
and  as  a  severe  irritant  as  the  potassium  salt  in  the  bovine  corneal  opacity  (BCOP)  in  vitro  assay. 
However, when applied to the skin of rabbits, no evidence of irritation was found. The results of the 
local  lymph  node  assay  (LLNA)  in  mice  and  of  dermal  irritation  study  in  rabbits,  showed  that 
raltegravir, as either free base or potassium salt, is not a dermal sensitizer. The same conclusion has 
been drawn after studying the dermal irritation potential of raltegravir (potassium salt) in an in vitro 
human epidermal skin culture system. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
No  specific  nonclinical  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  to  assess  antigenicity  or  immunotoxicity. 
However, raltegravir was assessed in multiple-dose studies in rats and dogs. Animals were monitored 
for  clinical  signs,  by  evaluation  of  haematological  (including  differential  white  blood  cell  counting) 
and  serum  biochemical  parameters,  and  by  gross  and  histopathological  examination  of  lymphoid 
tissues (lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus). There was no evidence of antigenicity or immunotoxicity 
resulting from these studies. 
12/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  nonclinical  dependence  studies  were  conducted  to  support  an  antiviral  indication.  Tissue 
distribution studies indicate that raltegravir is poorly brain penetrating, yielding the lowest detectable 
concentrations of all tissues tested (0.00971 µg/g of a 6 mg radiolabelled oral dose of raltegravir). 
Specific  nonclinical  studies  to  evaluate  the  toxicity  of  specific  metabolites  were  not  conducted.  The 
principal metabolite of raltegravir observed in humans and in rats and dogs is a glucuronide. In the rat 
and dog toxicity studies exposure to the glucuronide was 3.3-fold and 3.6-fold, respectively, above the 
projected exposure in patients receiving 400 mg/BID raltegravir. 
The  toxicological  assessment  of  impurities  is  covered  by  an  oral  gavage  study  in  rats  over 
approximately 5 weeks. The results of this study support the proposed specification limits. 
•  Other studies 
After a single dose administration of raltegravir (1000, 1500, or 2000 mg/kg) by oral gavage to female 
mice,  the  phototoxicity  potential  was  determined  exposing  animals  to  UVB  light  (280  to  320  nm, 
5 minutes), UVA light (300 to 400 nm-4hrs) and visible light (400 to 900 nm-4hrs). Additional groups 
of mice were placed in the dark during the 4-hour exposure period as negative controls. No treatment-
related mortality, body weight effects, or phototoxic effects were noted in any dose group. Based on 
these findings, raltegravir is considered non-phototoxic at doses up to 2000 mg/kg. 
An  assessment  of  the  potential  for  raltegravir  to  cause  in  vitro  haemolysis  of  human,  dog,  or  rat 
erythrocytes  was  conducted  prior  to  initiation  of  the  toxicity  studies.  The  in  vitro  haemolysis  assay 
produced negative results for raltegravir. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental risk assessment conducted according to the guidance EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 
was provided. 
In the phase I, a worst-case PEC in surface water was higher than the action limit of 0.01 µg/L stated 
in  the  guidance  hence  a  phase  II  environmental  fate  and  effect  analysis  was  performed.  The 
conclusions  from  these  phase  II  studies  were  that  raltegravir  is  unlikely  to  represent  a  risk  to  the 
aquatic  environment  or  to  microorganisms.  The  results  indicate  that  raltegravir  is  unlikely  to 
bioaccumulate. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  main  clinical  programme  to  support  the  marketing  authorisation  application  for  ISENTRESS 
consisted of: 
− 
two  identical  phase  III  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  trials  investigating  the 
safety,  tolerability,  and  efficacy  of  raltegravir  400  mg  b.i.d.  in  combination  with  optimised 
background  therapy  (OBT)  in  treatment-experienced  patients  who  failed  antiretroviral 
therapies with triple-class resistant virus (Protocols 018 and 019); 
−  one phase II study for dose-finding in combination therapy in treatment-experienced patients 
(Protocol 005); 
−  one phase II study for proof of concept in monotherapy (part 1) and thereafter dose-finding in 
combination therapy (part 2), both in treatment-naïve patients (Protocol 004). 
Details  of  these  studies  are  summarised  in  Table  1.  Furthermore,  a  phase  I  program  was  conducted 
investigating  amongst  others  the  pharmacokinetics  profile  including  different  pharmaceutical 
formulations as well as drug-drug interactions. 
13/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  clinical  development  program  of  raltegravir  was  consistent  with  the  CHMP  guidance,  and 
specifically in accordance with the applicable EU guideline for the clinical development of medicinal 
products for the treatment of HIV infection (CPMP/EWP/633/02). The overall development strategy 
for raltegravir including the clinical programme was subject to CHMP Scientific Advice.  
A  paediatric  development  programme  has  not  been  initiated  at  time  of  application  for  marketing 
authorisation. 
The approved indication for ISENTRESS is the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) 
infection in treatment-experienced adult patients with evidence of HIV-1 replication despite ongoing 
antiretroviral  therapy,  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral  medicinal  products.  The  difference  to 
the initially claimed indication is the restriction to the use in adult patients. The recommended dose is 
400 mg twice daily. 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Table 1 
Summary of main clinical studies 
Protocol 
004 
(phase IIa) 
Part 1 
004 
(phase IIa) 
Part 2 
005 
(phase IIb) 
P018 
(phase III) 
Design 
/Duration 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomized, 
dose ranging, 
controlled study 
/10 days 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomized, 
dose ranging, 
controlled study 
/48 wks with 
extension to 144 
wks 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomized, 
dose ranging, 
placebo 
controlled study 
/48 wks with 
extension to 144 
wks 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomized, 
placebo 
controlled study 
/48 wks with 
extension to 152 
wks 
Treatment 
N 
Population 
100 mg BID 
200 mg BID 
400 mg BID 
600 mg BID 
Comparator: 
placebo 
100 mg BID 
200 mg BID 
400 mg BID 
600 mg BID 
Comparator: 
EFV 
200 mg BID 
400 mg BID 
600 mg BID 
Placebo 
7 
7 
6 
8 
7 
39 
40 
41 
40 
38 
43 
45 
45 
45 
400 mg BID 
Placebo 
232 
118 
Treatment-naive 
patients with plasma 
HIV RNA ≥5000 
copies/ml and CD4 
cell counts ≥100 
cells/mm3; at least 
18 years of age 
Treatment-
experienced patients 
with plasma HIV 
RNA >5000 
copies/ml and CD4 
cell counts >50 
cells/mm3 and 
documented resistant 
to at least one ART 
in each of the three 
classes; at least 18 
years of age 
Treatment-
experienced with 
plasma HIV RNA 
≥1000 copies/ml and 
documented 
resistance to 3 ART 
classes; at least 16 
years of age 
Study 
objectives 
Part 1: 
Dose finding 
and proof of 
concept 
(monotherapy) 
Part 2: 
Dose finding 
(combination 
therapy: 
TDF+3TC) 
Dose finding 
(combination 
therapy: OBT) 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Change 
from 
baseline in 
plasma HIV 
RNA on 
day 10 
Proportion 
of patients 
with HIV 
RNA <400 
copies/ml at 
Week 24 
Change 
from 
baseline in 
HIV RNA 
at 
Week 24 
Demonstration 
of efficacy 
(combination 
therapy: OBT) 
Proportion 
of patients 
with HIV 
RNA <400 
copies/ml at 
Week 16 
14/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
019 
(phase III) 
Multi-center, 
double-blind, 
randomized, 
placebo 
controlled study 
/48 wks with 
extension to 152 
wks 
Pharmacokinetics 
400 mg BID 
Placebo 
230 
119 
Treatment-
experienced with 
plasma HIV RNA 
≥1000 copies/ml and 
documented 
resistance to 3 ART 
classes; at least 16 
years of age 
Demonstration 
of efficacy 
(combination 
therapy: OBT) 
Proportion 
of patients 
with HIV 
RNA <400 
copies/ml at 
Week 16 
The  programme  investigating  the  clinical  pharmacokinetics  of  raltegravir  comprised  several  phase  I 
studies in healthy subjects and in special populations (patients with hepatic insufficiency, patients with 
renal insufficiency) as well as an additional study studying the effect of UGT1A1 polymorphism.  
Concentrations  of  raltegravir  in  human  biological  fluids  (plasma  and  urine)  were  determined  using 
validated  liquid  chromatography-tandem  mass  spectrometric  detection  (LC-MS/MS)  methods.  The 
lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) for the plasma assay was 4.5nM (2ng/ml) and the linear calibration 
range was 4.5-2250 nM (2-1000 ng/ml). The LLOQ for urine assay was 563 nM (250 ng/ml) and the 
linear  calibration  range  was  563-56300 nM  (250-25000  ng/ml).  All  the  methods  were  properly 
validated and met usual acceptance criteria. 
•  Absorption  
The absolute bioavailability of raltegravir from clinically used formulations has not been determined. 
In a mass balance study in which a single dose of 200 mg [14C]-raltegravir (185.92 µCi) formulated in 
a capsule was administered to eight male subjects in the fasted state urinary recovery suggested that 
the minimum bioavailability in this study was 32%. 
Bioequivalence 
The  clinical  development  was  performed  with  three  different  pharmaceutical  formulations.  First  a 
rapidly  disintegrating  tablet  was  developed  (Phase  I  lactose  formulation)  followed  by  a  tablet 
presenting  improved  pharmacokinetic  properties  (Phase  I  poloxamer  formulation).  The  Phase 
II/III/FMI  poloxamer  formulation  was  developed  for  use  in  later  clinical  studies  and  is  intended  for 
marketing.  
An  open-label,  single-dose,  4-period,  partially  randomised,  crossover  bioequivalence  study  was 
conducted in fifteen young, healthy, male subjects investigating different formulations of raltegravir in 
a fasted state (study 007). This study included the comparison between the Phase I lactose formulation 
tablet  and  the  Phase  I  poloxamer  formulation  tablet.  Raltegravir  was  more  bioavailable  from  the 
Phase 1  lactose  tablet  than  from  the  Phase  1  poloxamer  formulation  (AUC0-∞:  25.69  µM•hr  versus 
16.07 µM•hr; geometric Mean (90% CI for GMR) for Treatment Ratio: 0.63 (0.51, 0.77)). 
A  bioequivalence  study  was  not  performed  between  these  phase  I  formulations  and  the  phase 
II/III/FMI  formulation.  As  shown  in  Table  2  a  comparison  between  monotherapy  in  ART-naïve 
patients in study 004 and multiple dosing of healthy volunteers in the fasted state showed that mean 
raltegravir PK parameters on dosing with the Phase I poloxamer formulation were generally similar to 
those observed with the Phase II/III/FMI poloxamer formulation. There was also no evidence of any 
formulation-related  alterations  in  clearance  and  so  the  results  of  the  three  drug  interaction  studies 
performed  with  the  Phase  I  poloxamer  formulation  were  considered  to  be  applicable  to  the 
Phase II/III/FMI poloxamer formulation. 
15/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Geometric Mean PK values in studies with multiple 400 mg doses in the fasted state 
Protocol 
Formulation 
001 
004 
008 
010 
017 
Phase I Lactose 
Phase II/III/FMI Poloxamer 
Phase I Poloxamer 
Phase I Poloxamer 
Phase II/III/FMI Poloxamer 
N 
6 
6 
9 
10 
15 
AUC0-12 hr 
(µM•hr)† 
28.68 
14.3 
10.29 
19.25 
9.97 
Cmax 
(µM)† 
11.18 
4.5 
2.87 
5.95 
2.85 
C12 hr 
(nM)† 
200.6 
141.7 
142.2 
124.6 
129 
Tmax 
(hr)‡ 
1 
- 
1.5 
2.0 
4.0 
Effect of food 
In  a  cross  over  study  in  20  subjects,  a  single  dose  of  400  mg  as  the  Phase  II/III/FMI  poloxamer 
formulation was administered either with a standard high fat meal or in the fasting state (study 028). 
The extent of raltegravir absorption (AUC0-∞) was slightly higher in the fed state but food slowed the 
rate and extended the duration of absorption with a 34% decrease in Cmax, an 8.5-fold increase in C12 h 
and a 7.3 h delay in Tmax.  
A  second  study  investigated  the  food  effect  in  a  4-period  crossover  design  in  20  subjects  who  all 
received  400  mg  raltegravir  q12h  for  10  days  (study  035).  On  Days  4,  6,  8  and  10  subjects  were 
randomised  to  receive  the  morning  dose  after  one  of  the  following:  Treatment  A  (low-fat  meal), 
Treatment  B  (moderate-fat  meal),  Treatment  C  (high-fat  meal)  and  Treatment  D  (fasted).  Blood 
samples were collected after the morning doses on Days 4, 6, 8 and 10 (last dose in the morning). The 
results are presented in Table 3. 
Table 3 
Raltegravir Steady-State PK - Specified Meal or Fasted 
Parameter 
Food Regimen GM 
Food Regimen 
GMR 
90% CIs for GM Ratio 
Fed to Fasted 
(units) 
C12hr 
(nM) 
AUC0-12h 
(µM*hr) 
Cmax 
(µM) 
Tmax 
(hours)a 
19 
453 
182 
110 
0.86 
4.13 
1.66 
11.3 
21.2 
93.9 
N  High  Mod.  Low  Fasted  High  Mod.  Low  High  Mod. 
(1.04, 
19 
2.64) 
(0.85, 
1.49) 
(0.75, 
1.46) 
(1.00, 
10.00) 
(2.60, 
6.57) 
(1.60, 
2.80) 
(1.41, 
2.73) 
(1.05, 
12.00) 
10.0 
2.85 
5.32 
1.31 
2.71 
3.00 
5.38 
4.00 
3.00 
4.00 
2.11 
1.96 
1.05 
0.48 
0.54 
1.13 
19 
19 
Low 
(0.54, 
1.36) 
(0.41, 
0.71) 
(0.35, 
0.67) 
(0.50, 
12.00) 
High = high-fat meal; Mod. = moderate-fat meal; Low = low-fat meal. 
a Median (min, max) values presented for Tmax. 
The  results  suggest  that  a  low  fat  meal  resulted  in  plasma  levels  lower  than  seen  in  the  fasted  state 
while a high fat meal increased Cmax, AUC and C12h and a moderate fat meal increased C12h but had 
only a small effect on Cmax and AUC. It is proposed that the differences between low, moderate and 
high-fat meals may be attributable to differences in gastric or biliary secretions secondary to meal fat 
content  or  change  in  gastric  pH.  However,  considerable  inter-individual  variability  was  seen 
particularly with respect to C12hr for which the coefficients of variation were 201%, 123% and 221% 
percent for low, moderate and high-fat meals, respectively, compared to 47% for the fasted state.  
Raltegravir was taken with or without food in clinical studies in patients. Therefore, although the true 
effect of food on the absorption of raltegravir remains uncertain, the SPC recommends that it may be 
taken with or without food. 
•  Distribution 
Raltegravir  is  83%  bound  to  human  plasma  proteins;  binding  is  independent  of  concentration 
(2-10 µM).  Directional  transport  studies  in  LLC-PK1  cells  expressing  human  (L-MDR1)  P-gp 
16/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indicated  that  raltegravir  is  a  substrate  of  P-gp  in  humans.  However,  there  was  no  effect  on  [3H]-
vinblastine (VBL) accumulation in L-MDR1 and KB-V1 cell lines, indicating that raltegravir is not a 
P-gp  inhibitor.  Based  on  the  estimated  apparent  volume  of  distribution  (Vss/F)  of  287  L  raltegravir 
seems to distribute extensively beyond the extracellular space. Raltegravir crossed the placenta in rats 
and rabbits and there was substantial excretion into rat milk.  
•  Elimination 
In the mass balance study 51.1% of the radioactivity was recovered in faeces and 31.8% in urine over 
a 10-day period post-dose and mostly within 72 hours (study 011). Approximately 8 to 11% of the oral 
dose  was  excreted  unchanged  in  urine  during  a  steady-state  dosing  interval,  with  renal  clearance 
values of approximately 54 to 65 ml/min. The apparent terminal elimination half-lives after multiple 
doses were 1 h (α) and 10 to 12 h (β) with an inflection point at around 12 h for most subjects. After 
administration of 400 mg doses in studies 025 and 028 AUC0-12hr accounted for approximately 88% of 
AUC0-∞ and thus AUC12hr-∞ accounted for approximately 12% of AUC0-∞. 
Based  on  in  vitro  studies  and  a  clinical  interaction  study  with  oral  midazolam  raltegravir  is  not 
expected to be a substrate, inhibitor or inducer of cytochrome P450 at clinically recommended doses. 
Studies of in vitro metabolism indicated that glucuronidation of the parent compound was the major 
metabolic pathway in humans, mainly catalysed by UGT1A1 with a minor contribution from UGT1A9 
and  1A3.  The  glucuronidated  metabolite  (M2)  does  not  exhibit  potentially  useful  antiviral  activity. 
Raltegravir is not a potent inhibitor of UGT1A1 or UGT2B7. 
Polymorphisms  in  UGT1A1  are  common  and  the  applicant  conducted  a  study  to  compare  the 
pharmacokinetics of raltegravir in subjects homozygous for the (TA)6 allele (UGT1A1*1/*1 genotype) 
or  homozygous  for  the  (TA)7  allele  (UGT1A1*28/*28  genotype;  expected  maximal  impairment  of 
UGT1A1 activity) (study (013)). Subjects in the two groups were matched for race, gender, age and 
BMI.  Each  subject  received  a  400  mg  single  oral  dose  of  raltegravir  (Phase  II/III/FMI  poloxamer 
formulation) in the fasted state. 
The study enrolled 30 subjects in the UGT1A1 *28/*28 group and 27 in the UGT1A1*1/*1 group. All 
subjects  were  included  in  the  PK  and  statistical  analyses.  On  comparing  former  with  the  latter 
genotype the GMR for AUC0-∞ was 1.41 (90% confidence interval 0.96, 2.09) while the GMR for Cmax 
was  1.40  (90%  confidence  interval  0.86,  2.28).  In  addition,  there  was  an  increase  of  91%  in  the 
observed  C12hr  for  raltegravir  in  subjects  with  UGT1A1*28/*28  compared  to  subjects  with 
UGT1A1*1/*1. 
Raltegravir pharmacokinetics in subjects deficient in UGT1A1 were consistent with those observed on 
co-administration with atazanavir (a UGT1A1 inhibitor). Since plasma levels of raltegravir would be 
higher in those with UGT1A1*28/*28 there is no efficacy concern arising from these data. Taking into 
account  particularly  the  comparative  safety  data  from  the  two  groups  in  study  005  (i.e.  with  and 
without co-administered atazanavir) no dose adjustment is advised with respect to UGT1A1 activity. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality of raltegravir has been assessed in healthy adult subjects for the Phase I lactose 
formulation (Protocol 001) and for the Phase II/II/FMI formulation (study 025). 
Single  and  multiple  doses  across  a  wide  range  were  employed  in  healthy  subjects  (study  001); 
administration was in the fasting state except that single doses of 100 mg and 200 mg were also taken 
with a high fat meal. Steady state was achieved within two days of dosing at all dose levels examined 
with average accumulation ratios for AUC0-12hr and Cmax of 0.7 to 1.2 and for C12 hr of 1.2 to 1.6. 
After  administration  of  multiple  doses  the  AUC0-12hr  and  Cmax  did  not  show  dose  proportionality 
beyond 600 mg twice daily.  
17/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However, in a definitive assessment of dose proportionality with single doses in study 025 the AUC0-∞ 
and Cmax were dose proportional over 100 to 1600 mg and there was approximate dose proportionality 
for C12 h over 100 to 800 mg.  
Raltegravir does not appear to display time-dependent pharmacokinetics. 
• 
Inter- and intra-subject variability 
Data from healthy subjects and from patients (mainly from sparse sampling) demonstrated that there 
was  variability  in  Tmax  within  and  between  subjects  that  was  associated  with  variability  in  Cmax  and 
C12hr so that a later Tmax resulted in a lower Cmax and higher C12hr compared to an earlier Tmax. It was 
noted  that  the  same  subject  could  have  very  different  Tmax  values  on  different  sampling  days, 
indicating that the variability in Tmax cannot be fully explained by a constant descriptor such as gender 
or UGT1A1 genotype.  
Table 4 presents pharmacokinetic data obtained after administration of the Phase II/III/FIM poloxamer 
formulation  in  healthy  subjects  (study  025)  and  HIV-infected  patients  (studies  018  and  019), 
respectively. 
Table 4 
Intersubject and Intrasubject Variability for Raltegravir Pharmacokinetic  
Parameters 
Pharmacokinetic 
Parameter 
Phase I 
C12hr (nM) 
AUC0-∞ (µM•hr) 
Phase III 
Geometric Mean 
Observed C12hr (nM) 
Study 
Number 
W-S Variance (log scale) 
Point Estimate (% CV)† 
B-S Variance (log scale)  
Point Estimate (% CV)† 
025 
025 
0.1405 (38.8 %) 
0.1759 (43.9%) 
018, 019 
0.907 (122%) 
0.187 (45.2%) 
0.439 (74.2%) 
1.705 (212%) 
Food,  gastric  pH  and  concomitant  medications  (e.g.  that  affect  UGT1A1  activity  or  increase  intra-
gastric  pH)  are  also  likely  to  affect  exposure.  The  impact  of  some  of  these  factors  on  raltegravir 
pharmacokinetics  can  be  seen  in  an  examination  of  mean  observed  raltegravir  C12h  values  during 
dosing with 400 mg twice daily in HIV positive patients under various dosing conditions in the Phase 
II and III studies (Table 5).  
Table 5 
Raltegravir Geometric Mean Observed C12hr Values Obtained under Various Dosing 
Conditions 
Dosing Conditions 
Treatment (all 400 mg BID) 
N 
GM (90% CI) for 
GM Obs C12hr 
142 (88, 229) 
239 (150, 381) 
329 (230, 471) 
269 (240, 301) 
272 (241, 306) 
155 (120, 202) 
320 (281, 364) 
363 (209, 628) 
203 (133, 310) 
6 
6 
29 
285 
260 
59 
201 
8 
17 
P004 monotherapy (full profile) 
P004 +3TC, TDF (full profile) 
P004 +3TC, TDF 
P005, 018, 019 combined 
P018, 019 combined 
P018, 019 TPV in OBT 
P018, 019 no TPV in OBT 
P005, ATV in OBT 
P005, no ATV in OBT 
†"food" in Dosing Conditions column indicates dosing was conducted without regard to food intake, and so 
may have been either fasted or fed 
GM Obs C12hr = geometric mean of observed C12hr values from sparse PK sampling 
N = number of patients in the treatment group. 
OBT = Optimized Background Therapy; 3TC = Lamivudine; TDF = tenofovir; ATV = Atazanavir; TPV = 
tipranavir/ritonavir 
monotherapy, fasted 
+3TC, TDF, fasted 
+3TC, TDF, food† 
+OBT, food† 
+OBT food† 
+OBT with TPV, food† 
+OBT no TPV, food† 
+OBT with ATV, food† 
+OBT no ATV, food† 
18/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetic data collected during studies in treatment experienced patients were too few and 
collected under too variable conditions to allow for reliable conclusions to be drawn from population 
PK analyses.  
As a result, it was not possible to determine from available evidence whether the extremes of plasma 
concentrations  of  raltegravir  that  have  been  documented  have  a  clinically  important  effect  on  safety 
and efficacy. The applicant’s proposals for pharmacokinetic criteria that might indicate no important 
effects  for  safety  (AUC  increase)  and  efficacy  (C12h)  were  considered  to  be  unreliable.  The  SPC 
describes  the  inter-  and  intra-individual  variability  observed  and  mentions  possible  contributing 
factors.  The  CHMP  requested  that  the  applicant  provides  post-approval  a  detailed  plan  to  further 
explore  the  implications  for  safety  and  efficacy  of  the  inter-  and  intra-individual  variability  in  the 
pharmacokinetics of raltegravir. 
•  Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Due to the projected minor component of renal elimination for raltegravir the applicant compared the 
pharmacokinetics only between subjects with severe renal insufficiency and controls with normal renal 
function. Of the ten subjects with severe renal insufficiency three had notably lower plasma exposures 
(AUC 3.6 to 7.4 µM•h) compared to the other seven (AUC ≥ 10 µM•h and up to 43 µM•h) whereas the 
ten controls all had AUCs in the range 10.8 – 31.7 µM•h. There was no apparent relationship between 
raltegravir AUC0-∞, Cmax or C12 h and the pre-study creatinine clearance value. No dose adjustment 
is considered to be necessary when creatinine clearance falls below 30 ml/min. 
Hepatic impairment 
Raltegravir  pharmacokinetics  were  compared  between  eight  subjects  with  moderate  hepatic 
insufficiency  (Child-Pugh  scores  7-8)  and  eight  matched  controls  per  group.  Among  the  eight  with 
moderate  hepatic  insufficiency  the  actual  range  of  AUC  and  Cmax  values  was  wide  (e.g.  from 
3.05 µM•h to 50.08 µM•h) whereas the eight controls all had AUCs in the range 13.24 – 36.42 µM•h. 
However,  this  spread  of  values  was  similar  to  that  seen  in  other  studies  in  healthy  subjects.  On 
comparing mean values between healthy subjects and those with moderate hepatic insufficiency there 
was no clinically important effect of moderate hepatic insufficiency on raltegravir pharmacokinetics, 
which was thought likely because glucuronidation is spared in hepatic insufficiency. For this reason no 
study in severe hepatic insufficiency was performed.  
Other populations 
There did not appear to be significant  effect of gender, age race or weight on raltegravir  pharmaco-
kinetics. However, it needs to be considered that the results from the population PK analysis must be 
interpreted  with  caution  as  the  model  provided  a  poor  prediction  of  the  absorption  phase  in  the  fed 
state, which is of relevance due to the very large effect on food on the PK profile of raltegravir and the 
unknown food status of the patients during the data collection in the phase II and III studies.  
There are no data in children (age < 16 years). 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Table 6 summarises the data from the drug-drug interaction studies. Single or multiple doses of 400 
mg raltegravir were co-administered (except study 006). The formulations used varied but 6 out of 9 
studies  used  one  of  the  two  poloxamer  formulations  and  exposure  to  raltegravir  would  have  been 
potentially higher in the three that used the Phase I lactose tablets. 
19/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 
Results from drug-drug interaction studies 
Co-administered Drug 
Study 
Atazanavir 
Atazanavir and Ritonavir* 
Atazanavir and Ritonavir  
Ritonavir 
Efavirenz 
Rifampicin 
Tipranavir and Ritonavir  
Tipranavir and Ritonavir* 
TMC125 
Tenofovir 
006 
360 
010 
002 
003 
009 
017 
375 
026 
008 
C12hr 
GMR† (90% CI)† 
1.95 (1.30, 2.92) 
AUC 
GMR† (90% CI)† 
1.72 (1.47, 2.02) 
Cmax 
GMR† (90% CI)† 
1.53 (1.11, 2.12) 
1.41 (0.90, 2.20) 
1.29 (1.02, 1.64) 
NA 
1.77 (1.39, 2.25) 
1.41 (1.12, 1.78) 
1.24 (0.87, 1.77) 
0.99 (0.70, 1.40) 
0.84 (0.70, 1.01) 
0.76 (0.55, 1.04) 
0.79 (0.49, 1.28) 
0.64 (0.52, 0.80) 
0.64 (0.41, 0.98) 
0.39 (0.30, 0.51) 
0.60 (0.39, 0.91) 
0.62 (0.37, 1.04) 
0.45 (0.31, 0.66) 
0.76 (0.49, 1.19) 
0.82 (0.46, 1.46) 
0.49 (0.37, 0.64) 
0.65 (0.58, 0.73) 
NA 
0.66 (0.34, 1.26) 
0.90 (0.68, 1.18) 
0.89 (0.68, 1.15) 
1.03 (0.73, 1.45) 
1.49 (1.15, 1.94) 
1.64 (1.16, 2.32) 
Tenofovir 
1.42 (0.89, 2.28) 
†  Geometric  Mean  Ratio  (co-administration/administration  alone)  for  single-dose  AUC0-∞  (002,  003,  006, 
009)  or  multiple-dose  AUC0-τ  (studies  004,  005,  008,  010,  017,  026)  and  C12  hr  on  the  day  of  co-
administration  
1.33  (0.96, 1.85) 
1.41 (1.11, 1.79) 
004/005# 
*  Population PK estimates 
#  Data derived from patient sampling during phase 2 studies 
In addition, an interaction study with midazolam was conducted (study 016). The study confirms that 
raltegravir  does  not  alter  the  pharmacokinetics  of  a  CYP3A4  substrate  (GMR  (90%  CI): 
AUC 0.92 ng•h/ml (0.82, 1.03); Cmax 1.03 µg/ml (0.87, 1.22)). 
Overall,  raltegravir  probably  has  a  low  propensity  to  affect  or  to  be  affected  by  the  majority  of  co-
administered medicinal products. Nevertheless, the following issues were particularly discussed during 
the assessment: 
−  During the 10-day monotherapy phase in ART naïve patients in 004 the PK findings were 
similar  to  those  observed  in  healthy  subjects  when  administered  the  same  dose  and 
formulation.  However,  during  combination  therapy  with  tenofovir  and  lamivudine  the 
AUC0-12  h  (41%),  Cmax  and  C12  h  (42%)  raltegravir  were  higher  compared  to  the 
monotherapy  phase.  Also,  exposure  to  lamivudine  was  higher  when  it  was  given  with 
raltegravir compared to administration with efavirenz (each in combination with tenofovir). 
−  Administration  of  omeprazole  prior  to  administration  of  raltegravir  in  healthy  subjects 
resulted  in  an  approximately  3.1-fold  increase  in  raltegravir  AUC0-∞,  4.1-fold  increase  in 
Cmax, and 46% increase in C12hr. A likely mechanism to explain these results  is increased 
bioavailability due to improved solubility of raltegravir at higher pH. It has been reported 
that  AIDS  patients  have  gastropathy  with  hypochlorhydria.  The  applicant  proposed  that 
this  may  explain  in  part  why  the  population  PK  data  suggested  that  raltegravir  PK 
parameters  were  not  significantly  altered  in  treatment  experienced  patients  taking  a  pH-
altering agent. However, the data in patients are considered to be unreliable and there is a 
particular need to further assess the effects of medicinal products that increase intra-gastric 
pH in patients rather than in healthy subjects.  
−  Co-administration  with  rifampicin  produces  a  profound  decrease  in  raltegravir  plasma 
concentrations. The data suggest that an increase in raltegravir dose is needed during co-
administration. 
The SPC in section 4.5 provides an adequate description of the currently known interaction profile of 
raltegravir.  The  CHMP  requested  further  data  to  be  generated  post-approval  by  studying  the 
20/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interaction between raltegravir and rifabutin, as well as the interaction between raltegravir and one PPI 
and one H2 blocker. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  properties  of  raltegravir  were  investigated  in  isolates  obtained  from  HIV 
patients  enrolled  into  the  phase  II  and  III  studies  (see  Table  1).  The  following  presents  these  data 
together  with  a  brief  summary  of  virological  data.  In  addition,  information  from  the  QTc  study  in 
healthy subjects and the integrated PK/PD analyses is described. 
Details on nonclinical pharmacodynamic studies are presented in section “Nonclinical Aspects”. 
•  Mechanism of action 
Raltegravir  inhibits  the  HIV-1  integrase  enzyme,  which  is  an  enzyme  encoded  by  the  HIV-1 
responsible for covalent insertion of the HIV-1 proviral DNA into the genomic DNA of the host cell. 
The  process  of  integration  occurs  in  four  steps  (assembly,  3’  processing,  strand  transfer,  and 
reparation) of which the first three are realised by the integrase; raltegravir inhibits the third step of the 
integration process (Integrase Strand Transfer Inhibitor, InSTI). 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Raltegravir inhibited the enzymatic activity of purified recombinant HIV-1 integrase with an apparent 
IC50  of  approximately  10  nM.  In  comparison,  raltegravir  did  not  inhibit  the  DNA  polymerase  or 
RNaseH  activities  of  HIV-1  reverse  transcriptase  at  concentrations  of  25 µM  or  higher.  There  was 
>1,000-fold selectively for integrase with respect to human DNA polymerases α, β and γ, with IC50 > 
50 µM for each of these polymerases.  
In vitro resistance 
The  potential  for  HIV-1  to  develop  resistance  to  raltegravir  was  evaluated  by  culturing  a  laboratory 
HIV-1 isolate in human T lymphoid H9 cells in increasing concentrations of the agent over a period of 
months.  The  first  change  observed  was  Q148K,  which  arose  during  growth  in  25  to  50  nM  i.e. 
exceeding the CIC95. The Q148K mutation persisted during growth in increasing concentrations up to 
500nM. After passage in 1 µM, mutations E138A and G140A were sequentially incorporated. Growth 
in still higher concentrations resulted in the appearance of additional mutations in the integrase gene. 
Thus,  the  ability  of  HIV  variants  to  replicate  in  higher  concentrations  of  raltegravir  was  correlated 
with the appearance of mutations in the integrase gene. 
To further evaluate effects of mutations on susceptibility some of those that had been observed were 
introduced into a wild-type HIV-1 isolate and the resultant viruses were tested in a single-cycle HIV-1 
infectivity assay. The Q148K, E138A/Q148 and E138A/G140A/Q148K mutations resulted in average 
fold-shift IC50 values of 46-fold, 90-fold and 508-fold, respectively. 
Viruses containing other integrase mutations were also evaluated for their effects on susceptibility to 
raltegravir.  Some  of  these  mutations  were  observed  during  cell  culture  resistance  selection 
experiments with integrase inhibitors other than raltegravir. In general, these mutations conferred less 
than 10-fold differences in susceptibility to raltegravir although the N155S mutation resulted in ~19-
fold  increase  in  IC50.  Other  mutations  were  observed  in  the  integrase  genes  of  viruses  isolated  from 
HIV-1-infected  patients  who  failed  ART  regimens  including  raltegravir.  These  mutations,  including 
the primary mutations N155H, Q148H, and Q148R, each conferred a greater than 10-fold increase in 
the IC50. 
In vivo resistance 
In  raltegravir-treated  patients  who  had  viral  rebound  or  non-response  in  the  clinical  studies,  the 
emergence of resistant viruses was monitored by isolating plasma viral RNA, determining the amino 
21/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acid sequences encoded by the integrase gene and comparing the sequence at virological failure with 
the sequence at baseline for the same patient. The first resistance mutations were observed at Week 4. 
The following observations were made: 
−  Virological  failure  was  generally  associated  with  mutation  at  either  amino  acid  148  (Q 
changed to H, K, or R) or amino acid 155 (N changed to H). When introduced into HIV-1 
by site-directed mutagenesis, primary mutations at position 155 or 148 conferred decreased 
susceptibility to raltegravir and were associated with decreased viral replication capacity in 
cell culture. 
−  The  majority  of  viruses  isolated  at  virological  failure  contained  two  or  more  resistance-
associated  mutations  in  integrase.  In  viruses  from  a  small  number  of  virological  failures 
there were two or more secondary mutations without a mutation at amino acid 148 or 155. 
Individually, secondary mutations at amino acid residues L74, E92, T97, F121, E138 and 
G140  had  a minimal  effect  on  susceptibility  to  raltegravir  but  combinations  of  mutations 
resulted  in  decreased  susceptibility.  Secondary  mutations  at  other  positions  (e.g.  Y143, 
G163,  S230  and  D232)  have  not  yet  been  examined  in  detail.  The  addition  of  secondary 
mutations  to  primary  mutations  sometimes,  but  not  always,  resulted  in  increased  viral 
replication capacity, though replication capacities of these mutants were lower compared to 
wild-type virus. 
−  Factors  that  decreased  the  likelihood  of  developing  mutation  at  either  amino  acid  148  or 
155 (i.e. with a Hazard Ratio <1) included lower viral load, the use of darunavir in OBT, 
PSS  >0  and  GSS>0.  A  factor  that  increased  the  likelihood  of  developing  a  mutation  at 
either amino acid 148 or 155 was lower CD4 count (≤ 50 vs > 200).   
By  Week  24,  84  raltegravir-treated  patients  in  studies  018  and  019  had  met  the  definition  of 
virological failure and integrase genotype data were available for 60 patients. Among the viruses from 
these 60 patients 42 (70%) showed genotypic evidence of raltegravir resistance when tested at a point 
near or corresponding to the time of rebound. 
Table  7  shows  the  number  and  percent  of  patients  displaying  signature  integrase  mutations  in  the 
N155 pathway, the Q148 pathway, the Y143 pathway or other pathways. A subgroup analysis is also 
reported for patients who had baseline GSS of 0, 1 or ≥ 2 (defined as before with respect to counting 
of enfuvirtide and darunavir). 
Table 7 
Patients from studies 018 and 019 with virological failure by Week 24 and genotypic 
data available 
Resistance Mutations Observed in 
Integrase Gene 
N155 pathway 
Q148 pathway 
Y143 pathway 
Multiple pathways‡‡ 
Other pathways 
 Without mutations known to confer R 
Integrase Genotypes 
Available‡ 
(N = 60) 
n (%) 
21 (35) 
9 (15) 
5 (8.3) 
4 (6.7) 
3 (5) 
18 (30) 
Baseline  
GSS = 0†† 
(N = 31) 
n (%) 
11 (35.5) 
5 (16.1) 
1 (3.2) 
4 (12.9) 
2 (6.5) 
8 (25.8) 
Baseline  
GSS = 1†† 
(N = 15) 
n (%) 
5 (33.3) 
3 (20) 
4 (26.7) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
3 (20) 
Baseline  
GSS ≥ 2†† 
(N = 14) 
n (%) 
5 (35.7) 
1 (7.1) 
0 (0) 
0 (0) 
1 (7.1) 
7 (50) 
Thus available data continue to indicate that the 148 and 155 pathways constitute the major raltegravir 
resistance  pathways  but  there  have  been  a  small  number  of  patients  failing  raltegravir  who  have 
developed integrase mutations that do not include a substitution at either 148 or 155. Substitutions at 
Y143  (Y143C  or  Y143R)  occurred  in  some  patients  and  one  patient  had  a  substitution  at  F121 
(F121N).  Phenotypic  testing  of  site-directed  mutants  in  a  single-cycle  infectivity  assay  shows  that 
these substitutions can contribute to raltegravir resistance. 
22/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect on the OTc interval 
The  effect  of  raltegravir  on  the  QTc  interval  has  been  investigated  in  a  double-blind,  randomised, 
placebo-controlled,  double-dummy,  3-period,  balanced  cross  over  study  in  healthy  volunteers  using 
moxifloxacin as the positive control. Mean exposure to raltegravir (in a subset of 12 subjects) after a 
1600 mg dose was considerably higher than seen for 400 mg doses. While the actual range of values 
after 1600 mg was from 2.9 to 56.9 µM for Cmax, 15 to 181 µM.h for AUC 0-12h and 143 to 391 nM 
for C12h there was no relationship detected between plasma exposure and QTcf. Raltegravir appeared 
not to have a clinically important effect on the QTc interval and there were no notable effects on heart 
rate, PR intervals and QRS duration. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship 
Two integrated PK/PD reports were produced by the applicant: 360 – PK/PD from 004 and 005 (Phase 
II dose-finding studies), and 375 – PK/PD from 005, 018 and 019 (pooled 400 mg b.i.d. in treatment-
experienced patients plus OBT). 
Due to the limited PK sampling in treatment-experienced patients and the degree of inter- and intra-
individual variability observed, the CHMP considered that the findings reported from these analyses 
must  be  viewed  with  some  considerable  caution.  Therefore  the  following  conclusions  are  not 
considered to be well-founded at present and there is a need for further evaluation of the importance of 
intermittent or persistent exposure to low or high raltegravir plasma concentrations post-approval: 
−  In  ART-experienced  patients  in  study  005  no  PK/PD  association  was  detected  for  any 
efficacy response at week 16 compared to the observed C12 h parameters.  
−  The  data  from  018  and  019  suggested  an  association  between  efficacy  and  the  model-
predicted AUC0-12 h. The applicant considered that the range of raltegravir concentrations 
obtained over 200 to 600 mg doses falls near the top of the concentration-response curve, 
where treatment response may be only modestly concentration-dependent. 
−  Based on the  monotherapy period of 004 in ART naïve patients  the applicant considered 
that Ctrough (C12  hr) is likely the most sensitive PK parameter to predict viral response. The 
lower  limit  of  clinical  experience  (i.e.  with  100  mg  b.i.d.)  was  ~0.4-fold  (60%  decrease) 
that  seen  with  the  recommended  dose  regimen  of  400  mg  b.i.d.  Since  the  applicant 
considered that 100 mg b.i.d. was an efficacious dose a decrease in plasma exposure of up 
to 0.4-fold was considered unlikely to affect efficacy. 
−  Since  the  applicant  considered  that  AEs  did  not  seem  to  correlate  with  Cmax  it  was 
considered  that  AUC  was  the  most  appropriate  PK  parameter  for  judging  the  clinical 
significance of increases in raltegravir plasma concentrations in terms of safety. In Phase 
II, 51 patients received 600 mg raltegravir twice daily in combination with tenofovir and/or 
atazanavir. The applicant states that with this dose a ~50% increase in AUC over that seen 
with  400  mg  would  be  expected  plus  an  increase  by  an  extra  30  to  70%  due  to  the 
additional medicinal products. Thus the applicant considered that AUCs approximately 2-
fold  the  typical  value  observed  with  400  mg  twice  daily  dosing  were  likely  achieved 
without a clear association with AEs.  
The applicant did commit to provide CHMP with a detailed plan to further explore the implications for 
safety and efficacy of the inter- and intra-individual variability in the pharmacokinetics of raltegravir. 
Clinical efficacy  
The application contained efficacy data from the four studies presented in Table 1. For the assessment 
of the marketing authorisation application, the following data was available: 
−  Study  004:  week  48  double-blind  data  for  all  doses;  available  data  beyond  week  48 
reported  
−  Study  005:  week  24  double-blind  data  for  all  doses;  available  data  beyond  week  48 
reported 
23/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Study 018: week 16 and week 24 double-blind data (final data for all patients) 
−  Study 019: week 16 and week 24 double-blind data (final data for all patients) 
In addition, the applicant  provided limited and preliminary results of week 48 from studies 018 and 
019  during  the  procedure  based  on  data  available  in-house  as  of  03.08.2007  and  31.07.2007, 
respectively.  The  final  week  48  efficacy  and  safety  data  was  however  considered  necessary  by  the 
CHMP for the assessment; the applicant did commit to provide these data post-approval. 
All these studies have been performed with the formulation intended for marketing (Phase II/III/FMI 
poloxamer formulation). 
•  Dose response studies 
Two studies were conducted to establish the dose for raltegravir in combination antiretroviral therapy, 
one in ART naïve patients (004) and one in treatment experienced patients (005). The range of doses 
chosen  for  study  was  based  on  the  results  of  the  Phase  I  pharmacokinetic  studies  using  the  Phase  I 
lactose formulation and the noted relationship between mean C12 hr and the IC95 in 50% human serum 
for antiretroviral activity.  
Study 004 
Study 004 was a multi-centre, double-blind randomised dose-ranging, controlled study in ART naïve 
patients, which was conducted in two parts: 
−  Part I compared raltegravir monotherapy (100 mg, 200 mg, 400 mg and 600 mg, all b.i.d.) 
with placebo over 10 days (N=35). This was followed by a planned interim analysis before 
initiation of Part II that necessitated a time gap between Parts I and II. 
−  Part  II  compared  raltegravir  (100 mg,  200 mg,  400 mg  and  600 mg,  all  b.i.d.)  with 
efavirenz  600  mg  once  daily  each  administered  in  combination  with  tenofovir  and 
lamivudine. By amendment the study will continue to Week 144 (N=198). 
In part I the mean ages per group were in the range 35-45 years, log10 HIV RNA was from 4.5 to 5.0 
and the CD4 counts were from 256 to 568 mm-3; in part II the mean ages per group were in the range 
33-36 years, log10 HIV RNA was from 4.7 to 4.9 and the CD4 counts were from 225 to 277 mm-3. 
In part I each active groups showed a change from baseline in HIV RNA that was superior to placebo 
at Day 10. Over half per active group had <400 copies/ml at Day 10 and one or two per group had 
<50 copies/ml (Table 8). 
Table 8 
Percent  of  patients  with  HIV  RNA  <400  copies/ml  and  <50  copies/ml  at  Day  10  in 
study 004, part I 
Treatment 
Raltegravir 100 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 200 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 600 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 
N 
7 
7 
6 
8 
7 
Percent of patients with HIV 
RNA <400 copies/ml 
n 
4 
4 
3 
4 
0 
% (95% CI) 
57.1 (18.4, 90.1) 
57.1 (18.4, 90.1) 
50.0 (11.8, 88.2) 
50.0 (15.7, 84.3) 
0.0 (0.0, 41.0) 
Percent of patients with HIV 
RNA <50 copies/ml 
n 
1 
2 
2 
1 
0 
% (95% CI) 
14.3 (0.4, 57.9) 
28.6 (3.7, 71.0) 
33.3 (4.3, 77.7) 
12.5 (0.3, 52.7) 
0.0 (0.0, 41.0) 
In part II, based on the primary analysis of 171 patients, all raltegravir dose groups showed changes in 
HIV  RNA  at  Week  24  and  at  Week  48  that  were  similar  to  those  in  the  efavirenz  control  group 
(Table 9).  
24/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Percent  of  patients  with  HIV  RNA  <400  copies/ml  over  time  at  Week  48  in  study 
004, part II 
Treatment 
Percent of patients with HIV RNA 
<400 copies/ml 
Raltegravir 100 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 200 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 600 mg b.i.d. 
Efavirenz 600 mg q.d. 
Non-completer = Failures 
n 
32/33 
27/33 
35/35 
30/34 
29/34 
% (95% CI) 
97.0 (84.2, 99.0) 
81.8 (64.5, 93.0) 
100.0 (90.0, 100.0) 
88.2 (72.5, 96.7) 
85.3 (68.9, 95.0) 
Raltegravir minus 
Efavirenz 
Difference (95% CI) 
11.7 (-2.7, 27.8) 
-3.5 (-22.3, 15.1) 
14.7 (4.0, 30.3) 
2.9 (-14.5, 20.5) 
For  patients  with  >100,000  copies/ml  at  baseline,  77,  75,  83  and  100  %  in  the  four  ascending 
raltegravir dose groups had <50 copies/ml at Week 24 compared with 86% in the efavirenz group. A 
similar analysis of Week 48 data showed that 85, 67, 67 and 88% raltegravir patients with >100,000 
copies/ml at baseline had <50 copies/ml compared with 71% in the efavirenz group. 
At Week 24, the average increase in CD4 cell count ranged from 122 to 184 cells/ml for raltegravir 
groups  compared  to  101  cells/ml  for  efavirenz.  Corresponding  values  at  Week  48  were  140  to  216 
cells/ml compared to 156 cells/ml. 
Study 005 
Study  005  was  a  multi-centre,  double-blind,  randomised,  dose-ranging,  placebo-controlled  study  in 
treatment-experienced  patients.  Patients  had  HIV  RNA  >5,000  copies/ml  and  CD4  cell  counts 
>50 cells/ml  despite  current  stable  (>  3  months)  therapy,  plus  documented  resistance  to  at  least  one 
compound in each of the three classes of oral antiretroviral therapies (NRTI, NNRTI and PI). Patients 
with hepatitis B or C co-infection were excluded. 
Raltegravir  (200,  400  and  600  mg  b.i.d.)  was  compared  with  placebo,  each  administered  in 
combination with an investigator-selected optimised background therapy (OBT). The use of tipranavir 
or  darunavir  was  not  allowed.  The  duration  of  the  double-blind,  dose-ranging  portion  was  at  least 
24 weeks. 
A total of 179 patients were enrolled with one patient never treated. Based on increase of exposure due 
to  atazanavir  (almost  all  subjects  received  atazanavir  boosted  with  ritonavir)  two  sub-studies  were 
performed: 
A – Patients who did not receive atazanavir in their OBT (N=127); 
B – Patients who did receive atazanavir in their OBT (N=52). 
Patients were also stratified within each sub-study) by: (1) enfuvirtide use in OBT (yes or no); and (2) 
degree of resistance to protease inhibitors (PIs) at study entry (resistant to 1 PI or >1 PI). 
Patients  who  discontinued  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  or  virological  failure  after  completing  at  least 
16 weeks  of  double-blind  therapy  were  allowed  to  enter  an  open-label  post  virological  failure 
(OLPVF) phase in which they received raltegravir in addition to current or revised OBT (initially 600 
mg b.i.d. but reduced to 400 mg b.i.d. when Phase III data were available). Also, later during the study 
conduct  all  patients  who  had  completed  at  least  24  weeks  could  continue  to  receive  400  mg  b.i.d. 
without OBT changes. 
Patient disposition shows the dramatic loss of patients from the placebo group into the OLPVF phase 
with 37 out of 45 patients (82.2%) in the placebo group entering the OLPVF phase. 
The  median  age  was  43  years.  A  diagnosis  of  AIDS  applied  to  82%.  The  median  number  of  prior 
ARTs was 12 with a median duration of any ART of 10 years. At baseline about half of patients had 
HIV  RNA  >  50,000  copies/ml.  Excluding  enfuvirtide,  there  was  no  active  antiretroviral  compound 
25/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(GSS=0) in the OBT for 72% of patients based upon genotypic test results and for 48.3% of patients 
based upon phenotypic test results.  
In sub-study A (no atazanavir that might augment plasma levels of raltegravir) the mean changes from 
baseline in log10 HIV RNA (OF approach) were -1.83, -1.76, -1.74 and -0.26 for the three ascending 
raltegravir  groups  and  placebo,  respectively.  The  changes  in  the  three  raltegravir  groups  were  each 
statistically significantly superior to placebo based upon Mann-Whitney-Wilcoxon rank test (p<0.001) 
and  adjustment  for  multiple  comparisons.  However  there  was  no  significant  difference  between  the 
raltegravir dose groups. 
The  applicant  concluded  that  the  benefit  of  raltegravir  over  placebo  was  not  significantly  different 
between  the  sub-studies  A  and  B.  However,  the  data  from  sub-  study  B  showed  some  possible 
numerical  advantages  for  proportions  with  <  400  and  <  50  copies/ml  and  for  change  in  CD4  count 
when  raltegravir  was  co-administered  with  atazanavir  and  when  600  mg  was  used  compared  to 
400 mg (Table 10).  
Table 10  Treatment outcome at Week 24 in sub-studies A and B of study 005 
Treatment 
Sub-study 
30 
31 
32 
33 
70.00 (50.60, 85.27) 
64.52 (45.37, 80.77) 
62.50 (43.69, 78.90) 
12.12 (3.40, 28.20) 
A (no atazanavir use in OBT) 
Mean (95% CI) 
N 
Percent of patients with HIV RNA <400 copies/ml at Week 24 
Raltegravir 200 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 600 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 
Percent of patients with HIV RNA <50 copies/ml at Week 24 
Raltegravir 200 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 600 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 
Change from baseline CD4 cell count (cells/ml) at Week 24 
Raltegravir 200 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Raltegravir 600 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 
63.33 (43.86, 80.07) 
48.39 (30.15, 66.94) 
56.25 (37.66, 73.64) 
12.12 (3.40, 28.20) 
60.52 (12.89, 108.14) 
102.30 (59.04, 145.56) 
93.77 (48.93, 138.61) 
8.38 (-9.41, 26.16) 
29 
30 
30 
32 
30 
31 
32 
33 
B (atazanavir use in OBT) 
Mean (95% CI) 
N 
13 
14 
13 
12 
13 
14 
13 
12 
12 
13 
12 
11 
69.23 (38.57, 90.91) 
85.71 (57.19, 98.22) 
92.31 (63.97, 99.81) 
25.00  (5.49, 57.19) 
69.23 (38.57, 90.91) 
71.43 (41.90, 91.61) 
92.31 (63.97, 99.81) 
16.67 (2.09, 48.41) 
68.50 (23.80, 113.20) 
137.15 (57.01, 217.30) 
94.83 (44.48, 145.18) 
-3.27 (-38.51, 31.97) 
On pooling the data from sub-studies A and B the results for the three raltegravir groups at Week 24 
(using  the  Observed  Failure  approach  for  mean  change  from  baseline  in  viral  load  and  CD4  count) 
were generally similar although a lower proportion in the 400 mg b.i.d. group achieved <50 copies/ml 
and  there  was  a  higher  rate  of  rebound  (Table  11).  Nevertheless,  for  the  virological  and  cellular 
endpoints all raltegravir groups were superior to placebo.  
26/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11  Treatment outcome at Week 24 of all randomised patients in sub-studies A and B of 
study 005 (pooled data, double-blind phase) 
Outcome 
Patients with HIV RNA <400 copies/ml 
Patients with HIV RNA <50 copies/ml 
Patients  with  >1  log10  drop  in  HIV  RNA  or 
HIV RNA <400 copies/ml 
Mean HIV RNA change from baseline (log10 
copies/ml) 
Mean  CD4  cell  count  change  from  baseline 
(cells/mm3) 
Virologic failure (confirmed) 
Non responder 
Rebound 
Discontinuation due to clinical adverse events 
Discontinuation  due  to  laboratory  adverse 
events 
Discontinuation due to other reasons 
200 mg b.i.d.
(N=43) 
n(%) 
30 (69.8) 
28 (65.1) 
33 (76.74) 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d.
(N=45) 
n(%) 
32 (71.1) 
25 (55.6) 
36 (80.0) 
600 mg b.i.d. 
(N=45) 
n(%) 
32 (71.1) 
30 (66.7) 
36 (80.0) 
-1.80 
62.9 
12 (27.9) 
1 (2.3) 
11 (25.6) 
1 (2.3) 
1 (2.3) 
-1.87 
112.8 
14 (31.1) 
0 (0.0) 
14 (31.1) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
-1.84 
94.1 
12 (26.7) 
1 (2.2) 
11 (24.4) 
1 (2.2) 
0 (0.0) 
Placebo 
(N=45) 
n(%) 
7 (15.6) 
6 (13.3) 
8 (17.8) 
-0.35 
5.4 
35 (77.8) 
25 (55.6) 
10 (22.2) 
1 (2.2) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
The  virological  and  CD4  responses  to  raltegravir  were  of  rapid  onset  with  early  (2-4  weeks) 
divergence from the placebo group. 
Enfuvirtide use in OBT (Yes vs. No), baseline HIV RNA (<50,000 copies/ml vs. >50,000 copies/ml) 
and  baseline  phenotypic  sensitivity  score  (>0  vs.  0)  appeared  to  be  strongly  associated  with  time  to 
virological  failure  while  baseline  genotypic  sensitivity  score  was  less  strongly  associated  with  this 
endpoint.  
Data  available  up  to  week  72  demonstrated  a  sustained  efficacy  response  to  at  least  Week  48.  An 
example is provided in Figure 1. Time to loss of virological response (TLOVR) has been assessed for 
raltegravir patients using any data available to week 72. Failures beyond Week 24 were uncommon.  
Figure 1 
Percent  (95%  CI)  with  <50 copies/ml  by  originally  randomised  treatment  group 
(Sub-studies A and B combined; Non-completer = Failure approach) 
100
Double-Blind Only
Double-Blind and
    Open-Label
h
t
i
w
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
i
L
m
/
s
e
p
o
c
0
5
<
A
N
R
V
H
I
80
60
40
20
0
0 2 4
8
12
16
MK-0518 200 mg b.i.d.
MK-0518 400 mg b.i.d.
MK-0518 600 mg b.i.d.
Placebo
43 43 43
45 45 45
45 45 45
45 45 45
43
45
45
45
43
42
45
45
43
45
45
45
24
Week
43
45
45
45
32
43
45
45
45
40
42
44
45
45
48
42
44
45
45
27/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among  patients  who  had  failed  during  the  study  and  entered  the  OLPVF  phase  nearly  90%  (32/36) 
from the original placebo group showed an initial response to raltegravir and achieved <400 copies/ml 
at Week 4 (Figure 2). Similarly 17/36 achieved <50 copies/ml at Week 4. However, responses tended 
to drop over time, especially among those who did not achieve <50 copies/ml soon after the initiation 
of raltegravir. 
Figure 2 
Percent  of  patients  with  HIV  RNA  <400 copies/ml  over  time  by  originally 
randomised treatment group (raltegravir vs. placebo) – Observed Failure approach 
(Sub-studies A and B combined; Open-label post virological failure phase) 
•  Main studies 
The two double-blind phase 3 studies with identical protocols have been initiated and are ongoing at 
time of this assessment. Both were multicentre, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled studies 
to evaluate the safety and antiretroviral activity of raltegravir (400 mg b.i.d) in combination with an 
optimized background therapy (OBT), versus OBT: 
−  Protocol 018 (BENCHMRK 1) - conducted at 65 sites in Europe, Asia/Pacific, and South 
America (n=352); 
−  Protocol 019 (BENCHMRK 2) - conducted at 53 sites in North and South America (n=351). 
METHODS (FOR BOTH STUDIES) 
Study Participants  
Male  and  female  patients  at  least  16  years  of  age  were  enrolled.  Patients  were  to  have  a  screening 
plasma HIV RNA >1000 copies/ml on stable ART for ≥2 months and were to be infected with HIV 
that showed reduced susceptibility to at least one compound in each of NNRTI, NRTI and PI classes 
based on a genotypic/phenotypic resistance report from the central laboratory.  
Blood  samples  for  viral  resistance  assays  were  collected  at  screening  to  confirm  viral  resistance  as 
required  by  the  inclusion  criteria  and  to  aid  selection  of  OBT  by  commercial  assays.  If  resistance 
evaluation with this assay failed, a prior resistance report, which showed reduced susceptibility to one 
or more ART agents and listed specific mutations indicative of resistance to the specific ART classes, 
was accepted as documentation for study entry. 
Treatments 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. or matching placebo was to be taken without regard to food.  
28/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on screening resistance testing results and prior treatment and resistance history, ARTs were re-
evaluated  to  optimize  the  background  therapy  (OBT).  OBT  could  include  investigational  medicinal 
products, which were under review for licensure provided the following protocol specified conditions 
were  met:  (1)  The  agent  was  available  under  an  expanded  access  program;  (2)  The  agent  had  been 
submitted for regulatory approval; and (3) Potential drug-drug interactions with raltegravir had been 
evaluated.  Darunavir,  in  combination  with  ritonavir,  became  available  during  the  conduct  of  the 
studies. The impact of this agent on the efficacy of raltegravir was evaluated and presented as part 
of the efficacy analyses. 
During the double-blind portion of the study the OBT could be changed only for toxicity management 
(only in-class substitutions were permitted) or after confirmed virological failure, when OBT could be 
changed upon entry into the open-label post virological failure phase (OLPVF) of the study. 
Objectives 
The primary efficacy objective was to evaluate the antiretroviral activity of raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
compared to placebo, both in combination with OBT, as measured by proportions with <400 copies/ml 
at Week 16.  
Other efficacy objectives were  
−  to evaluate the antiretroviral activity of raltegravir compared to placebo based on: 
a. Proportion of patients with virological response at Week 16 
b. Change from baseline in HIV RNA (log10 copies/ml) 
c. Change from baseline in CD4 cell count 
−  to evaluate the antiretroviral activity of raltegravir in combination with OBT at Week 48.  
An evaluation of the safety and tolerability of raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. compared to placebo, both in 
combination with OBT, was performed by review of the accumulated safety data. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary measurement for efficacy in the study was the percentage with < 400 copies/ml and the 
primary time point for evaluation of efficacy was Week 16.  
Sample size 
With 230 patients in the raltegravir group and 115 in the placebo group, each study had 90% power to 
demonstrate superiority of raltegravir over placebo when the true response rate at Week 16 is 70% for 
raltegravir and 50% for placebo assuming a discontinuation rate of 10%. 
Randomisation 
Patients who met the eligibility requirements were randomised to treatment (2 raltegravir: 1 placebo). 
Patients  were  stratified  by  enfuvirtide  use  in  OBT  (yes  or  no)  and  degree  of  resistance  to  protease 
inhibitors (resistant to 1 PI or >1 PI). 
Blinding (masking) 
These  were  double-blind  studies  in  which  the  patients  enrolled,  the  investigator(s)  and  study  site 
personnel and applicant’s personnel were blinded to the study therapy received until all patients had 
completed  the  study  to  Week  16,  the  data  had  been  screened  for  completeness  and  accuracy  and 
protocol violators were identified. 
29/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis population used to assess efficacy was the modified intention to treat (MITT), all 
treated  regardless  of  any  protocol  deviations.  The  MITT  was  constituted  by  the  population  of  all 
randomised patients excluding the ones that did not receive any study medication (see Table 12). 
For  primary  and  secondary  binary  endpoints,  a  logistic  regression  model  adjusted  for  following 
covariates was used: baseline plasma HIV RNA, enfuvirtide use in OBT in enfuvirtide-naïve patients 
(Yes/No), active PI in OBT determined by phenotypic resistance test (Yes/No), darunavir use in the 
OBT in darunavir-naïve patients (Yes/No) and treatment group. 
The  following  approaches  were  used  to  handle  missing  values  for  patients  who  prematurely 
discontinued: 
(cid:190) Observed Failure (OF): Patients who prematurely discontinued assigned treatment due to lack 
of efficacy were considered as failures thereafter. The OF approach considers a virological failure 
endpoint, which is focused on the antiretroviral effect of the treatment 
(cid:190) Treatment-Related  Discontinuation  =  Failure 
(TRD=F):  Patients  who  prematurely 
discontinued assigned treatment due to lack of efficacy or adverse experiences were considered as 
failures thereafter. The TRD=F approach considers a treatment failure endpoint, which also takes 
tolerability into consideration 
(cid:190) Non-Completer  =  Failure  (NC=F):  Patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  assigned  treatment 
regardless  of  reasons  were  considered  as  failures  thereafter.  The  NC=F  approach  considers  a 
study failure endpoint, which depends on the conduct of the study. In a well-conducted trial, the 
non-treatment-related discontinuation rate is low and TRD=F is similar to NC=F. 
Patients  with  virological  failures  starting  at  Week  16  or  beyond  were  allowed  to  receive  open-label 
raltegravir (OLPVF).  
30/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Table 12  Patient flow in studies 018 and 019 (up to Week 16) 
Overall Disposition of Non-Randomized Patients 
Non-randomized Patients (N) 
  Patient excluded due to: 
Clinical adverse experience 
Ineligible (Inclusion criteria not  
met / Exclusion criteria met) 
Lost to follow-up 
Patient withdrew consent 
Protocol deviation (screening  
window exceeded) 
Site terminated 
Overall Disposition of randomised patients 
Protocol 018 
148 
Protocol 019 
161 
1 
132 
0 
8 
5 
2 
3 
142 
2 
12 
2 
0 
Protocol 018 
Placebo 
Total 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Raltegravir 
400 mg 
b.i.d 
n (%) 
Protocol 019 
Placebo 
Total 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Raltegravir 
400 mg 
b.i.d 
n (%) 
234 (100) 
2 (0.9) 
232 (99.1) 
212 (90.6) 
118 (100) 
0 (0.0) 
118 (100) 
68 (57.6) 
352 (100) 
2 (0.6) 
350 (99.4) 
280 (79.5) 
232 (100) 
2 (0.9) 
230 (99.1) 
201 (86.6) 
119 (100) 
0 (0.0) 
119 (100) 
77 (64.7) 
351 (100) 
2 (0.6) 
349 (99.4) 
278 (79.2) 
4 (3.4) 
0 
0 
3 (1.3) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
4 (3.4) 
0 
0 
4 (3.4) 
0 (0.0) 
0 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 
8 (2.3) 
0 
0 
7 (2.0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
6 (2.6) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (1.3) 
1 (0.4) 
2 (0.9) 
0 (0.0) 
4 (1.7 
1 (0.4) 
3 (1.3) 
3 (2.5) 
1 (0.8) 
1 (0.8) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.8) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
9 (2.6) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.1) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.1) 
1 (0.3) 
3 (0.9) 
15 (6.4) 
46 (39.0) 
61 (17.3) 
19 (8.2) 
39 (32.8) 
58 (16.5) 
Double-blind phase 
Total Entered 
  Never Treated 
  Treated 
  Continuing in DB 
Discontinued study be-
fore completing Wk 16 
  Lack of Efficacy 
  Clinical AE 
  Laboratory AE 
  Consent withdrawn 
  Loss to follow-up 
Discontinued study after 
completing Wk 16 
  Clinical AE 
  Consent withdrawn 
Virologic failure, 
entering OLPVF 
15 (6.4) 
0 
OLPVF phase 
Total treated 
  Discontinued from  
  OLPVF 
  Continuing in OLPVF 
Note: MK-0518 and Placebo were administered with Optimized Background Therapy (OBT) 
n (%) = Number (percent) of patients in each sub-category  
DB = Double-blind; OLPVF = Open label post virologic failure 
46 (39.0) 
0 
61 (17.3) 
0 
19 (8.2) 
1 (0.4) 
46 (39.0) 
61 (17.3) 
18 (7.8) 
15 (6.4) 
39 (32.8) 
0 (0.0) 
39 (32.8) 
58 (16.5) 
1 (0.3) 
57 (16.2) 
Conduct of the study 
The first protocol amendment (about 6 months after commencement of enrolment) changed the timing 
of  the  primary  and  secondary  analyses  from  Week  24  to  Week  16  and  extended  the  study  from  48 
weeks to 156 weeks. All patients in the double blind and OLPVF phases are eligible for the extension. 
31/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Table 13  Patient baseline characteristics by treatment group in studies 018 and 019 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 232) 
Protocol 018 
Placebo 
Total 
(N=118) 
(N=350) 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 230) 
Protocol 019 
Placebo 
Total 
(N=119) 
(N=349) 
45.3 (8.5) 
45.0 (16 to 74 
155.2 (143.3) 
130.0 (1 - 792) 
298 (85.1) 
52 (14.9) 
271 (77.4) 
23 (6.6) 
19 (5.4) 
7 (2.0) 
0 
30 (8.6) 
0 
34 (9.7) 
58 (16.6) 
258 (73.7) 
195 (84.1) 
37 (15.9) 
103 (87.3) 
15 (12.7) 
46.1 (8.5) 
45.5 (16 to 74) 
43.7 (8.2) 
43.0 (19 to 64) 
156.4 (139.0) 
140.0 (1 - 792) 
0 
11 (9.3) 
20 (16.9) 
87 (73.7) 
0 
23 (9.9) 
38 (16.4) 
171 (73.7) 
96 (81.4) 
5 (4.2) 
5 (4.2) 
1 (0.8) 
0 
11 (9.3) 
175 (75.4) 
18 (7.8) 
14 (6.0) 
6 (2.6) 
0 
19 (8.2) 
Gender  n (%) 
Male 
Female 
Race   n (%) 
White 
Black 
Asian 
Hispanic 
Native American 
Others 
Region  n (%) 
North America 
Central / South Amer. 
Asia Pacific 
Europe 
Age (years) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (min, max) 
CD4 Cell Count (cells/mm3) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (min, max) 
Plasma HIV RNA (log10 copies / ml) 
4.6 (0.8) 
Mean (SD) 
Median (min, max) 
4.8 (3 to 6) 
Plasma HIV RNA (copies / ml) 
Geometric Mean 
Median 
(min, max) 
History of AIDS    n (%) 
Yes 
Prior Use of ART 
Year of ART Use: 
Median (min, max) 
Number of ART: 
Median (min, max) 
Hepatitis Co-infectionH   n (%) 
No Hepatitis B or C 
Hepatitis B only 
Hepatitis C only 
Hep Co-inf of B + C 
Stratum    n (%) 
Enfuvirtide in OBT 
Resistant to ≥ 2 PI 
H Hepatitis B surface antigen positive or hepatitis C antibody positive. 
31827.9 
42700.0 
(200 - 750000) 
40519.2 
61750.0 
(441 - 750000) 
183 (78.9) 
14 (6.0) 
31 (13.4) 
4 (1.7) 
91 (77.1) 
3 (2.5) 
22 (18.6) 
2 (1.7) 
152.8 (152.0) 
104.5 (3 - 759) 
10.3 (1.3 to 
5.4) 
10.6 (0.3 to 
8.8) 
4.5 (0.8) 
4.6 (2 to 6) 
43  (36.4) 
112 (94.9) 
88 (37.9) 
225 (97.0) 
12.0 (3 to 18) 
12.0 (2 to 19) 
217 (93.5) 
106 (89.8) 
274 (78.3) 
17 (4.9) 
53 (15.1) 
6 (1.7) 
131 (37.4) 
337 (96.3) 
323 (92.3) 
10.5 (0.3 to 
8.8) 
4.6 (0.8) 
4.7 (2 to 6) 
37351.7 
50950.0 
(200 - 750000) 
12.0 (2 to 19) 
210 (91.3) 
20 (8.7) 
107 (89.9) 
12 (10.1) 
317 (90.8) 
32 (9.2) 
126 (54.8) 
48 (20.9) 
2 (0.9) 
47 (20.4) 
1 (0.4) 
6 (2.6) 
192 (83.5) 
38 (16.5) 
0 
0 
77 (64.7) 
21 (17.6) 
1 (0.8) 
18 (15.1) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (1.7) 
99 (83.2) 
20 (16.8) 
0 
0 
203 (58.2) 
69 (19.8) 
3 (0.9) 
65 (18.6) 
1 (0.3) 
8 (2.3) 
291 (83.4) 
58 (16.6) 
0 
0 
45.3 (8.6) 
45.0 (16 to 67) 
46.5 (7.8) 
47.0 (17 to 70) 
45.7 (8.3) 
45.0 (16 to 70) 
146.4 (143.4) 
101.5 (1 - 757) 
163.2 (149.3) 
132.0 (0 - 674) 
152.1 (145.5) 
111.0(0 - 757) 
4.7 (0.8) 
4.8 (2 to 6) 
4.7 (0.7) 
4.7 (2 to 6) 
4.7 (0.8) 
4.7 (2 to 6) 
48366.1 
56750.0 
(200 - 750000) 
47788.6 
46700.0 
(200 - 750000) 
48168.4 
52900.0 
(200 - 750000) 
209 (90.9) 
110 (92.4) 
319 (91.4) 
9.6 (0.0 to 
18.9) 
10.1 (0.0 to 
9.4) 
9.7 (0.0 to 
19.4) 
12.0 (0 to 21) 
12.0 (0 to 22) 
12.0 (0 to 22) 
202 (87.8) 
22 (9.6) 
6 (2.6) 
0 
110 (92.4) 
4 (3.4) 
5 (4.2) 
0 
312 (89.4) 
26 (7.4) 
11 (3.2) 
0 
87 (37.8) 
222 (96.5) 
46 (38.7) 
114 (95.8) 
133 (38.1) 
336 (96.3) 
Further important baseline data were as follows: 
−  In study 018, 52.6% raltegravir and 45.8% placebo patients had baseline plasma HIV RNA 
>50,000 copies/ml while 33.2% and 28.0% in respective groups had >100,000 copies/ml. 
CD4 counts ≤ 50 cells/mm3 were seen in 29.7% and 33.9%. 43.1% in the raltegravir group 
and  46.6%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  had  no  active  PI  in  the  OBT  based  on 
phenotypic sensitivity test results. About 30% per group had no active agent in OBT based 
on GSS and about 20% had no active agent in OBT based on PSS scores. 
32/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  In  study  019,  about  54%  and  49%  in  respective  groups  had  baseline  plasma  HIV  RNA 
>50,000  copies/ml,  38%  in  each  group  had  >100,000  copies/ml  and  34%  and  32%  per 
group had baseline CD4 <50 cells/mm3. 29% raltegravir and 35% placebo group patients 
had no active PI in the OBT based on PSS. By GSS 20% and 26% had no active agent in 
their OBT compared to 10% and 19% by PSS. 
Numbers analysed 
In study 018, of the 352 randomized patients 2 did not receive any study medication. The remaining 
350  patients  constitute  the  MITT  population  and  were  included  in  the  efficacy  analyses.  All  treated 
patients received the correct assigned treatment; there were no cross-treated patients. 
In study 019, of the 351 randomized patients 2 did not receive any study medication. The remaining 
349 patients constitute the MITT population and were included in the efficacy analyses. 3 patients did 
receive incorrect therapy for approximately 1 month each due to medication dispensing errors. These 
patients are included in the efficacy analyses in their assigned treatment groups. 
Outcomes and estimation 
In the primary analysis at Week 16 (% with < 400 c/ml) of both studies individually, raltegravir was 
statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo  (p<0.001)  based  upon  a  logistic  regression  model 
adjusted for baseline HIV RNA level, enfuvirtide use in OBT in enfuvirtide-naïve patients, active PI in 
OBT determined by phenotypic resistance test and darunavir use in OBT in darunavir-naïve patients. 
The  model  adjusted  odds  ratio  (95%  CI)  for  this  primary  endpoint  between  raltegravir  and  placebo 
were 10.6 (5.60, 20.25) and was 9.6 (5.02, 18.25) for studies 018 and 019, respectively. The results are 
presented in Table 14. 
Table 14  Treatment outcome at Week 16 in studies 018 and 019 (All randomized and Treated 
Patients) 
Outcome at Week 16 
Patients with HIV RNA less than 400 copies/ml 
Patients with HIV RNA less than 50 copies/ml 
Patients with greater than 1 log10 drop in HIV RNA or HIV   
RNA less than 400 copies/ml 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 232) 
n (%) 
178 (76.7) 
141 (60.8) 
197 (84.9) 
Mean HIV RNA change from baseline (Log10 copies/ml) 
Mean CD4 cell count change from baseline (cells/mm3) 
-1.85 
82.7 
Protocol 018 
Protocol 019 
Placebo 
(N=118) 
n (%) 
48 (40.7) 
39 (33.1) 
49 (41.5) 
-0.78 
31.3 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 230) 
n (%) 
177 (77.0) 
142 (61.7) 
190 (82.6) 
-1.92 
85.1 
Placebo 
(N=119) 
n (%) 
51 (42.9) 
43 (36.1) 
60 (50.4) 
-1.06 
39.7 
Virologic failure (confirmed)H 
  Non responder 
  Rebound 
Death 
Adjudicated AIDS-Defining Conditions (ADC) 
Discontinuation due to clinical adverse experiences 
Discontinuation due to laboratory adverse experiences 
Discontinuation due to other reasons ‡ 
H Virologic failure: defined as non-responders who did not achieve > 1.0 log10 HIV RNA reduction or < 400 HIV RNA 
copies/ml by week 16, or viral rebound, which was defined as: (a) HIV RNA > 400 copies/ml (on 2 consecutive measurements 
at least 1 week apart) after initial response with HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml, or (b) > 1.0 log10 increase in HIV RNA above nadir 
level (on 2 consecutive measurement at least 1 week apart). 
‡ Includes loss to follow-up, patient withdrew consent, non-compliance, protocol violation and other reasons. 
32 (13.8) 
4 (1.7) 
28 (12.1) 
3 (1.3) 
6 (2.6) 
4 (1.7) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.4) 
57 (47.9) 
34 (28.6) 
23 (19.3) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (2.5) 
1 (0.8) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.8) 
38 (16.5) 
9 (3.9) 
29 (12.6) 
3 (1.3) 
5 (2.2) 
3 (1.3) 
1 (0.4) 
5 (2.2) 
63 (53.4) 
44 (37.3) 
19 (16.1) 
1 (0.8) 
2 (1.7) 
4 (3.4) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
33/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Tables  15  and  16  show  that  proportions  who  achieved  <  400  and  <  50  c/ml  were  lower  in  both 
treatment groups when baseline viral load was > 50,000 or > 100,000 c/ml and when CD4 counts were 
less than 50 mm-3. However, response rates at both levels were higher in the raltegravir group. 
Table 14  Proportion  of  patients  with  plasma  HIV  RNA  <  400  Copies/ml  at  Week  16  by 
prognostic factors in study 018 (Observed Failure Approach) 
Prognostic Factor 
Response 
Placebo 
(Group B) 
Difference in 
Percent Response % 
(95% CI) 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. (Group A) 
% (95% CI) 
n/N 
79.1 (73.2, 84.2) 
178/225 
n/N 
48/113 
% (95% CI) 
42.5 (33.2, 52.1) 
42/83 
6/30 
35/62 
13/51 
36.6 (25.9, 46.8) 
10/37 
15/41 
23/55 
27/72 
4/18 
17/23 
109/140 
27/40 
42/45 
116/149 
7/14 
55/62 
39.4 (27.6, 50.9) 
37.3 (16.8, 53.2) 
50.6 (39.4, 61.8) 
20.0 (7.7, 38.6) 
90.0 (84.0, 94.3) 
57.3 (45.4, 68.7) 
36.9 (23.9, 50.0) 
41.2 (25.3, 54.4) 
56.5 (43.3, 69.0) 
25.5 (14.3, 39.6) 
93.3 (86.7, 97.3) 
66.7 (57.5, 75.0) 
27.0 (13.8, 44.1) 
36.6 (22.1, 53.1) 
65.7 (47.8, 80.9) 
40.4 (26.7, 52.7) 
45.3 (17.7, 65.1) 
19.4 (2.2, 40.9) 
37.5 (26.4, 49.7) 
22.2 (6.4, 47.6) 
73.9 (51.6, 89.8) 
77.9 (70.1, 84.4) 
67.5 (50.9, 81.4) 
93.3 (81.7, 98.6) 
29.7 (9.8, 46.6) 
48.5 (31.0, 63.4) 
27.1 (11.6, 44.6) 
(N/A) 
56.7 (44.0, 68.8) 
85.1 (75.8, 91.8) 
92.9 (84.1, 97.6) 
100.0 (2.5, 100.0) 
Total 
Baseline Plasma HIV RNA (copies/ml) 
98/105 
≤ 50,000 
> 50,000 
80/120 
Baseline Plasma HIV RNA (copies/ml) 
135/150 
≤ 100,000 
43/75 
> 100,000 
Baseline CD4 Cell Counts (cells/mm3) 
38/67 
≤ 50 
74/87 
> 50 and ≤ 200 
65/70 
> 200 
1/1 
missing 
Enfuvirtide (ENF) Use in OBT 
No 
Yes in ENF exp. patients 
Yes in ENF naïve patient 
Darunavir Use in OBT 
77.9 (70.3, 84.2) 
No 
50.0 (23.0, 77.0) 
Yes in Darunavir exp. pts 
Yes in Darunavir naïve pts 
88.7 (78.1, 95.3) 
Number of Active PI in OBT by Phenotypic Resistance TestH 
72.0 (61.8, 80.9) 
67/93 
0 
84.6 (76.9, 90.4) 
104/123 
1 or none 
Missing 
77.8 (40.0, 97.2) 
7/9 
Phenotypic Sensitivity Score (PSS) ‡ 
0 
1 
2 
3 or more 
Missing 
Genotypic Sensitivity Score (GSS) ‡ 
0 
1 
2 
3 or more 
Missing 
H Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir naïve patients was counted as one active PI 
‡ The Phenotypic Sensitivity Score (PSS) and the Genotypic Sensitivity Score (GSS) were defined as the total oral ARTs 
in OBT to which a patients viral isolate showed phenotypic sensitivity and genotypic sensitivity, respectively, based 
upon phenotypic and genotypic resistance tests. Enfuvirtide use in OBT in enfuvirtide naïve patients was counted as one 
active drug in OBT and added to the GSS and PSS. Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir na¨ve patients was counted as 
one active drug in OBT and added to the PSS and GSS. 
48.8 (30.3, 62.8) 
40.7 (23.5, 56.2) 
18.5 (2.7, 40.5) 
6.4 (-22.4, 38.6) 
100.0 (-12.3, 100.0) 
60.6 (47.8, 72.4) 
85.1 (75.0, 92.3) 
94.6 (85.1, 98.9) 
73.1 (52.2, 88.4) 
100.0 (29.2, 100.0) 
60.0 (43.3, 75.1) 
78.5 (66.5, 87.7) 
90.9 (81.3, 96.6) 
79.5 (64.7, 90.2) 
80.0 (44.4, 97.5) 
4.8 (0.1, 23.8) 
43.2 (27.1, 60.5) 
45.2 (27.3, 64.0) 
70.0 (45.7, 88.1) 
75.0 (19.4, 99.4) 
11.8 (3.3, 27.5) 
44.4 (29.6, 60.0) 
76.2 (52.8, 91.8) 
66.7 (34.9, 90.1) 
0.0 (0.0, 97.5) 
55.2 (33.0, 70.5) 
35.2 (15.8, 52.7) 
45.7 (26.7, 63.1) 
9.5 (-11.9, 34.1) 
5.0 (-36.8, 56.6) 
55.4 (40.2, 67.2) 
17.9 (4.8, 32.1) 
27.8 (-30.1, 77.5) 
16.7 (7.9, 29.3) 
66.7 (52.9, 78.6) 
50.0 (1.3, 98.7) 
35.8 (25.4, 47.2) 
0.0 (0.0, 52.2) 
70.4 (49.8, 86.2) 
42.0 (29.1, 53.7) 
50.0 (-0.7, 73.7) 
18.3 (1.2, 38.6) 
40/66 
63/74 
53/56 
19/26 
3/3 
24/40 
51/65 
60/66 
35/44 
8/10 
1/21 
16/37 
14/31 
14/20 
3/4 
4/34 
20/45 
16/21 
8/12 
0/1 
9/54 
38/57 
1/2 
29/81 
0/5 
19/27 
Inclusion of enfuvirtide or darunavir in the OBT for patients who were naïve to these agents improved 
the responses in raltegravir and placebo groups compared to patients without these agents in the OBT. 
While  the  response  rates  were  higher  in  the  raltegravir  group  the  relative  effects  of  including 
enfuvirtide and darunavir in the OBT in naïve patients were greater in the placebo group. That is, the 
patterns  observed  suggested  that  while  darunavir  and  enfuvirtide  made  some  contribution  to  overall 
response rates in the raltegravir group these two agents probably accounted for much of the response 
seen  in  the  placebo  group.  An  analysis  of  changes  in  CD4  counts  according  to  the  same  prognostic 
factors showed a generally similar pattern of effects. 
34/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15  Proportion  of  patients  with  plasma  HIV  RNA  <  400  Copies/ml  at  Week  16  by 
prognostic factors in study 019 (Observed Failure Approach) 
Prognostic Factor 
Total 
Response 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. (Group A) 
% (95% CI) 
79.7 (73.8, 84.8) 
n/N 
177/222 
Placebo 
(Group B) 
% (95% CI) 
43.6 (34.4, 53.1) 
n/N 
51/11
7 
Difference in 
Percent  
Response % (95% 
CI) 
36.1 (25.5, 46.2) 
85.6 (77.3, 91.7) 
74.6 (65.7, 82.1) 
85.5 (78.5, 90.9) 
70.2 (59.3, 79.7) 
68.5 (56.6, 78.9) 
87.7 (78.5, 93.9) 
82.4 (71.2, 90.5) 
Baseline Plasma HIV RNA (copies/ml) 
89/104 
≤ 50,000 
> 50,000 
88/118 
Baseline Plasma HIV RNA (copies/ml) 
118/138 
≤ 100,000 
59/84 
> 100,000 
Baseline CD4 Cell Counts (cells/mm3) 
50/73 
≤ 50 
71/81 
> 50 and ≤ 200 
56/68 
> 200 
missing 
Enfuvirtide (ENF) Use in OBT 
No 
Yes in ENF exp. patients 
Yes in ENF naïve patient 
Darunavir Use in OBT 
69.7 (60.7, 77.8) 
No 
33.3 (0.8, 90.6) 
Yes in Darunavir exp. pts 
Yes in Darunavir naïve pts 
93.0 (86.1, 97.1) 
Number of Active PI in OBT by Phenotypic Resistance TestH 
60.9 (47.9, 72.9) 
0 
89.3 (83.1, 93.7) 
1 or none 
55.6 (21.2, 86.3) 
Missing 
76.4 (68.5, 83.2) 
75.6 (59.7, 87.6) 
95 (83.5, 99.4) 
107/140 
31/41 
39/41 
39/64 
133/149 
5/9 
89/119 
1/3 
93/100 
14/22 
56/76 
62/72 
37/40 
8/12 
Phenotypic Sensitivity Score (PSS) ‡ 
0 
1 
2 
3 or more 
Missing 
Genotypic Sensitivity Score (GSS) ‡ 
0 
1 
2 
3 or more 
Missing 
23/45 
81/96 
47/53 
22/24 
4/4 
63.6 (40.7, 82.8) 
73.7 (62.3, 83.1) 
86.1 (75.9, 93.1) 
92.5 (79.6, 98.4) 
66.7 (34.9, 90.1) 
51.1 (35.8, 66.3) 
84.4 (75.5, 91.0) 
88.7 (77.0, 95.7) 
91.7 (73.0, 99.0) 
100.0 (39.8, 100.0) 
37/59 
14/58 
62.7 (49.1,75.0) 
24.1 (13.9, 37.2) 
22.9 (9.2, 37.1) 
50.4 (35.7, 65.4) 
43/72 
8/45 
59.7 (47.5, 71.1) 
17.8 (8.0, 32.1) 
25.8 (13.3, 38.6) 
52.5 (35.7, 65.4) 
8/38 
23/41 
20/38 
21.1 (9.6, 37.3) 
56.1 (39.7, 71.5) 
52.6 (35.8, 69.0) 
47.4 (28.7, 62.1) 
31.6 (15.2, 48.1) 
29.7 (11.5, 47.3) 
25/71 
8/22 
18/24 
13/53 
0/4 
38/60 
7/42 
43/74 
1/1 
1/23 
12/31 
17/32 
18/27 
3/4 
2:29 
20:48 
21:27 
5:10 
3:3 
35.2 (24.2, 47.5) 
36.4 (17.2, 59.3) 
75.0 (53.3, 90.2) 
41.2 (27.5, 53.5) 
39.2 (13.7, 60.3) 
20.1 (3.5, 40.9) 
24.5 (13.8, 38.3) 
0.0 (0.0, 60.2) 
63.3 (49.9, 75.4) 
45.2 (29.7, 58.0) 
33.3 (-31.4, 81.1) 
29.7 (17.0, 43.1) 
16.7 (7.0, 31.4) 
58.1 (46.1, 69.5) 
100.0 (2.5, 
100.0) 
4.3 (0.1, 21.9) 
38.7 (21.8, 57.8) 
53.1 (34.7, 70.9) 
66.7 (46.0, 83.5) 
75.0 (19.4, 99.4) 
6.9 (0.8, 22.8) 
41.7 (27.6, 56.8) 
77.8 (57.7, 91.4) 
50.0 (18.7, 81.3) 
100.0 (29.2, 
100.0) 
44.3 (26.1, 59.0) 
31.2 (19.2, 43.5) 
-44.4 (-74.5, 46.0) 
59.3 (34.5, 77.4) 
35.0 (14.5, 53.0) 
33.0 (14.4, 51.4) 
25.8 (7.1, 46.0) 
-8.3 (-47.6, 45.0) 
44.2 (24.5, 60.0) 
42.7 (26.5, 57.3) 
10.9 (-5.4, 30.9) 
41.7 (10.6, 70.2) 
0.0 (-52.8, 59.9) 
H Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir naïve patients was counted as one active PI 
‡ The Phenotypic Sensitivity Score (PSS) and the Genotypic Sensitivity Score (GSS) were defined as the total oral 
ARTs in OBT to which a patients viral isolate showed phenotypic sensitivity and genotypic sensitivity, respectively, 
based upon phenotypic and genotypic resistance tests. Enfuvirtide use in OBT in enfuvirtide naïve patients was counted 
as one active drug in OBT and added to the GSS and PSS. Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir na¨ve patients was 
counted as one active drug in OBT and added to the PSS and GSS. 
In the OLPVF phase patients initially assigned to placebo had consistently greater numerical responses 
compared to those who had failed while taking raltegravir (and so could only change their OBT in the 
OLPVF phase). None of the prior raltegravir patients but 35-40% (study 018) and 23% (study 019) of 
the prior placebo patients achieved < 50 copies/ml up to the cut-off. 
In study 018, nine patients (rate 9.0 per 100 patient-years) on raltegravir and three (rate 5.6 per 100 
patient-years) on placebo had confirmed definitive ADCs. Some patients had more than one ADC. In 
study  019,  five  patients  (rate  5.1  per  100  patient-years)  on  raltegravir  and  three  (rate  5.6  per  100 
patient-years) on placebo had confirmed definitive ADCs. Most had only one ADC. 
35/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The applicant performed a pre-specified meta-analysis for studies 018 and 019 only after homogeneity 
tests  did  not  show  a  heterogeneous  treatment  effect  across  protocols  (p=0.503  for  treatment  related 
discontinuation  =  failure  approach;  p=0.518  for  non-completer  =  failure  approach;  p=0.766  for 
observed  failure  approach).  In  line  with  the  results  of  the  homogeneity  tests  this  meta-analysis 
demonstrated the same overall efficacy of raltegravir in combination with OBT. 
At Week 16 there was no significant treatment interaction detected for the prognostic factors baseline 
HIV  RNA,  enfuvirtide  use  in  OBT  in  enfuvirtide-naïve  patients,  active  PI  in  OBT  determined  by 
phenotypic resistance test, and darunavir use in OBT in darunavir-naïve patients. 
At Week 16 those who received both enfuvirtide and darunavir without prior exposure had the highest 
responses while the lowest occurred in those who received neither agent for the first time.   
In addition to Week 16 outcomes, the final data of the Week 24 evaluation has been provided during 
the assessment on the request of the CHMP. These data are presented in Table 16. For those patients 
who did respond at Week 16 there was almost always a documented sustained response to week 24. 
Table 16  Treatment  outcome  at  Week  24  in  studies  018  and  019  combined  (all  randomised 
and treated) 
Outcome at Week 24 
Raltegravir 
400 mg b.i.d. 
(N=462) 
n (%) 
Placebo 
(N=237) 
n (%) 
Patients with HIV RNA less than 400 copies/ml            
Patients with HIV RNA less than 50 copies/ml                                         
Patients with greater than 1 Log10 drop in HIV RNA or HIV RNA less 
 347 (75.1)      
 289 (62.6)      
 371 (80.3)      
 95 (40.1)       
 80 (33.8)       
 105 (44.3)      
than 400 copies/ml 
Mean HIV RNA change from baseline (Log10 copies/ml)                         
Mean CD4 cell count change from baseline (cells/mm3)                           
 -1.82           
 83.7            
 -0.87          
 36.5           
Virological Failure (confirmed)                                        
     Non responder                                                                          
     Rebound   
Death  
Adjudicated AIDS-Defining Conditions (ADC)                                        
Discontinuation due to clinical adverse experiences                                 
Discontinuation due to laboratory adverse experiences                             
Discontinuation due to other reasons                                 
 84 (18.2)       
 13 (2.8)        
 71 (15.4)       
 7 (1.5)         
 16 (3.5)        
 9 (1.9)         
 1 (0.2)         
 6 (1.3)         
 127 (53.6)      
 77 (32.5)       
 50 (21.1)       
 3 (1.3)         
 6 (2.5)         
 5 (2.1)         
 0 (0.0)         
 2 (0.8)         
To address whether baseline HIV RNA, enfuvirtide use in OBT in enfuvirtide-naïve patients, active PI 
in OBT determined by phenotypic resistance test and darunavir use in OBT in darunavir-naïve patients 
were  associated  with  outcome,  each  factor  was  assessed  as  a  main  effect  in  the  logistic  regression 
model. Table 17 shows that at Week 24 these factors exhibited statistically significant effects on the 
proportions of patients with HIV RNA < 400 copies/ml.  
36/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                                                            
               
                
 
 
 
Table 17  Prognostic  factors  predicting  <400  Copies/ml  at  Week  24  in  studies  018  and  019 
combined (Observed Failure Approach) 
Prognostic Factor 
Baseline HIV RNA (log10 copies/ml)                                              
Enfuvirtide use in OBT in enfuvirtide-naïve patients (Yes: No)     
Active PI in OBT determined by phenotypic resistance test§ 
(Yes:No) 
Odds Ratio for Prognostic Factor‡  
p-Value 
95% CI 
Odds 
Ratio 
 0.35   
 5.05   
 2.34   
(0.26, 0.47)     
(2.72, 9.38)     
(1.43, 3.81)     
 <0.001 
 <0.001 
 <0.001 
 <0.001 
Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir-naïve patients (Yes:No)          
Treatment                                                                                  
 <0.001 
‡ An odds ratio of (<1, =1, >1) indicates (decreased, equal, increased) probability to respond at Week 24. 
Odds ratio and p-value were calculated using a logistic regression model adjusted for: baseline HIV 
RNA level, enfuvirtide use in OBT with no prior exposure, active PI in OBT determined by phenotypic 
resistance test, investigational ART use in OBT (darunavir or tipranavir use), study, and treatment.   
§ Phenotypic resistance test are not available for enfuvirtide and darunavir, both of them are excluded. 
(3.55, 9.42)     
(5.94, 14.37)    
 5.78   
 9.24   
Patients with poor prognostic factors had lower response rates than patients without poor prognostic 
factors. However, benefits over placebo were  maintained. Table  18 shows responses for proportions 
with <50 copies/ml. 
To further evaluate efficacy and durability of the response in patients with a baseline GSS = 0, Table 
18 and Figure 3 show the percentage of patients with GSS = 0 who achieved reduction of plasma viral 
load  to  <50  copies/ml  out  to  24  weeks  (observed  failure  approach).  In  this  subset  43%  in  the 
raltegravir group achieved a viral load of <50 copies/ml after 8 weeks of therapy and 44.1% had < 50 
copies/ml at week 24. In contrast, only 11.1% of GSS = 0 patients receiving OBT alone achieved viral 
loads of <50 copies/ml at week 8 and 6.3% at week 24.   
The  proportions  of  GSS  =  0  patients  with  <50  copies/ml  at  week  16  and  week  24  were  lower  than 
observed among patients with GSS > 0. Similar results were observed in patients with PSS = 0.  
Figure 3 
Proportion  of  Patients  with  HIV  RNA  <50  copies/ml  Over  Time  —  GSS  =  0  in 
studies 018 and 019 combined (Observed Failure Approach) 
h
t
i
W
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
i
L
m
/
s
e
p
o
c
0
5
<
A
N
R
V
H
I
100
80
60
40
20
0
0
2
4
8
12
16
Number of Contributing Patients
Weeks
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d.
Placebo
115 112 114
64
65
65
114
63
111
61
111
63
24
111
64
37/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18  Proportion with <50 copies/ml at Week 24 by prognostic factors in studies 018 and 
019 combined (Observed Failure Approach) 
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Placebo 
Prognostic Factor 
n/N 
% (95% CI) 
n/N 
% (95% CI) 
% Difference in 
response 
% (95% CI) 
Total                                     289/448     64.5 (59.9, 68.9)    80/232      34.5 (28.4, 41.0)    30.0 (22.3, 37.4)   
Baseline Plasma HIV RNA (copies/ml)                                                                   
  ≤ 50,000                             165/210     78.6 (72.4, 83.9)    58/122      47.5 (38.4, 56.8)    31.0 (20.4, 41.2)   
  > 50,000                             124/238     52.1 (45.6, 58.6)    22/110      20.0 (13.0, 28.7)    32.1 (21.7, 41.3)   
Baseline Plasma HIV RNA (copies/ml)                                                                   
  ≤ 100,000                           215/289     74.4 (69.0, 79.3)    69/156      44.2 (36.3, 52.4)    30.2 (20.7, 39.2)   
  > 100,000                           74/159      46.5 (38.6, 54.6)    11/76        14.5 (7.5, 24.4)     32.1 (20.0, 42.4)   
Baseline CD4 Cell Counts (cells/mm3)                                             
  ≤ 50                                    61/140      43.6 (35.2, 52.2)    13/75        17.3 (9.6, 27.8)     26.2 (13.5, 37.4)   
  > 50 and ≤ 200                   116/169     68.6 (61.1, 75.5)    36/83       43.4 (32.5, 54.7)    25.3 (12.3, 37.6)   
  > 200                                  111/138     80.4 (72.8, 86.7)    31/74       41.9 (30.5, 53.9)    38.5 (25.1, 50.9)   
  (N/A)           
  missing                             
% Difference in 
response 
% (95% CI) 
 1/1           100 (2.5, 100)     
Raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. 
Prognostic Factor 
% (95% CI) 
% (95% CI) 
Placebo 
n/N 
n/N 
Enfuvirtide Use in OBT                                                                                
  No                                      173/278     62.2 (56.2, 68.0)    43/145      29.7 (22.4, 37.8)    32.6 (22.8, 41.5)   
  Yes                                     116/170     68.2 (60.7, 75.2)    37/87       42.5 (32.0, 53.6)    25.7 (12.9, 37.8)   
 73/90       81.1 (71.5, 88.6)    29/47       61.7 (46.4, 75.5)     19.4 (3.8, 35.6)    
     Yes in naïve patients     
8/40         20.0 (9.1, 35.6)     33.8 (15.6, 48.7)   
 43/80       53.8 (42.2, 65.0)   
     Yes in exp. patients       
Darunavir Use in OBT                                                                                  
 6/18        33.3 (13.3, 59.0)   
0/9          0.0 (0.0, 33.6)      33.3 (-0.8, 56.7)    
  No                                      169/271     62.4 (56.3, 68.2)    32/135      23.7 (16.8, 31.8)    38.7 (29.0, 47.3)   
  Yes                                     120/177     67.8 (60.4, 74.6)    48/97       49.5 (39.2, 59.8)     18.3 (6.2, 30.2)    
 114/159     71.7 (64.0, 78.5)    48/88       54.5 (43.6, 65.2)     17.2 (4.7, 29.6)    
     Yes in Darunavir 
naïve patients                    
     Yes in Darunavir exp. 
patients                              
Number of Active PI in OBT by Phenotypic Resistance Test†                                  
       0                                    88/161      54.7 (46.6, 62.5)    13/96        13.5 (7.4, 22.0)     41.1 (30.1, 50.8)   
       1 or more                      189/269     70.3 (64.4, 75.7)    66/133      49.6 (40.8, 58.4)    20.6 (10.5, 30.6)   
1/3          33.3 (0.8, 90.6)    33.3 (-20.7, 69.8)   
Missing                               
Phenotypic Sensitivity Score(PSS)‡                                                         
       0                                  
2/44         4.5 (0.6, 15.5)      42.2 (27.3, 55.5)   
       1                                    93/143      65.0 (56.6, 72.8)    23/69       33.3 (22.4, 45.7)    31.7 (17.5, 44.4)   
       2                                    99/140      70.7 (62.4, 78.1)    26/64       40.6 (28.5, 53.6)    30.1 (15.5, 43.6)   
 53/81       65.4 (54.0, 75.7)    25/47       53.2 (38.1, 67.9)    12.2 (-5.2, 29.5)    
       3 or more                     
Missing                               
4/8         50.0 (15.7, 84.3)   18.2 (-18.9, 53.2)   
 15/22       68.2 (45.1, 86.1)   
Genotypic Sensitivity Score(GSS)‡                                                          
       0                                    49/111      44.1 (34.7, 53.9)   
4/64         6.3 (1.7, 15.2)      37.9 (26.0, 48.4)   
       1                                    122/173     70.5 (63.1, 77.2)    35/94       37.2 (27.5, 47.8)    33.3 (21.0, 44.6)   
       2                                    81/108      75.0 (65.7, 82.8)    29/48       60.4 (45.3, 74.2)    14.6 (-0.9, 30.7)    
 30/49       61.2 (46.2, 74.8)    10/22       45.5 (24.4, 67.8)    15.8 (-9.0, 39.0)    
       3 or more                     
2/4          50.0 (6.8, 93.2)      50.0 (0.4, 85.8)    
Missing                               
 29/62       46.8 (34.0, 59.9)   
 12/18       66.7 (41.0, 86.7)   
 7/7         
 100.0 (59.0, 
100.0)      
† Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir-naïve patients was counted as one active PI. 
‡ The Phenotypic Sensitivity Score (PSS) and the Genotypic Sensitivity Score (GSS) were defined as the 
total oral ARTs in OBT to which a patients viral isolate showed phenotypic sensitivity and genotypic 
sensitivity, respectively, based upon phenotypic and genotypic resistance tests. Enfuvirtide use in OBT 
in enfuvirtide-naïve patients was counted as one active drug in OBT and added to the GSS and PSS. 
Darunavir use in OBT in darunavir-naïve patients was counted as one active drug in OBT and added to 
the PSS and GSS.  
38/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
           
                
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
In 18 Phase I studies, including healthy subjects and subjects with renal or hepatic impairment, 315 
were treated with at least a single dose of raltegravir. Single doses up to 1600 mg and multiple dosing 
regimens with up to 800 mg b.i.d. for 10 days were employed. 
Overall 758 patients were randomised to receive raltegravir. With addition of those who continued on 
to  open-label  raltegravir  treatment  there  were  875  patients  exposed  in  the  four  studies  in  ART-
experienced patients (004, 005, 018 and 019).  
The  safety  database  was  updated  during  the  assessment,  including  data  up  to  1Q2007.  The  update 
included  899  patients.  Most  had  been  treated  for  at  least  24  weeks  and  some  for  up  to  90  weeks. 
Median durations of double blind treatment were 35 weeks for raltegravir and 27 weeks for placebo 
with corresponding times at risk of 332.2 patient-years (raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d.) and 150.2 patient-
years for placebo. Time at risk in the OLPVF phase was 106.8 patient-years. 
•  Adverse events  
In study 005, 152/178 patients (85.4%) reported in the initial submission had a clinical adverse events 
but rates and patterns were generally similar between the two sub-studies (with and without atazanavir 
in OBT). Rates of all and drug-related adverse events were slightly higher with the 600 mg b.i.d. dose 
compared to lower dose groups although the rate for drug-related adverse events was similar to that in 
the placebo group.  
In  a  pooled  analysis  across  studies  005,  018  and  019,  there  were  no  drug-related  clinical  adverse 
events that occurred at frequencies at least 2% greater in the pooled raltegravir group compared to the 
pooled  placebo  group.  Diarrhoea  was  the  commonest  AE  reported  with  raltegravir  use  in  ART-
experienced  patients,  occurring  in  at  16.6%  compared  to  19.5%  in  the  control  groups,  as  shown  in 
Table 19.  
39/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19  Number  (%)  of  patients  with  specific  clinical  adverse  events  (≥10%)  by  system 
organ class (double-blind cohort 005, 018, 019; cumulative data) 
400 mg b.i.d. 
(Group A) 
(N=507) 
% 
84.0 
n 
426 
Placebo 
(Group B) 
(N=282) 
% 
86.2 
n 
243 
400 mg b.i.d. 
vs. Placebo 
Difference From Placebo 
% Diff. 
-2.15 
95% CI 
-7.1, 3.2 
 Patients With One or More Adverse 
Experiences                                      
 Patients With No Adverse 
81 
16.0 
39 
13.8 
2.15 
-3.2, 7.1 
Experiences                                      
 Gastrointestinal Disorders               201 
    Diarrhoea                                        
84 
    Nausea                                              50 
162 
 General Disorders And 
Administration Site Conditions       
52 
    Injection Site Reaction 
    Pyrexia 
25 
 Infections And Infestations              240 
52 
 Metabolism and Nutrition Disord. 
77 
 Musculoskeletal And Connective 
Tissue Disorders                                
 Nervous System Disorders               112 
    Headache                                         49 
55 
 Psychiatric Disorders                       
64 
 Respiratory, Thoracic And 
Mediastinal Disorders                      
 Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue 
Disorders                                            
119 
39.6 
16.6 
9.9 
32.0 
10.3 
4.9 
47.3 
10.3 
15.2 
22.1 
9.7 
10.8 
12.6 
23.5 
124 
55 
40 
86 
28 
29 
136 
24 
38 
64 
33 
34 
35 
57 
44.0 
19.5 
14.2 
30.5 
9.9 
10.3 
48.2 
8.5 
13.5 
22.7 
11.7 
12.1 
12.4 
20.2 
-4.33 
-2.94 
-4.32 
1.46 
0.33 
-5.35 
-0.89 
1.75 
1.71 
-0.60 
-2.04 
-1.21 
0.21 
-11.5, 2.8 
-8.8, 2.5 
-9.5, 0.3 
-5.4, 8.1 
-4.4, 4.5 
-9.8, -1.6 
-8.2, 6.4 
-2.7, 5.8 
-3.6, 6.6 
-6.9, 5.3 
-6.9, 2.3 
-6.2, 3.3 
-4.9, 4.9 
3.26 
-2.9, 9.1 
Based on the safety update that was received during the assessment period, clinical adverse events 
that occurred at frequencies at least 2% greater in the raltegravir group were limited to fatigue (7.9% 
versus 4.6%), herpes zoster (4.1% versus 0.7%), nasopharyngitis (6.1% versus 3.9%) and rash (5.3% 
versus 2.5%). Rates of these adverse events in patients who received atazanavir and/or tenofovir as 
part  of  the  OBT  regimen,  which  would  be  expected  to  increase  raltegravir  plasma  levels,  were 
compared  to  patients  who  did  not  receive  these  agents.  In  the  raltegravir  group  receiving  atazanavir 
and/or tenofovir rates were 8.6%, 4.3%, 5.1% and 6.1% for these respective adverse events compared 
to 5.4%, 3.6%, 9.8% and 2.7% of patients not taking atazanavir and/or tenofovir. 
Of  the  21  patients  with  herpes  zoster  in  the  raltegravir  group  irrespective  of  atazanavir  and/or 
tenofovir  use  none  was  serious,  most  were  of  mild  intensity  and  none  caused  interruption  of 
discontinuation of study medication. Herpes zoster in patients beginning HAART has been reported as 
a  manifestation  of  Immune  Reconstitution  Syndrome  (IRS).  The  rate  of  herpes  zoster  seen  with 
raltegravir was in the range of published rates among HIV-infected patients recently commenced on 
HAART. 
In the initial application documentation, the proportion of patients with rash was 6.7% (34/507) for the 
raltegravir  group  and  3.9%  (11/282)  for  the  placebo  group.  Several  patients  reported  more  than  one 
rash (3 raltegravir and one placebo). Drug related rash was reported in 2.0% (10/507) of the raltegravir 
arm  and  2.5%  (7/282)  of  the  placebo  arm.  There  were  no  discontinuations  due  to  rash  or  serious 
adverse events of rash. In the raltegravir group the intensity of rash was mild-moderate for 33/34 and 
25/34  recovered.  In  the  placebo  group  all  rashes  were  mild  to  moderate  and  8/11  recovered.  In  the 
raltegravir  group  23/34  took  two  or  more  concomitant  medications  commonly  associated  with  rash 
(e.g. atovaquone, sulfonamides, trimethoprim, abacavir, amprenavir, atazanavir, darunavir, efavirenz, 
fosamprenavir and tipranavir) compared with 3/11 in the placebo group who took two or more of these 
agents.   
40/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety update showed that the rate of rash remained higher in the raltegravir group. Drug-related 
rash was reported for 2.2% (11/507) raltegravir patients in the cumulative period. There were  seven 
additional OLPVF phase patients with rash during the safety update report period of which four were 
considered drug-related but only one patient interrupted study therapy and the investigator considered 
that the rash was related to delavirdine. 
Because of a serious adverse event of rash in an ongoing Phase I study of raltegravir with darunavir 
and ritonavir rash was examined according to use darunavir in OBT. In the double-blind cohort in the 
cumulative period there were 294 patients who used darunavir in OBT and 495 patients who did not. 
Among those who darunavir in OBT the proportions with rash in the cumulative period were 13.5% 
(26/193) in the raltegravir group compared to 4/101 (4%) in the placebo group. Drug-related rash was 
reported in 3.1% (6/193) and 2% (2/101). Among patients who did not use darunavir rash occurred in 
4.5%  (14/314;  related  in  5)  and  in  3.9%  (7/181)  in  respective  groups.  The  intensity  of  drug-related 
rash was mild to moderate for all patients and all patients recovered from drug-related rash.  
The safety update also revealed that rash occurred in 9.4% (37/395) patients in the raltegravir group 
who used atazanavir and/or tenofovir in OBT. The frequency of drug-related rash in this subset was 
2.8%.  In  contrast,  rash  occurred  in  2.7%  (3/112)  in  the  raltegravir  group  patients  who  did  not  use 
atazanavir and/or tenofovir in OBT and none of the three cases was considered to be drug-related.   
At present there appear to be several possible explanations for the higher rates of rash observed in the 
raltegravir group overall and on co-administration with particular other antiretroviral agents. Rash is 
included as a specific issue in the Risk Management Plan. 
In  the  pooled  400  mg  b.i.d.  double-blind  cohort  of  005,  018  and  019  there  were  8/789  patients  (4 
raltegravir)  with  a  report  of  drug  hypersensitivity  or  hypersensitivity.  The  four  reported  from  the 
raltegravir group seem unlikely to have been related to this medicinal product. 
Adverse  events  with  onset  during  the  OLPVF  phase  are  reported  for  177  patients  of  whom  100 
(56.5%) reported an adverse event. Drug-related adverse events were reported by 19.2% (34/177). In 
general, the adverse event profile was similar to that for raltegravir during the double-blind phase. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
There  was  one  serious  adverse  event  reported  from  a  Phase  I  study  (029),  which  involved  co-
administration of raltegravir with darunavir and ritonavir. On co-administration a patient had a diffuse 
maculopapular  rash  on  the  trunk  and  extremities  and  discontinued  all  study  medications.  A  punch 
biopsy  indicated  superficial  perivascular  chronic  inflammation  with  rare  intravascular  neutrophils, 
which  was  consistent  with  a  delayed  hypersensitivity  reaction.  When  the  rash  worsened  to  include 
facial  and  periorbital  oedema  the  subject  was  admitted  to  hospital  for  2  days.  Recovery  was  almost 
complete by Day 38. At the time of the safety update there had been four discontinuations due to rash 
from  this  study.  These  were  moderate  (3)  or  severe  (1)  grade  2  pruritic  rashes  determined  to  be 
definitely  related  to  co-administration  of  the  three  agents  by  the investigator.  Rash  occurred  after  at 
least 9 days of co-administration, was similar in nature across the four subjects and was considered to 
be similar to that seen in other darunavir studies. All four subjects have recovered. 
In  study  004  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  by  2-5  patients  per  dose  group  but  none  was 
considered  drug-related.  In  the  safety  update  one  patient  had  a  serious  adverse  event  of  Kaposi’s 
sarcoma but no patient had died. 
Six  of  the  seven  deaths  in  the  400  mg  b.i.d.  double-blind  phases  of  005,  108  and  019  occurred  in 
patients  who  had  been  assigned  to  raltegravir.  None  was  considered  to  be  drug-related.  There  were 
two additional deaths reported in the safety update - one had a fatal serious adverse event of coronary 
artery disease and one had pleural effusion, splenic abscess and lymphadenopathy.  
41/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Across these studies the most frequent serious adverse events were infections and infestations, which 
were  of  a  very  varied  nature.  In  the  safety  update  additional  serious  adverse  events  included  the 
additional patients who died and a patient with a second bout of pancreatitis 
There  were  eight  raltegravir  patients  with  drug-related  serious  adverse  events  but  in  5/8  the  serious 
adverse events were ascribed to the OBT. In the other three cases the serious adverse events were renal 
failure,  gastritis  and  hepatitis  that  recurred  on  re-starting  therapy  after  treatment  interruption.  In  the 
safety update there were four more drug-related serious adverse events in the double-blind cohort of 
studies 018 and 019 (herpes simplex, renal failure, gastritis and overdose)  
Three raltegravir patients were reported to have serious adverse events of IRS, of which one occurred 
in  the  OLPVF  phase  and  was  considered  to  be  drug-related.  Study  therapy  was  interrupted  for  one 
patient. Two had a documented recovery but the other was ongoing at the cut-off. 
One patient died as a result of progressive multi-focal leuco-encephalopathy in the OLPVF phase with 
onset detected at day 177. Also, in the OLPVF phase serious adverse events were reported by 10.7% 
(19/177) of patients of which one case of immune reconstitution syndrome was considered to be drug-
related.  Two  more  serious  adverse  events  in  the  OLPVF  phase  (depression  and  diarrhoea)  were 
reported in the safety update. 
In  the  safety  update  serious  adverse  events  had  been  reported  by  36/827  patients  in  the  expanded 
access  programme.  These  included  a  B-cell  lymphoma  and  three  cases  of  PME.  One  case  of 
hypersensitivity  resolved  after  stopping  the  medicinal  product  while  another  continued  with  therapy 
and the episode resolved. 
Neoplasms 
During the assessment updates were provided on numbers of malignancies reported during the clinical 
development (Table 20). 
Table 20 
Summary  of  malignancy  –  double-blind  data  phase  II  and  III  studies  (Cumulative 
update as of 09-Jul-2007) 
Raltegravir 
N=758; 820 PY 
Comparator Group 
N=323; 261 PY 
Diagnosis  
≤ 3 Months‡ 
0/5 
- 
- 
n (%)†  Recurrent
19 (2.5) 
4 (0.5) 
3 (0.4) 
8/19 
3 
1 
Diagnosis 
≤ 3 Months‡ 
11/19 
1 
3 
n (%)† 
5 (1.5) 
0 (0) 
1 (0.3) 
Recurrent 
2/5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
1 
3 
2 
1 (0.1) 
2 (0.6) 
5 (0.7) 
Patients with Malignancy 
Kaposi’s Sarcoma 
Non-Hodgkin’s 
Lymphoma§ 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
– Anogenital║ 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
- Other 
Rectal Cancer 
Metastatic Neoplasm NOS 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma 
Non-Melanoma Skin 
Cancer¶ 
† 
‡ 
§ 
║ 
¶ 
NOS = Not otherwise specified. PY = Patient years of exposure. 
Patients with multiple events may be counted more than once in different terms, but only once in one term. 
Crude incidence (100 x n/N). 
Diagnosis of neoplasm occurred within 3 months of initiating study therapy. 
Includes B-cell lymphoma, T-cell lymphoma, and lymphoma – other. 
Includes squamous cell carcinoma – anal and squamous cell carcinoma CIS. 
Includes squamous cell cancer – skin and basal cell carcinoma. 
1 (0.1) 
0 (0) 
1 (0.1) 
5 (0.7) 
0 (0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 (0) 
1 (0.3) 
1 
- 
1 
1 
- 
1 
- 
1 
1 (0.3) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2 
- 
- 
- 
- 
42/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the data from the double blind cohort the patient-year adjusted incidence rates of malignancy 
were 2.3 for raltegravir and 1.9 for comparator per 100 patient-years, which gives a relative risk of 1.2 
with  an  associated  95%  confidence  interval  of  (0.4,  4.1).  The  difference  between  raltegravir  and 
control  groups  that  had  been  calculated  based  on  the  initial  submission  was  therefore  reduced  with 
further follow-up (Table 21). 
Table 21 
Summary of malignancy rates and risk ratio (Cumulative update as of 09-Jul-2007) 
Timing 
Original MAA† 
Cumulative Update‡ 
† 
§ 
Data through 13-Dec-2006, ‡ 
Per 100 PY. PY = Patient years of exposure. 
Raltegravir 
(N=758) 
PY 
508 
820 
Comparator Group 
(N=323) 
PY 
169 
261 
Data through 09-Jul-2007. 
Cases 
1 
5 
Rate§ 
2.0 
2.3 
Rate§ 
0.6 
1.9 
Cases 
10 
19 
Relative Risk 
(95% CI) 
3.3 (0.5, 144) 
1.2 (0.4, 4.1) 
On  inclusion  of  open  label  and  double blind  exposure  there  were  916  raltegravir  patients  with  1118 
patient-years time at risk, which is approximately 500 additional patient years of exposure compared 
to  the  initial  analysis  (Table  22).  The  patient-year-adjusted  incidence  rate  of  malignancy  during  all 
raltegravir therapy was 2.3 with a 95% confidence interval of (1.5, 3.4). 
Table 22  Malignancy  events  in  studies  004,  005,  018,  019  combined  (DB+OL+OLPVF; 
cumulative update as of 09-Jul-2007) 
Raltegravir 
(N = 916) 
1118 Patient-Years 
n (%)† 
26 (2.8) 
5 (0.5) 
4 (0.4) 
2 (0.2) 
1 (0.1) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.1) 
2 (0.2) 
7 (0.8) 
3 (0.3) 
4 (0.4) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.1) 
7 (0.8) 
5 (0.5) 
3 (0.3) 
Total number of patients with endpoint 
Kaposi's sarcoma  
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma  
B-cell lymphoma  
T-cell lymphoma  
Lymphoma - other 
Lymphoma-other (CNS) 
Hodgkin's lymphoma  
Squamous cell carcinoma - anogenital  
Squamous cell carcinoma - anal 
Squamous cell carcinoma - CIS - anal 
Squamous cell carcinoma - other 
Rectal cancer 
Metastatic Neoplasm, NOS  
Hepatocellular carcinoma  
Non-melanoma skin cancer  
Squamous cell carcinoma - skin 
Basal cell carcinoma 
Note: Patients with multiple events may be counted more than once in different terms, 
but only once in one term. 
† 
‡ 
Rate‡ 
2.3 
0.4 
0.4 
0.2 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
0.2 
0.6 
0.3 
0.4 
0.1 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
0.6 
0.4 
0.3 
Crude incidence (100×n/N). 
Events per 100 PY, PYR calculated based on overall endpoint. 
Patients with active cancer were eligible for 018 and 019 provided that they were clinically stable and 
not expected to require chemotherapy or immunosuppressive therapy. In the four Phase II/III studies 
(004, 005, 018 and 019) 17.4% of raltegravir patients and 16.4% of controls had a malignancy or pre-
malignant  condition  prior  to  enrolment.  In  8/19  patients  in  the  double-blind  period,  the  cancer 
represented  a  recurrence  or  progression.  All  of  the  patients  had  a  diagnosis  of  AIDS  and  most  had 
CD4 cell counts <150 cells/mm3. Co-existing conditions associated with malignancy were present in 
43/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all  patients  including  presence  of  oncogenic  viral  infections  such  as  HPV  and  HBV  or  tobacco  use. 
Malignant neoplasia features in the Risk Management Plan as a potential risk. 
•  Laboratory findings 
There were no serious laboratory AEs reported in the Phase I studies. The most common laboratory 
AE was hyperbilirubinaemia but this occurred after initiation of atazanavir in two interaction studies.  
In ART-naïve patients in 004 laboratory AEs were reported in 39/198 patients, the most frequent being 
AST  increased  (10.5%  in  the  efavirenz  group  vs  5.6  %  in  the  pooled  raltegravir  groups).  The  most 
frequently reported drug-related laboratory AEs were increases in ALT and AST, both of which were 
reported in 3.8% raltegravir and 5.3% efavirenz patients. There was no apparent association between 
all or related laboratory AEs and the dose of raltegravir. 
In  ART-experienced  patients  the  most  frequently  reported  (≥3%)  laboratory  AEs  were  increases  in 
ALT, AST, triglycerides and CK. 
ALT/AST 
In the treatment-experienced raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. cohort during the double-blind phase laboratory 
adverse  events  of  increased  ALT  and  increased  AST  were  reported  in  4.7%  (24/507)  and  4.5% 
(23/507) of patients, respectively, as compared with 2.1 % (6/282) and 2.8 % (8/282) in the placebo 
group. Drug related increases were reported in 3.2% (16/507) and 2.6% (13/507) of raltegravir patients 
compared with 0.7% (2/282) and 1.1% (3/282) in the placebo group. On review of laboratory results 
that exceeded pre-defined limits of change (PDLC) Grade 3 and 4 aminotransferase elevations were 
uncommon.  
In  the  treatment-experienced  raltegravir  400  mg  b.i.d.  cohort  during  the  double-blind  phase,  11.6% 
(59/507) of raltegravir patients had a Grade 2 or higher AST elevation compared to 8.5% (24/282) in 
the  placebo  group.  Corresponding  rates  for  ALT  were  10.4%  (53/507)  and  10.3%  (29/282).  In  the 
OLPVF phase, 5.0% (10/199) of patients had a Grade 2 or higher AST elevation and 6.5% (13/200) of 
patients had a Grade 2 or higher ALT elevation.  
Patients with Grade 2 or higher AST or ALT elevations were further analysed by baseline HBV and/or 
HCV infection, concurrent CK elevation and tipranavir use in OBT. Raltegravir patients with Grade 2 
AST or AST elevations were more likely to have HBV or HCV and a concurrent increase in CK than 
placebo patients but there was no difference with regard to tipranavir use. A review of patients whose 
OBT  included  or  did  not  include  tipranavir  showed  that  slightly  higher  rates  of  AST  and  ALT 
elevations  reported  as  adverse  events  and  recorded  as  PDLC  were  seen  for  both  raltegravir  and 
comparator treatment groups among those whose OBT contained tipranavir. 
Creatin kinase (CK) 
In the treatment-experienced raltegravir 400 mg b.i.d. cohort during the double-blind phase laboratory 
AEs of increased CK were reported in 3.7% (19/507) compared to 1.1% (3/282) in the placebo group. 
Drug-related  adverse  events  of  increased  CK  were  reported  in  1.2%  (6/507)  and  1.1%  (3/282)  in 
respective  groups.  During  the  double-blind  and  the  OLPVF  phases  there  were  no  serious  adverse 
events or discontinuations due to increased CK. Many were isolated increases that returned to normal 
with time and elevations for several patients were noted by the investigators to be related to physical 
exercise.  
All  grades  of  CK  elevations  occurred  more  often  in  the  raltegravir  group.  There  was  only  one  CK 
elevation of Grade 1 or higher present during 2 visits at least 30 days apart.  
Since  the  cut-off  date  for  the  safety  update  several  cases  of  myopathy  and  rhabdomyolysis  have 
occurred in ongoing studies. Although the relationship to raltegravir is not clear these events need to 
be mentioned in the SPC and added as specific issues for attention in the Risk Management Plan.    
44/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lipids 
The  data  from  004  with  a  fixed  NRTI  combination  regimen  indicated  no  significant  elevation  of 
triglycerides,  total  cholesterol  or  LDL-cholesterol  in  the  raltegravir  groups  compared  with  the 
efavirenz  group.  The  pooled  data  in  ART-experienced  patients  with  400  mg  b.i.d.  showed  that  the 
frequency of lipid abnormalities reaching Grade 3 or 4 according to the DAIDS toxicity criteria and 
the mean change from baseline in fasting lipids were generally similar between raltegravir and placebo 
groups.  However,  hyperlipidaemia,  dyslipidaemia,  hypercholesterolaemia  and  hypertriglyceridaemia 
were commonly present at baseline (16.7%, 4.9%, 7.2% and 12.9% of patients, respectively) and lipid 
lowering agents were commonly used along with ARTs associated with lipid disorders. The frequency 
of lipodystrophy or lipoatrophy reported as AEs was <1% but the background rates were high (27.4% 
and 12.0%). 
Glucose 
Fasting  glucose  was  routinely  monitored.  From  pooled  data  with  400  mg  b.i.d.  hyperglycaemia  was 
reported in one patient in each of raltegravir and placebo groups while diabetes mellitus was reported 
in 1.0% (5/507) and 1.1% (3/282), respectively. Grade 3 and 4 abnormalities  in blood glucose were 
uncommon. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Adverse  events  and  laboratory  abnormalities  were  generally  similar  in  patient  subgroups  based  on 
gender,  age  (<65  or  ≥  65  years)  and  race.  However,  interpretations  are  limited  due  to  the  lack  of 
patients  aged  ≥  75  years  and  to  relatively  small  numbers  of  females,  patients  aged  ≥  65  and  from 
certain racial groups. 
In  study  004,  one  raltegravir  patient  (400  mg  b.i.d.  group)  reported  a  pregnancy  and  discontinued 
during the extension phase. The outcome of the pregnancy is unknown. The single pregnancy reported 
in study 005 occurred in a patient randomised to raltegravir 200 mg b.i.d. who switched to open label 
400  mg  b.i.d.  on  day  363  even  though  a  pregnancy  test  on  day  350  was  positive.  On  Day  382 
additional  urine  pregnancy  tests  were  positive  and  all  therapy  was  interrupted.  She  had  an  elective 
abortion  and  then  restarted  study  medication  therapy  including  OBT.  There  were  no  pregnancies 
reported for female patients in 018 or 019 but the wife of a patient in 019 became pregnant while he 
was  taking  blinded  study  therapy  and  had  an  elective  abortion.  A  pregnancy  register  has  been 
established by the applicant. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Diarrhoea was reported more frequently when raltegravir was given with tipranavir (22.5% compared 
with 13.8% without tipranavir). See above regarding rates of rash when raltegravir was and was no co-
administered with other ARTs. 
To  assess  for  potential  toxicity  based  on  the  presumed  highest  exposure  to  raltegravir  the  applicant 
reviewed  the  data  for  74  patients  who  received  both  atazanavir  and  tenofovir  DF  in  OBT  with 
inclusion of 36 in the 400 mg b.i.d. group, 9 in the 600 mg b.i.d. group and 29 in the placebo group. 
Nausea  appeared  at  a  higher  frequency  (33.3%)  in  the  600  mg  b.i.d.  group.  There  were  no  adverse 
events of rash reported in these 74 patients except for a pruritic rash in a raltegravir patient who took 
400  mg  b.i.d.  with  atazanavir  and  tenofovir  DF.  Laboratory  adverse  event  profiles  were  generally 
similar in the patient subgroups. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In 004 one patient discontinued raltegravir (600 mg b.i.d.) due to a G4 AST elevation considered to be 
drug-related. In study 005 three patients in sub-study A discontinued during the double-blind phase, 
45/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
two  of  whom  had  been  assigned  to  raltegravir  and  died.  One  raltegravir  patient  in  sub-study  B 
discontinued during the double-blind phase due to increased ALT and AST.   
During treatment with 400 mg b.i.d. 13 patients (9 raltegravir) discontinued due to adverse events. In 
the  raltegravir  group  five  adverse  events  in  four  patients  were  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be 
drug-related but hepatomegaly and hyperlactacidaemia in one patient were considered related to OBT. 
The other three patients with drug-related adverse events had hepatitis, renal failure or flatulence. One 
of the nine raltegravir patients discontinued due to a laboratory adverse event that was not considered 
to be drug-related.   
In the safety update there were another 10 patients in the double blind cohort that discontinued due to 
adverse events and one in the OLPVF phase. These adverse events were of no clear pattern. 
•  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data is available yet. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which is summarised in Table 23. 
Table 23 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Important Identified Risks 
IRIS 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance  
• Monitor reports of IRIS from ongoing clinical 
trials (004, 005, 018, 019, 021, 022, 023, 032, 
033) 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor resistance in  ongoing clinical trials 
(004, 005, 018, 019, 021, 022, 023, 032, 033) 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk 
minimisation activities 
• Listed as class labeling 
warning in Section 4.4 of 
the SmPC 
• Listed under SmPC 
sections 4.4 and 5.1 
•  Listed under SmPC 
sections 4.4 and 4.5 
• Monitor data from ongoing clinical trials 
• Listed under SmPC 
(004, 005, 018, 019,)  
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor reports of malignancies from 
ongoing clinical trials  (004, 005, 018, 019, 
021, 022, 023, 032, 033) 
• Observational post authorization safety study  
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor reports of rash from ongoing clinical 
trials  (004, 005, 018, 019, 021, 022, 023, 032, 
033)  
sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5 and 
5.2 
• Listed under SmPC 
sections 4.4 and 4.8 
• The Applicant will 
periodically reassess 
whether product labeling 
needs to be modified.  
46/51 
©EMEA 2008 
Drug resistance 
Drug interaction with 
rifampicin and other strong 
UTG1A1 inducers 
Extent of pharmacokinetic 
(PK) variability and impact, 
if any, on pharmaco-
dynamics (PD) 
Important Potential Risks 
Malignancies 
Serious rash 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Increase in liver enzymes 
Lipodystrophy/Fat 
Maldistribution 
Increase in CK with 
clinical manifestations; 
myopathy, rhabdomyolysis 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor reports of increased in liver enzymes 
and related clinical hepatic events from 
ongoing clinical trials (004, 005, 018, 019, 
021, 022, 023, 032, 033) 
• Observational post authorization safety study  
(will monitor selected clinically important 
liver outcomes, not liver enzyme elevation) 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor reports of lipodystrophy/fat 
maldistribution from ongoing clinical trials  
(004, 005, 018, 019, 021, 022, 023, 032, 033) 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor reports of increase in CK with 
clinical manifestations; myopathy, 
rhabdomyolysis from ongoing clinical trials  
(004, 005, 018, 019, 021, 022, 023, 032, 033) 
Important Missing Information 
Exposure during 
pregnancy 
Long-term safety data 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Participation in the APR 
One or more of the following, as relevant to the 
population: 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor safety data from ongoing clinical 
trials  (004, 005, 018, 019, 021, 023, 032, 
033) 
• Observational post authorization safety study  
• Populations Studied 
• Populations 
insufficiently 
studied/not studied 
Proposed risk 
minimisation activities 
• Listed under SmPC 
section 4.8 
• Listed under SmPC 
section 4.8 
• Increase in CK listed 
under SmPC section 4.8; 
rhabdomyolysis and 
myopathy listed under 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
• Listed in SmPC section 
4.6 
• To be determined, based 
on analysis of long-term 
safety data. 
o  Exposure in 
children less than 
16 years of age 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor safety data from the ongoing 
paediatric clinical trial (022) 
o  Exposure in 
elderly patients 
o  Exposure in 
patients with 
hepatitis B and/or 
C co-infection 
and treatment 
naïve patients 
o  Patients with non-
clade B virus  
o  Exposure in 
patients with 
severe hepatic 
impairment 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor safety data from ongoing clinical 
trials, if elderly patients are enrolled  (004, 
005, 018, 019, 021, 023, 032, 033) 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Monitor safety data from ongoing clinical 
trials  (hepatitis B/C co-infection: 018, 019, 
021, 023, 032, 033; treatment naïve patients:  
004, 021) 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• Routine Pharmacovigilance 
• SmPC section 4.2 notes 
that safety and efficacy 
has not been established in 
patients below 16 years of 
age 
• SmPC section 4.2 includes 
information about limited 
information in the elderly  
• Listed under SmPC 
section 4.8. 
• The Applicant will 
periodically reassess 
whether product labeling 
needs to be modified. 
• SmPC section 4.2 includes 
a dosing recommendation 
in patients with hepatic 
47/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed risk 
minimisation activities 
impairment. The SmPC 
also includes language in 
Section 4.4 related to 
patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product has been evaluated and found to be satisfactory for the intended clinical use 
as defined in the SPC. There are no unresolved quality issues which may have a negative impact on 
the benefit/risk balance. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Biochemical  and  in  vitro  studies  have  demonstrated  that  raltegravir  inhibits  integrase  strand  transfer 
and consequently inhibits integration of HIV-1 into host cell genomic DNA and inhibits replication of 
HIV-1  and  HIV-2.  No  significant  off-target  activities  were  detected  for  raltegravir.  Several  pivotal 
non-clinical  studies  have  been  conducted  to  evaluate  the  safety  pharmacology  of  Raltegravir.  No 
significant  treatment  related  effects  were  found  in  any  of  these  studies.  At  higher  compound 
concentrations, typically in excess of their IC50 values, Raltegravir displayed synergistic activity with 
all other antiviral compounds tested, regardless of their mechanism of inhibition. 
The  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  raltegravir  have  been  evaluated  in  rat  and  dog  studies  with 
additional  studies  in  rabbits  and  mice,  and  a  number  of  in  vitro  assays.  Raltegravir  is  a  low  to 
intermediate clearance, and orally  bioavailable  compound,  with  a  short  plasma  half-life,  a  volume  of 
distribution  ranging  from  ~0.4  to  2  L/kg  and  a  rapid  absorption.  Raltegravir  is  cleared  primarily  by 
glucuronidation and the main route of excretion is by the faeces. The main metabolite of raltegravir is M2, 
which has no activity against HIV-1. Raltegravir is excreted into the milk of lactating rats. 
The  toxicology  profile  of  raltegravir  was  assessed  by  single-dose  and  repeat  dose  studies, 
genotoxicity, carcinogenicity (in progress), reproductive toxicity studies and a number of non-pivotal 
additional  toxicity  studies.  Raltegravir  was  generally  well  tolerated,  with  an  exposure  margin  of  at 
least 1.6-fold above the expected exposure of the 400 mg/BID dose in patients. The results of the four 
GLP genotoxicity studies are negative, indicating the absence of a genotoxic potential for raltegravir.  
Two-year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats are currently on-going. The final study reports will 
be provided post-approval. No short-term carcinogenicity studies have been conducted. 
The  “no  observed  adverse  effect  levels”  of  reproduction  studies  were  600  mg/kg/day  for  maternal 
toxicity,  ≥600 mg/kg/day  for  male  fertility  and  300  mg/kg/day  for  embryo-fetal  development.  The 
safety margin at the “no observed effect levels” for developmental toxicity is approximately 3.4-fold 
the value at the maximum recommended dose (MRD). In rabbits, no developmental toxicity was found 
at the maximum dose of 1000 mg/kg/day, resulting in a safety margin of about 3.7-fold relative to the 
AUC in patients at the MRD. 
With respect to local tolerance, raltegravir is not considered a dermal sensitizer and is classified as a 
mild  irritant  as  the  free  base  and  as  a  severe  irritant  as  the  potassium  salt.  Raltegravir  did not  show 
evidence  of  immunogenicity  or  antigenicity  and  it  is  considered  non-phototoxic  at  doses  up  to 
48/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2000 mg/kg.  The  specification  limits  of  the  impurities  have  been  adequately  justified,  and  their 
potential for toxicity, including genotoxicity, has been adequately investigated. 
A  satisfactory  revised  environmental  risk  assessment  for  raltegravir  was  provided;  there  was  no 
evidence of a risk to the aquatic environment, nor to micro-organisms. The data did not suggest any 
potential for raltegravir to bioaccumulate. 
Efficacy 
The  results  from  the  two  pivotal  phase  III  studies  (018  and  019)  at  Week  16  demonstrate  the 
superiority of raltegravir over placebo when used in combination with OBT in treatment-experienced 
patients.  The  general  study  designs,  including  the  patient  selection  criteria,  were  appropriate  except 
that even in treatment-experienced patients the optimal outcome is to achieve <50 copies/ml hence the 
choice of primary endpoint of <400 copies/ml at Week 16 could be criticised. Nevertheless data at <50 
copies/ml  also  showing  this  overall  outcome  have  been  provided  and  show  an  advantage  for 
raltegravir. Data through to Week 24 showed that for those patients who did respond at Week 16 there 
was almost always a documented sustained response to Week 24  
In studies 018 and 019 about 30% per group had no active agent in OBT based on GSS and about 20% 
per group had no active agent in OBT based on PSS scores. For those with a PSS score of zero in oral 
OBTs  about  half  of  raltegravir  patients  achieved  <50  copies/ml  at  Week  24  compared  to  5%  in  the 
placebo  group.  In  both  groups  these  patients  may  have  been  receiving  enfuvirtide  and  so  the 
raltegravir  results  cannot  be  interpreted  as  responses  to  monotherapy.  As  expected,  the  response  to 
raltegravir  was  lower  in  those  with  baseline  viral  load  >50,000  or  >100,000  copies/ml  and/or  CD4 
counts  <50  mm-3.  However,  response  rates  were  still  much  higher  in  the  raltegravir  than  placebo 
group. 
Inclusion of enfuvirtide or darunavir in the OBT for patients who were naïve to these agents improved 
the responses in raltegravir and placebo groups compared to patients without these agents in the OBT. 
Those who received both agents without prior exposure had the highest responses at this level while 
the  lowest  occurred  in  those  who  received  neither  agent  for  the  first  time.  While  the  response  rates 
were higher in the raltegravir group the relative effects of including enfuvirtide and darunavir in the 
OBT in naïve patients were greater in the placebo group. The patterns observed suggested that while 
darunavir  and  enfuvirtide  made  some  contribution  to  overall  response  rates  in  the  raltegravir  group 
these two agents probably accounted for much of the response seen in the placebo group.  
There  is  a  low  genetic  barrier  to  the  selection  of  raltegravir-resistant  mutants;  the  CHMP  requested 
that  further  examinations  of  the  resistance  profile  should  be  performed  post-approval.  Thus  far  the 
applicant has been able to identify several mutations that correlate with virological failure and reduced 
susceptibility  to  raltegravir.  Whereas  in  vitro  studies  suggested  that  these  mutant  viruses  have  a 
reduced  capacity  for  replication  in  vitro  this  finding  seems  to  be  irrelevant  to  the  clinical  situation 
since  failure  has  occurred.  Viruses  with  these  mutations  have  emerged  from  about  Weeks  2-4 
onwards. Factors that decreased the likelihood of developing mutation at either amino acid 148 or 155 
included lower viral load, the use of darunavir in OBT, PSS >0 and GSS>0. Having a low CD4 count 
(≤50 mm-3 vs. >200 mm-3) increased the likelihood of developing a mutation at either amino acid 148 
or 155. The SPC specifically advises against use of functional monotherapy. 
Safety 
The  safety  database  was  significantly  updated  during  the  assessment  with  data  on  899  patients  and 
corresponding  treatment  times  of  332.2  and  150.2  patient-years  for  raltegravir  400  mg  b.i.d  and 
placebo, respectively. 
In  the  clinical  studies  the  most  common  side  effects  seen  were  diarrhoea,  nausea,  headache  and 
pyrexia.  Important  safety  issues  which  require  a  specific  follow-up  post-marketing  include  immune 
reconstitution  inflammatory  syndrome,  malignancies,  serious  rash,  increase  in  liver  enzymes, 
49/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lipodystrophy/fat  maldistribution,  and  increase  in  creatine  kinase  with  clinical  manifestations 
(myophathy, rhabdomyolysis).  
Regarding the risk of malignant neoplasm, patient-year adjusted incidence rates for malignancies were 
2.3 for raltegravir vs. 1.9 for placebo per 100 patient-years resulting in a relative risk of 1.2 and 95% 
confidence interval of (0.4, 4.1). Overall, the numbers are relatively small, the types of malignancies 
have  been  diverse  and  several  occurred  so  early  in the  course  of  treatment  that  a  relationship  to  the 
medicinal product seems unlikely. Also, the listing of cases shows that these patients included several 
who achieved good viral suppression and others who seemed to have failed to respond from the start. 
Malignancies feature in the Risk Management Plan.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
User  testing  was  performed  in  26  subjects.  The  results  demonstrated  that  at  least  90%  of  the 
participants  were  able  to  find  each  point  of  information.  It  also  showed  that  at  least  90%  of  those 
participants were able to express the information in their own words. The leaflet therefore fulfils the 
requirements for user testing. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits  
The  differences  observed  between  raltegravir  and  placebo,  both  in  combination  with  optimised 
background  therapy,  in  the  Phase  II  and  III  studies  in  treatment-experienced  patients  indicate  that 
addition  of  raltegravir  to  an  appropriate  optimised  background  therapy  regimen  can  provide 
suppression of HIV replication that is sustained to 24 weeks. 
With regard to the likely efficacy of raltegravir in routine clinical use in the intended target population 
there  remains  a  question  regarding  the  possible  clinical  importance  of  intermittent  or  persistent  low 
plasma  exposure  to  raltegravir  in  terms  of  risk  of  selecting  for  drug-resistant  virus  and  virological 
failure. 
Risks 
Thus far the applicant has been able to identify several mutations that correlate with virological failure 
and  reduced  susceptibility  to  raltegravir.  The  data  strongly  suggest  a  low  genetic  barrier  for  the 
selection of raltegravir-resistant mutants that requires further evaluation. 
Furthermore, there remains a need for very careful study of the following specific issues in the post-
marketing  period:  malignant  neoplasm,  increases  in  liver  enzymes  or  CK,  gastrointestinal  irritation, 
immune  reconstitution  syndrome,  interaction  with  strong  UTG1A1  inducers,  rash  and  lipid 
abnormalities.  The  Risk  Management  Plan  addresses  these  issues;  an  adequately  designed 
observational cohort study is needed to generate appropriate long-term safety data. 
Balance 
Based on the assessment of the available data, and in particular the 24-week safety and efficacy data 
from  the  two  pivotal  trials,  it  is  considered  that  the  risk-benefit  relationship  is  favourable  for  a 
conditional  approval  according  to  Article  14(7)  of  Regulation  (EC)  726/2004  in  conjunction  with 
Commission Regulation (EC) 507/2006: 
50/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
− 
− 
ISENTRESS  is  proposed  to  be  indicated  for  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection,  which  is  a  life-
threatening disease, and so falls within the scope of the legislative framework on conditional 
marketing authorisations as defined in Article 2(1) of Regulation (EC) 507/2006. 
In  support  of  the  MAA  the  applicant  provided  complete  24-week  data  from  two  Phase  3 
studies.  Comprehensive  clinical  data  up  to  48  weeks  would  be  needed  to  further  assess 
important  issues  including  long-term  viral  suppression,  the  safety  profile  and  the  resistance 
pattern. Such data will be generated but were not available in the timeframe of the assessment. 
In addition, it was considered that further monitoring of resistance to raltegravir and the risk 
for malignancies is required.  
−  Based  on  the  available  data  the  risk-benefit  analysis  was  considered  to  be  positive.  The 
product  fulfils  an  unmet  medical  need  as  it  has  a  novel  mechanism  of  action  that  results  in 
activity  against  HIV  that  is  resistant  to  many  other  antiretroviral  agents.  It  likely  has  an 
acceptable safety profile and a limited potential for drug interactions. On this basis it could be 
considered that the benefit to public health of allowing ISENTRESS to be marketed without 
undue delay may outweigh the risks inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. 
Therefore, 
the  requirements  for  a  Conditional  Marketing 
Authorisation as defined in Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) 507/2006. 
the  application  fulfilled 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
−  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
−  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of ISENTRESS in the therapeutic indication 
“ISENTRESS is indicated in combination with other anti-retroviral medicinal products for the 
treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in treatment-experienced adult 
patients with evidence of HIV-1 replication despite ongoing anti-retroviral therapy. 
This indication is based on safety and efficacy data from two double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trials of 24 weeks duration in treatment-experienced patients (see section 5.1)” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the conditional marketing authorisation. 
51/51 
©EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
