MK-0518
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 16.0
PAGE 44
RALTEGRAVIR POTASSIUM
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for ISENTRESS (raltegravir 
potassium)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ISENTRESS. The RMP details 
important risks of ISENTRESS, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about ISENTRESS risks and uncertainties (missing 
information).
ISENTRESS summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ISENTRESS should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for ISENTRESS should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in the updates of the 
ISENTRESS RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used for
ISENTRESS is authorised for the treatment of HIV-1 infection (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains raltegravir as the active substance and it is given by mouth. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of ISENTRESS can be found in the 
EPAR of ISENTRESS, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/
medicines/human/EPAR/isentress.
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of ISENTRESS, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about the risks of ISENTRESS, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
MK-0518
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 16.0
PAGE 45
RALTEGRAVIR POTASSIUM
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of ISENTRESS is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of ISENTRESS are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ISENTRESS. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
None
None
Missing information
Safety of 1200 mg once daily (QD) (2x600mg tablets) dosing in pregnant women
MK-0518
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 16.0
PAGE 46
RALTEGRAVIR POTASSIUM
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Table II.B.1:
Missing Information: Safety of 1200 mg Once Daily (QD) (2x600 
mg tablets) dosing in pregnant women
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures
SmPC section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Patient leaflet section 2.What you need to know before you take Isentress
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Additional risk minimisation measures
None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry (APR).
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan.
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of ISENTRESS.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
The Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry is a prospective observational study to collect 
information on the risk of birth defects in patients exposed to ISENTRESS during pregnancy.
