EMA/644850/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004821 
Isturisa (osilodrostat) 
An overview of Isturisa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Isturisa and what is it used for? 
Isturisa is a medicine used to treat adults with Cushing’s syndrome, a disease characterised by an 
excess production of the hormone cortisol by the adrenal glands, two glands situated above the 
kidneys. 
Cushing’s syndrome is rare, and Isturisa was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 15 October 2014. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3141345.  
Isturisa contains the active substance osilodrostat. 
How is Isturisa used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started and supervised 
by a doctor experienced in endocrinology or internal medicine and with access to the appropriate 
facilities for assessing the patient’s response to Isturisa. 
Isturisa is available as tablets (1, 5 and 10 mg), and the recommended starting dose is 2 mg twice 
daily. Patients of Asian ancestry should start Isturisa at a dose of 1 mg twice daily. The dose can be 
gradually increased according to the levels of cortisol in the body, which is measured by regular checks 
of the urine or blood, up to a maximum dose of 30 mg twice daily. The dose should be reduced or 
treatment stopped temporarily if the patient experiences certain side effects. For more information 
about using Isturisa, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Isturisa work? 
The active substance in Isturisa, osilodrostat, blocks the activity of an enzyme involved in the 
production of cortisol called 11-beta-hydroxylase. This reduces cortisol production and cortisol levels in 
the body, thereby relieving the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Isturisa have been shown in studies? 
Isturisa was shown to be effective at lowering the levels of cortisol in one main study involving 137 
patients with Cushing’s syndrome. All patients were initially treated with Isturisa for 26 weeks. The 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
dose was adjusted for each patient until their levels of cortisol were under control and within the 
normal range.  
After this initial phase, patients whose cortisol levels were under control (71 patients) were given 
either Isturisa or placebo (a dummy treatment), and the study looked at the number of patients whose 
cortisol levels remained under control. After 8 weeks of treatment, 86% (31 out of 36) of patients 
treated with Isturisa had their cortisol levels under control, compared with 29% (10 out of 34) of 
patients given placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Isturisa? 
The most common side effects with Isturisa (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are adrenal 
insufficiency (low levels of cortisol produced by the adrenal glands), tiredness, nausea (feeling sick), 
headache, vomiting and oedema (swelling). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Isturisa, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Isturisa authorised in the EU? 
Isturisa is effective at reducing elevated cortisol levels in patients with Cushing’s syndrome. Side 
effects are considered manageable by adjusting the dose or temporarily stopping treatment. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Isturisa’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Isturisa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Isturisa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Isturisa are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Isturisa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Isturisa 
Isturisa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 9 January 2020. 
Further information on Isturisa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/isturisa.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2020. 
Isturisa (osilodrostat)  
EMA/644850/2019 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
