EMA/216663/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004241 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ivabradine Accord 
ivabradine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ivabradine Accord. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Ivabradine Accord. 
For practical information about using Ivabradine Accord, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Ivabradine Accord and what is it used for? 
Ivabradine Accord is a heart medicine used to treat the symptoms of long-term stable angina (pains to 
the chest, jaw and back, brought on by physical effort) in adults with coronary artery disease (heart 
disease caused by blockage of the blood vessels that supply the heart muscle). The medicine is used in 
patients with a normal heart rhythm whose heart rate is at least 70 beats per minute. It is used either 
in patients who cannot take beta-blockers (another type of medicine to treat angina) or in combination 
with a beta-blocker in patients whose disease is not controlled by beta-blockers alone. 
Ivabradine Accord is also used in patients with long-term heart failure (when the heart cannot pump 
enough blood to the rest of the body) and a normal heart rhythm whose heart rate is at least 75 beats 
per minute. It is used in combination with standard therapy including beta-blockers, or in patients who 
cannot be treated with beta-blockers. 
Ivabradine Accord contains the active substance ivabradine. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Ivabradine Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Procoralan. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Ivabradine Accord used? 
Ivabradine Accord is available as tablets (5 and 7.5 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The recommended starting dose is 5 mg twice a day with meals, which the doctor may increase to 
7.5 mg twice a day or decrease to 2.5 mg (half a 5-mg tablet) twice a day depending on the patient’s 
heart rate and symptoms. In patients over 75 years old, a lower starting dose of 2.5 mg twice a day 
can be used. Treatment must be stopped if the heart rate is persistently below 50 beats per minute or 
if symptoms of bradycardia (slow heart rate) continue. When used for angina, treatment should be 
stopped if symptoms do not improve after 3 months. Also, the doctor will consider stopping treatment 
if the medicine has only a limited effect on reducing symptoms or reducing the heart rate. 
How does Ivabradine Accord work? 
The symptoms of angina are caused by the heart muscle not receiving enough oxygenated blood. In 
stable angina, these symptoms occur during physical effort. The active substance in Ivabradine Accord, 
ivabradine, blocks the ‘If current’ in the sinus node, the natural ‘pacemaker’ that regulates the heart 
rate. When this current is blocked, the heart rate is lowered, so that the heart has less work to do and 
needs less oxygenated blood. Ivabradine Accord therefore reduces or prevents the symptoms of 
angina. 
The symptoms of heart failure are caused by the heart not pumping enough blood around the body. By 
lowering the heart rate, Ivabradine Accord reduces the stress on the heart, thereby slowing the 
progression of heart failure and improving symptoms. 
How has Ivabradine Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Procoralan, and do not need to be repeated for Ivabradine 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Ivabradine Accord. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ivabradine Accord? 
Because Ivabradine Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ivabradine Accord approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Ivabradine Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Procoralan. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Procoralan, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Ivabradine Accord be approved for 
use in the EU. 
Ivabradine Accord  
EMA/216663/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ivabradine Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ivabradine Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet.   
Other information about Ivabradine Accord 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ivabradine Accord on 22 May 2017. 
The full EPAR for Ivabradine Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ivabradine Accord, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2017. 
Ivabradine Accord  
EMA/216663/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
