15 September 2016 
EMA/73167/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Ivabradine Zentiva  
International non-proprietary name: ivabradine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004117/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 9 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 9 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 10 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 11 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 11 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 12 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 12 
2.2.2. Active  substance ............................................................................................ 13 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 15 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 18 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 18 
2.2.6. Recommendation for future quality development ................................................. 18 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 18 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 18 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 19 
2.3.3. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 19 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 19 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 19 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 20 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 25 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 25 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 25 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 26 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 27 
2.6. PSUR submission ................................................................................................ 36 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 36 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 36 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 36 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 37 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 38 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 2/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADR 
AE  
AESI   
ALP 
ALT 
ANSM 
AP 
API 
APPM 
AR 
ASM 
ASMF 
AST 
AUC 
AUC0-inf  
AUC0-t 
BA 
BCT 
BE 
BID  
BMI 
BPI  
BNFc 
BUN 
CI  
CIOMS  
Cl 
CLcr  
Cmax 
CMH test 
CoA 
CP 
CPPs 
CQAs 
CRO 
CSF 
CV 
CYP450  
DAP 
DDI 
DHCP 
DMF 
DoE 
DP 
DP  
DS                              
DSC 
EC 
ECG 
EEG 
eGFR  
eGFRCKD-EPI  
eGFRMDRD  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Adverse Drug Reaction 
adverse event 
AEs of special interest 
alkaline phosphatase  
alanine aminotransferase  
National Agency for the Safety of Medicine and Health Products 
Applicant's Part of ASMF 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Association of Paediatric Palliative Medicine Master Formulary  
Assessment Report 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
aspartate aminotransferase  
Area Under the plasma Concentration 
Area Under the plasma Concentration-time curve from time zero to 
infinity  
Area Under the plasma Concentration-time curve from time zero to t 
hours 
BioAvailability 
Blinded combination therapy 
Bioequivalence 
bis in die (twice daily) 
Body Mass Index  
Brief Pain Inventory 
British National Formulary for Children 
blood urea nitrogen 
confidence interval 
Suspect Adverse Reaction Report Form 
Clearance 
creatinine clearance 
maximum plasma concentration  
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test  
Certificate of Analysis 
cerebral palsy  
Critical process parameters 
Control quality attributes 
Certified Research Organisation 
cerebrospinal fluid  
Coefficient ov Variation 
cytochrome P450 
Drug Analysis Print 
Drug-drug interactions 
Direct Healthcare Professional Communication  
Drug Master File = Active Substance Master File 
Design of experiments 
Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
Drug product 
Drug substance 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Europena Commission 
Electrocardiogram 
electroencephalogram 
estimated glomerular filtration rate 
estimated glomerular filtration rate based on the Chronic Kidney Disease 
Epidemiology Collaboration equation 
estimated glomerular filtration rate based on the Modification of Diet in 
Page 3/39 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal Disease equation 
echocardiography 
European Madicines Agency 
End os Study 
endothelin receptor antagonist 
enzyme replacement therapy 
Electro Spray Ionisation  
endothelin receptor antagosinsts  
European Union 
Final Assessment Visit 
Forced expiratory volume in one second  
Failure mode and effects analysis 
Finish Product Manufacturer 
Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy 
Gamma-aminobutyric acid  
Generalised Anxiety Disorder 
Gas Chromatography 
Good Clinical Practice 
glomerular filtration rate 
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase  
globotriaosylceramide 
gene encoding α-Gal A 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Good manufacturing practice  
Glycopyrronium 
Gastrointestinal Symptoms Rating Scale 
Haemoglobin 
hydrochloride 
Health Care Professional 
hematocrit 
High Density Polyethylene 
human embryonic kidney 
High pressure liquid chromatography 
Hazard Ratio 
human recommended dose 
Committee for Human Medicine Products 
infusion-associated reaction 
interstitial capillary 
interstitial capillary GL-3 
Informed Consent Document 
Indian council of medical research 
Individual Case Safety Report 
Independent Ethics Committee  
immunoglobulin G 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Investigated Medicinal product 
International Marketing Sales 
International Non-proprietary Name 
investigational product  
In-process control 
Incidence Rate 
Immediate-release or Infra-red 
Institutional Review Board  
Incurred Sample Reanalysis 
Internal Standard-normalised Matrix Factor 
Intention To Treat 
Intravenous 
Japanese Pharmacopeia 
Japanese Pharmaceutical Excipients 
dipotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 
ECHO  
EMA 
EoS 
ERA 
ERT  
ESI 
ETA 
EU  
FAV 
FEV1 
FMEA 
FPM 
FT-IR 
GABA 
GAD 
GC 
GCP 
GFR  
GGT 
GL-3  
GLA  
GLP 
GMP 
GP 
GSRS  
Hb  
HCl  
HCP 
HCT 
HDPE 
HEK  
HPLC 
HR 
HRD 
CHMP 
IAR  
IC  
IC GL-3 
ICD 
ICMR 
ICSR 
IEC 
IgG 
ICH 
IMP  
IMS 
INN 
IP 
IPC 
IR 
IR 
IRB 
ISR 
IS-normalized MF 
ITT 
IV 
JP 
JPE 
K2EDTA 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 4/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ki 
dissociation constant for binding of inhibitor to enzyme 
Karl Fischer titration 
KF  
LC-MS/MS  
LDPE 
LFT 
LLOQ 
liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry 
Low density polyethylene 
Liver Function tests 
Lower Limit of Quantification 
Loss on drying 
Letter of Access 
Limit of Detection 
LOA 
LOD 
LOD 
LOQ 
LV  
LVEDP  
LVH 
LVMi 
lyso-Gb3  
MA 
MAA 
MAH 
mBMRS 
M.D. 
MDRD 
mGFR  
mGFRiohexol 
mGFRiohexol  
MHRA 
mITT 
mITT-amenable 
mPAP 
MR 
MRI 
MS 
mTDS 
MWD 
NAION 
NCA 
ND 
NHS 
NMR 
NMT 
NSAID 
NYHA 
OECD 
(1) Limit of Quantification, (2) List of Questions 
left ventricular 
Left ventricular end diastolic pressure 
Left ventricular hypertrophy 
Left ventricular mass index 
globotriaosylsphingosine 
Marketing Authorisation 
Marketing Authorization Application 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
modified Behavioural and Medical Rating Scale  
Medical Doctor 
Modification of Diet in Renal Disease equation 
measured glomerular filtration rate 
glomerular filtration rate as measured by plasma clearance of iohexol 
glomerular filtration rate measured by the plasma clearance of unlabelled 
iohexol 
Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 
Modified Intended To Treat 
patients with amenable mutations in the AT1001-011 mITT population 
Mean Pulmonary Artery Pressure  
Medical Representative 
Magnetic resonance imaging 
Mass Spectrometry 
modified 9-point Teacher’s Drooling Scale  
minute walk distance 
Non-Arteritic Anterior Ischemic Optic Neuropathy 
National Competent Authority 
Not detected 
National Health Service  
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug  
New York Heart Association 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
OLE 
OOS 
OPA  Oriented polyamide 
film 
open-label  extension 
Out of Specifications 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 5/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OTC 
PAH 
PBMC  
PCA 
PCD 
PCTFE  
PCWP 
PD 
PDE 
PDE-5 
PE 
PEC 
P-gp  
Ph.Eur. 
PhV 
PIL 
PIP 
PK  
PMS 
PP 
PRO 
PS 
PSMF 
PSUR 
PT 
PTH  
PUMA 
PVC 
PVDC     
PVOD 
PVR  
QA 
QbD 
QC 
QD  
QOD 
QOD  
QOS 
QP 
QTc 
QTPP 
Rf 
RH 
rhα-Gal A 
RMM 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Over-the-counter 
Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension  
peripheral blood mononuclear cell 
prescription cost analysis data  
Photo-Contact Dermatitis  
Polychlorotrifluoroethene 
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure  
pharmacodynamics 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
phosphodiesterase type-5 
Polyethylene 
Predicted Enviromental Concentration 
P-glycoprotein 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacovigilance 
Patient Information Leaflet 
Paediatric Investigational Plan 
pharmacokinetic 
Post Marketing Surveillance 
Polypropylene 
Patient-Reported Outcome 
Photo-Sensitivity  
Pharmacovigilance Systém Master File 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
Preferred Term 
Pituitary thyroid hormone 
Paediatric Use Marketing Authorisation 
Poly vinyl chloride 
Polyvinylidene chloride 
Pulmonary Veno-Occlusive Disease  
Pulmonary vascular resistance 
Quality Assurance 
Quality by design 
Quality Control (samples) 
quaque die (once daily) 
every other day 
quaque otra die (once every other day) 
Quality Overall Summary 
Qualified Person 
QT interval corrected for heart rate 
Quality target product profile 
Retention factor 
Relative Humidity 
recombinant human α-Gal A 
Risk Minimization Measure  
Page 6/39 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference Member State 
Reporting Rate 
Relative retention time 
Relative standard deviation 
Retention time 
serious adverse event 
oxygen saturation  
standard error of the mean 
Short Form Health Survey with 36 questions, version 2 
sodium glucose cotransporter 1 
Serum glutamic oxaloacetic trnasaminase 
Serum glutamic pyruvic trnasmainase 
Shire human genetic therapies 
small, or medium-sized enterprise 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standardised MedDRA Querie 
System Organ Class 
Standard Operating Procedure 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standard Deviation 
Test/Reference 
terminal elimination half-life 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
Tétrahydrofurane 
tris in die (three times a day) 
Total lung capacity  
time to maximum plasma concentration 
time of occurrence of Cmax 
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
Threshold of toxicological concern 
upper limit of normal  
United States pharmacopoeial 
RMS 
RR 
RRT 
RSD 
Rt 
SAE 
SAO2 
SEM  
SF-36v2  
SGLT1  
SGOT  
SGPT  
Shire HGT 
SME 
SmPC 
SMQ  
SOC 
SOP 
SPC 
STD 
T/R 
t1/2 
TEAE  
THF  
TID 
TLC 
tmax 
tmax  
TSE 
TTC 
ULN 
USP 
UV 
VAS 
Vss 
WBC 
WCI 
WEU 
WHO 
WRI 
WT  
XRD 
XRPD  
α-Gal A  
μCi  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Ultraviolet 
visual analogue scale  
volume of distribution  
white blood cell 
Worst Case Imputation 
Well Established Use 
World Health Organization  
worst rank imputation  
wild type 
X-Ray Diffraction 
X-ray powder diffraction  
alpha-galactosidase A 
Microcurie  
Page 7/39 
 
 
 
 
 
μM  
Micromolar  
Not all abbreviations might be used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 8/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Zentiva, k.s. submitted on 4 November 2015 an application for marketing authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ivabradine Zentiva, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 20 November 2014. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a marketing authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indications:  
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary 
artery 
disease adults with normal sinus rhythm and heart rate ≥ 70 bpm. Ivabradine is indicated: 
‒ in adults unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of β-blockers 
or 
‒ in combination with β-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal β-blocker dose. 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients 
in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including β- 
blocker therapy or when β-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated (see section 5.1). 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Procoralan instead of non-clinical and 
clinical unless justified otherwise. 
Information on paediatric requirement 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 9/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Procoralan 5 mg, 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Les Laboratoires Servier, France 
•  Date of authorisation: 25-10-2005 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/05/316/001-007, EU/1/05/316/008-014 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: : Procoralan 5 mg, 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Les Laboratoires Servier, France 
Date of authorisation: 25-10-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
•  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/05/316/001-007, EU/1/05/316/008-014 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Procoralan 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Les Laboratoires Servier, France 
Date of authorisation: 25-10-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/05/316/012  
Bioavailability study number(s): 2014-3595 (IVABRL07375) 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Radka Montoniová 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 November 2015.  
The procedure started on 4 December 2015. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 February 
2016. The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 
3 March 2016  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 10/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
During the meeting on 1 April 2016, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 01 April 
2016  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 20 May 
2016. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 27 June 2016  
During the PRAC meeting on 8 July 2016, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP.  
During the CHMP meeting on 21 July 2016 , the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 01 
September 2016.. 
During the meeting on 15 September 2016, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing authorisation to Ivabradine Zentiva. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The  proposed  product  is  an  immediate  release  film-coated  5mg  and  7,5  mg  tablets  containing 
ivabradine  hydrochloride  as  active  substance.  Ivabradine  hydrochloride  is  a  chemical  substance  and 
the dosage form has been developed as generic product to the centrally authorised product Procorolan 
7,5 mg film-coated tablets containing the same active substance in the same pharmaceutical form. 
Ivabradine is an anti-anginal and anti-ischaemic agent, which selectively and specifically inhibits the If 
current  in  the  sino-atrial  node  and  provides  heart  rate  reduction  without  altering  other  cardiac 
parameters, including conduction, and without directly affecting other haemodynamic parameters. The 
positive effect of ivabradine on angina pectoris symptoms and its ability to reduce myocardial ischemia 
make  it  an  important  agent  in  the  management  of  patients  with  stable  CAD  or  chronic  HF  as 
documented  by  current  clinical  practice  guidelines  [Ponikowski  et  al.  2016;  Montalescot  et  al.  2013; 
NICE 2011].  
The generic medicinal product has applied for all the indications of the reference medicinal product. 
The indications applied and approved by the CHMP are: 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary 
artery disease adults with normal sinus rhythm and heart rate ≥ 70 bpm. Ivabradine is indicated: 
or 
- 
- 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of β-blockers 
in combination with β-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal β-blocker 
dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 11/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients 
in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including β- 
blocker therapy or when β-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated. 
The recommended dose range is from 2.5 to 7.5 mg twice daily.  
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
The  starting  dose  of  ivabradine  should  not  exceed  5  mg  twice  daily  in  patients  aged  below  75  years. 
After three to four weeks of treatment, if patient is still symptomatic, the dose may be increased to the 
next  higher  dose  in patients  receiving  2.5  mg twice daily or  5 mg twice daily.  The  maintenance  dose 
should  not  exceed  7.5  mg  twice  daily.  If  there  is  no  improvement  in  symptoms  of  angina  within  3 
months  after  start  of  treatment,  treatment  of  ivabradine  should  be  discontinued.  Treatment  must  be 
discontinued  if  heart  rate  remains  below  50  bpm  or  symptoms  of  bradycardia  persist  despite  dose 
reduction. 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
The  usual  recommended  starting  dose  of  ivabradine  is  5 mg  twice  daily.  After  2  weeks  of treatment, 
the  dose  can  be  increased  to  7.5  mg twice daily if  resting  heart  rate  is  persistently  above 60 bpm or 
decreased to 2.5 mg twice daily (one half 5 mg tablet twice daily) if resting heart rate is persistently 
below 50 bpm or in case of symptoms related to bradycardia such as dizziness, fatigue or hypotension. 
If heart rate is between 50 and 60 bpm, the dose of 5 mg twice daily should be maintained. If during 
treatment,  heart  rate  decreases  persistently  below  50  bpm  at  rest  or the  patient  experiences 
symptoms  related  to  bradycardia,  the  dose  must  be  titrated  downward  to  the  next  lower  dose 
in patients  receiving  7.5  mg  twice  daily  or  5  mg  twice  daily.  If  heart  rate  increases  persistently 
above 60 bpm at rest, the dose can be up titrated to the next upper dose in patients receiving 2.5 mg 
twice daily or 5 mg twice daily. Treatment must be discontinued if heart rate remains below 50 bpm or 
symptoms of bradycardia persist. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 5 or 7.5 mg ivabradine (as 
hydrochloride) as active substance. The 5 mg tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
Other ingredients are:  
For the tablet core: mannitol, crospovidone, magnesium stearate. 
For the film coating: hypromellose, titanium dioxide, macrogol 400, glycerol. 
The product is available in OPA/Alu/PVC-Alu blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 12/39 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active  substance 
General information 
The chemical name of ivabradine hydrochloride is 3-(3-{[((7S)-3,4-Dimethoxybicyclo[4.2.0]octa-
1,3,5-trien-7-yl)methyl] methyl amino} propyl)-1,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dimethoxy-2H-3-benzazepin-2-
one, hydrochloride corresponding to the molecular formula C27H36N2O5.HCl. It has a relative molecular 
mass of 505.05 g/mol and the following structure: 
The active substance is a white to slightly yellow hygroscopic powder, soluble in water and methanol, 
practically insoluble in THF.  
The active substance exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of one chiral centre. The desired 
isomer is the S-form. The R-isomer is controlled routinely as an impurity in the active substance by a 
stereo-selective analytical method.   
Polymorphism has been observed for the active substance. A list of 29 polymorphic forms, mentioned 
in the literature, has been presented together with their XRD patterns, DSC information and for some 
of them also manufacturing process. The active substance manufacturer consistently manufactures the 
same polymorphic form. Undesired conversion of crystalline form was observed in stability (refer to 
“Stability”). Further based on the investigations that were carried out, appropriate control strategy was 
put in place to prevent undesired change in the polymorph during active substance manufacture and 
stability. Polymorphic form of the active substance is also controlled in the active substance 
specifications. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
The active substance is synthesized by one manufacturer in eleven main steps using well defined 
starting materials with acceptable specifications. The originally proposed starting materials were 
re defined during the procedure at the request of CHMP to ensure that enough of the process is 
conducted under GMP. The chiral centre is generated during the process. The synthetic strategy and 
process design such as reagent selection, process parameters and in-process controls ensure the 
desired configuration at the chiral centre.   
Reprocessing of active substance is described and considered acceptable. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods 
for intermediate products and reagents have been presented.  
The structure of the active substance has been confirmed by the following methods: 1H- and 13C- NMR, 
FT-IR, mass spectra, XRPD, elemental analysis and specific optical rotation. The characterisation of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 13/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on chemistry of new active 
substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
Genotoxic impurities were investigated and appropriate control strategy was put in place. 
The active substance is packaged appropriately.  
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests and limits for the following parameters: appearance 
(Ph. Eur.), solubility (Ph. Eur.), identity (IR, chloride test Ph. Eur.), assay (HPLC), related substances 
(HPLC), R-isomer (HPLC), genotoxic impurity (HPLC), 1 bromo-3-chloro propane (GC), residual 
solvents (GC), water content (KF), heavy metals (Ph. Eur.),  sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), chloride content 
(potentiometric titration), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), polymorphism (XRD) and particle size 
(laser diffraction).  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines.  Satisfactory information regarding the 
reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data are provided for three production scale batches of the active substance. The results 
are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data were provided on three production scale batches of active substance manufactured by 
the proposed manufacturer according to the proposed process and stored in a container closure system 
representative of that intended for the market for 9 months under long term conditions at 
25 ºC / 60% RH and intermediate conditions at 30 ºC / 65% RH and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines. Stability data were also 
provided on three production scale batches of active substance manufactured by the proposed 
manufacturer according to the initial process and stored for 24 months under long term conditions at 
25 ºC / 60% RH and for 6 months under accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the 
ICH guidelines.   
The following parameters were tested: appearance, water content, R-isomer, assay, related 
substances, genotoxic impurity Benzocyclobutane and polymorphism. The analytical methods used 
were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
An out of specification results for polymorphism was observed for one of the three supportive stability 
batches (initial process). In view of this failure, the stability studies were reinitiated. During 
investigation it was also decided to improve packaging step. The results of the re-initiated stability 
studies indicated that the active substance batches (initial process) are complying with the stability 
specification including test for polymorphism at 6 months accelerated and 18 months long-term 
stability station. However at 24 months long-term stability two of the three batches did not comply 
with the test for polymorphism by XRD. 
Further, the first three production scale batches of ivabradine hydrochloride active substance 
manufactured by making minor changes in the manufacturing process were also kept for stability 
studies. Out of the three batches, one batch did not comply with the test for polymorphism at 3 
months accelerated stability. An appropriate control strategy was put in place with regard to 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 14/39 
 
 
 
 
 
preventing the undesired change in the polymorph. The retest period and storage precaution was also 
reconsidered in accordance with the stability results. Furthermore as both polymorphs observed are 
hydrates, they also have similar characteristics and there is no change in the quality of the finished 
product. Moreover it has been confirmed that only the expected form is presented in the finished 
product (refer to “Stability of the product”). 
Forced  degradation  studies  including  photostability  studies  according  to  the  ICH  Q1B  have  been 
provided. No decrease was observed for assay with exception of treatment with acid heat and oxidative 
heat  treatment.  As  for  related  substances  method,  no  significant  degradation  as  observed  with 
exception of acid heat treatment and oxidative heat treatment.  The substance has been shown to be 
stable under light conditions. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 18 months with the storage 
condition “store below 25 ºC” in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product comes as oblong, one side and both edges scored white film coated tablet 5 mg 
and white to off white, round film coated tablet 7.5 mg.  
The aim was to develop a stable and robust formulation, bioequivalent to the reference product 
Procoralan. All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with 
Ph. Eur standards with the exception of the film coating, although it is composed of a mixture of 
compendial components. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The 
list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. The 
formulation of the test product differs from that of the reference product. The reference product 
contains lactose monohydrate, maize starch, maltodextrin, silica (colloidal anhydrous) and magnesium 
stearate and the tablet core is coated with an aqueous film coat which consists of hypromellose, 
titanium dioxide, macrogol 6000, glycerol, magnesium stearate, yellow iron oxide and red iron oxide. 
For the proposed finished product the compatibility of the active substance with the excipients was 
based on stability studies. A detailed account of the development of the formulation was presented 
with clear explanations provided for the changes made at each point. The role, the choice of the 
excipients and their concentration has been satisfactorily justified. 
Direct compression is used to manufacture the finished product. The manufacturing process consists of 
blending, compression and coating step. Manufacturing process optimisation was described. The 
overage used during the coating process was satisfactorily justified. 
The proposed finished products Ivabradine 5 mg film coated tablet and Ivabradine 7.5 mg film coated 
tablet are manufactured by the same manufacturing process, the composition is qualitatively the same 
and quantitatively proportional. 
Influence of tablet hardness was investigated. It was observed that tablet hardness increase does not 
have a significant effect on dissolution. Influence of active substance particle size distribution on 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 15/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dissolution was investigated. The results confirmed the limit choice for the active substance 
specifications. 
Data demonstrating the absence of polymorphic form change during the manufacturing process of the 
proposed finished product were provided. Possible change of the active substance polymorphic form 
during storage was studied. Polymorphism of the reference product was also investigated. Several 
polymorphic forms were observed depending on the batch. Different reference product batches and 
proposed finished product batches were investigated for similarity of dissolution profiles at different 
media (pH 1, pH 4.5, pH 6.8). Based on the results it was concluded that different polymorphic forms 
have no effect on dissolution profile and bioequivalence of products. It was observed that polymorphic 
structure was not critical for finished product quality. 
Ivabradine 5 mg film coated tablet contains break-mark. Three finished product batches were tested 
according to Ph. Eur. breakability test. Results comply with Ph. Eur. requirements. Content uniformity 
of half tablet was also investigated on one batch. Results complied with requirements. Dissolution 
profile of half tablet was also evaluated with release media to show similarity. Dissolution profiles of 
Ivabradine 5 mg film coated tablet, Ivabradine 5 mg film coated half tablet and Ivabradine 7.5 mg film 
coated tablet were evaluated at pH 1. Profiles were found similar. The compliance of subdivision of 
tablet was demonstrated sufficiently. 
A bioequivalence study was performed with the 7.5 mg strength showing bioequivalence between of 
the proposed finished product and the reference medicinal product. The formulation used for the 
bioequivalence study is the same as that intended for marketing. Based on the comparison of 
dissolution profiles of Ivabradine 7.5 mg film coated tablet and Procoralan 7.5 mg film coated tablet, 
where for both products more than 85 % of active substance is dissolved in 15 minutes in pH 1, pH 4.5 
and pH 6.8, it was concluded that dissolution profiles are similar. A biowaiver was requested for the 5 
mg strength based on the result from BE-study with 7.5 mg strength. Dissolution profiles of Ivabradine 
7.5 mg and 5 mg film coated tablet were compared and it was observed that they are similar in pH 1, 
pH 4.5 and pH 6.8. All the conditions for biowaiver for additional product strengths as stated in the 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) are fulfilled; therefore the 
bioequivalence results of the 7.5 mg strength can be extended to the 5 mg strength.  
The development of the dissolution method is described and the discriminatory power has been 
demonstrated with regard to the amount of applied film coating and minimal changes in the tablet 
composition.  
The impurity profiles of both generic and reference products in all strengths are similar. 
The primary packaging is OPA/Alu/PVC-Alu blisters. The material complies with EC requirements. The 
choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the 
intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  five  main  steps:  sieving,  blending,  compression,  film  coating 
and packaging. The process is considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  on  three  pilot 
scale batches of each strength. It has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of 
producing  the  finished  product  of  intended  quality  in  a  reproducible  manner.  The  in-process  controls 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 16/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are  adequate  for  this  type  of  manufacturing  process  and  pharmaceutical  form.  Adequate  justification 
for holding times of bulk intermediates (coating solution, tablet cores, and film-coated tablets prior to 
packaging) has been provided. 
Validation  will  be  performed  post-approval  on  the  first  three  consecutive  production  scale  batches  of 
each strength as per a protocol, which has been presented and is considered acceptable.  
Product specification  
The finished product specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance 
(visual examination), identification (HPLC, UV, TiO2 test), average film coated tablet weight (Ph.Eur.), 
subdivision  of  tablets  (Ph.  Eur.),  LOD  (Ph.Eur.),  disintegration  (Ph.Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  uniformity  of 
dosage  units-content  uniformity  (Ph.Eur.),  dissolution,  impurities  (HPLC),  microorganism  count 
(Ph.Eur.) and polymorphism (XRD). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in 
accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used 
for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results were provided for three production scale batches of each strength confirming the 
consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product 
specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability  data  were  provided  for  three  pilot  scale  batches  of  finished  product  of  5  mg  strength  stored 
under  long  term  conditions  for  18  months  at  25  ºC  /  60%  RH,  under  intermediate  conditions  for  12 
months  at  30  ºC  /  65%  RH  and  for  18  months  at  30  ºC  /  75%  RH,  and  for  up  to  6  months  under 
accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines.  
Stability data were provided for three pilot scale batches of finished product of 7.5 mg strength stored 
under long term conditions for up 18 months at 25 ºC / 60% RH, under intermediate conditions for 12 
months at 30 ºC / 75% RH and for up to 18 months at 30 ºC / 75% RH, and for up to 6 months under 
accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines. 
The batches of medicinal product are identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the 
primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples  were  tested  according  to  the  shelf-life  specifications  described  in  the  previous  section.  The 
analytical procedures used are stability indicating. 
Out of specifications results were observed for the polymorphic form of two batches at 6 months at 
40 °C/75 % RH and for three batches at 12 months at 30 °C/75 % RH. The results for polymorphism 
are in line with specification criteria in long term stability condition (25 °C ± 2 °C/60 ± 5 % RH). For 
the 7.5 mg strength, 18 months stability data is available only for one batch (12 month is available for 
the other two batches). Since the formulation of 7.5 mg and 5 mg tablets are proportional, based on 
available stability results it is expected that the stability of the 7.5 mg strength will not differ from the 
stability of the 5 mg strength. These finding dictated the product shelf life and storage conditions. 
In addition, one batch of 7.5 mg strength was tested under daylight at 25 ºC / 60% RH according to 
ICH Q1B Guideline (directly exposed product, product in primary package and complete package 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 17/39 
 
 
 
 
 
product). Parameters tested were: appearance, assay, dissolution, impurities and polymorphism.  
Based on the results the finished product is not light sensitive. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 18 months with the following storage 
precautions: “Store below 25 °C” and “Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.” 
as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. Polymorphism has been observed for the active substance. 
The active substance manufacturer consistently manufactures the same polymorphic form (crystalline 
form II which is also a hydrated form).  Undesired conversion of crystalline form II to form γ was 
observed in stability of the active substance and finished product. Further based on the investigations 
that were carried out, it was understood that the water content and storage conditions have an impact 
on the polymorph. Hence appropriate control strategy was put in place to prevent undesired change in 
the polymorph during active substance and finished product manufacture and stability. The results of 
tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and 
these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development   
None. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 18/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of ivabradine are well known.  As 
ivabradine is a widely used, well-known active substance, no further studies are required. Overview 
based on literature review is, thus appropriate. The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with 
the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been discussed and was considered 
acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  was  submitted according to  the  EMA  Guideline  on  Environmental 
Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00  corr  21*).  Since 
Ivabradine Zentiva is intended for generic substitution, this should not lead to an increased exposure 
to  the  environment.  Also  the  PECsurfacewater  was  calculated  to  be  0.0003  µg/l  (total  EU  worst  case 
scenario),  which  is  acceptable.  Since  the  PECsurfacewater  was  calculated  to  be  below  0.01  µg/l  and 
considering the fact, that ERA is not deemed necessary for products which are intended as a substitute 
for  other  identical  products  on  the  market,  the  approach  of  the  applicant  was  considered  acceptable. 
As  per  EMA  Guideline  on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr 21*) if the PECSURFACEWATER value is below 0.01 μg/L(3), and no other 
environmental concerns are apparent, it is assumed that the medicinal product is unlikely to represent 
a risk for the environment following its prescribed usage in patients. 
2.3.3.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of Ivabradine Zentiva was provided and 
was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional non clinical 
studies were not considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing ivabradine hydrochloride. To support the 
marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over 
design under fed conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of ivabradine hydrochloride based on published literature. The SmPC is in 
line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the EMA Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **) as well as the EMA Guideline on Bioanalytical method 
validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009 Rev. 1 Corr. 2**) in their current version, are of particular 
relevance.  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 19/39 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
According to the statement in the study report, the BE study was performed as per the protocol and in 
compliance with the requirements of current GCP, and in particular with the requirements of ICH 
Guideline for Good Clinical Practice, according to the principles of GCP having their origin in the 
Declaration of Helsinki, ethical requirements of Article 8.3 (i b) of Directive 2001/83/EC and ethical 
requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
The  applicant  applied  for  marketing  authorization  for  two  different  strengths  of  ivabradine  containing 
film-coated tablets: 5 mg and 7.5 mg. Bioequivalence was demonstrated for the highest strength (i.e. 
7.5 mg). In vivo bioequivalence study waiver was sought for the lower strength of 5 mg based on the 
consideration of the general biowaiver criteria as specified in the EMA Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **).  
Drug  products  Ivabradine  5  mg  film  coated  tablet  and  Ivabradine  7.5  mg  film  coated  tablet  are 
manufactured  by  the  same  manufacturing  process,  the  composition  is  qualitatively  the  same  and 
quantitatively  proportional.  Dissolution  profiles  of  Ivabradine  5  mg  film  coated  tablet  and  Ivabradine 
7.5 mg film coated tablet are similar in all dissolution media. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the company has submitted one bioequivalence study No. IVABRL07375 - a 
single-dose,  open-label,  single-center,  randomized,  two-period,  two-treatment,  two-sequence, 
crossover comparative bioavailability study conducted in forty healthy volunteers under fed conditions.  
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study IVABRL07375: A single-dose, open-label, single-center, randomized, two-period, two-
treatment, two-sequence, crossover comparative bioavailability study of two formulations 
of Ivabradine 7.5mg film-coated tablets conducted under fed conditions.  
Sponsor of the Study:   
Zentiva, k.s., Czech Republic 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 20/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRO: 
Methods 
Study design  
Pharma Medica Research Inc., Canada 
This  was  a  single-dose,  open-label,  single-center,  randomized,  two-period,  two-treatment,  two-
sequence, crossover comparative bioavailability study conducted in forty healthy volunteers under fed 
conditions.  
After  an  overnight  fast  of  at  least  10  hours,  subjects  consumed  a  high-fat,  high-calorie  breakfast. 
Approximately  half  of  the  breakfast  was  consumed  starting  15  minutes  prior  to  drug  administration. 
The  other  half  was  consumed  within  30  minutes  of  starting  the  first  half  of  the  breakfast,  after  the 
administration of assigned drug product.  
A  single  7.5  mg  dose  (one  tablet)  of  the  assigned  drug  product  was  administered  according  to  the 
randomization  scheme  with  240  mL  (±5  mL)  of  room  temperature  water.  Subjects  consumed  the 
entire 240 mL (±5 mL) of water during the drug administration process. 
The washout period between drug administrations for each subject was at least 7 days.  
The  blood  pressure  and  pulse  rate  were  measured prior  to  drug  administration  and  at  3  and  7  hours 
post-dose. The temperature of each subject was measured daily during confinement.  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 21/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Test and reference products  
Ivabradine Zentiva 7.5mg film-coated tablet manufactured by Zentiva, k.s. has been compared to 
Procoralan 7.5mg film-coated tablet manufactured by Servier Industries Ltd.  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 22/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population studied 
Forty (40) male and female, healthy, non-smoker subjects with a mean body mass index 25.6 kg/m2 
(range  18.5  –  29.3),  and  mean  age  39  years  (range:  18-54)  who  voluntarily  signed  the  informed 
consent were included in the study. Thirty-nine (39) subjects finished both periods that were included 
into pharmacokinetic dataset.  
Dropouts - subject No. 8 was dropped due to positive urine test for tricyclic antidepressants, prior to 
Period 2.  
Protocol deviations - one subject came late (9 minutes) to the clinical facility on the check-in day prior 
Period 2. 
Concomitant medication - subject 25 took two 200 mg tablets of ibuprofen on 11 May 2015 (96 hours 
after dosing). 
Analytical methods 
Ivabradine was determined by achiral HPLC method using tandem mass spectrometry detection (PMRI-
1492-14  v.00).  Ivabradine  and  internal  standard  (Rac-ivabradine-d6)  were  extracted  from  K2EDTA 
plasma by protein precipitation extraction. Plasma samples were precipitated with a mixture of organic 
solvents  and  supernatant  was  diluted  and  transferred  for  LC-MS/MS  analysis.  Fully  automated 
extraction can be also performed by the Hamilton Star Lab Automated System. The calibration range 
was from 0.100 to 100 ng/mL using a plasma sample volume of 0.100 mL. 
Certificates  of  analysis  for  ivabradine  hydrochloride  and  Rac-ivabradine-d6  were  attached  to  the 
Analytical  report.  The  calibration  standards  and  QC  samples  were  prepared  from  different  stock 
solutions.  
A  minimum  of  sixteen  (16)  QC  samples  (four  at  each  concentration  level)  were  included  in  each 
analytical  batch.  Samples  were  analysed  in  9  analytical  batches  each  of  them  containing  blank  and 
zero  samples,  nine  calibration  standards,  four  sets  of  QC  samples  at  four  levels  and  samples  from 
mostly  6  subjects.  To  ensure  that  there  is  no  carryover  between  injections,  blank  samples  were 
monitored. There was one minor protocol deviation with no impact on the study outcome. 
Bioanalytical method validation  
The  validation  results  of  a  high  performance  liquid  chromatographic  method  using  tandem  mass 
spectrometry  detection  for  determination  of  ivabradine  in  human  plasma  were  presented  in  the 
Validation Report. The method was validated at Pharma Medica Research Inc., Bioanalytical Division in 
June  2014.  The  long  term  stability  data  of  ivabradine  in  solutions  and  in  human  plasma  were 
submitted. Certificates of analysis for ivabradine hydrochloride and Rac-ivabradine-d6 were attached to 
the  Validation  report.  Ivabradine  undergoes  extensive  metabolism.  The  major  metabolic  pathways 
include O-demethylation, N-demethylation and dehydrogenation. Under experimental conditions these 
metabolites will not reverse back to ivabradine. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The following PK parameters were estimated for ivabradine using a non-compartmental approach in 
SAS (version 9.3): AUCt, AUCinf, Cmax, Tmax, Kel, T1/2. These are adequate and in line with the EMA 
Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **).  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 23/39 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Randomization 
Subjects were randomly assigned to one treatment sequence according to a predetermined computer-
generated randomization scheme (procedure PLAN in SAS®). 
Blinding 
This was an open-label study. Blinding was not applicable.  
Determination of Sample Size 
Sample size was estimated to be 36 subjects. Four (4) extra subjects were included into the study to 
account for potential dropouts. Therefore, 40 subjects were enrolled into this study. 
Statistical Analysis 
Descriptive  statistics  for  the  PK  parameters  of  ivabradine  were  presented.  The  PROC  GLM  procedure 
from SAS version 9.3 was used. 
Analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  performed  on  log-transformed  AUCt  and  Cmax  parameters.  The 
significance of the sequence, period treatment and subject (sequence) effects (all fixed) was tested.  
Based  on  the  log-transformed  parameters,  the  following  criteria  were  used  to  evaluate  the 
bioequivalence between the test and reference products: The 90% CIs of the relative mean AUCt and 
Cmax of the test to reference products should be between 80.00 and 125.00%. 
Results 
Table 1: Summary of Study Results Based on Plasma Ivabradine Levels 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Test  
arithmetic  mean 
AUC(0-t)  
(ng-h/mL) 
Cmax  
(ng/mL) 
108.24 
34.68 
SD  
58.63 
15.21 
Reference  
arithmetic  mean 
106.37 
30.80 
SD  
52.97 
13.28 
Tmax* 
(h) 
AUC0-t                   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours 
1.25 (0.50 – 2.67) 
1.00 (0.25 – 3.50) 
Cmax  
Tmax  
maximum plasma concentration  
time for maximum concentration (* median, range) 
Table 2: Statistical analysis for Ivabradine (ln-transformed values) 
Pharmacokinetic 
parameter 
Geometric Mean Ratio 
Test/Reference 
AUC(0-t)  
(ng-h/mL)
Cmax 
(ng/mL)   
*  estimated from the Residual Mean Squares 
112.73% 
99.72% 
Confidence Intervals 
CV%* 
(94.52%, 105.21%) 
(103.02%, 123.35%) 
14.08 
23.89 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 24/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety data 
There were totally 22 adverse events involving 15 subjects. All adverse events were judged to be mild 
in  severity.  Subject  25  experienced  vomiting  (96  hours  after  dosing).  This  adverse  event  was  not 
considered to be associated with the drug treatment and subject 25 did not withdraw from the study. 
Following  adverse  events  were  reported:  sleepiness  (6),  dizziness  (3),  catheter  site  reaction  (2), 
bradycardia (2), vomiting (1), cut on right side of forehead (1), chills (1), muscle fatigue (1), ringing in 
ear (1), chest discomfort (1), hypertension (1), runny nose (1), sinus congestion (1). 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study, Ivabradine Zentiva, 7,5 mg film-coated tablet was 
considered bioequivalent with Procoralan 7,5 mg film-coated tablet.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies were required for this 
application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To  support  this  application,  the  company  has  submitted  one  bioequivalence  study  and  review  of  pre-
clinical and clinical data. In this application, an essential similarity was claimed to the original medicinal 
product Procoralan, which was also used as reference product in bioequivalence study.  
Submitted  bioequivalence  study  was  a  single-dose,  randomized,  crossover,  study  comparing  two 
formulations  of  ivabradine  7.5  mg  film-coated  tablets  under  fed  conditions.  The  study  has  been 
declared  to  be  conducted  in  GCP  setting,  and  list  of  GCP  inspections  of  individual  sites  have  been 
submitted.  
To submit one bioequivalence study was considered acceptable since the application concerns an oral 
immediate  release  formulation  (film-coated  tablets)  and  the  kinetics  of  ivabradine  is  linear  over  and 
oral dose range of 0.5 – 24 mg. The reference medicinal product is recommended to be taken during a 
meal;  therefore  bioequivalence  study  under  fed  conditions  is  optimal  to  demonstrate  bioequivalence 
between test and reference medicinal products. Considering expected time to peak concentration (1 – 
2  hours  after  administration)  sufficient  number  of  blood  samples  was  taken  to  identify  the  Cmax.  The 
plasma elimination half-life of ivabradine is 2 hours hence the sampling time of 12 hours is considered 
sufficient. This is further supported by the fact, that in no individual subject the extrapolated AUC was 
higher than 20%. The washout period of 7 days is appropriate. The inclusion and exclusion criteria are 
considered  acceptable.  Food,  alcohol,  herbal/natural  products,  nutritional  supplements,  caffeine  and 
xanthine  containing  products,  grapefruit  products  and  other  medication  restrictions  were  also 
adequate.      The  reason  for  drop-out  is  in  line  with  the  protocol  and  is  considered  acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 25/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant medication (2 tablets of ibuprofen 200 mg), taken 96 hours after dosing, could not affect 
results  of  the  study  as  the  dosing  period  was  only  12  hours.  The  pharmacokinetic  variables  were 
adequate and in line with the EMA Guideline on bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr 
**).  Statistical  methods  are  acceptable  according 
to  EMA  Guideline  on  bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr **). The 90% confidence interval for the ration of the Test and 
Reference products fell into the acceptance range of 80.00 – 125.00% both for AUC0-t and Cmax. No 
pre-dose concentrations were detected. One subject reached Tmax at the first sampling point. Since this 
issue  occurred  only  in  one  case  it  is  deemed  that  it  should  have  not  affected  the  study  validity. 
Sequence  and  period  effect  were  not  significant.  The  test  and  reference  products  had  a  comparable 
safety profile in terms of the nature of events and overall proportion of subjects who experienced AEs. 
No unexpected AEs have been observed.  
The  applicant  has  also  requested  biowaiver  for  5  mg  strength.  Drug  products  Ivabradine  5  mg  film-
coated tablet and Ivabradine 7.5 mg film-coated tablet are manufactured by the same manufacturing 
process,  the  composition  is  qualitative  same  and  quantitatively  proportional.  Dissolution  profiles  of 
Ivabradine  5  mg  film-  coated  tablet  and  Ivabradine  7.5  mg  film-coated  tablet  are  similar  in  all 
dissolution  media.  Regarding  the  linear  kinetics  of  ivabradine  in  proposed  strengths,  the  biowaiver  is 
acceptable.  
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study,  Ivabradine  Zentiva,  7,5  mg  film-coated  tablet  is 
considered bioequivalent with Procoralan, 7,5 mg film-coated tablet. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Ivabradine was provided and was accepted 
by the CHMP. In addition, to support this application, the company has submitted one bioequivalence 
study. Based on the presented bioequivalence study, Ivabradine 7,5 mg film-coated tablet 
manufactured by Zentiva, k.s., Czech Republic, was considered bioequivalent with Procoralan 7,5 mg 
film-coated tablet. The applicant has also requested biowaiver for 5 mg strength and this was accepted 
by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not 
considered necessary. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 26/39 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 27/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 28/39 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 29/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 30/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 31/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 32/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 33/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 34/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable.  
The Drug Utilisation Study (DUS) imposed on the reference medicinal product compares the 
characteristics of new users and the patterns of use of ivabradine before and after implementation of 
the risk-minimisation measures (Q1 2010-Q4 2013 vs Q2v 2015-Q1 2016). This comparison cannot be 
made for generic products since they were not available before implementation of the risk minimisation 
measures. Results from the DUS of innovator will become available in Q2 2017. Since the SmPC for 
the generic ivabradine products will be fully aligned with the SmPC of the reference product, the future 
results from DUS were considered applicable to the generic product as well. Consequently, at this time 
there is no need to perform separate studies. 
It was considered that the obligation imposed for the reference medicinal product should not be 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 35/39 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
imposed on Ivabradine Zentiva. In the absence of any conditions imposed on Ivabradine Zentiva, it 
was concluded that this product should not be included in the list of products subject to additional 
monitoring under the mandatory or optional scope criteria and will not display the black triangle in the 
SmPC and PL. 
2.6.  PSUR submission 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils 
the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the EMA 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 36/39 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of ivabradine hydrochloride film-coated tablet. The 
reference product Procoralan is indicated for symptomatic stable angina pectoris in adult patients 
whose heart rate is over or equal 70 beats per minute in adult patients who do not tolerate or cannot 
take heart medicines called beta-blockers or in combination with beta-blockers in patients whose 
condition is not fully controlled with a betablocker and in chronic heart failure in adult patients whose 
heart rate is over or equal to 75 beats per minute. It is used in combination with standard therapy, 
including beta-blocker therapy or when beta-blockers are contraindicated or not tolerated.  
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with the following design: a single-dose, open-label, 
single-centre, randomized, two-period, two-treatment, two-sequence, crossover comparative 
bioavailability study conducted in forty healthy volunteers under fed conditions. The study design was 
considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the 
respective European requirements. Study in fed status was considered acceptable as per requirements 
in the SmPC of the reference medicinal product. Dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well 
as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Ivabradine 7.5mg film-coated tablets manufactured by Zentiva, k.s., met the 
protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared with the Procoralan 7.5 mg film-coated 
tablets. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, and Cmax 
were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of [range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 37/39 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Ivabradine Zentiva is favourable in the following indication: 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary 
artery disease adults with normal sinus rhythm and heart rate ≥ 70 beats per minute (bpm). 
Ivabradine is indicated: 
‒ 
or 
‒ 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contraindication to the use of β-blockers 
in combination with β-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal β-blocker 
dose. 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients 
in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including β-
blocker therapy or when β-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated (see section 5.1). 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 38/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/73167/2017  
Page 39/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
