EMA/624458/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004117 
EPAR summary for the public 
Ivabradine Zentiva 
ivabradine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Ivabradine Zentiva. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Ivabradine Zentiva. 
For practical information about using Ivabradine Zentiva, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Ivabradine Zentiva and what is it used for? 
Ivabradine Zentiva is a heart medicine used to treat the symptoms of long-term stable angina (pains 
to the chest, jaw and back, brought on by physical effort) in adults with coronary artery disease (heart 
disease caused by blockage of the blood vessels that supply the heart muscle). The medicine is used in 
patients with a normal heart rhythm whose heart rate is at least 70 beats per minute. It is used either 
in patients who cannot take beta-blockers (another type of medicine to treat angina) or in combination 
with a beta-blocker in patients whose disease is not controlled by a beta-blocker alone. 
Ivabradine Zentiva is also used in patients with long-term heart failure (when the heart cannot pump 
enough blood to the rest of the body) and a normal heart rhythm whose heart rate is at least 75 beats 
per minute. It is used in combination with standard therapy including beta-blockers, or in patients who 
cannot be treated with beta-blockers. 
Ivabradine Zentiva contains the active substance ivabradine. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Ivabradine Zentiva is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) 
called Procoralan. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Ivabradine Zentiva used? 
Ivabradine Zentiva is available as tablets (5 and 7.5 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The recommended starting dose is 5 mg twice a day with meals, which the doctor may increase to 
7.5 mg twice a day or decrease to 2.5 mg (half a 5-mg tablet) twice a day depending on the patient’s 
heart rate and symptoms. In patients over 75 years old, a lower starting dose of 2.5 mg twice a day 
can be used. Treatment must be stopped if the heart rate decreases persistently below 50 beats per 
minute or if symptoms of bradycardia (slow heart rate) continue. When used for angina, treatment 
should be stopped if symptoms do not improve after 3 months. Also, the doctor should consider 
stopping treatment if the medicine has only a limited effect on reducing symptoms or reducing the 
heart rate. 
How does Ivabradine Zentiva work? 
The symptoms of angina are caused by the heart not receiving enough oxygenated blood. In stable 
angina, these symptoms occur during physical effort. The active substance in Ivabradine Zentiva, 
ivabradine, blocks the ‘If current’ in the sinus node, the natural ‘pacemaker’ that regulates the heart 
rate. When this current is blocked, the heart rate is lowered, so that the heart has less work to do and 
needs less oxygenated blood. Ivabradine Zentiva therefore reduces or prevents the symptoms of 
angina. 
The symptoms of heart failure are caused by the heart not pumping enough blood around the body. By 
lowering the heart rate, Ivabradine Zentiva reduces the stress on the heart, thereby slowing the 
progression of heart failure and improving symptoms. 
How has Ivabradine Zentiva been studied? 
Because Ivabradine Zentiva is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Procoralan. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ivabradine Zentiva? 
Because Ivabradine Zentiva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ivabradine Zentiva approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Ivabradine Zentiva has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Procoralan. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Procoralan, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Ivabradine Zentiva be approved for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ivabradine Zentiva? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ivabradine Zentiva have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
Ivabradine Zentiva  
EMA/624458/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Ivabradine Zentiva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Ivabradine Zentiva on 11 November 2016. 
The full EPAR for Ivabradine Zentiva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Ivabradine Zentiva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016. 
Ivabradine Zentiva  
EMA/624458/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
