ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 5 mg ivabradine (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each 5 mg film-coated tablet contains 72 mg lactose (as anhydrous). 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 7.5 mg ivabradine (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each 7.5 mg film-coated tablet contains 108 mg lactose (as anhydrous). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
Salmon-coloured, oblong shaped, approximately 8.50 mm in length, 4.50 mm in width, film-coated 
tablets scored on both sides, debossed with “FK” on one side and “2” on other side. 
The tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
Salmon-coloured, triangular shaped, approximately 7.30 mm in length, 6.80 mm in width, film-coated 
tablets debossed with “FK” on one side and “1” on other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary 
artery disease adults with normal sinus rhythm and heart rate ≥ 70 bpm. Ivabradine is indicated: 
- 
- 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contraindication to the use of beta-blockers 
or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal 
beta-blocker dose. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure New York Heart Association (NYHA) II to IV class 
with systolic dysfunction, in adult patients in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in 
combination with standard therapy including beta-blocker therapy or when beta-blocker therapy is 
contraindicated or not tolerated (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris 
It is recommended that the decision to initiate or titrate treatment takes place with the availability of 
serial heart rate measurements, ECG or ambulatory 24-hour monitoring. 
The starting dose of ivabradine should not exceed 5 mg twice daily in patients aged below 75 years. 
After three to four weeks of treatment, if the patient is still symptomatic, if the initial dose is well 
tolerated and if resting heart rate remains above 60 bpm, the dose may be increased to the next higher 
dose in patients receiving 2.5 mg twice daily or 5 mg twice daily. The maintenance dose should not 
exceed 7.5 mg twice daily.  
If there is no improvement in symptoms of angina within 3 months after start of treatment, treatment 
of ivabradine should be discontinued.  
In addition, discontinuation of treatment should be considered if there is only limited symptomatic 
response and when there is no clinically relevant reduction in resting heart rate within three months. 
If, during treatment, heart rate decreases below 50 beats per minute (bpm) at rest or the patient 
experiences symptoms related to bradycardia such as dizziness, fatigue or hypotension, the dose must 
be titrated downward including the lowest dose of 2.5 mg twice daily (one half 5 mg tablet twice 
daily). After dose reduction, heart rate should be monitored (see section 4.4). Treatment must be 
discontinued if heart rate remains below 50 bpm or symptoms of bradycardia persist despite dose 
reduction. 
Treatment of chronic heart failure  
The treatment has to be initiated only in patient with stable heart failure. It is recommended that the 
treating physician should be experienced in the management of chronic heart failure. 
The usual recommended starting dose of ivabradine is 5 mg twice daily. After two weeks of treatment, 
the dose can be increased to 7.5 mg twice daily if resting heart rate is persistently above 60 bpm or 
decreased to 2.5 mg twice daily (one half 5 mg tablet twice daily) if resting heart rate is persistently 
below 50 bpm or in case of symptoms related to bradycardia such as dizziness, fatigue or hypotension. 
If heart rate is between 50 and 60 bpm, the dose of 5 mg twice daily should be maintained. 
If during treatment, heart rate decreases persistently below 50 beats per minute (bpm) at rest or the 
patient experiences symptoms related to bradycardia, the dose must be titrated downward to the next 
lower dose in patients receiving 7.5 mg twice daily or 5 mg twice daily. If heart rate increases 
persistently above 60 beats per minute at rest, the dose can be up titrated to the next upper dose in 
patients receiving 2.5 mg twice daily or 5 mg twice daily. 
Treatment must be discontinued if heart rate remains below 50 bpm or symptoms of bradycardia 
persist (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In patients aged 75 years or more, a lower starting dose should be considered (2.5 mg twice daily i.e. 
one half 5 mg tablet twice daily) before up-titration if necessary. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal insufficiency and creatinine clearance above 
15 ml/min (see section 5.2). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data are available in patients with creatinine clearance below 15 ml/min. Ivabradine should 
therefore be used with precaution in this population. 
Hepatic impairment  
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild hepatic impairment. Caution should be exercised 
when using ivabradine in patients with moderate hepatic impairment.  
Ivabradine is contraindicated for use in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency, since it has not 
been studied in this population and a large increase in systemic exposure is anticipated (see 
sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of ivabradine in children aged below 18 years have not yet been established. 
Currently available data for the treatment of chronic heart failure are described in sections 5.1 and 5.2 
but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
No data for symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris are available. 
Method of administration 
Tablets must be taken orally twice daily, i.e. once in the morning and once in the evening during 
meals (see section 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Resting heart rate below 70 beats per minute prior to treatment 
Cardiogenic shock 
Acute myocardial infarction 
Severe hypotension (< 90/50 mmHg) 
Severe hepatic insufficiency 
Sick sinus syndrome 
Sino-atrial block 
Unstable or acute heart failure 
Pacemaker dependent (heart rate imposed exclusively by the pacemaker) 
Unstable angina 
AV-block of 3rd degree 
Combination with strong cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals 
(ketoconazole, itraconazole), macrolide antibiotics (clarithromycin, erythromycin per os, 
josamycin, telithromycin), HIV protease inhibitors (nelfinavir, ritonavir) and nefazodone (see 
sections 4.5 and 5.2) 
Combination with verapamil or diltiazem which are moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with heart 
rate reducing properties (see section 4.5) 
Pregnancy, lactation and women of child bearing potential not using appropriate contraceptive 
measures (see section 4.6) 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Lack of benefit on clinical outcomes in patients with symptomatic chronic stable angina pectoris 
Ivabradine is indicated only for symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris because 
ivabradine has no benefits on cardiovascular outcomes, e.g. myocardial infarction or cardiovascular 
death (see section 5.1).  
Measurement of heart rate 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Given that the heart rate may fluctuate considerably over time, serial heart rate measurements, ECG or 
ambulatory 24-hour monitoring should be considered when determining resting heart rate before 
initiation of ivabradine treatment and in patients on treatment with ivabradine when titration is 
considered. This also applies to patients with a low heart rate, in particular when heart rate decreases 
below 50 bpm, or after dose reduction (see section 4.2). 
Cardiac arrhythmias 
Ivabradine is not effective in the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias and likely loses its 
efficacy when a tachyarrhythmia occurs (e.g. ventricular or supraventricular tachycardia). Ivabradine 
is therefore not recommended in patients with atrial fibrillation or other cardiac arrhythmias that 
interfere with sinus node function. 
In patients treated with ivabradine the risk of developing atrial fibrillation is increased (see 
section 4.8). Atrial fibrillation has been more common in patients using concomitantly amiodarone or 
potent class I anti-arrhythmics. It is recommended to regularly clinically monitor ivabradine treated 
patients for the occurrence of atrial fibrillation (sustained or paroxysmal), which should also include 
ECG monitoring if clinically indicated (e.g. in case of exacerbated angina, palpitations, irregular 
pulse).  
Patients should be informed of signs and symptoms of atrial fibrillation and be advised to contact their 
physician if these occur. 
If atrial fibrillation develops during treatment, the balance of benefits and risks of continued 
ivabradine treatment should be carefully reconsidered. 
Chronic heart failure patients with intraventricular conduction defects (bundle branch block left, 
bundle branch block right) and ventricular dyssynchrony should be monitored closely. 
Use in patients with AV-block of 2nd degree 
Ivabradine is not recommended in patients with AV-block of 2nd degree. 
Use in patients with a low heart rate 
Ivabradine must not be initiated in patients with a pre-treatment resting heart rate below 70 beats per 
minute (bpm) (see section 4.3). 
If, during treatment, resting heart rate decreases persistently below 50 bpm or the patient experiences 
symptoms related to bradycardia such as dizziness, fatigue or hypotension, the dose must be titrated 
downward or treatment discontinued if heart rate below 50 bpm or symptoms of bradycardia persist 
(see section 4.2). 
Combination with calcium channel blockers 
Concomitant use of ivabradine with heart rate reducing calcium channel blockers such as verapamil or 
diltiazem is contraindicated (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). No safety issue has been raised on the 
combination of ivabradine with nitrates and dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers such as 
amlodipine. Additional efficacy of ivabradine in combination with dihydropyridine calcium channel 
blockers has not been established (see section 5.1). 
Chronic heart failure 
Heart failure must be stable before considering ivabradine treatment. Ivabradine should be used with 
caution in heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification IV due to limited amount of data 
in this population. 
Stroke 
The use of ivabradine is not recommended immediately after a stroke since no data is available in 
these situations. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visual function 
Ivabradine influences on retinal function. There is no evidence of a toxic effect of long-term 
ivabradine treatment on the retina (see section 5.1). Cessation of treatment should be considered if 
any unexpected deterioration in visual function occurs. Caution should be exercised in patients with 
retinitis pigmentosa. 
Patients with hypotension 
Limited data are available in patients with mild to moderate hypotension, and ivabradine should 
therefore be used with caution in these patients. Ivabradine is contraindicated in patients with severe 
hypotension (blood pressure < 90/50 mmHg) (see section 4.3). 
Atrial fibrillation - Cardiac arrhythmias 
There is no evidence of risk of (excessive) bradycardia on return to sinus rhythm when 
pharmacological cardioversion is initiated in patients treated with ivabradine. However, in the 
absence of extensive data, non urgent DC-cardioversion should be considered 24 hours after the last 
dose of ivabradine. 
Use in patients with congenital QT syndrome or treated with QT prolonging medicinal products 
The use of ivabradine in patients with congenital QT syndrome or treated with QT prolonging 
medicinal products should be avoided (see section 4.5). If the combination appears necessary, close 
cardiac monitoring is needed. 
Heart rate reduction, as caused by ivabradine, may exacerbate QT prolongation, which may give rise 
to severe arrhythmias, in particular Torsade de pointes. 
Hypertensive patients requiring blood pressure treatment modifications. 
When treatment modifications are made in chronic heart failure patients treated with ivabradine, 
blood pressure should be monitored at an appropriate interval (see section 4.8). 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Concomitant use not recommended 
QT prolonging medicinal products 
-  Cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, bepridil, sotalol, 
ibutilide, amiodarone). 
-  Non cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products (e.g. pimozide, ziprasidone, sertindole, 
mefloquine, halofantrine, pentamidine, cisapride, intravenous erythromycin). 
The concomitant use of cardiovascular and non cardiovascular QT prolonging medicinal products 
with ivabradine should be avoided since QT prolongation may be exacerbated by heart rate reduction. 
If the combination appears necessary, close cardiac monitoring is needed (see section 4.4). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant use with precaution 
Potassium-depleting diuretics (thiazide diuretics and loop diuretics) 
Hypokalemia can increase the risk of arrhythmia. As ivabradine may cause bradycardia, the resulting 
combination of hypokalemia and bradycardia is a predisposing factor to the onset of severe 
arrhythmias, especially in patients with long QT syndrome, whether congenital or substance-induced. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions 
Ivabradine is metabolised by CYP3A4 only and it is a very weak inhibitor of this cytochrome. 
Ivabradine was shown not to influence the metabolism and plasma concentrations of other CYP3A4 
substrates (mild, moderate and strong inhibitors). CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers are liable to 
interact with ivabradine and influence its metabolism and pharmacokinetics to a clinically significant 
extent. Interaction studies have established that CYP3A4 inhibitors increase ivabradine plasma 
concentrations, while inducers decrease them. Increased plasma concentrations of ivabradine may be 
associated with the risk of excessive bradycardia (see section 4.4). 
Contraindication of concomitant use 
Potent CYP3A4 inhibitors 
The concomitant use of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as azole antifungals (ketoconazole, 
itraconazole), macrolide antibiotics (clarithromycin, erythromycin per os, josamycin, telithromycin), 
HIV protease inhibitors (nelfinavir, ritonavir) and nefazodone is contraindicated (see section 4.3). The 
potent CYP3A4 inhibitors ketoconazole (200 mg once daily) and josamycin (1 g twice daily) 
increased ivabradine mean plasma exposure by 7 to 8 fold. 
Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Specific interaction studies in healthy volunteers and patients have shown that the combination of 
ivabradine with the heart rate reducing agents diltiazem or verapamil resulted in an increase in 
ivabradine exposure (2 to 3 fold increase in AUC) and an additional heart rate reduction of 5 bpm. 
The concomitant use of ivabradine with these medicinal products is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use not recommended 
Grapefruit juice 
Ivabradine exposure was increased by 2-fold following the co-administration with grapefruit juice. 
Therefore the intake of grapefruit juice should be avoided. 
Concomitant use with precautions 
Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors 
The concomitant use of ivabradine with other moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. fluconazole) may be 
considered at the starting dose of 2.5 mg twice daily and if resting heart rate is above 70 bpm, with 
monitoring of heart rate. 
CYP3A4 inducers 
CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. rifampicin, barbiturates, phenytoin, Hypericum perforatum [St John’s Wort]) 
may decrease ivabradine exposure and activity. The concomitant use of CYP3A4 inducing medicinal 
products may require an adjustment of the dose of ivabradine. The combination of ivabradine 10 mg 
twice daily with St John’s Wort was shown to reduce ivabradine AUC by half. The intake of St John’s 
Wort should be restricted during the treatment with ivabradine. 
Other concomitant use 
Specific interaction studies have shown no clinically significant effect of the following medicinal 
products on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ivabradine: proton pump inhibitors 
(omeprazole, lansoprazole), sildenafil, HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (simvastatin), dihydropyridine 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
calcium channel blockers (amlodipine, lacidipine), digoxin and warfarin. In addition there was no 
clinically significant effect of ivabradine on the pharmacokinetics of simvastatin, amlodipine, 
lacidipine, on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of digoxin, warfarin and on the 
pharmacodynamics of acetylsalicylic acid. 
In pivotal phase III clinical trials the following medicinal products were routinely combined with 
ivabradine with no evidence of safety concerns: angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin 
II antagonists, beta-blockers, diuretics, anti-aldosterone agents, short and long acting nitrates, HMG 
CoA reductase inhibitors, fibrates, proton pump inhibitors, oral antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti-
platelet medicinal products. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should use appropriate contraceptive measures during treatment (see 
section 4.3). 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of ivabradine in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity. These studies have shown embryotoxic and 
teratogenic effects (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Therefore, ivabradine 
is contraindicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breast-feeding 
Animal studies indicate that ivabradine is excreted in milk. Therefore, ivabradine is contraindicated 
during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). 
Women that need treatment with ivabradine should stop breast-feeding, and choose for another way of 
feeding their child. 
Fertility 
Studies in rats have shown no effect on fertility in males and females (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Ivabradine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
A specific study to assess the possible influence of ivabradine on driving performance has been 
performed in healthy volunteers where no alteration of the driving performance was evidenced. 
However, in post-marketing experience, cases of impaired driving ability due to visual symptoms have 
been reported. Ivabradine may cause transient luminous phenomena consisting mainly of phosphenes 
(see section 4.8). The possible occurrence of such luminous phenomena should be taken into account 
when driving or using machines in situations where sudden variations in light intensity may occur, 
especially when driving at night. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse reactions with ivabradine are luminous phenomena (phosphenes) (14.5%) 
and bradycardia (3.3%). They are dose dependent and related to the pharmacological effect of the 
medicinal product. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported during clinical trials and are ranked using the 
following frequency: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Preferred term 
Eosinophilia 
Uncommon 
Hyperuricaemia 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon* 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon* 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Common 
Uncommon* 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Uncommon* 
Rare* 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon* 
Headache, generally during the first month 
of treatment 
Dizziness, possibly related to bradycardia 
Syncope, possibly related to bradycardia 
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) 
Blurred vision 
Diplopia 
Visual impairment 
Vertigo 
Bradycardia 
AV 1st degree block (ECG prolonged PQ 
interval) 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Atrial fibrillation 
Palpitations, supraventricular extrasystoles,  
ECG prolonged QT interval 
AV 2nd degree block, AV 3rd degree block 
Sick sinus syndrome 
Uncontrolled blood pressure 
Hypotension, possibly related to 
bradycardia 
Dyspnoea 
Nausea 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain* 
Angioedema 
Rash 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Urticaria 
Muscle spasms 
Elevated creatinine in blood 
Asthenia, possibly related to bradycardia 
9 
 
 
 
administration site conditions 
Fatigue, possibly related to bradycardia 
Rare* 
Malaise, possibly related to bradycardia 
* Frequency calculated from clinical trials for adverse events detected from spontaneous report 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) were reported by 14.5% of patients, described as a transient 
enhanced brightness in a limited area of the visual field. They are usually triggered by sudden 
variations in light intensity. Phosphenes may also be described as a halo, image decomposition 
(stroboscopic or kaleidoscopic effects), coloured bright lights, or multiple image (retinal persistency). 
The onset of phosphenes is generally within the first two months of treatment after which they may 
occur repeatedly. Phosphenes were generally reported to be of mild to moderate intensity. All 
phosphenes resolved during or after treatment, of which a majority (77.5%) resolved during treatment. 
Fewer than 1% of patients changed their daily routine or discontinued the treatment in relation with 
phosphenes. 
Bradycardia was reported by 3.3% of patients particularly within the first 2 to 3 months of treatment 
initiation. 0.5% of patients experienced a severe bradycardia below or equal to 40 bpm.  
In the SIGNIFY study atrial fibrillation was observed in 5.3% of patients taking ivabradine compared 
to 3.8% in the placebo group. In a pooled analysis of all the Phase II/III double blind controlled 
clinical trials with a duration of at least 3 months including more than 40,000 patients, the incidence 
of atrial fibrillation was 4.86% in ivabradine treated patients compared to 4.08% in controls, 
corresponding to a hazard ratio of 1.26, 95% CI [1.15-1.39]. 
In the SHIFT trial more patients experienced episodes of increased blood pressure while treated with 
ivabradine (7.1%) compared to patients treated with placebo (6.1%). These episodes occurred most 
frequently shortly after blood pressure treatment was modified, were transient, and did not affect the 
treatment effect of ivabradine. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Overdose may lead to severe and prolonged bradycardia (see section 4.8). 
Management 
Severe bradycardia should be treated symptomatically in a specialised environment. In the event of 
bradycardia with poor haemodynamic tolerance, symptomatic treatment including intravenous beta-
stimulating medicinal products such as isoprenaline may be considered. Temporary cardiac electrical 
pacing may be instituted if required. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Cardiac therapy, other cardiac preparations, ATC code: C01EB17. 
Mechanism of action 
Ivabradine is a pure heart rate lowering agent, acting by selective and specific inhibition of the cardiac 
pacemaker If current that controls the spontaneous diastolic depolarisation in the sinus node and 
regulates heart rate. The cardiac effects are specific to the sinus node with no effect on intra-atrial, 
atrioventricular or intraventricular conduction times, nor on myocardial contractility or ventricular 
repolarisation. 
Ivabradine can interact also with the retinal current Ih which closely resembles cardiac If. It 
participates in the temporal resolution of the visual system, by curtailing the retinal response to bright 
light stimuli. Under triggering circumstances (e.g. rapid changes in luminosity), partial inhibition of Ih 
by ivabradine underlies the luminous phenomena that may be occasionally experienced by patients. 
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) are described as a transient enhanced brightness in a limited area 
of the visual field (see section 4.8). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The main pharmacodynamic property of ivabradine in humans is a specific dose dependent reduction 
in heart rate. Analysis of heart rate reduction with doses up to 20 mg twice daily indicates a trend 
towards a plateau effect which is consistent with a reduced risk of severe bradycardia below 40 bpm 
(see section 4.8). 
At usual recommended doses, heart rate reduction is approximately 10 bpm at rest and during 
exercise. This leads to a reduction in cardiac workload and myocardial oxygen consumption. 
Ivabradine does not influence intracardiac conduction, contractility (no negative inotropic effect) or 
ventricular repolarisation: 
- 
in clinical electrophysiology studies, ivabradine had no effect on atrioventricular or 
intraventricular conduction times or corrected QT intervals; 
in patients with left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) between 30 
and 45%), ivabradine did not have any deleterious influence on LVEF. 
- 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The antianginal and anti-ischaemic efficacy of ivabradine was studied in five double-blind 
randomised trials (three versus placebo, and one each versus atenolol and amlodipine). These trials 
included a total of 4,111 patients with chronic stable angina pectoris, of whom 2,617 received 
ivabradine. 
Ivabradine 5 mg twice daily was shown to be effective on exercise test parameters within 3 to 4 weeks 
of treatment. Efficacy was confirmed with 7.5 mg twice daily. In particular, the additional benefit 
over 5 mg twice daily was established in a reference-controlled study versus atenolol: total exercise 
duration at trough was increased by about 1 minute after one month of treatment with 5 mg twice 
daily and further improved by almost 25 seconds after an additional 3-month period with forced 
titration to 7.5 mg twice daily. In this study, the antianginal and anti-ischaemic benefits of ivabradine 
were confirmed in patients aged 65 years or more. The efficacy of 5 and 7.5 mg twice daily was 
consistent across studies on exercise test parameters (total exercise duration, time to limiting angina, 
time to angina onset and time to 1 mm ST segment depression) and was associated with a decrease of 
about 70% in the rate of angina attacks. The twice-daily dosing regimen of ivabradine gave uniform 
efficacy over 24 hours. 
In a 889-patients randomised placebo-controlled study, ivabradine given on top of atenolol 50 mg o.d. 
showed additional efficacy on all ETT parameters at the trough of active substance activity (12 hours 
after oral intake). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a 725-patients randomised placebo-controlled study, ivabradine did not show additional efficacy on 
top of amlodipine 10 mg o.d. at the trough of active substance activity (12 hours after oral intake) 
while an additional efficacy was shown at peak (3-4 hours after oral intake). 
In a 1,277-patients randomised placebo-controlled study, ivabradine demonstrated a statistically 
significant additional efficacy on response to treatment (defined as a decrease of at least 3 angina 
attacks per week and/or an increase in the time to 1 mm ST segment depression of at least 60 s during 
a treadmill ETT) on top of amlodipine 5 mg o.d. or nifedipine GITS 30 mg o.d. at the trough of active 
substance activity (12 hours after oral ivabradine intake) over a 6-week treatment period (OR = 1.3, 
95% CI [1.0–1.7]; p=0.012). Ivabradine did not show additional efficacy on secondary endpoints of 
ETT parameters at the trough of active substance activity while an additional efficacy was shown at 
peak (3-4 hours after oral ivabradine intake). 
Ivabradine efficacy was fully maintained throughout the 3- or 4-month treatment periods in the 
efficacy trials. There was no evidence of pharmacological tolerance (loss of efficacy) developing 
during treatment nor of rebound phenomena after abrupt treatment discontinuation. The antianginal 
and anti-ischaemic effects of ivabradine were associated with dose-dependent reductions in heart rate 
and with a significant decrease in rate pressure product (heart rate x systolic blood pressure) at rest 
and during exercise. The effects on blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance were minor and 
not clinically significant. 
A sustained reduction of heart rate was demonstrated in patients treated with ivabradine for at least 
one year (n = 713). No influence on glucose or lipid metabolism was observed. 
The antianginal and anti-ischaemic efficacy of ivabradine was preserved in diabetic patients (n = 457) 
with a similar safety profile as compared to the overall population. 
A large outcome study, BEAUTIFUL, was performed in 10917 patients with coronary artery disease 
and left ventricular dysfunction (LVEF<40%) on top of optimal background therapy with 86.9% of 
patients receiving beta-blockers. The main efficacy criterion was the composite of cardiovascular 
death, hospitalization for acute MI or hospitalization for new onset or worsening heart failure. The 
study showed no difference in the rate of the primary composite outcome in the ivabradine group by 
comparison to the placebo group (relative risk ivabradine:placebo 1.00, p=0.945). 
In a post-hoc subgroup of patients with symptomatic angina at randomisation (n=1507), no safety 
signal was identified regarding cardiovascular death, hospitalization for acute MI or heart failure 
(ivabradine 12.0% versus placebo 15.5%, p=0.05). 
A large outcome study, SIGNIFY, was performed in 19102 patients with coronary artery disease and 
without clinical heart failure (LVEF > 40%), on top of optimal background therapy. A therapeutic 
scheme higher than the approved posology was used (starting dose 7.5 mg b.i.d. (5 mg b.i.d, if age 
≥ 75 years) and titration up to 10 mg b.i.d). The main efficacy criterion was the composite of 
cardiovascular death or non-fatal MI. The study showed no difference in the rate of the primary 
composite endpoint (PCE) in the ivabradine group by comparison to the placebo group (relative risk 
ivabradine/placebo 1.08, p=0.197). Bradycardia was reported by 17.9% of patients in the ivabradine 
group (2.1% in the placebo group). Verapamil, diltiazem or strong CYP 3A4 inhibitors were received 
by 7.1% of patients during the study. 
A small statistically significant increase in the PCE was observed in a pre-specified subgroup of 
patients with angina patients in CCS class II or higher at baseline (n=12049) (annual rates 3.4% 
versus 2.9%, relative risk ivabradine/placebo 1.18, p=0.018), but not in the subgroup of the overall 
angina population in CCS class ≥ I (n=14286) (relative risk ivabradine/placebo 1.11, p=0.110). 
The higher than approved dose used in the study did not fully explain these findings. 
The SHIFT study was a large multicentre, international, randomised double-blind placebo controlled 
outcome trial conducted in 6505 adult patients with stable chronic CHF (for ≥ 4 weeks), NYHA class 
II to IV, with a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF ≤ 35%) and a resting heart rate 
≥ 70 bpm. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients received standard care including beta-blockers (89%), ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II 
antagonists (91%), diuretics (83%), and anti-aldosterone agents (60%). In the ivabradine group, 67% 
of patients were treated with 7.5 mg twice a day. The median follow-up duration was 22.9 months. 
Treatment with ivabradine was associated with an average reduction in heart rate of 15 bpm from a 
baseline value of 80 bpm. The difference in heart rate between ivabradine and placebo arms was 
10.8 bpm at 28 days, 9.1 bpm at 12 months and 8.3 bpm at 24 months. 
The study demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant relative risk reduction of 18% in the 
rate of the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular mortality and hospitalisation for worsening 
heart failure (hazard ratio: 0.82, 95%CI [0.75;0.90] – p<0.0001) apparent within 3 months of 
initiation of treatment. The absolute risk reduction was 4.2%. The results on the primary endpoint are 
mainly driven by the heart failure endpoints, hospitalisation for worsening heart failure (absolute risk 
reduced by 4.7%) and deaths from heart failure (absolute risk reduced by 1.1%).  
Treatment effect on the primary composite endpoint, its components and secondary endpoints 
Primary composite endpoint 
Components of the composite: 
- CV death 
- Hospitalisation for worsening 
HF 
Other secondary endpoints: 
- All cause death 
- Death from HF 
- Hospitalisation for any cause 
- Hospitalisation for CV reason 
Ivabradine 
(N=3241) 
n (%) 
793 (24.47) 
Placebo 
(N=3264) 
n (%) 
937 (28.71) 
Hazard ratio 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
0.82 [0.75; 0.90] 
<0.0001 
449 (13.85) 
514 (15.86) 
491 (15.04) 
672 (20.59) 
0.91 [0.80; 1.03] 
0.74 [0.66; 0.83] 
0.128 
<0.0001 
503 (15.52) 
113 (3.49) 
1231 (37.98) 
977 (30.15) 
552 (16.91) 
151 (4.63) 
1356 (41.54) 
1122 (34.38) 
0.90 [0.80; 1.02] 
0.74 [0.58;0.94] 
0.89 [0.82;0.96] 
0.85 [0.78; 0.92] 
0.092 
0.014 
0.003 
0.0002 
The reduction in the primary endpoint was observed consistently irrespective of gender, NYHA class, 
ischaemic or non-ischaemic heart failure aetiology and of background history of diabetes or 
hypertension. 
In the subgroup of patients with HR ≥ 75 bpm (n=4150), a greater reduction was observed in the 
primary composite endpoint of 24% (hazard ratio: 0.76, 95%CI [0.68;0.85] – p<0.0001) and for other 
secondary endpoints, including all cause death (hazard ratio: 0.83, 95%CI [0.72;0.96] – p=0.0109) 
and CV death (hazard ratio: 0.83, 95%CI [0.71;0.97] – p=0.0166). In this subgroup of patients, the 
safety profile of ivabradine is in line with the one of the overall population.  
A significant effect was observed on the primary composite endpoint in the overall group of patients 
receiving beta blocker therapy (hazard ratio: 0.85, 95%CI [0.76;0.94]). In the subgroup of patients 
with HR ≥ 75 bpm and on the recommended target dose of beta-blocker, no statistically significant 
benefit was observed on the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio: 0.97, 95%CI [0.74;1.28]) and 
other secondary endpoints, including hospitalisation for worsening heart failure (hazard ratio: 0.79, 
95% CI [0.56;1.10]) or death from heart failure (hazard ratio: 0.69, 95% CI [0.31;1.53]). 
There was a significant improvement in NYHA class at last recorded value, 887 (28%) of patients on 
ivabradine improved versus 776 (24%) of patients on placebo (p=0.001). 
In a 97-patient randomised placebo-controlled study, the data collected during specific 
ophthalmologic investigations, aiming at documenting the function of the cone and rod systems and 
the ascending visual pathway (i.e. electroretinogram, static and kinetic visual fields, colour vision, 
visual acuity), in patients treated with ivabradine for chronic stable angina pectoris over 3 years, did 
not show any retinal toxicity. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
A randomised, double blind, placebo controlled  study was performed in 116 paediatric patients 
(17 aged [6-12] months, 36 aged [1-3] years and 63 aged [3-18] years) with CHF and dilated 
cardiomyopathy (DCM) on top of optimal background treatment. 74 received ivabradine (ratio 2:1). 
The starting dose was 0.02 mg/kg bid in age-subset [6-12] months, 0.05 mg/kg bid in [1-3] years and 
[3-18] years <40 kg, and 2.5 mg bid in [3-18] years and ≥ 40 kg. The dose was adapted depending on 
the therapeutic response with maximum doses of 0.2 mg/kg bid, 0.3 mg/kg bid and 15 mg bid 
respectively. In this study, ivabradine was administered as oral liquid formulation or tablet twice 
daily. The absence of pharmacokinetic difference between the 2 formulations was shown in an open-
label randomised two-period cross-over study in 24 adult healthy volunteers. 
A 20% heart rate reduction, without bradycardia, was achieved by 69.9% of patients in the ivabradine 
group versus 12.2% in the placebo group during the titration period of 2 to 8 weeks (Odds Ratio: E = 
17.24, 95% CI [5.91 ; 50.30]).  
The mean ivabradine doses allowing to achieve a 20% HRR were 0.13 ± 0.04 mg/kg bid, 
0.10 ± 0.04 mg/kg bid and 4.1 ± 2.2 mg bid in the age subsets [1-3] years, [3-18] years and <40 kg and 
[3-18] years and ≥ 40 kg, respectively. 
Mean LVEF increased from 31.8% to 45.3% at M012 in ivabradine group versus 35.4% to 42.3% in 
the placebo group. There was an improvement in NYHA class in 37.7% of ivabradine patients versus 
25.0% in the placebo group. These improvements were not statistically significant. 
The safety profile, over one year, was similar to the one described in adult CHF patients. 
The long-term effects of ivabradine on growth, puberty and general development as well as the long-
term efficacy of therapy with ivabradine in childhood to reduce cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality have not been studied. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference medicinal product containing ivabradine in all subsets of the paediatric population in the 
treatment of angina pectoris. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference medicinal product containing ivabradine in children aged 0 to less than 6 months in the 
treatment of chronic heart failure.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Under physiological conditions, ivabradine is rapidly released from tablets and is highly water-soluble 
(>10 mg/ml). Ivabradine is the S-enantiomer with no bioconversion demonstrated in vivo. The 
N-desmethylated derivative of ivabradine has been identified as the main active metabolite in humans. 
Absorption 
Ivabradine is rapidly and almost completely absorbed after oral administration with a peak plasma 
level reached in about 1 hour under fasting condition. The absolute bioavailability of the film-coated 
tablets is around 40%, due to first-pass effect in the gut and liver.  
Food delayed absorption by approximately 1 hour, and increased plasma exposure by 20 to 30%. The 
intake of the tablet during meals is recommended in order to decrease intra-individual variability in 
exposure (see section 4.2). 
Distribution 
Ivabradine is approximately 70% plasma protein bound and the volume of distribution at steady-state 
is close to 100 l in patients. The maximum plasma concentration following chronic administration at 
the recommended dose of 5 mg twice daily is 22 ng/ml (CV=29%). The average plasma concentration 
is 10 ng/ml (CV=38%) at steady-state. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Ivabradine is extensively metabolised by the liver and the gut by oxidation through cytochrome P450 
3A4 (CYP3A4) only. The major active metabolite is the N-desmethylated derivative (S 18982) with 
an exposure about 40% of that of the parent compound. The metabolism of this active metabolite also 
involves CYP3A4. Ivabradine has low affinity for CYP3A4, shows no clinically relevant CYP3A4 
induction or inhibition and is therefore unlikely to modify CYP3A4 substrate metabolism or plasma 
concentrations. Inversely, potent inhibitors and inducers may substantially affect ivabradine plasma 
concentrations (see section 4.5). 
Elimination 
Ivabradine is eliminated with a main half-life of 2 hours (70-75% of the AUC) in plasma and an 
effective half-life of 11 hours. The total clearance is about 400 ml/min and the renal clearance is 
about 70 ml/min. Excretion of metabolites occurs to a similar extent via faeces and urine. About 4% 
of an oral dose is excreted unchanged in urine. 
Linearity/non linearity 
The kinetics of ivabradine is linear over an oral dose range of 0.5 – 24 mg. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No pharmacokinetic differences (AUC and Cmax) have been observed between elderly (≥ 65 years) or 
very elderly patients (≥ 75 years) and the overall population (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
The impact of renal impairment (creatinine clearance from 15 to 60 ml/min) on ivabradine 
pharmacokinetic is minimal, in relation with the low contribution of renal clearance (about 20 %) to 
total elimination for both ivabradine and its main metabolite S 18982 (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child Pugh score up to 7) unbound AUC of ivabradine and 
the main active metabolite were about 20% higher than in subjects with normal hepatic function. Data 
are insufficient to draw conclusions in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. No data are 
available in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic profile of ivabradine in paediatric chronic heart failure patients aged 6 months 
to less than 18 years is similar to the pharmacokinetics described in adults when a titration scheme 
based on age and weight is applied. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship 
PK/PD relationship analysis has shown that heart rate decreases almost linearly with increasing 
ivabradine and S 18982 plasma concentrations for doses of up to 15-20 mg twice daily. At higher 
doses, the decrease in heart rate is no longer proportional to ivabradine plasma concentrations and 
tends to reach a plateau. High exposures to ivabradine that may occur when ivabradine is given in 
combination with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may result in an excessive decrease in heart rate although 
this risk is reduced with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5). The PK/PD 
relationship of ivabradine in paediatric chronic heart failure patients aged 6 months to less than 
18 years is similar to the PK/PD relationship described in adults. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential. Reproductive toxicity 
studies showed no effect of ivabradine on fertility in male and female rats. When pregnant animals 
were treated during organogenesis at exposures close to therapeutic doses, there was a higher 
incidence of foetuses with cardiac defects in the rat and a small number of foetuses with ectrodactylia 
in the rabbit. 
In dogs given ivabradine (doses of 2, 7 or 24 mg/kg/day) for one year, reversible changes in retinal 
function were observed but were not associated with any damage to ocular structures. These data are 
consistent with the pharmacological effect of ivabradine related to its interaction with 
hyperpolarisation-activated Ih currents in the retina, which share extensive homology with the cardiac 
pacemaker If current. 
Other long-term repeat dose and carcinogenicity studies revealed no clinically relevant changes. 
Environmental risk assessment (ERA) 
The environmental risk assessment of ivabradine has been conducted in accordance to European 
guidelines on ERA. 
Outcomes of these evaluations support the lack of environmental risk of ivabradine and ivabradine 
does not pose a threat to the environment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet Core 
Lactose anhydrous 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Starch, pregelatinised (maize) 
Silica, colloidal hydrated (E551) 
Film-coating 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol 4000 
Talc (E553b) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Red iron oxide (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aluminium/ Aluminium perforated unit dose blister in pack sizes of 14x1, 28x1, 56x1, 84x1, 98x1, 
100x1 or 112x1 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/17/1190/001 
EU/1/17/1190/002 
EU/1/17/1190/003 
EU/1/17/1190/004 
EU/1/17/1190/005 
EU/1/17/1190/006 
EU/1/17/1190/007 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/17/1190/008 
EU/1/17/1190/009 
EU/1/17/1190/010 
EU/1/17/1190/011 
EU/1/17/1190/012 
EU/1/17/1190/013 
EU/1/17/1190/014 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 May 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS 
RESPONSIBLE 
FOR 
BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS  OR  RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER  CONDITIONS  AND  REQUIREMENTS  OF  THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS  OR  RESTRICTIONS  WITH  REGARD  TO 
THE  SAFE  AND  EFFECTIVE  USE  OF  THE  MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Laboratori Fundacio Dau 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca 
08040 Barcelona 
Spain 
WESSLING Hungary Kft., 
Anonymus u. 6., Budapest, 1045, 
Hungary  
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice 
Poland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
ivabradine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 5 mg ivabradine (as hydrochloride) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
Read the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
14x1 film-coated tablets 
28x1 film-coated tablets 
56x1 film-coated tablets 
84x1 film-coated tablets 
98x1 film-coated tablets 
100x1 film-coated tablets 
112x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/17/1190/001  
EU/1/17/1190/002  
EU/1/17/1190/003  
EU/1/17/1190/004  
EU/1/17/1190/005  
EU/1/17/1190/006  
EU/1/17/1190/007  
14x1 film-coated tablets 
28x1 film-coated tablets 
56x1 film-coated tablets 
84x1 film-coated tablets 
98x1 film-coated tablets 
100x1 film-coated tablets 
112x1 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg 
17.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
24 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
ivabradine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
ivabradine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 7.5 mg ivabradine (as hydrochloride) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. 
Read the package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
14x1 film-coated tablets 
28x1 film-coated tablets 
56x1 film-coated tablets 
84x1 film-coated tablets 
98x1 film-coated tablets 
100x1 film-coated tablets 
112x1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/17/1190/008  
EU/1/17/1190/009  
EU/1/17/1190/010  
EU/1/17/1190/011  
EU/1/17/1190/012  
EU/1/17/1190/013  
EU/1/17/1190/014  
14x1 film-coated tablets 
28x1 film-coated tablets 
56x1 film-coated tablets 
84x1 film-coated tablets 
98x1 film-coated tablets 
100x1 film-coated tablets 
112x1 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg 
17.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.   UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
28 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
ivabradine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets 
ivabradine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Ivabradine Accord is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Ivabradine Accord 
3. 
4. 
5 
6. 
How to take Ivabradine Accord 
Possible side effects 
How to store Ivabradine Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ivabradine Accord is and what it is used for 
Ivabradine Accord  is a heart medicine used to treat: 
- 
Symptomatic stable angina pectoris (which causes chest pain) in adult patients whose heart rate 
is over or equal to 70 beats per minute. It is used in adult patients who do not tolerate or cannot 
take heart medicines called beta-blockers. It is also used in combination with beta-blockers in 
adult patients whose condition is not fully controlled with a beta-blocker. 
Chronic heart failure in adult patients whose heart rate is over or equal to 75 beats per minute. 
It is used in combination with standard therapy, including beta-blocker therapy or when 
beta-blockers are contraindicated or not tolerated. 
- 
About stable angina pectoris (usually referred to as “angina”): 
Stable angina is a heart disease which happens when the heart does not receive enough oxygenThe 
most common symptom of angina is chest pain or discomfort.  
About chronic heart failure: 
Chronic heart failure is a heart disease which happens when your heart cannot pump enough blood to 
the rest of your body. The most common symptoms of heart failure are breathlessness, fatigue, 
tiredness and ankle swelling. 
How does Ivabradine Accord work? 
The specific heart rate lowering action of ivabradine helps : 
-   to control and reduce the number of angina attacks by lowering heart’s need for oxygen, 
-   to improve the heart functioning and vital prognosis in patients with chronic heart failure. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Ivabradine Accord 
Do not take Ivabradine Accord 
- 
if you are allergic to ivabradine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6); 
if your resting heart rate before treatment is too slow (below 70 beats per minute); 
if you are suffering from cardiogenic shock (a heart condition treated in hospital); 
- 
- 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you suffer from a heart rhythm disorder (sick sinus syndrome, sino-atrial block, AV-block of 3rd 
degree); 
if you are having a heart attack; 
if you suffer from very low blood pressure; 
if you suffer from unstable angina (a severe form in which chest pain occurs very frequently and 
with or without exertion); 
if you have heart failure which has recently become worse; 
if your heartbeat is exclusively imposed by your pacemaker; 
if you suffer from severe liver problems; 
if you are already taking medicines for the treatment of fungal infections (such as ketoconazole, 
itraconazole), macrolide antibiotics (such as josamycin, clarithromycin, telithromycin or 
erythromycin given orally), medicines to treat HIV infections (such as nelfinavir, ritonavir) or 
nefazodone (medicine to treat depression) or diltiazem, verapamil (used for high blood pressure or 
angina pectoris); 
if you are a woman able to have children and not using reliable contraception; 
if you are pregnant or trying to become pregnant; 
if you are breast-feeding. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Ivabradine Accord: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you suffer from heart rhythm disorders (such as irregular heartbeat, palpitation, increase in 
chest pain) or sustained atrial fibrillation (a type of irregular heartbeat), or an abnormality of 
electrocardiogram (ECG) called ‘long QT syndrome’, 
if you have symptoms such as tiredness, dizziness or shortness of breath (this could mean that 
your heart is slowing down too much), 
if you suffer from symptoms of atrial fibrillation (pulse rate at rest unusually high (over 110 beats 
per minute) or irregular, without any apparent reason, making it difficult to measure), 
if you have had a recent stroke (cerebral attack), 
if you suffer from mild to moderate low blood pressure, 
if you suffer from uncontrolled blood pressure, especially after a change in your antihypertensive 
treatment, 
if you suffer from severe heart failure or heart failure with abnormality of ECG called ‘bundle 
branch block’, 
if you suffer from chronic eye retinal disease, 
if you suffer from moderate liver problems, 
if you suffer from severe renal problems. 
- 
- 
- 
If any of the above applies to you, talk straight away to your doctor before or while taking Ivabradine 
Accord. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents younger than 18 years. Available data are 
insufficient in this age group. 
Other medicines and Ivabradine Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
fluconazole (an antifungal medicine) 
rifampicin (an antibiotic) 
Make sure to tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following medicines, as a dose adjustment of 
Ivabradine Accord or monitoring should be required: 
- 
- 
-  barbiturates (for difficult sleeping or epilepsy) 
-  phenytoin (for epilepsy) 
-  Hypericum perforatum or St John’s Wort (herbal treatment for depression) 
-  QT prolonging medicines to treat either heart rhythm disorders or other conditions: 
-  quinidine, disopyramide, ibutilide, sotalol, amiodarone (to treat heart rhythm disorders) 
32 
 
 
 
 
-  bepridil (to treat angina pectoris) 
-  certain types of medicines to treat anxiety, schizophrenia or other psychoses (such as pimozide, 
ziprasidone, sertindole) 
-  anti-malarial medicines (such as mefloquine or halofantrine) 
- 
intravenous erythromycin (an antibiotic) 
-  pentamidine (an antiparasitic medicine) 
-  cisapride (against the gastro-oesophageal reflux) 
-  some types of diuretics which may cause decrease in blood potassium level, such as furosemide, 
hydrochlorothiazide, indapamide (used to treat oedema, high blood pressure). 
Ivabradine Accord with food and drink  
Avoid grapefruit juice during treatment with Ivabradine Accord. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Do not take Ivabradine Accord if you are pregnant or are planning to have a baby (see “Do not take 
Ivabradine Accord”). 
If you are pregnant and have taken Ivabradine Accord, talk to your doctor. 
Do not take Ivabradine Accord if you are able to become pregnant unless you use reliable 
contraceptive measures (see “Do not take Ivabradine Accord”). 
Do not take Ivabradine Accord if you are breast-feeding (see “Do not take Ivabradine Accord”). Talk 
to your doctor if you are breast-feeding or intending to breast-feed as breast-feeding should be 
discontinued if you take Ivabradine Accord. 
Driving and using machines 
Ivabradine Accord may cause temporary luminous visual phenomena (a temporary brightness in the 
field of vision, see “Possible side effects”). If this happens to you, be careful when driving or using 
machines at times when there could be sudden changes in light intensity, especially when driving at 
night. 
Ivabradine Accord contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Ivabradine Accord 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
Ivabradine Accord should be taken during meals. 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg tablet can be divided into equal doses. 
If you are being treated for stable angina pectoris 
The starting dose should not exceed one tablet of Ivabradine Accord 5 mg twice daily. If you still 
have angina symptoms and if you have tolerated the 5 mg twice daily dose well, the dose may be 
increased. 
The maintenance dose should not exceed 7.5 mg twice daily. Your doctor will prescribe the right dose 
for you. The usual dose is one tablet in the morning and one tablet in the evening. In some cases (e.g. 
if you are aged 75 years or more), your doctor may prescribe half the dose i.e., one half 5 mg tablet of 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg (corresponding to 2.5 mg ivabradine) in the morning and one half 5 mg tablet 
in the evening. 
If you are being treated for chronic heart failure 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The usual recommended starting dose is one tablet of Ivabradine Accord 5 mg twice daily increasing 
if necessary to one tablet of Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg twice daily. Your doctor will decide the right 
dose for you. The usual dose is one tablet in the morning and one tablet in the evening. In some cases 
(e.g. if you are aged 75 years or more), your doctor may prescribe half the dose i.e., one half 5 mg 
tablet of Ivabradine Accord 5 mg (corresponding to 2.5 mg ivabradine) in the morning and one half 
5 mg tablet in the evening. 
If you take more Ivabradine Accord than you should 
A large dose of Ivabradine Accord could make you feel breathless or tired because your heart slows 
down too much. If this happens, contact your doctor immediately. 
If you forget to take Ivabradine Accord 
If you forget to take a dose of Ivabradine Accord, take the next dose at the usual time. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for the forgotten dose. 
The calendar printed on the blister containing the tablets should help you remember when you last 
took a tablet of Ivabradine Accord. 
If you stop taking Ivabradine Accord 
As the treatment for angina or chronic heart failure is usually life-long, you should discuss with your 
doctor before stopping this medicine. 
If you think that the effect of Ivabradine Accord is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The most common adverse reactions with this medicine are dose dependent and related to its mode of 
action: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
Luminous visual phenomena (brief moments of increased brightness, most often caused by sudden 
changes in light intensity). They can also be described as a halo, coloured flashes, image 
decomposition or multiple images. They generally occur within the first two months of treatment after 
which they may occur repeatedly and resolve during or after treatment 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Modification in the heart functioning (the symptoms are a slowing down of the heart rate). They 
particularly occur within the first 2 to 3 months of treatment initiation. 
Other side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Irregular rapid contraction of the heart (Atrial fibrillation), abnormal perception of heartbeat 
(Bradycardia, Ventricular extrasystoles, AV 1st degree block (ECG prolonged PQ interval)), 
uncontrolled blood pressure, headache, dizziness and blurred vision (cloudy vision). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Palpitations and cardiac extra beats, feeling sick (nausea), constipation, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, 
spinning sensation (vertigo), difficulty breathing (dyspnoea), muscle spasms, high blood levels of uric 
acid, an excess of eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) and elevated creatinine in blood (a 
breakdown product of muscle), skin rash, angioedema (such as swollen face, tongue or throat, 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difficulty in breathing or swallowing), low blood pressure, fainting, feeling of tiredness, feeling of 
weakness, abnormal ECG heart tracing, double vision, impaired vision. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
Urticaria, itching, skin reddening, feeling unwell. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
Irregular heart beats (AV 2nd degree block, AV 3rd degree block, Sick sinus syndrome). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ivabradine Accord 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ivabradine Accord contains 
-  The active substance is ivabradine (as hydrochloride). 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets:  
Each film-coated tablet contains 5 mg ivabradine (as hydrochloride). 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets::  
Each film-coated tablet contains 7.5 mg ivabradine (as hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
 tablet core: lactose anhydrous (see section 2), magnesium stearate (E470b), pregelatinised starch 
(maize), colloidal hydrated silica (E551),  
film coating: polyvinyl alcohol (E1203), titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol (4000), talc (E553b), 
yellow iron oxide (E172), red iron oxide (E172). 
What Ivabradine Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Ivabradine Accord 5 mg film-coated tablets are salmon-coloured, oblong shaped ,film-coated tablets 
scored on both sides, debossed with “FK” on one side and “2” on other side. 
Ivabradine Accord 7.5 mg film-coated tablets are salmon-coloured, triangular shaped, film-coated 
tablets debossed with “FK” on one side and “1”on other side. 
The tablets are available in Aluminium/Aluminium perforated unit dose blister in pack-sizes of 14x1, 
28x1, 56x1, 84x1, 98x1, 100x1 or 112x1 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est 6ª planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Manufacturer: 
Laboratori Fundacio Dau 
C/ C, 12-14 Pol. Ind. Zona Franca 
08040 Barcelona 
Spain 
or 
WESSLING Hungary Kft., 
Anonymus u. 6., Budapest, 1045, 
Hungary 
or 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
