European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
EMEA/42754/2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
IVEMEND  
International Non-proprietary Name:  
fosaprepitant dimeglumine 
Procedure No. (EMEA/H/C/743) 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
©EMEA 2008 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 3 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.3 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 3 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 4 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 36 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 37 
2/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Merck  Sharp  &  Dohme  Ltd.  submitted  on  3  May  2006  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  IVEMEND,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
The  legal  basis  for  this  application  refers  to  Article  8.3  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended 
-complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier:  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication  prevention  of  chemotherapy-induced  nausea  and 
vomiting (CINV). 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Dr Tomas P Salmonson 
Co-Rapporteur:  Dr Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 3 May 2006. 
The procedure started on 24 May 2006. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
09 August 2006 (Annex 4.1). The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
CHMP members on 10 August 2006 (Annex 4.2). In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation 
(RC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their 
assessment report in less than 80 days. 
During  the  meeting  on  18-21  September  2006,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 September 2006 (Annex 4.3). 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 8 August 
2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 21 September 2007 (Annex 4.4). 
During the CHMP meeting on 15-18 October 2007, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant (Annex 4.5). 
During  the  meeting  on  12-15  November  2007,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  IVEMEND  on  15  November  2007.  The  applicant 
provided the letter of undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation 
on 06 November 2007 (Annex 4.6.) 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Problem statement 
Nausea  and  vomiting  are  common  adverse  effects  during  or  after  cancer  chemotherapy.  Patients 
consistently report that chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is an aspect of treatment 
they  find  most  unpleasant  and  distressing.  This  syndrome  has  a  significant  impact  on  patients’ 
3/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
functional  status  and  quality  of  life  and  patients  may  delay  scheduled  chemotherapy  or  even  on 
occasion  refuse  potentially  curative  therapy  because  of  CINV.  The  emetic  response  may  be  acute 
(within  24 hours  after 
treatment).  The  underlying 
mechanism(s) of acute and delayed emesis are suggested to be different. Present therapies consist of 
serotonin  5-HT3  receptor  antagonists  such  as  ondansetron,  tropisetron  and  granisetron  and  the 
dopamine receptor antagonist metoclopramide. These compounds have an adequate effect in acute, but 
not in delayed CINV. 
treatment)  or  delayed  (> 24 hours  after 
Despite the demonstrated benefits of oral aprepitant, there is still a medical need for treatment options 
(such  as  intravenous  administration)  to  prevent  CINV  in  patients  who  cannot  easily  tolerate  orally 
administered  medication  prior  to  initiating  chemotherapy.  Parenteral  administration  is  also  an 
important  treatment  option  for  oncologists  for  whom  it  is  frequently  more  convenient  and  easier  to 
administer  compounds  intravenously  prior  to  the  administration  of  chemotherapy  (which  is  also 
commonly given intravenously). 
About the product 
The  active  substance  of  IVEMEND  is  fosaprepitant  dimeglumine  (hereafter  referred  to  as 
fosaprepitant) is a water-soluble phosphorylated prodrug of aprepitant, which is rapidly converted to 
aprepitant  in  vivo  following  intravenous  administration.  Aprepitant  is  an  antagonist  of  human 
substance P neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors. 
Substance P belongs to the neuropeptide-family, tachykinins and is abundant and widely distributed in 
the  mammalian  CNS  and  other  tissues.  Its  biological  action  is  mediated  through  G-protein  coupled 
receptors  designated  NK1,  NK2,  and  NK3.  The  preferred  ligand  for  the  NK1  receptor  is  substance P 
itself.  NK1  receptors  are  for  instance  located  in  brain  regions  (brain  stem  nuclei  of  the  dorsal  vagal 
complex) that are critical for the regulation of the vomiting reflex and consequently substance P is able 
to evoke emesis. The anti-emetic profile of NK1 antagonists has been demonstrated in several species 
including  ferrets,  dogs  and  pigs.  In  the  most  characterised,  non-clinical  model  of  emesis,  the 
cisplatin-induced emesis in ferrets, aprepitant showed a good effect on both acute and delayed emesis 
in contrast to 5-HT3 antagonists where the effect was seen only in the acute phase. Since fosaprepitant 
is  a  prodrug  of  aprepitant  and  is  rapidly  converted  in  aprepitant,  the  pharmacological  activity  of 
fosaprepitant mirrors those of aprepitant. 
The  indication  applied  for  IVEMEND  by  the  Applicant  is  “prevention  of  acute  and  delayed  nausea 
and vomiting associated with initial and repeated courses of highly and moderately emetogenic cancer 
chemotherapy,  including  high-dose  cisplatin,  in  combination  with  other  anti-emetic  agents”.  The 
proposed regimen of fosaprepitant is 115 mg as a 15-minute infusion administered 30 minutes prior to 
chemotherapy to substitute 125 mg of oral aprepitant on Day 1. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Merck  Sharp  &  Dohme  Ltd  has  applied  for  a  marketing  authorisation  through  the  centralised 
procedure for IVEMEND 115 mg powder for solution for infusion. 
The  active  substance  fosaprepitant  dimeglumine  is  the  water  soluble  pro-drug  of  already  approved 
water-insoluble  aprepitant  (already  marketed  as  a  centralised  product  for  the  80,  125  and  40 mg 
capsules, respectively EMEA/H/C/527 and EMEA/H/C/527/X/015). This new product is intended to 
be an alternative to the Day 1 oral administration of aprepitant 125 mg. Fosaprepitant converts rapidly 
to aprepitant in vivo following intravenous administration. 
The finished  product is packaged in a  glass vial  containing fosaprepitant dimeglumine equivalent to 
115 mg fosaprepitant. 
The structure of pro-drug fosaprepitant dimeglumine (INN) is detailed below. It is a white to off-white 
amorphous  powder  and  is  very  hygroscopic.  Properties  such  as  solubility,  partition  coefficient  and 
4/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pKa have been described. Fosaprepitant has 3 chiral centres and the counter-ion meglumine 4 chiral 
centres. 
•  Manufacture 
The synthesis of fosaprepitant can be summarised in 3 main steps starting from aprepitant. 
The synthesis has been sufficiently detailed (materials, quantities, temperatures, pressures and typical 
yields given) including an adequate manufacturing process development. 
Satisfactory  specifications  are  provided  for  all  raw  materials  and  starting  materials  used  in  the 
synthesis as well as control of the critical steps and intermediates.  
No  process  validation  data  has  been  submitted.  However,  a  formal  validation  of  the  manufacturing 
process,  at  the  proposed  manufacturing  site  will  take  place  prior  to  release  of  the  product  to  the 
market. This was accepted. 
Impurities  have  been  extensively  discussed,  and  the  level  of  the  impurities  (including  residual 
solvents, catalysts and reagents) do not present any toxicological concern. 
The structure of fosaprepitant dimeglumine has been elucidated by analytical methods such as UV, IR, 
NMR (1H and 13C) and MS. 
Stereochemistry remains unchanged compared to the starting material aprepitant. The chiral centres of 
fosaprepitant are controlled in aprepitant as well as the chiral purity of the meglumine counter ion, and 
no  epimerization  is  expected  during  the  process.  Also  batch  results  have  been  consistent  throughout 
the development and during storage.  
•  Specification 
Adequate specification has been presented for fosaprepitant meglumine and includes parameters such 
as identification, appearance, assay, related substances, residual solvents, water content, heavy metals, 
counter ion meglumine. 
Analytical  methods  have  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated  in  accordance  with  ICH 
guidelines. 
The specification has been justified and in particular the impurity limits. The acceptance  criteria for 
impurities including residual solvents are in line with ICH requirements and batch results and do not 
raise any safety concern.  
Microbiological quality was not included in the specification. It has been appropriately justified taking 
into account the properties of fosaprepitant, the storage conditions and the manufacturing conditions of 
the finished product. Optical purity has not been included in the specification since it has been studied 
and remained stable during storage. 
Fosaprepitant  dimeglumine  is  stored  in  double  polyethylene  liners  in  stainless  steel  containers. 
Specification  for  the  packaging  material  polyethylene  has  been  provided  and  the  material  complies 
with EU Directive 2002/72/EC for use with pharmaceuticals. 
5/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability 
Stability data were provided for pilot (36 months) and commercial (18 months available) batches of 
fosaprepitant stored in the commercial package at long-term (-20°C) and accelerated (5°C) conditions, 
in line with ICH conditions. 
The following parameters were investigated: appearance, degradation products, assay of fosaprepitant 
dimeglumine, water content. Analytical methods were described and validated. 
Data support a 3 years re-test period when the active substance is kept at -20°C. 
Medicinal Product 
The product is a sterile lyophilized powder for reconstitution and further dilution prior to intravenous 
infusion.  Each  10-ml  vial  contains  fosaprepitant  dimeglumine  (equivalent  with  115  mg  of 
fosaprepitant free acid) in a lyophilised matrix. 
The product is kept in 10 ml Ph. Eur. Type I glass vial with Ph. Eur. rubber stopper and aluminium 
seal with plastic cap. 
•  Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is a powder for solution for infusion. The focus of the development has been to 
provide a parenteral product as an alternative to the oral hard capsule presentation of aprepitant. 
Fosaprepitant  dimeglumine  is  a  phosphorylated  prodrug  of  aprepitant.  Following  i.v.  administration 
the  prodrug  rapidly  converts  to  aprepitant.  Aprepitant  is  insoluble  in  water  whereas  fosaprepitant 
dimeglumine  is  soluble.  Fosaprepitant  dimeglumine  is  an  amorphous  hygroscopic  compound  that 
easily degrades to “exclusively” aprepitant unless stored at low temperature. Degradation is enhanced 
by  the  presence  of  water.  Therefore  conditions  of  storage  at  low  temperature  and  reducing  the 
exposure to water have been carefully controlled to avoid conversion to aprepitant before use. 
The excipients were selected to provide a physically and chemically stable formulation. 
The following compendial excipients (Ph. Eur.) are commonly used for parenteral products and have 
been  used  to  stabilise  the  formulation.  Edetate  disodium  prevents  precipitation  of  insoluble  salts  of 
fosaprepitant. Polysorbate 80 is added to solubilise the possible degradate and is below a level raising 
safety concerns. Lactose is added to the formulation to prevent cake collapse. Sodium hydroxide and 
hydrochloric acid are used for pH adjustment. Water is used as solvent. 
Analytical methods are compendial and therefore no validation was needed. 
Certificates of analysis in compliance with Ph. Eur. have been presented for each excipient 
The manufacturing process development has been extensively discussed. Key steps in the manufacture 
are  compounding,  lyophilisation  and  stopper  drying.  The  process  has  been  optimised  to  prevent 
degradation of fosaprepitant during manufacture especially with regard to temperature, pH, and water 
content. 
Since  the  labile  nature  of  the  active  substance,  terminal  sterilisation  by  moist  heat  was  not  feasible. 
Gamma radiation did also cause degradation of fosaprepitant. Therefore aseptic processing has been 
the method of choice. 
Compatibility  between  the  finished  product  and  the  process  equipment  as  well  as  the  packaging 
materials  has  been  demonstrated.  Furthermore,  the  reconstituted  drug  product  has  been  tested  in 
medical devices used for reconstitution and administration such as polyolefine syringes, hypodermic 
needles, IV sets, and cannulae. 
6/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compatibility  between  the  finished  products  and  diluents  such  as  0.9%  Sodium  chloride  injection”, 
“5%  Dextrose  injection”  and  “Water  for  injection”  has  been  confirmed.  The  product  is  stated  to  be 
incompatible with “Ringer’s” and “Lactated Ringer’s solutions. 
•  Adventitious agents 
Among  the  excipients  only  lactose  is  from  animal  origin.  A  supplier’s  certificate  states  that  milk  is 
sourced from healthy animals in the same conditions as milk used for human consumption. Therefore 
it  complies  with  the  Note  for  guidance  EMEA/410/01  rev2  and  does  not  present  any  risk  of  TSE 
contamination. 
•  Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  described  in  detail  (equipment,  quantities,  temperatures, 
durations and in-process controls given). The manufacture consists of 11 steps: dissolution of inactive 
ingredients  in  water  for  injections  (WFI),  cooling,  possible  pH  adjustment,  addition  of  active 
substance,  adjustment  of  batch  weight  with  WFI,  possible  pH  adjustment,  final  adjustment  of  batch 
weight with WFI, filtration through 0.22 micron filter, filtration into pre-sterilised vials, lyophilisation 
and capping. 
Adequate  control  of  critical  steps  and  intermediates  have  been  applied  during  the  manufacturing 
process including temperature control, pH check, fill weight check, pre-sterilisation bioburden, filter 
integrity, control of lyophilisation parameters, and control of the stoppers. 
A  5%  percent  overfill  has  been  included  to  assure  the  withdrawal  of  115  mg  fosaprepitant 
dimeglumine for reconstitution. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  not  considered  as  a  standard  process,  given  the  labile  nature  of  the 
substance, the water-insoluble nature of the possible degradation product, the lyophilisation step and 
the aseptic processing. Validation data have been provided for the aseptic part of the process ensuring 
the  sterility  of  the  finished  product  and  validation  results  submitted  for  3  consecutive  production 
batches.  Results  comply  with  the  release  specification  and  demonstrate  the  consistency  and 
reproducibility of the manufacture. 
The finished product is supplied in type I borosilicate glass vials closed by type I closures (bromo or 
chlorobutyl  rubber  stoppers)  capped  with  aluminium  seal  and  a  flip-off  plastic  cap.  Glass  vials  and 
stoppers have been adequately characterised and comply with Ph. Eur. requirements. 
•  Product specification 
The release and shelf life specification for IVEMEND 115 mg powder for solution for infusion have 
been provided and include parameters such as: appearance, identification (HPLC, NIR), pH, assay of 
fosaprepitant (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (HPLC), water content 
(NIR, Karl Fischer), particulate matter, sterility, bacterial endotoxins. 
Non-compendial analytical procedures have been adequately described and validated. 
Analysis of pilot scale batches kept in the commercial packaging have showed that all batches remain 
within the proposed specification. 
•  Stability of the product 
Eighteen  batches  of  90  mg/vial,  115  mg/vial,  and  150  mg/vial  have  been  kept  under  long-term 
conditions (up to 18 months, at 5°C) and accelerated conditions (6 months, at 25°C/60%RH). 
The  following  stability  indicating  parameters  were  investigated:  assay,  degradation  product, 
appearance of solution, particulate matter, pH, reconstitution time, water content. 
No significant degradation could be observed under long-term conditions. 
Analytical methods were sufficiently detailed and validated. 
7/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, stability data support the shelf-life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Reconstitution stability data for the drug product support storage for up to 24 hours. 
Photostability studies were performed in line with the ICH NfG Q1B showed that the product is not 
light-sensitive. 
The applicant has committed to place the first three production batches under long-term stability until 
36 months according to the agreed stability schedule. 
Discussion on chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Generally, satisfactory documentation has been provided. The active substance fosaprepitant (prodrug 
of aprepitant) is well characterised and the retained specification including the impurities levels have 
been justified by toxicological studies. Stability data support the proposed re-test period providing that 
it is kept at -20C. 
Regarding the finished product, the manufacturing process is adequately described and controlled. It 
should ensure a consistent quality for the product. Appropriate specification has been selected for this 
parenteral product. Stability studies under ICH conditions have demonstrated the good stability of the 
finished product. Stability data support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the 
SPC as well as stability after reconstitution. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were some outstanding quality issues with no impact on the 
benefit/risk. The applicant undertook to provide with the necessary information as follow-up measures 
within  an  agreed  timeframe  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this 
additional information. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
In  addition  to  the pharmacokinetics  and  in  vivo  metabolism  investigations  of aprepitant  in mice,  the 
pharmacokinetics of fosaprepitant and/or aprepitant were studied in rats and dogs. For the purpose of 
interspecies  comparisons  between  non-clinical  animal  models  and  humans,  the  plasma  protein 
binding, blood-to-plasma partition ratio and in vitro metabolism of [14C]fosaprepitant and/or aprepitant 
were also investigated. In vitro studies were conducted to evaluate the potential of aprepitant to serve 
as  an  inhibitor  of  human  cytochrome  P450  enzymes  and  P-glycoprotein-mediated  transport  and  to 
identify the human liver microsomal P450 enzymes involved in the metabolism of aprepitant. 
To support the clinical studies, formulations of fosaprepitant in PS80 (up to 2 mg/ml fosaprepitant and 
0.5%  PS80)  and  in  saline  (up  to  50  mg/ml  fosaprepitant)  were  evaluated  in  non-clinical  tolerability 
and/or toxicity studies. The intravenous fosaprepitant non-clinical studies included in vitro and in vivo 
genotoxicity studies, safety pharmacology studies, local tolerance studies, acute and repeated dose (up 
to  1  month  in  duration)  intravenous  toxicity  studies  in  rats,  dogs,  and  monkeys,  developmental  and 
reproductive toxicity studies in rats and rabbits, and ocular and dermal irritation studies. 
Since  fosaprepitant  is  rapidly  dephosphorylated  in  vivo  to  the  active  moiety  aprepitant  following 
intravenous administration of fosaprepitant, the oral aprepitant studies are included in this Marketing 
Application  including  genotoxicity  studies,  acute  and  repeated  dose  (up  to  1 year  in  duration)  oral 
toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  and  developmental  and  reproductive  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and 
rabbits. Based on regulatory guidances (CPMP/ICH/140/95), carcinogenicity studies are not required 
for indications such as chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) due to the limited, short, 
and episodic duration of patient treatment. However, carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice as well 
as  the  chronic  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  were  conducted  with  aprepitant  to  support  other  potential 
chronic therapeutic indications and are presented for full disclosure. 
8/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  pivotal  toxicity  and  safety  pharmacology  studies  (i.e.,  telemetry  in  dog  and  functional 
observational  battery  assay  in  rat)  were  performed  in  compliance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practices 
(GLP), as claimed by the Applicant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics 
In vitro receptor affinity 
The  in  vitro  affinity  of  fosaprepitant  (inhibition  of  the  binding  of  radioactive  natural  ligand 
substance P) is shown in Table 1. The affinity was in all cases lower than for aprepitant. 
Table 1. 
Inhibition of [125I]-Substance P binding to human, dog, ferret, Guinea pig, rat and 
gerbil NK1 receptors by aprepitant and fosaprepitant 
NK1 Receptor 
Dog 
Ferret 
Human 
Guinea pig 
Rat 
Gerbil 
Rhesus Monkey 
Mouse 
NZW rabbit 
Fosaprepitant 
(IC50 nM) 
0.9 
1.1 
2.1 
7.5 
24 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Aprepitant 
0.4-0.5 
0.5-0.7 
0.1 
0.1-0.2 
3.7-5.5 
0.5 
0.1 
4.7 
0.1 
Ratio 
(fosaprepitant/aprepitant) 
2 
2 
20 
50 
5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
In addition, the effect of 1% human serum albumin on receptor affinity for the human NK1 receptor 
was assayed: the affinity (IC50) decreased 9-fold for fosaprepitant (from 3.3 to 30 nM) and 3-fold for 
aprepitant  (from  0.1  to  0.3 nM).  The  IC50  of  aprepitant  increased  3-fold  with  human  serum 
albumin (1%). 
In vitro functional pharmacology 
In  functional  pharmacological  assays  in  vitro  aprepitant  was  devoid  of  agonist  activity  and  had  the 
characteristics  of  a  potent,  competitive  human  NK1  receptor  antagonist.  Aprepitant  at  concentrations 
up  to  10 µM  did  not  stimulate  inositol-1-phosphate  formation  by  CHO  cells  expressing  the  human 
NK1  receptor.  Aprepitant  consistently  attenuated  the  functional  effects  of  substance  P  (inositol-1-
phosphate  formation)  at  human  NK1  receptors  in  CHO  cells  and  CHO  cells  expressing  the  rat  NK1 
receptor (CHO-rNK1R). 
In vivo central NK1 receptor antagonist activity 
Central  NK1  receptor  antagonist  activity  in  vivo  was  determined  by  examining  the  ability  of 
fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant  (intravenously  administered)  to  block  repetitive  foot-tapping  behaviour 
evoked  in  gerbils  by  intracerebral  ventricular  (ICV)  infusion  of  an  NK1  receptor  agonist  (GR73632, 
d-Ala [L-Pro9, Me-Leu10] substance P) (Figure 1). 
9/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Dose related inhibition of NK1 agonist GR73632 induced foot-tapping in gerbils by 
aprepitant 
4h pretreatment
n
o
i
t
i
b
h
n
i
I
%
100
80
60
40
20
0
24h pretreatment
Immediate
0.001
0.01
0.1
1
3
Dose (mg/kg IV)
Both  fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant  had  a  profile  typical  of  potent  brain  penetrant  NK1  receptor 
antagonists  with  a  long  central  duration  of  action.  When  dosed  immediately  before  NK1  receptor 
agonist  challenge,  aprepitant  and  fosaprepitant  produced  a  dose-dependent  and  essentially  complete 
inhibition of centrally mediated foot tapping (ID50 = 0.32 and 0.95 mg/kg, respectively). Time course 
studies with aprepitant showed that the central antagonism remained pronounced even when aprepitant 
was  administered  4  or  24 hours  before  NK1  agonist  challenge  (ID50 = 0.04  and  0.33 mg/kg, 
respectively). 
In vivo receptor occupancy 
Receptor  occupancy  in  brain  striatum  was  studied  with  PET  in  anesthetised  rhesus  monkeys  given 
fosaprepitant  intravenous  bolus  alone  (3  or  5 mg/kg,  plasma  kinetic  at  0,  10,  20,  30  and  every 
30 minutes  up  to  240 minutes  post-dose)  or  bolus  (0.13-2.3 mg/kg)  followed  by  a  constant  infusion 
(0.031-0.54 mg/kg/h;  plasma  kinetic:  timepoint  0,  15,  30  and  every  30 minutes  up  to  330 minutes 
during infusion). The latter protocol gave steady state plasma concentration of aprepitant in the range 
of  0.035-1.3 µg/ml  whereas  fosaprepitant  concentration  was  found  to  be  negligible.  A  50% receptor 
occupancy occurred at steady state aprepitant of 0.051 µg/ml and > 80% occupancy at > 0.12 µg/ml. 
An occupancy of ~90% was measured after bolus dosing of 3 or 5 mg/kg. 
In vivo efficacy in emesis model 
The anti-emetic activity of the NK1 receptor antagonist fosaprepitant and aprepitant were examined in 
a  series  of  studies  using  two  experimental  protocols  in  ferrets.  In  the  first  protocol,  the  ability  of 
fosaprepitant and aprepitant to inhibit the acute emetic effects of cisplatin was assessed over a 4-hour 
observation period. In the second protocol, the ability of orally dosed aprepitant to inhibit acute and 
delayed  emesis  induced  by  cisplatin  in  ferrets  was  determined  over  a  72-hour  observation  period 
following cisplatin administration. 
The first studies showed that aprepitant had efficacy against acute cisplatin-induced emesis (ID90 for 
inhibition  of  retching  or  vomiting  1 mg/kg  IV  fosaprepitant  and  3 mg/kg  P.O.  aprepitant)  and  that 
anti-emetic effects were enhanced when used in combination with established anti-emetic agents such 
as dexamethasone or 5-HT3 receptor antagonists such as ondansetron. 
The  anti-emetic  action  of  aprepitant  was  shown  to  most  likely  be  due  to  its  activity  at  central  sites 
since  it  blocked  (3 mg/kg  P.O.)  emesis  produced  by  the  centrally  acting  emetogens  morphine  and 
apomorphine, which is refractory to treatment by the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists. 
In  a  delayed  emesis  model,  no  emetic  episodes  were  observed  over  the  entire  72 hours  observation 
period daily after dosing with aprepitant (2 or 4 mg/kg, started 2 hours before cisplatin treatment). At 
the  low  dose  of  1 mg/kg/day,  aprepitant  abolished  the  retching  and  vomiting  response  to  cisplatin. 
Inhibition of delayed cisplatin-induced emesis by aprepitant was not a consequence of inhibiting the 
10/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acute phase response, as aprepitant was highly effective even when dosing was initiated after the acute 
emetic response had occurred. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The following tests have been carried with fosaprepitant: 
In vitro, receptor affinity 
Fosaprepitant  was  tested  in  a  panel  of  human  G-protein  coupled  receptors  (27 different  receptors  at 
1 and 10 µM). Fosaprepitant was > 3000-fold selective for the human NK1 receptor versus the human 
NK3 receptor, 818-fold selective versus the endothelin A receptor, and > 3000-fold selective versus the 
other  receptor  tested  (including  the  NK2  receptor).  Fosaprepitant  was  also  shown  to  be  a  weak 
displacer  of  [3H]-diltiazem  at  the  L-type  calcium  channel  in  rabbit  skeletal  muscle;  fosaprepitant 
IC50 = 6 µM, aprepitant IC50 = 8 µM. 
In vitro, functional pharmacology 
Fosaprepitant  (1  µM)  had  no  effect  on  contractile  response  to  a  selective  NK2-receptor  agonist 
(N1e10NKA)  in  vitro  in  guinea-pig  trachea.  Fosaprepitant  (1 µM  ± vanadate)  had  no  effect  on 
depolarisation  of  isolated  guinea-pig  superior  cervical  ganglia  by  a  selective  NK3-receptor  agonist 
(senktide). Fosaprepitant (1 µM) had no significant effect on calcium entry into depolarised strips of 
guinea-pig ileum LM/MP. Fosaprepitant (up to 30 µM) were devoid of 5-HT1D-receptor stimulating 
properties in ring segments of rabbit saphenous vein. 
In vivo 
Fosaprepitant (5 mg/kg IV) had no effect on changes in CV parameters in anesthetised dog mediated 
by  cholinergic  (methacoline,  McNeil-343-A,  peripheral  vagal  stimulation),  adrenergic  (epinephrine, 
norepinephrine, phenethylsmine), muscarinic (McNeil-343-A), or nicotinic (DMPP) stimuli. 
In summary, fosaprepitant showed a high in vitro selectivity for the human target receptor versus the 
other  tested  receptors.  Fosaprepitant  was  tested  negative  in  the  functional  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests 
suggesting no undesirable effects from interference with the non-target receptors investigated. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant  were  studied  in  a  range  of  tests  at  doses  of  1.0 mg/kg  intravenously  or 
5.0 mg/kg orally to assess its potential for effects on cardiovascular/autonomic or respiratory function 
in  anesthetised  dogs  and  renal  or  gastric  acid  secretion  functional  assays  in  conscious  dogs.  The 
cardiovascular  effects  of  fosaprepitant  on  blood  pressure,  heart  rate,  PR-interval,  QRS-interval, 
QT-interval  or  corrected  QT  interval  (QTcf)  were  also  examined  using  telemetry  in  conscious  dogs 
using a Latin square design [each dog received drug vehicle (saline) or fosaprepitant 2, 4 or 6 mg/kg 
IV with 1-week wash out between each dosing]. Fosaprepitant and aprepitant were also examined in 
conscious mice at 5.0 mg/kg PO to examine any potential for effects on gastrointestinal motility and at 
100 mg/kg  PO  to  evaluate  behavioural  and  other  central  nervous  system  effects.  In  these  studies 
aprepitant  did  not  induce  significant  effects  on  cardiovascular,  behavioural,  central  nervous  system, 
respiratory, renal and gastric systems. Importantly, NK1 antagonism with aprepitant did not induce any 
relevant  effects  on  gastro-intestinal  motility.  The  minor  cardiovascular  effects  (slight  reduction  in 
mean arterial pressure, of heart rate and negligible or no effects on PR, QRS and QTc intervals), that 
were observed in the safety pharmacology studies were similar to those described with the vehicle. In 
three  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  ECG  measurements  did  not  demonstrate  any  effects  on  the 
cardiovascular  system  in  particular  on  the  QT  interval  at  exposures  up  to  80-fold  over  clinical 
exposure. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  acute  anti-emetic  effects  of  aprepitant  were  studied  in  combination  with  ondansetron  or 
dexamethasone  and  showed  that  its  anti-emetic  effect  was  increased  in  combination  with  these 
anti-emetics. 
11/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular effects of diltiazem with fosaprepitant 
The potential for cardiovascular changes due to the interaction of fosaprepitant and the L-type calcium 
channel  antagonist  diltiazem  was  investigated  in  artificially  ventilated  barbiturate  anesthetised  dogs. 
The cardiovascular effects of diltiazem (0.03 to 0.3 mg/kg IV) were similar in saline pre-treated dogs 
to those pre-treated with 3 mg/kg IV fosaprepitant. At a higher dose of diltiazem (1 mg/kg IV) more 
sustained  cardiovascular  effects  were  seen  in  fosaprepitant  pre-treated  animals  consistent  with  30% 
higher  plasma  diltiazem  levels.  ECG  measurements  showed  changes  consistent  with  AV  block 
following diltiazem 1 mg/kg IV in all dogs regardless of pre-treatment. 
Effects of aprepitant on tumour growth and interaction with chemotherapy 
Tumour growth was unaffected by aprepitant alone. Moreover, cisplatin-induced inhibition of tumour 
growth was not attenuated in the presence of active (including aprepitant) or inactive NK1 antagonists. 
None of these agents, alone or in combination with cisplatin were overtly toxic. The studies suggest 
that the use of aprepitant as an anti-emetic will not interfere with the efficacy or enhance the toxicity 
of cisplatin, nor will it have anti-tumour effects alone. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) of fosaprepitant and aprepitant were 
studied in vivo in rat and dog. Metabolism studies  were  also performed in  mouse. Brain penetration 
studies  were  performed  in  rats  and  ferrets.  Toxicokinetic  studies  were  performed  as  part  of  the 
non-clinical  toxicity  studies  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  dog  and  monkey.  For  interspecies  comparisons 
between  non-clinical  animal  models  and  humans,  protein  binding,  metabolism,  and  excretion  of 
fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant  in  humans  are  presented.  Most  metabolism,  excretion,  and  tissue 
distribution studies were carried out with [14C]fosaprepitant and [3H]aprepitant or [14C] aprepitant. 
•  Methods of analysis 
Biological samples from studies with radiolabelled compounds were analysed for total radioactivity by 
liquid  scintillation  spectrometry.  Plasma  concentration  of  fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant  were 
determined by validated LC-MS/MS methods. 
•  General 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  following  IV  administration  of  fosaprepitant  to  rats,  dogs  and  humans 
indicated  that  the  prodrug  converted  rapidly  to  the  pharmacologically  active  entity,  aprepitant 
(tmax: 0.033 h,  plasma  concentration  undetectable  after  15  minutes).  Conversion  of  fosaprepitant  into 
aprepitant in non-clinical species and humans was studied in vitro as well as in vivo. 
In vitro studies indicate that, in addition to the liver, the conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant can 
occur in multiple human tissues. 
In  vivo,  following  IV  administration  in  rats  and  dogs,  fosaprepitant  maximum  aprepitant 
concentrations were found at 2-5 minutes after administration. In rats, a near proportional increase in 
the  AUC  of  aprepitant  with  dose  of  fosaprepitant  was  observed  after  intravenous  doses  of  1  to 
8 mg/kg.  The  systemic  exposure  to  aprepitant  in  female  rats  was  2 to  3-fold  greater  as  compared  to 
male rats. Fosaprepitant was detected only during the first hour post-dose. In dogs elimination started 
to deviate from linearity at doses above 0.5 mg/kg. 
•  Distribution 
In vitro plasma protein binding 
No  plasma  protein  binding  studies  were  performed  for  fosaprepitant.  Binding  of  [3H]aprepitant  to 
plasma  proteins  was  determined  in  vitro  by  an  ultra-filtration  method.  [3H]Aprepitant  was  tightly 
bound  to  proteins  from  rat,  dog,  and  human  plasma  at  concentrations  from  0.01  to  10.0 µg/ml.  The 
mean  fraction  bound  was  99.0,  99.3,  and  99.7%,  respectively.  The  bound  fraction  did  not  vary  as  a 
function of aprepitant concentration in any species. 
12/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blood-to-plasma ratio 
The  blood-to-plasma  ratios  were  determined  for  aprepitant  and  were  0.74,  0.55,  and  0.62  for  rats, 
dogs, and humans, respectively, following incubations of [3H]aprepitant (0.01 to 10 µg/ml) with fresh, 
heparinised  whole  blood  from  these  species.  These  results  indicate  that  total  blood  clearance  of 
aprepitant would be somewhat higher than plasma clearance for all three species. 
Tissue distribution of fosaprepitant and aprepitant 
Following  intravenous  administration  of  2 mg/kg  of  [14C]fosaprepitant  in  saline  to  rats,  maximum 
mean tissue concentrations of radioactivity were observed at 5 minutes through 4 hours post-dose in 
liver,  kidneys,  and 
all  studied 
thyroid/parathyroid  reached  a  maximum  at  5  minutes  post-dose.  Radioactivity  was  able  to  penetrate 
the blood-brain barrier over time. The testes and brain reached maximum radioactivity concentrations 
at 4 hours post-dose. 
tissues.  The  radioactivity  concentrations 
in  adrenal  gland, 
Distribution  of  [14C]aprepitant  after  intravenous  administration  (2 mg/kg)  has  been  studied  in  rats. 
Following drug administration, maximum concentrations of radioactivity were observed at 5 minutes 
through  4 hours  post-dose  in  all  tissues,  with  concentrations  steadily  declining  after  reaching 
Cmax values. At 5-minute post-dose, concentrations of radioactivity were highest in the adrenal gland, 
liver, lung, and heart and lowest in testes and brain. By 4-hour post-dose, radioactivity levels in testes 
and brain reached a maximum when those in heart and liver declined. 
After oral aprepitant administration, aprepitant was present as major component in rat and ferret brain, 
indicating  that  aprepitant  penetrated  the  blood  brain  barrier  well.  In  rats  a  higher  portion  of 
radioactivity  was  due  to  metabolites  than  in  ferrets.  After  48-hour  post-dose  aprepitant  was  still 
present as the major radioactive component in the ferret brain. 
Furthermore, one hour after intravenous fosaprepitant administration on gestation Day 20 to pregnant 
rats  and  rabbits  the  foetal  plasma  concentration  was  about  10-15%  of  the  maternal  plasma 
concentration.  One  hour  after  intravenous  fosaprepitant  administration  in  lactating  rats,  aprepitant 
concentrations in plasma and milk were similar. 
Overall, tissue distribution studies after intravenous administration of radiolabelled fosaprepitant and 
aprepitant showed that radiolabelled material originating from both compounds distributed rapidly and 
extensively  to  tissues,  including  the  brain.  Distribution  patterns of  fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant  were 
slightly different at the first few time points, but thereafter it was similar. The differences at the first 
1–2 time points could be due to the difference in plasma concentration profile in the first minutes after 
administration  (time  needed  for  conversion  of  fosaprepitant  to  aprepitant).  Aprepitant  penetrates  the 
blood  brain  barrier,  crossed  the  placenta  from  the  maternal  compartment  and  was  excreted  into  the 
milk of lactating rats. 
•  Metabolism and excretion 
No in vivo metabolism data after administration of fosaprepitant to laboratory animals other than those 
on the conversion to aprepitant were submitted. 
After oral administration of aprepitant, metabolism of aprepitant was qualitatively similar in rats, dogs, 
mice and humans and elimination of aprepitant was mainly by excretion of metabolites. Data on the 
human  metabolite  pattern  after  intravenous  administration  of  fosaprepitant  showed  no  major 
qualitative  differences  with  the  metabolism  as  found  after  oral  administration  of  aprepitant  to 
laboratory species. 
Aprepitant undergoes N-dealkylation and O-dealkylation resulting in the removal of the triazolone and 
bis-trifluoromethylphenyl  ether  sidechains,  respectively.  Major  metabolites  present  in  systemic 
circulation  are  mainly  nonpolar  and  polar  oxidative  products  derived  from  both  pathways 
accompanied  by  degradation  of  the  morpholine  ring.  Very  polar,  low  molecular  weight  acids 
containing the p-fluorophenyl moiety and glucuronides of oxidative metabolites are major metabolites 
found in excreta (urine, bile, faeces). Although non-polar metabolites of aprepitant are present in rat 
brain,  intact  [14C]aprepitant  is  the  predominant  radioactive  component  in  ferret  brain  48  hours 
13/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
following oral dosing. The in vitro metabolism of aprepitant is catalysed primarily by CYP3A4, with 
some involvement of CYP1A2 and CYP2C19. 
Excretion of radiolabelled material after administration of radiolabelled fosaprepitant in humans and 
radiolabelled aprepitant in rat and dog occurred via both the urinary and biliary route. There was no 
evidence of differences between the species. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Aprepitant is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and also an inducer of CYP3A and CYP2C9. 
Based  on  the  fact  that  aprepitant  has  been  demonstrated  to  be  only  a  weak  inhibitor  of  human 
P-glycoprotein in in vitro systems, the potential for aprepitant to cause adverse drug-drug interactions 
with chemotherapeutic agents through inhibition of P-glycoprotein mediated transport is anticipated to 
be low. 
Polysorbate 80 was shown to be a weak inhibitor of human MDR1 P-glycoprotein-mediated verapamil 
and  quinidine  transport.  However,  as  the  IC50  values  for  polysorbate  80  for  the  inhibition  of 
P-glycoprotein  mediated  transport  are  considerably  higher  than  the  anticipated  peak  concentrations 
after IV dosing of fosaprepitant, it is unlikely that the amounts of polysorbate 80 in the fosaprepitant 
product will result in significant inhibition of P-glycoprotein in vivo. 
Toxicology 
Toxicity studies provided consist of studies with different formulations of fosaprepitant in PS80 and in 
saline and studies with oral aprepitant. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose studies with intravenously administered fosaprepitant showed that the approximate LD50 
for  fosaprepitant  injected  intravenously  as  a  1%  solution  in  saline  was  > 200 mg/kg  in  rats 
and > 500 mg/kg  in  mice.  Surviving  animals  of  both  species  at  both  dose  levels  developed  local 
necrotic reactions at the injection site (tail vein). Single oral dose up to 500 mg/kg of fosaprepitant or 
2000 mg/kg of aprepitant revealed little to no toxicity. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
Intravenous  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  with  fosaprepitant  were  carried  out  in  rats  (16  days  and 
5 weeks,  dosed  up  to  10  mg/kg/day),  dogs  (17  days  and  5  weeks,  dosed  up  to  8  mg/kg/day)  and 
monkeys (5 weeks, dosed up to 10 mg/kg/day). In rats, maximum exposure was only a fraction of the 
proposed clinical dose in humans. In dogs, maximum exposure exceeded the clinical dose in humans 
with a factor 2-5, in monkeys the maximum exposure was in the range of 1-2 times human exposure. 
In  the  16-day  rat  study  (formulation:  lyophilised  fosaprepitant  containing  EDTA  and  sodium 
hydroxide, reconstituted in saline at 25 mg/ml), severe injection site damage was observed at doses of 
2.5–7.5  mg/kg/day.  At  the  high  dose  both  sexes  showed  numerous  haematological  and  serum 
biochemical  changes  (decreased  erythrocytes,  haemoglobin  concentration,  haematocrit,  serum 
albumin,  albumin/globulin  ratio,  increased  reticulocytes,  neutrophils,  monocytes  and  platelets). 
Enlarged lymph nodes at all dose levels in both sexes were considered secondary to treatment-related 
changes at injection sites. 
No drug related effect was found in a 5-week rat study with doses up to 4 mg/kg/day (fosaprepitant 
dissolved in saline to concentrations up to 0.4 mg/ml). 
In  another  5-week  rat  study  with  doses  up  to  10 mg/kg/day,  with  fosaprepitant  dissolved  at 
concentrations up to 2 mg/ml in Tween-Sodium Citrate Diluent [= TSCD: containing polysorbate 80 
(0.5%), lactose, mannitol, sodium citrate hydrate, citric acid, sodium chloride; ratio of polysorbate 80 
to  drug:  2.5:1]  and  diluted  further  in  saline,  no  injection  site  damage  was  found.  In  this  study  at 
10 mg/kg/day  dose  slightly  increased  liver  weight  and  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  was  found,  at  a 
14/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
systemic aprepitant exposure of about 0.1-0.3 times the human exposure. This toxicity was similar to 
that found in oral aprepitant studies. 
In the 17-day dog study using lyophilised fosaprepitant (dissolved in saline at 25 mg/ml), injection site 
damage, body weight loss and decreased food intake was observed at doses of 4 and 6 mg/kg/day. At 
2 mg/kg dose, the number of dogs with changes at the injection sites was increased as compared to the 
vehicle treated control, but the degree of damage was in the range of the normal effect of venipuncture 
also seen in controls. 
In a 5-week dog study testing doses of 0.5, 2, 8 and 21 mg/kg/day of fosaprepitant (dissolved in saline: 
0.156, 0.625, 0.5 and 2.0 mg/ml), the two highest dose groups had to be terminated before the end of 
the study because of local toxicity. At a dose of 2.0 mg/kg no adverse effect was found. The systemic 
aprepitant  exposure  at  this  dose  was  in  the  range  0.6–1.1  times  the  human  exposure.  An  additional 
5-week dog study was done with one dose level of 8 mg/kg/day of fosaprepitant (dissolved in saline: 
0.625 mg/ml) but this also resulted in local toxicity. 
In the monkey study, fosaprepitant dissolved in TSCD did not cause clear adverse effects up to a dose 
of 10 mg/kg/day. The systemic aprepitant exposure at this dose level was in the range 1.2-2.0 times the 
human exposure. 
In addition, a series of oral repeated dose toxicity studies with aprepitant was submitted. The studies 
were carried out in rats (16 days and 5, 14 and 27 weeks, dosed up to 2000 mg/kg/day), mice (5 and 
14 weeks,  dosed  up  to  2000  mg/kg)  and  dogs  (5,  14  and  39  weeks,  dosed  up  to  1500 mg/kg/day). 
Maximal exposure multiples achieved were 0.38 and 1.3 in male and female rats respectively, 1.4 and 
2.5 in male and female mice, and 40 and 48 in male and female dogs respectively. In monkeys only an 
intravenous toxicity study was performed with aprepitant (17 days, dosed up to 0.240 mg/kg/day). In 
rats,  there  was  hypertrophy  in  the  liver  and  hypertrophy  and  hyperplasia  in  the  thyroid,  presumably 
caused by microsomal enzyme induction. Serum cholesterol was slightly increased in both sexes and 
serum triglycerides were slightly decreased in males. Effects on the morphology of erythrocytes were 
seen at the end of the chronic toxicity study. The salient toxicity findings in the mouse studies were 
hepatocellular  hypertrophy,  increase  of  cholesterol  and  triglycerides,  kidney  hydropic  tubular 
degeneration,  and  decrease  of  potassium.  In  dogs,  all  observed  effects  occurred  at  exposures  high 
above human exposure. Effects seen at dosages ≥ 50 mg/kg/day were a decreased food consumption 
and  body  weight  loss,  atrophy  in  the  prostate  and  signs  of  degeneration  in  the  testis  and  increased 
cholesterol levels. In one study at ≥ 50 mg/kg/day, ovary weight was decreased, without an effect on 
histopathology.  The  safety  margin  for  these  effects  was  8.7  in  males  and  9.3  in  females.  Thymus 
atrophy  was  found  in  one  study,  at  dosages  ≥ 250 mg/kg/day.  No  effects  were  seen  in  monkeys. 
However, there was only one intravenous monkey study, in which the maximum dose was very low. 
Intravenous rat and monkey studies showed no drug related local toxicity, however, only intravenous 
doses up to 0.240 mg/kg were tested. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Fosaprepitant and aprepitant was found neither genotoxic nor mutagenic based on a series of standard 
in vitro and in vivo genetic toxicity assays (gene mutation in bacteria, in mammalian cells, DNA strand 
breakage, in vitro and in vivo chromosomal aberrations). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  studies  were  conducted  with  fosaprepitant.  Based  on  regulatory  guidances  (CPMP/ICH/140/95), 
carcinogenicity  studies  are  not  required  for  indications  such  as  chemotherapy  induced  nausea  and 
vomiting (CINV) due to the limited, short, and episodic duration of patient treatment. 
•  Reproduction toxicity 
Effects of intravenous doses of fosaprepitant on male and female fertility, embryofoetal development, 
and  peri-  and  post-natal  development  were  investigated  in  rats  and  effects  on  embryofoetal 
development in rabbits at doses up to 4 mg/kg/day of fosaprepitant (except for male fertility in rats: up 
to 10 mg/kg/day). No adverse effects were found at the tested doses (which were lower than clinical 
dose). 
15/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  similar  series  of  reproduction  toxicity  studies  was  done  with  orally  administered  aprepitant.  No 
evidence of teratogenicity was seen in rats and rabbits at doses resulting in exposures of 1.1 (rat) and 
0.9 (rabbit) times the expected human exposure. In rabbits, post-implantation loss and the number of 
resorptions  per  litter  were  slightly  increased  at  an  exposure  slightly  above  the  expected  human 
exposure. Signs of maternal toxicity included a small increase in liver weight in rats and increased liver 
enzymes, decreased triglycerides, decreased food consumption and decreased body weight in rabbits. 
In  rabbits,  maternal 
toxicity  was  observed  at  exposures  slightly  above  human  exposure 
(NOEL 5 mg/kg/day). Post-natal mortality of rat pups in a peri- and post-natal development study was 
slightly  increased  at  an  exposure  marginally  above  the  expected  human  exposure.  This  was 
predominantly due to mortality on post-natal Days 1-3. 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetics  were  assayed  in  all  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies.  The  exposure  levels  (mean  plasma 
fosaprepitant  and  aprepitant)  in  the  highest  dosed  animals  are  shown  in  the  Table  2  (the  following 
figures  for  human  exposure  were  used:  fosaprepitant  Cmax = 5.64  µg/ml,  AUC = 1.48  µg  x  hr/ml; 
aprepitant Cmax = 2.6 µg/ml, AUC = 30 µg x hr/ml). 
Table 2. 
Summary table of toxicokinetic parameters in different species following 
intravenous administration of fosaprepitant 
Compound 
Exposure 
Cmax 
(µg/ml) 
AUC0-24hr 
(µgxhr/ml) 
Animal/human 
exposure ratio 
Cmax  AUC 
Species 
Study 
duration 
Infusion time 
Rat 
Week 2 
Bolus 
Drug dose 
(mg/kg/day) 
5 (7.5) 
4 
10 
6 
2 (32) 
8 
Rat 
Week 4 
0.25-0.5 min 
infusion 
Rat 
Week 4 
0.25-0.5 min 
infusion 
Dog 
Week 2 
bolus 
Dog 
Week 4 
0.5-1 min 
infusion 
Dog  
Week 4 
3-5 min 
infusion 
fosaprepitant  M 
F 
M 
F 
aprepitant 
aprepitant 
aprepitant 
fosaprepitant  M 
F 
M 
F 
fosaprepitant  M 
F 
M 
F 
fosaprepitant  M 
F 
M 
F 
fosaprepitant  M 
F 
M 
F 
fosaprepitant  M 
aprepitant 
aprepitant 
aprepitant 
F 
M 
F 
0.630  post-injection 
2’ 
0.487 
1.97 
1.54 
1.069  post-infusion 4’
1.212 
1.069 
1.212 
0.0315 post-infusion 4’
0.0410 
2.71 
3.36 
16.1 post-injection 2’ 
17.7 
10.9 
12.7 
1.01 
2.04 
3.05 
2.69 
41.47  during infusion 
2’ 
1.34 
42.83 
1.38 
11.52 
13.04 
14.75 
10.17 
16.4 
13.2 
7.80 
8.81 
post-infusion 2’
post-infusion 2’
post-infusion 4’
0.0312 
0.0224 
2.39 
5.53 
NC 
NC 
2.737 
5.621 
NC 
NC 
3.85 
8.22 
0.725 
0.784 
98.4 
125 
NC 
NC 
31.81 
24.78 
NC 
NC 
156.24 
158.08 
NC 
NC 
45.1 
60.4 
0.1 
0.1 
0.8 
0.6 
0.2 
0.2 
0.4 
0.5 
0.01 
0.01 
1.0 
1.3 
2.9 
3.1 
4.2 
4.9 
0.2 
0.4 
1.2 
1.0 
7.4 
0.2 
7.6 
0.2 
4.4 
5.0 
5.7 
3.9 
2.9 
2.3 
3.0 
3.4 
0.02 
0.02 
0.08 
0.18 
- 
- 
0.1 
0.2 
- 
- 
0.13 
0.27 
0.5 
0.5 
3.3 
4.2 
- 
- 
1.1 
0.8 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5.2 
5.3 
- 
- 
1.5 
2.0 
16/39 
© EMEA 2008 
10 
Monkey 
Week 4 
1-1.5 min 
infusion 
NC= not calculated 
fosaprepitant  M 
F 
M 
F 
aprepitant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Local tolerance 
A series of local tolerance studies in rats confirmed the above-mentioned high local toxicity of locally 
IV infused fosaprepitant, dependent on concentration and composition of the infused solution. None of 
the tested formulations was the same as the commercial formulation proposed for clinical use. 
Significant local reactions were observed from Day 4 at the low dose in rats (2.5 mg/kg/day) and dogs 
(2 mg/kg/day)  receiving  fosaprepitant  (at  25 mg/ml)  as  a  bolus.  The  first  clinical  signs  of  local 
reactions  were  swelling,  cutaneous  discoloration,  induration  and  desquamation.  Various  steps  were 
taken in order to investigate the possibility to administer the drug more safely (addition of EDTA or 
Tween  80  in  the  infusion  solution,  using  different  injection  sites,  solution  dilution,  slower  infusion 
rates and/or post-dose catheter flush). 
The  dogs  tolerated  a  dose  of  2 mg/kg  when  the  drug  was  diluted  40 folds  (25→0.625  mg/ml)  and 
given  over  ~30-60  seconds,  but  with  extensive  local  reactions  occurred  after  some  days  at  higher 
dosing.  In  rat,  no  local  reactions  were  reported  at  any  dose  level  tested:  up  to  4 mg/kg  (without 
Tween 80)  diluted  62.5  folds  (25→0.4 mg/ml)  given  over  ~15-30 seconds;  or  up  to  10 mg/kg  (with 
Tween 80  0.5%)  diluted  12.5  folds  (25→2 mg/ml)  given  over  ~15-30 seconds.  In  monkey,  no  local 
reactions  were  reported  up  to  10 mg/kg  (2 mg/ml  given  over  ~1-1.5 minutes,  with  Tween 80). 
Post-dose  catheter  flush  was  performed  in  all  studies.  Fosaprepitant  formulated  with  Tween 80  was 
shown  to  be  well  tolerated  at  the  infusion  site  up  to  4.3-fold  clinical  dose,  given  as  a  2-fold 
concentrated  infusion  solution  and  ~10-15 times  (monkey)  or  ~30-60 times  (rat)  faster  than  that 
proposed clinically for IVEMEND. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
No specific non-clinical toxicity studies were conducted to assess antigenicity (no specific reason for 
such investigation) and immunotoxicity (no evidence in multiple dose studies in rats). 
No  non-clinical  dependence  studies  were  conducted  to  support  a  CINV  indication  because 
fosaprepitant will be administered as a single dose and will not be used for chronic treatment. 
No  non-clinical  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  metabolites  because  new  metabolites  were 
identified  in  the  non-clinical  development  (including  in  vitro  assays  with  subcellular  fractions  from 
animal  liver  [HPLC  analysis]  and  pharmacokinetic/toxicokinetic  analysis  of  in  vivo  samples 
[LC-MS/MS analysis]) and relevant clinical studies. 
No  special  studies  on  impurities  have  been  performed  because  each  of  the  specified  impurities  has 
been  qualified  by  virtue  of  having  been  presented  in  batches  evaluated  in  the  non-clinical  toxicity 
studies and/or by levels allowable under ICH Guidelines for Impurities in New Drug Substances. 
A series of non-GLP haemolysis assays was done in rat, dog, monkey and human washed red blood 
cells  and  whole  blood.  Haemolysis  in  washed  red  blood  cells  was  found  with  some  of  the  tested 
formulations  in  all  tested  species,  at  lower  concentrations  and  more  often  in  rats  than  in  the  other 
species.  In  whole  blood  no  haemolysis  was  observed  in  monkey  and  human  blood,  but  only 
concentrations  up  to  1 mg/ml  were  tested.  With  Tween  80,  haemolysis  occurred  at  higher 
concentrations or not at all. This haemolytic effect and the local toxicity of fosaprepitant are assumed 
to be due to the amphiphilic character of the compound. Polysorbate 80 in the formulation is assumed 
to protect against this effect. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In the environmental risk evaluation, the PEC value calculated for the EU is below 0.01 µg/l. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In  terms  of  pharmacodynamics,  no  study  was  designed  to  investigate  the  potential  contribution  of 
fosaprepitant to the overall NK1 receptor inhibitory potency. Since almost a complete in vivo blockade 
of  the  target  receptor  (brain  striatum)  is  expected  to  have  been  achieved  in  the  animals  studies  by 
17/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aprepitant/fosaprepitant,  a  study  to  investigate  the  role  of  fosaprepitant  potential  contribution  is 
considered not necessary but a mention has been provided in the SPC. 
The performed studies on safety pharmacology revealed no concern, the highest IV doses tested were 
about  2-4  fold  of  the  clinical  dose.  The  systemic  exposure  to  fospaprepitant  and  aprepitant  was 
however  relatively  low  in  the  dogs  of  the  telemetry-study  (single  IV  dose  up  to  6  mg/kg).  The 
potential  in  vitro  effect  of  fosaprepitant  or  aprepitant  on  hERG  was  not  studied  (in  vitro 
electrophysiology).  No  such  data  are  requested  for  the  present  time  being  while  waiting  for  the 
assessment of the requested final report of the clinical QTc study that has recently been undertaken. 
Only  preliminary  study  data  was  submitted  in  the  application.  A  request  for  additional  non-clinical 
data may later on be triggered according to ICH S7B if the clinical data are considered not sufficient. 
The  local  reactions  appeared  clinically  after  some  days  or  at  the  same  day  in  highly  dosed  animals 
(14-fold  the  clinical  dose).  Several  animals  had  to  be  unscheduled  sacrificed  due  to  unacceptable 
injection  site  reactions.  Different  ways  to  overcome  the  low  local  tolerability  of  fosaprepitant  were 
tested:  adding  compounds  to  the  solution  composition  and/or  change  the  infusion  dosage  regimen. 
Tween 80 was found to improve the local tolerability of fosaprepitant in local tolerance and to reduce 
the  haemolytic  property  of  fosaprepitant  in  vitro.  Injection  site  reactions  (induration  and  pain)  were 
common  adverse  events  in  the  clinical  trials  with  IVEMEND  and  the  potential  risk  for  significant 
injection  site  reactions  from  accidentally  miss-injected  drug  (e.g.  paravenous,  intramuscular  and 
subcutaneous) has not been investigated in animals. A non clinical study investigating local tolerance 
at injection sites is requested as follow-up measure. In meantime, a warning is proposed to be included 
in the SPC section 4.4 as a precautionary measure. This may be revised dependent on the outcome of 
the animal study. 
For  this  application,  even  if  the  maximum  achievable  exposure  was  not  fully  explored  in  the 
low-exposed  rats  and  monkeys,  no  further  toxicity  study  is  required  taken  into  account  that 
substitution  with  IVEMEND  may  be  considered  valuable  for  some  of  the  patients  suffering  from 
severe disease and treated with a highly toxic compound as cisplatin. The limited value of the repeated 
dose toxicity studies regarding fosaprepitant exposure (AUC), as well as the too high concentration of 
Tween 80 used in the infusion solution, should be given in the SPC. 
No  effect  on  fertility  was  detected  with  fosaprepitant.  The  reproduction  toxicity  profile  of 
fosaprepitant and aprepitant was evaluated in animals at low exposure, and short duration. No attempts 
to increase the degree of exposure and the duration of exposure were explored. This circumstance is 
reflected  in  the  proposed  SPC  section  4.6.  No  teratogenicity  was  evident  in  the  limited  studies  with 
fosaprepitant. The approved EMEND should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary, 
the same recommendation has been proposed for IVEMEND. 
2.3  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Twenty six clinical studies were submitted in this application. Table 3 provides synoptic information 
on those performed with fosaprepitant. 
18/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. 
List of clinical studies performed with an IV formulation of fosaprepitant 
Study 
number 
Study description 
Number 
enrolled 
IV Dose 
Range 
Phase I studies 
P001L1  Multicenter Study: A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Rising—Single-IV 
Dose Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability, and Preliminary 
Pharmacokinetics of L-758298 in Healthy Male and Female Volunteers 
P005L1  A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Crossover Study to Investigate the 
36 
16 
Pharmacodynamics, Safety, Tolerability, and Preliminary Plasma Drug 
Concentration Profile of L-758298 in Healthy Male Volunteers 
P009L1  A 2-Part, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Rising-Single- and Multiple-Dose 
49 
P011 
IV Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of 
L-758298 (Polysorbate 80 Formulation) in Healthy Male and Female Subjects 
A Double-Blind, Randomized, 3-Period Study to Investigate the Effects of IV 
L-758298/Oral L-754030 on Diltiazem Pharmacokinetics and 
Pharmacodynamics in Hypertensive Patients 
P011L1  A Single Intravenous Rising-Dose Study of the Safety, Tolerability, and 
Pharmacokinetics of a New Formulation of MK-0517 in Young Healthy 
Subjects 
P012L1  A Randomized, 5-Part, Intravenous Study of the Safety, Tolerability, 
Bioequivalence, and Drug Interaction Potential of Final Market Image 
Formulations of MK-0517 in Young Healthy Subjects 
11 
10 
150 
P013C1  Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, and Excretion of C14 MK-0869 Oral 
12 
and C14 L-758298 I.V. and L-758298 Mass Balance Study 
P016L1  A Double-Blind, Double-Dummy, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, 3-Period, 
34 
P024 
Single-Dose, Crossover Study to Assess the Effect of MK-0517 on QTc 
Interval in Healthy Subjects 
Open-Labeled, 5-Period, Crossover Study to Examine the Relationship 
Between Single Oral Doses of MK–0869 (Colloidal Dispersion) in the Range of 
10 to 600 mg and Plasma MK–0869 Concentration, Followed By An 
Intravenous Arm in Healthy Male and Female Subjects 
34 
Phase II CNIV studies 
P004L1  A Double-Blind, Randomized, Active-Agent (Ondansetron)-Controlled, Single 
53 
IV Dose Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability, Plasma Concentrations, 
and Efficacy of L-758298 in Cisplatin-Induced Emesis 
P007L1  A Double-Blind, Randomized, Active-Agent (Ondansetron Plus 
177 
Dexamethasone) Controlled Study to Investigate the Safety, Tolerability, and 
Efficacy of L-758298/L-754030 in Cisplatin-Induced Emesis 
Phase II non CNIV studies 
P003L1  A 2-Part, Placebo-Controlled, In-Clinic Study to Explore the Preliminary 
72 
Safety, Tolerability, and Efficacy of Intravenous L-758298 (An NK1 Receptor 
Antagonist Prodrug of L-754030) in the Acute Treatment of Migraine 
P006L1  A Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, 3-Period, Crossover Study 
19 
to Investigate the Effects of Single Doses of IV L-758298 and Oral Hyoscine 
on Motion-Induced Nausea in Healthy Male 
Phase III PONV safety study 
P015L1  Multicenter Study: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Active Comparator-
Controlled, Parallel-Group Study Conducted Under In-House Blinding 
Conditions, to Examine the Safety and Tolerability of IV MK-0517 for the 
Prevention of Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting (PONV) 
211 
GCP 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
0.2-100 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
0.25-1.43 mg
Fosaprepitant 
PS80 0.25% 
25-200 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
100 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
non PS80 
25-100 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
non 
PS80/PS80 
40-150 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
14C-radiolabel
led 
Fosaprepitant 
PS80 
200 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
20 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
60-100 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
100 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
20-60 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol 
60 mg 
Fosaprepitant 
non PS80 
40 mg 
The  clinical  overview  stated  that  all  studies  were  conducted  following  appropriate  Good  Clinical 
Practice  guidelines  and  considerations  for  the  ethical  treatment  of  human  subjects.  A  statement  on 
Clinical Requirements has been provided stating that clinical studies conducted outside EU meet the 
ethical requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
19/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Following administration of a single dose of fosaprepitant 115 mg as a 15-minute infusion to healthy 
volunteers fosaprepitant is rapidly converted into aprepitant. Fosaprepitant AUC was 1.5 ± 0.3 µg.h/ml 
and Cmax (obtained at the end of infusion of fosaprepitant) was 5.6 ± 1.5 µg/ml and aprepitant AUC 
was  32  ±  14  µg.h/ml  and  Cmax  (also  obtained  at  the  end  of  infusion  of  fosaprepitant)  was 
3.3 ± 1.2 µg/ml. Fosaprepitant levels were below detection limit 30 minutes after the end of infusion 
(Figure 3). 
Figure 3.  Study P012L1: Mean plasma concentration of fosaprepitant and aprepitant 
following a 15-minute infusion of 115-mg fosaprepitant 
f
f
f
f
o
o
o
o
n
n
n
n
o
o
o
o
i
i
i
i
t
t
t
t
a
a
a
a
r
r
r
r
t
t
t
t
n
n
n
n
e
e
e
e
c
c
c
c
n
n
n
n
o
o
o
o
C
C
C
C
a
a
a
a
m
m
m
m
s
s
s
s
a
a
a
a
P
P
P
P
n
n
n
n
a
a
a
a
e
e
e
e
M
M
M
M
l
l
l
l
)
)
)
)
L
L
L
L
m
m
m
m
g
g
g
g
n
n
n
n
(
(
(
(
/
/
/
/
t
t
t
t
n
n
n
n
a
a
a
a
t
t
t
t
i
i
i
i
p
p
p
p
e
e
e
e
r
r
r
r
p
p
p
p
A
A
A
A
d
d
d
d
n
n
n
n
a
a
a
a
t
t
t
t
n
n
n
n
a
a
a
a
t
t
t
t
i
i
i
i
p
p
p
p
e
e
e
e
r
r
r
r
p
p
p
p
a
a
a
a
s
s
s
s
o
o
o
o
F
F
F
F
7000
7000
7000
7000
6000
6000
6000
6000
5000
5000
5000
5000
4000
4000
4000
4000
3000
3000
3000
3000
2000
2000
2000
2000
1000
1000
1000
1000
0
0
0
0
Aprepitant
Aprepitant
Aprepitant
Aprepitant
Aprepitant
Aprepitant
Fosaprepitant
Fosaprepitant
Fosaprepitant
Fosaprepitant
Fosaprepitant
Fosaprepitant
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
1
2
2
2
2
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
6
6
6
6
7
7
7
7
Time (hour)
Time (hour)
Time (hour)
Time (hour)
//
//
8 12 24 36 48 60 72
8 12 24 36 48 60 72
8 12 24 36 48 60 72
8 12 24 36 48 60 72
The  mean  aprepitant  plasma  concentration  from  4 hours  after  dosing  (including  the  concentration  at 
24 hours post-dose) were similar between the 125 mg oral aprepitant dose and the 115 mg intravenous 
aprepitant dose (Figure 4 on page 27). 
•  Distribution 
Fosaprepitant volume of distribution was estimated to be 5 l. However, the very rapid disappearance 
of  fosaprepitant  from  plasma  possibly  reflects  the  distribution  to  tissues,  where  fosaprepitant  is 
hydrolysed to aprepitant. Hence, the estimated volume of distribution is most likely underestimated. 
Aprepitant has a high protein binding, i.e., 97-98%. The volume of distribution of aprepitant is ~66 l. 
•  Elimination 
Fosaprepitant clearance and half-life were estimated to 1.3 l/min and 2.3 min, respectively. 
Following intravenous administration of 100 mg 14C-labelled fosaprepitant, approximately 57% of the 
total radioactivity is excreted in the urine and 45% in faeces. No unchanged fosaprepitant or aprepitant 
is excreted in urine. 
Fosaprepitant is eliminated by hydrolysis to aprepitant. Fosaprepitant may be converted to aprepitant 
efficiently in multiple human tissues. The data provided suggest rapid conversion of fosaprepitant to 
aprepitant  in  human  liver  preparations,  but  very  slow  conversion  in  human  blood.  Data  from  S9 
preparations from other human tissues suggested similar rate and extent of conversion in liver, kidney 
and  ileum  (almost  complete  conversion within  60  minutes)  with  slightly  slower/lower  conversion  in 
lung.  The  exact  identity  of  the  enzyme(s)  involved  is  unknown  but  is  likely  related  to  the 
phosphoramidase  and/or  the  phosphatase  activities  observed  in  a  variety  of  human  tissues.  Since 
conversion of the prodrug to aprepitant involves the hydrolysis of the phosphoramide moiety and can 
occur in the absence of NADPH, conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant is not thought to involve the 
CYP family of enzymes and is unlikely to differ significantly in patient subpopulations. 
20/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aprepitant  is  eliminated  by  metabolism  (oxidation)  to  a  large  number  of  metabolites.  Twelve 
metabolites  of  aprepitant  have  been  identified  following  IV  administration  of  14C-fosaprepitant. 
CYP3A4 is the major enzyme involved in the metabolism. Glucoronidation and CYP2C19 may also 
be  involved  to  some  extent.  Aprepitant  constitutes  about  20%  of  the  radioactivity  in  plasma  over 
72 hours and is the largest component in plasma during the first 48 hours. 
The data do not indicate any other metabolites formed after administration of fosaprepitant than those 
formed  after  administration  of  aprepitant.  All  of  the  metabolites  have  lower  or  no  NK1  receptor 
affinity compared with aprepitant and none of the metabolites are likely to contribute significantly to 
the activity. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Data suggest linear pharmacokinetics of fosaprepitant. Aprepitant pharmacokinetics is non-linear after 
administration  of  fosaprepitant  with  a  decreased  clearance  with  increased  dose  consistent  with  non-
linear PK observed for oral administration of aprepitant. 
Time dependency has not been investigated for the final fosaprepitant formulation. No accumulation is 
to be expected since it is only a single dose treatment and due to the rapid conversion to aprepitant. 
•  Special populations 
Since fosaprepitant is metabolised in various extrahepatic tissues hepatic insufficiency is not expected 
to  alter  the  conversion  of  fosaprepitant  to  aprepitant.  Patients  with  mild  hepatic  impairment  have 
similar  aprepitant  pharmacokinetics  as  healthy  volunteers.  Conclusions  regarding  the  effect  of 
moderate hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant could not be drawn from the data 
available. Severe hepatic impairment has not been studied. 
No  new  data  were  provided  for  this  application  for  fosaprepitant,  but  based  on  oral  aprepitant  data, 
age,  gender,  weight,  race  and  renal  function  have  no  clinically  relevant  influence  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  aprepitant.  Aprepitant  is  not  extracted  during  haemodialysis.  There  are  no 
pharmacokinetic data in children. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Because of the rapid conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant, data with regard to interactions for oral 
aprepitant are also deemed applicable for fosaprepitant. Aprepitant has a complex interaction profile: it 
is  a  substrate  and  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4  and  an  inducer  of  CYP3A4,  CYP2C9  and  potentially  other 
enzymes. 
Two studies were conducted investigating drug-drug interactions with fosaprepitant: 
o  Fosaprepitant administered as a single, IV dose of 100 mg has no clinically meaningful effect on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  midazolam  co-administered  as  a  single  oral  dose  of  2-mg  (increase  in 
midazolam AUC approximately 1.6-fold). This compares to the 2.3 fold increase in  midazolam 
AUC by 125-mg oral aprepitant. 
o  In  a  double-blinded,  randomised,  placebo-controlled,  3-period  fixed  sequence  study,  the 
interaction  between  fosaprepitant  and  diltiazem  was  investigated  in  10 hypertensive  patients. 
Both aprepitant and diltiazem exposures (AUC) after concomitant administration of fosaprepitant 
with diltiazem were increased by 40-45%. This increase is consistent with moderate inhibition of 
CYP3A4 both by aprepitant and diltiazem. The effect on diltiazem may be clinically significant. 
Specific recommendation for dose reduction of dexamethasone and methylprednisolone is given based 
on the interaction with oral aprepitant 125 mg. Fosaprepitant has a lower effect on CYP3A4. With the 
recommended  dose  reduction  of  50%  of  dexamethasone  in  combination  with  fosaprepitant, 
dexamethasone  AUC  is  expected  to  be  about  20%  lower  than  when  dexamethasone  is  given  at  its 
usual dose without fosaprepitant/aprepitant. However, no effect on efficacy is expected due to a flat 
dose response curve for IV dexamethasone at this dose level. 
21/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
No clinical pharmacokinetic studies were conducted using human biomaterials. 
•  Bioequivalence of fosaprepitant and aprepitant 
Bioequivalence of fosaprepitant and aprepitant was investigated in the Part V of a multiple-step study 
(Study P012L1) where previous steps led to dose and formulation selection. This Part V was an open-
label,  randomised,  3-period,  crossover  study  in  75  healthy  volunteers  using  the  final  market 
formulation,  i.e., containing  0.05%  PS80  (administered  as  a  15-minute  constant  rate  infusion  with 
fosaprepitant at 1 mg/ml). The randomised treatment sequences were: 
1)  100-mg intravenous fosaprepitant 
2)  115-mg intravenous fosaprepitant 
3)  125-mg oral aprepitant 
There  was  a  14-day  washout  interval  between  treatment  periods.  Blood  samples  (n = 18)  were 
collected for 72 hours following study drug administration for determination of plasma concentrations 
of aprepitant. Additional blood samples (n = 6) were collected for 45 minutes after administration of 
fosaprepitant for determination of plasma concentrations of fosaprepitant. 
In  the  primary  analysis,  aprepitant  AUC  values  following  intravenous  fosaprepitant  doses  were 
adjusted  based  on  the  actual  dose  of  fosaprepitant  intravenously  administered  (exact  volume  of 
infusate  administered  multiplied  by  concentration  of  infusate).  This  dose-adjusted  analysis  was 
considered  the  primary  analysis  in  this  study  to  minimise  the  impact  of  the  dosage  administration 
variability  on  the  assessment  of  bioequivalence.  A  supplemental  analysis  was  completed  using 
nominal doses (unadjusted). Secondary pharmacokinetic variables were Cmax, C24h, tmax, and t1/2. 
Pharmacokinetic parameters for the 100- and 115-mg dose comparison from this part of the study are 
displayed in Table 4. Mean aprepitant concentrations are plotted over time in Figure 4. 
Table 4. 
Study P012L1: Pharmacokinetic parameters of aprepitant following administration 
of 125-mg aprepitant and 100-mg and 115-mg fosaprepitant 
Geometric mean 
125-mg PO 
aprepitant 
100-mg IV 
fosaprepitant 
115-mg IV 
fosaprepitant 
26302 
22333 
29013 
26318 
22889 
29611 
Mean ± SD†† 
29215 ± 15731 
24961 ± 10477 
31724 ± 14287 
1331 ± 499 
2765 ± 1066 
3267 ± 1159 
543 ± 241 
424 ± 222 
551 ± 267 
4.0 
14.0 
0.25 
13.0 
0.25 
13.6 
Geometric Mean Ratio (IV/Oral) 
(90% CI) 
100-mg IV 
fosaprepitant 
0.85 
[0.797-0.904] 
 [0.788-0.915]§ 
0.87 
[0.82-0.93] 
115-mg IV 
fosaprepitant 
1.10 
[1.04-1.17] 
 [1.02-1.19]§ 
1.13 
[1.06-1.20] 
MSE‡
0.0479
0.0471
Geometric Mean Ratio (IV/Oral) 
(95% CI) 
2.08 
[1.98-2.28] 
0.76 
[0.69-0.82] 
2.47 
[2.25-2.71] 
1.02 
[0.94-1.11] 
0.0755
0.0600
- 
- 
- 
- 
AUC0-∞* 
(ng•h/ml) 
† 
AUC0-∞
(ng•h/ml) 
† 
AUC0-∞
(ng•h/ml) 
Cmax 
(ng/ml) 
C24h 
(ng/ml) 
tmax 
(h) 
t½ 
(h) 
*  Results based on nominal dose (unadjusted data for actual IV dose received) 
†  Results based on dose-adjusted analysis (adjusted data for actual IV dose received) 
††  Median for tmax and harmonic mean for t1/2 
‡  Mean square error on natural log-scale 
§ 
95% CI 
22/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.  Study P012L1: Mean plasma concentration profiles of aprepitant following 
administration of 125-mg aprepitant, 100- and 115-mg fosaprepitant 
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
9
6
8
0
-
K
M
n
a
e
M
)
L
m
g
n
(
/
3500
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
0
0
100-mg IV MK-0517
115-mg IV MK-0517
125-mg PO Aprepitant
12
24
36
48
60
72
Time (hr)
The 115-mg rather than the 100-mg dose of fosaprepitant was determined to be more comparable to 
125-mg aprepitant based on: 
o  C24hr  concentration  after  the  115-mg  fosaprepitant  dose  was  more  similar  to  the  oral  125-mg 
aprepitant dose than the 100-mg fosaprepitant dose 
o  the  dose-adjusted  analysis  showed  that  both  100-  and  115-mg  fosaprepitant  were  AUC 
bioequivalent to 125-mg aprepitant but 90% CI of Geometric Mean Ratio (IV/Oral) of unadjusted 
AUC  values  of  100-mg  fosaprepitant  fell  out  of  the  bioequivalence  bounds  of  [0.80,  1.25]. 
Furthermore,  the  bioequivalence  of  115-mg  fosaprepitant  to  125-mg  aprepitant  is  confirmed  in 
using the 95% CI of Geometric Mean Ratio (IV/Oral) of unadjusted AUC values 
o  the  safety  of  the  100-  and  115-mg  fosaprepitant  was  comparable.  A  total  of  six  infusion  site 
reactions were recorded for the 66 subjects who received the 115-mg dose of fosaprepitant versus 
eight infusion site reactions in the 67 subjects who received the 100-mg dose of fosaprepitant. 
Plasma  concentrations  were  somewhat  higher  for  4  hours  post-dose  for  the  115-mg  intravenous 
fosaprepitant dose compared to the 125-mg oral aprepitant dose but similar thereafter. 
In  conclusion,  the  data  support the  115-mg  intravenous  fosaprepitant  as  the  strength  resulting  in  the 
most comparable exposure to aprepitant, as compared to 125-mg oral aprepitant. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In  non-clinical  studies,  it  has  been  shown  that  aprepitant  inhibits  emesis  elicited  by  centrally  acting 
emetogens.  In  addition,  substance  P  release  in  the  periphery  can  elicit  an  inflammatory  response,  a 
response that could be attenuated by an NK1 receptor-blocking agent. This might be of relevance as 
mucosal inflammation is assumed to be of importance for delayed emesis. The effect of aprepitant also 
appears to be more pronounced with respect to vomiting than nausea. Inhibition of NK1 receptors in 
vagal  motor  neurons  might  therefore  also  be  of  relevance  as  this  may  prevent  fundic  relaxation,  an 
early event related to vomiting. 
The  relationship  between  plasma  concentration  and  NK1  receptor  occupancy  in  the  CNS  has  been 
evaluated  in  PET  studies.  Aprepitant  plasma  concentrations  of  ~10 ng/ml  and  ~100 ng/ml  produce 
NK1 receptor occupancies of ~50% and ~90%, respectively. The aprepitant CINV regimen (125 mg on 
23/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day 1; 80 mg on Days 2 and 3) produces mean trough plasma aprepitant concentrations > 500 ng/ml, 
which would be expected to result in > 95% brain NK1 receptor occupancy (Figure 5). 
Figure 5.  Striatal NK1 receptor occupancy and ranges of mean trough plasma concentrations 
of aprepitant 
40/25 mg
125/80 mg
375/250 mg
)
%
(
y
c
n
a
p
u
c
c
O
r
o
t
p
e
c
e
R
1
K
N
l
a
t
a
i
r
t
S
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
10
100
1000
10000
Aprepitant Trough Plasma Concentration (ng/mL)
The shaded bars represent the range of the mean trough plasma concentrations of aprepitant achieved 
on each of Days 1 through 5 with aprepitant 375/250 mg, 125/80 mg, and 40/25 mg regimens in 
healthy volunteers. 
In  addition  to  equivalent  in  terms  of  aprepitant  AUC,  115-mg  fosaprepitant  (fosaprepitant  PS80 
0.05%)  produced  a  C24hr  of  504 ng/ml.  Based  on  Figure 3,  this  trough  concentration  would  result  in 
similar  95%  brain  NK1  receptor  occupancy.  Provided  that  there  is  no  lag  phase,  e.g.,  due  to  the 
blood/brain  barrier,  these  data  suggest  very  high  receptor  occupancy  during  the  entire  treatment 
period. 
Clinical efficacy 
Since  no  confirmatory  clinical  efficacy  studies  were  conducted  with  fosaprepitant,  this  section  will 
summarise  previously  submitted  efficacy  data  obtained  with  aprepitant  for  HEC  and  MEC, 
highlighting  efficacy  data  using  an  IV  formulation  different  from  that  intended  to  be  marketed  and 
similar doses of fosaprepitant and aprepitant at doses higher than the proposed marketed regimen. 
•  Dose response study(ies) 
See section above “Bioequivalence of fosaprepitant and aprepitant” 
that 
to  demonstrate 
•  Main study(ies) 
The clinical programme for aprepitant included two pivotal Phase III studies with similar design. The 
primary  objective  was 
therapy 
(i.e., combination  of  ondansetron  and  dexamethasone)  is  superior  to  standard  therapy  alone  for 
prevention of CINV associated with high-dose cisplatin. Both studies were randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled,  parallel-group 
total  of  1094 patients  receiving 
trials  which  enrolled  a 
chemotherapy  that  included  cisplatin ≥ 70 mg/m2.  The  study  treatment  was  aprepitant  125 mg  orally 
on  Day 1  plus  ondansetron  32 mg  intravenously  administered  on  Day 1  plus  dexamethasone  12 mg 
orally on Day 1 and 8 mg orally twice daily on Days 2 to 4 in the experimental arm and placebo plus 
ondansetron 32 mg intravenously administered on Day 1 plus dexamethasone 20 mg orally on Day 1 
and 8 mg orally once daily on Days 2 to 4), in the control arm. 
the  add-on  of  aprepitant 
to  standard 
24/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were allowed to take rescue therapy for relief of established nausea and/or vomiting. Patients 
who had taken rescue medication were classified as treatment failures in the primary analysis. Rescue 
medications  were  recorded  during  Cycle  1  only.  Assessments  of  efficacy  regarding  nausea,  emetic 
episodes and use of rescue medication were recorded by the patient in a diary, from the initiation of 
cisplatin  infusion  until  the  morning  of  Day  6.  Both  studies  had  two  components,  the  initial 
chemotherapy  cycle  and  an  optional  multiple-cycle  extension,  focusing  on  the  initial  chemotherapy 
cycle. 
The primary efficacy evaluation was based on evaluation of a composite measure: complete response 
(defined as no emetic episodes and no use of rescue therapy) over a 120-hour time period following 
the initiation of cisplatin. Quality of life was measured by patient-reported impact of CINV on daily 
life using the FLIE (Functional Living Index-Emesis) questionnaire completed on Day 6, i.e. 5 days 
after receiving chemotherapy. In secondary analyses, the overall phase (0-120 hours) was divided into 
an acute phase (0-24 hours) and a delayed phase (25-120 hours). 
The results were evaluated for each individual study and for the two studies combined. A summary of 
the key study results from the combined analysis is shown in Table 5. 
Table 5. 
Pooled data of studies P052 and P054: Efficacy results, Cycle 1 (mITT) 
Aprepitant 
regimen 
(n = 521) 
% 
Standard 
therapy 
(n = 524)  
% 
Differences* 
% 
(95 % CI) 
Complete Response (no emesis and no rescue therapy) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
0-24 hours 
25-120 hours 
67.7 
86.0 
71.5 
47.8 
73.2 
51.2 
INDIVIDUAL MEASURES 
No emesis (no emetic episodes regardless of use of rescue therapy) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
0-24 hours 
25-120 hours 
71.9 
86.8 
76.2 
49.7 
74.0 
53.5 
No significant nausea (maximum VAS < 25 mm on a scale of 0-100 mm) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
25-120 hours  
72.1 
74.0 
FLIE questionnaire (no or minor impact on daily life) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
74.4 
64.9 
66.9 
63.9 
19.9 
12.7 
20.3 
22.2 
12.7 
22.6 
7.2 
7.1 
10.5 
(14.0, 25.8) 
(7.9, 17.6) 
(14.5, 26.1) 
(16.4, 28.0) 
(8.0, 17.5) 
(17.0, 28.2) 
(1.6, 12.8) 
(1.5, 12.6) 
(4.8, 16.1) 
*  The confidence intervals were calculated with no adjustment for gender and concomitant chemotherapy, which 
were included in the primary analysis of odds ratios and logistic models. 
The  proportion  of  patients  with  an  overall  complete  response  (no  emesis  and  no  use  of  rescue 
medication due to nausea) during the initial chemotherapy cycle (primary endpoint) was statistically 
significantly higher in the aprepitant group compared to the placebo group in both studies (p < 0.001). 
Statistically significant differences in efficacy were also observed in each individual study. 
The estimated time to first emesis in the combined  analysis is depicted by the Kaplan-Meier plot in 
Figure 6. 
25/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6.  Pooled data of studies P052 and P054: Kaplan-Meier curve of “who remain emesis 
free” over time, Cycle 1 (mITT) 
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
0
0
Aprepitant Regimen (N=520)
Standard Therapy (N=523)
12
24
36
48
60
72
84
96
108
120
Time (hours) 
In  both  studies,  the  Kaplan-Meier  curves  start  to  diverge  at  about  16 hours  showing  clear  effects  as 
add-on to standard therapy as regards delayed emesis. 
As  regards  emesis,  the  efficacy  of  aprepitant  as  add-on  to  standard  therapy  has  been  convincingly 
demonstrated. In the pooled analysis, a statistically significant effect has also been shown as regards 
delayed nausea. In the individual studies, the effect on “no significant nausea” defined as < 25 mm on 
a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS), however, was borderline (Table 6). 
Table 6. 
Studies P052 and P054: Efficacy results (nausea), Cycle 1 (mITT) 
Endpoint 
No Nausea 
No significant 
Nausea 
P052 
Overall  
Delayed 
Overall 
Delayed 
Aprepitant 
48% 
51% 
73% 
75% 
Standard 
44% 
48% 
66% 
69% 
Difference 
95% CI 
-5%; +12% 
-5%; +12% 
-0%; +15% 
-0%; +15% 
P054 
Aprepitant 
49% 
53% 
71% 
73% 
Standard 
39% 
40% 
64% 
65% 
Difference 
95% CI 
+2%; +18% 
+4%; +21% 
-0%; +15% 
-0%; +15% 
In these 2 studies (Studies P052 and P054), 851 patients continued into the multiple-cycle extension 
for up to 5 additional cycles of chemotherapy. The efficacy of the aprepitant regimen was maintained 
during all cycles. 
In one randomised, double-blind study (Study P071) in a total of 866 patients (864 females, 2 males) 
receiving  chemotherapy  that  included  cyclophosphamide  750-1500 mg/m2  or  cyclophosphamide 
500-1500 mg/m2 and doxorubicin (< 60 mg/m2) or epirubicin (< 100 mg/m2), 125 mg aprepitant orally 
on  Day 1  plus  ondansetron  32 mg  intravenously  administered  on  Day 1  plus  dexamethasone  12 mg 
orally  on  Day 1  and  8 mg  orally  twice  daily  on  Days 2  to  4  was  compared  with  standard  therapy 
(placebo  plus  ondansetron  8 mg  orally  (twice  on  Day 1  and  every  12  hours  on  Days  2  and  3)  plus 
dexamethasone 20 mg orally on Day 1). 
Efficacy was based on evaluation of the composite measure: complete response (defined as no emetic 
episodes and no use of rescue therapy) primarily during Cycle 1. 
A summary of the key study results is shown in Table 7. 
26/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. 
Study P071: Efficacy results, Cycle 1 (mITT) 
Aprepitant 
regimen 
(n = 433) 
% 
Standard 
therapy 
(n = 424)  
% 
Differences* 
% 
(95 % CI) 
Complete Response (no emesis and no rescue therapy) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
0-24 hours 
25-120 hours 
50.8 
75.7 
55.4 
42.5 
69.0 
49.1 
INDIVIDUAL MEASURES 
No emesis (no emetic episodes regardless of use of rescue therapy) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
0-24 hours 
25-120 hours 
75.7 
87.5 
80.8 
58.7 
77.3 
69.1 
No significant nausea (maximum VAS < 25 mm on a scale of 0-100 mm) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
0-24 hours 
25-120 hours 
60.9 
79.5 
65.3 
55.7 
78.3 
61.5 
FLIE questionnaire (no or minor impact on daily life) 
8.3 
6.7 
6.3 
17.0 
10.2 
11.7 
5.3 
1.3 
3.9 
(1.6, 15.0) 
(0.7, 12.7) 
(-0.4, 13.0) 
(10.8, 23.2) 
(5.1, 15.3) 
(5.9, 17.5) 
(-1.3, 11.9) 
(-4.2, 6.8) 
(-2.6, 10.3) 
Overall (0-120 hours) 
74.4 
*  The confidence intervals were calculated with no adjustment for age category (< 55 years, ≥ 55 years) and 
63.9 
10.5 
(4.8, 16.1) 
investigator group, which were included in the primary analysis of odds ratios and logistic models. 
The estimated time to first emesis in the study is depicted by the Kaplan-Meier plot in Figure 7. 
Figure 7.  Study P071: Kaplan-Meier curve of “who remain emesis free” over time, Cycle 1 
(mITT) 
Aprepitant Regimen (N=432)
Standard Therapy (N=424)
100% 
90% 
80% 
70% 
60% 
50% 
40% 
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
0
12
24
36
48
60
Time (hours) 
72
84
96
108
120
In  the  same  clinical  study,  744  patients  continued  into  the  multiple-cycle  extension  for  up  to 
3 additional cycles of chemotherapy. The efficacy of the aprepitant regimen was maintained during all 
cycles. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
See above section “Main studies” 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
There  is  no  notable  difference  in  efficacy  within  patient  subgroups  (age:  < 65  vs.  ≥ 65  and  < 75  vs. 
≥ 75, gender, race: Asian, Black, Hispanic American, Multi-racial, White). 
27/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Study P004L1 was a clinical Phase IIa study comparing a single 60-or 100-mg dose of fosaprepitant 
(mannitol  containing  formulation,  not  for  marketing  authorisation)  with  a  single  32-mg  dose  of 
ondansetron  administered  prior 
this  proof-of-concept  study, 
fosaprepitant was effective in the prevention of both acute and/or delayed CINV (Table 8). 
to  cisplatin  50-100 mg/m2.  In 
Table 8. 
Study P004L1: Complete responders during mono-therapy as compared to single 
dose ondansetron 
Treatment group 
Overall (Days 1 to 7) 
Acute (Day 1) 
Delayed (Days 2 to 7) 
*  Based on an interim assessment of the first 9 patients at the 60-mg dose of fosaprepitant, then this dose was 
Fosaprepitant 60 or 100 mg IV 
n = 30* 
31.0% 
36.7% 
72.4% 
Ondansetron 32 mg IV 
n = 23 
21.7% 
52.2% 
30.4% 
increased to 100 mg 
Despite  a  lower  response  for  acute  CINV  compared  with  a  5-HT3  antagonist,  a  single  dose  of 
fosaprepitant  given  on  Day  1  showed  efficacy  in  the  delayed  phase  measured  out  to  Day 7 
post-chemotherapy. 
Study P007L1 was performed to assess: 
- 
- 
the safety and tolerability of fosaprepitant (mannitol containing, not for marketing authorisation) 
and aprepitant for the prophylaxis of cisplatin-induced emesis 
the efficacy of fosaprepitant plus dexamethasone in the acute phase (first 24 hours) of cisplatin-
induced emesis 
-  whether  a  single  dose  of  fosaprepitant  plus  dexamethasone  followed  by  4 days  of  aprepitant  or 
placebo will prevent delayed emesis (Days 2 to 5 post-cisplatin infusion) and  
-  whether  a  single  dose  of  fosaprepitant  plus  dexamethasone  followed  by  4 days  of  aprepitant  or 
placebo will reduce nausea following cisplatin (Days 1 to 5 post-cisplatin infusion). 
This  randomised,  double-blind,  active-controlled  (ondansetron  plus  dexamethasone)  study  in 
177 cisplatin-naïve  patients  with  various  cancer  type  evaluated  the  prevention  of  both  acute  (0  to 
24 hours) and delayed (Days 2 to 5) emesis after cisplatin IV (≥ 70 mg/m2). 
All patients received dexamethasone 20 mg intravenously before cisplatin. In addition, patients were 
randomised to 1 of 3 groups to receive: 
Group A 
n = 62 
Group B 
n = 57 
Group C 
n = 58 
fosaprepitant 100 mg intravenously prior to cisplatin and aprepitant 300 mg 
once daily on Days 2 to 5 
fosaprepitant 100 mg intravenously prior to cisplatin and placebo once daily 
on Days 2 to 5 
ondansetron 32 mg intravenously prior to cisplatin and placebo once daily on 
Days 2 to 5 
Rescue  therapy  was  permitted  on  an  as-needed  basis  at  any  time  for  all  patients  but  was  not  to  be 
given  prophylactically.  Randomisation  was  stratified  both  for  gender  and  for  moderate  to  highly 
emetogenic chemotherapy given in addition to cisplatin. 
Episodes of vomiting or retching (date, time and number of episodes) were recorded by the patients on 
diary cards. An emetic episode was defined as a single vomit or retch or any number of continuous 
vomits  or  retches;  distinct  episodes  were  separated  by  at  least  1  minute.  Emetic  episodes  were 
recorded daily in a patient diary. The primary efficacy parameter was the proportion of patients with 
no  emesis  (i.e.,  no  emetic  episodes)  in  the  acute  phase  (0  to  24  hours  post-initiation  of  cisplatin 
infusion). Emetic episodes in the delayed phase (24 to 120 hours post-initiation of cisplatin infusion) 
and the use of rescue  medication in both periods were also evaluated. In addition, the proportion of 
28/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients  (complete  responders)  with  no  emesis  and  no  rescue  therapy  during  the  acute  and  delayed 
phases was a post-hoc exploratory efficacy parameter. 
Patient  self  assessment  of  nausea  was  assessed  every  24 hours  in  the  patient  diary  using  a  100-mm 
horizontal  VAS.  Global  satisfaction  with  the  anti-emetic  treatment  was  assessed  by  the  patient  the 
morning of Day 2 and the morning of Day 6 post-cisplatin using a 100-mm VAS. 
During the acute phase, the treatment  providing the best control  of emesis  was the standard therapy 
(ondansetron plus dexamethasone - Group C). Table 9 provides the results of the primary analysis. 
Table 9. 
Study P007L1: Effect on emesis in the acute phase 
Response criteria category 
No emesis 
1 to 2 emetic episodes 
3 or more emetic episodes 
* Significantly different from group C 
A 
n = 60 
50.0% 
23.3% 
26.7% 
Treatment group 
B 
n = 57 
45.6% 
26.3% 
28.1% 
A + B 
n = 117 
47.9%* 
24.8% 
27.4% 
C 
n = 58 
84.5% 
10.3% 
5.2% 
The  difference  between  the  combined  group  (Groups  A  and  B)  and  Group  C  was  -36.6%,  with  a 
90% CI  about  this  difference  of  -49.6  to  -24.2%.  Furthermore,  an  additional  exploratory  analysis 
showed  that  the  proportion  of  patients  without  emesis  and  no  use  of  rescue  therapy  in  Group  C 
(82.8%) was higher than either Group A (45.0%), Group B (35.1%), or the combined group (Groups A 
and B) (40.2%; p < 0.001 for Group C vs. the combined groups). 
During the delayed phase, the best control of emesis was achieved in those patients who received an 
NK1-receptor antagonist, administered either at Days 1-5 or only at Day 1 (Table 10). 
Table 10.  Study P007L1: Effect on emesis in the delayed phase 
Response criteria category 
No emesis 
1 to 2 emetic episodes 
3 or more emetic episodes 
* p-value < 0.001 
A 
n = 60 
66.1%* 
18.6% 
15.3% 
Treatment group 
B 
n = 57 
60.7%* 
17.9% 
21.4% 
C 
n = 58 
41.4% 
17.2% 
41.4% 
The between-treatment difference was (24.7%) with 95% CI of 5.9 to 43.6% for Groups A and C and 
19.3% with 95% CI of 0.4 to 38.8% for Groups B and C. An exploratory analysis showed a similar 
advantage  in  the  proportion  of  patients  without  emesis  and  no  use  of  rescue  therapy  in  the  delayed 
phase  (59.3,  44.6,  and  37.9%  in  Groups  A,  B,  and  C,  respectively;  Groups  A  versus  C  were 
significantly different, p < 0.05). 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  fosaprepitant  has  been  adequately  evaluated.  Upon  I.V.  infusion  over 
15 minutes, fosaprepitant is rapidly converted in aprepitant. Bioequivalence with respect to aprepitant 
AUC between 115-mg fosaprepitant and 125-mg aprepitant has been demonstrated. 
No formal pharmacodynamic studies on fosaprepitant were submitted however the pharmacodynamic 
properties  of  the  active  metabolite  aprepitant  were  appropriately  evaluated.  The  aprepitant  studies 
showed  that  there  is  a  relation  between  plasma  concentration  of  aprepitant  and  the  NK1-receptor 
occupancies in the brain and a beneficial treatment effect on delayed emesis. 
No  confirmatory  study  was  conducted  with  fosaprepitant  and  is  considered  adequate  in  view  of  the 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data for fosaprepitant and aprepitant. 
29/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Clinical safety profile of fosaprepitant is supported by data collected during clinical studies performed 
with  fosaprepitant  and  with  high  dose  of  oral  aprepitant  since  fosaprepitant  is  rapidly  converted  in 
aprepitant and produces plasma concentration similar to high dose of oral aprepitant. 
Safety of fosaprepitant 
•  Patient exposure 
All together 696 individuals have been exposed to fosaprepitant IV of whom 123 received the market 
formulation and 76 individuals to a dose of 115 mg or higher. 
The  exposure  to  fosaprepitant  by  formulation  is  outlined  in  Table 11  and  while  Table 12  provides 
exposure by dose. 
Table 11.  Subject and patient exposure to fosaprepitant by formulation 
Phase I 
Phase II CINV 
Phase II Non-CINV 
Phase III Non-CINV 
Fosaprepitant 
mannitol† 
98 
149 
66 
Fosaprepitant
PS80 0.25%‡ 
35 
Total Exposure: 
313 
35 
Fosaprepitant
nonPS80§ 
Fosaprepitant 
PS80 0.05%║ 
All 
Formulations 
58 
167 
225 
123 
123 
314 
149 
66 
167 
696 
Table 12.  Subject and patient exposure to fosaprepitant by dose 
Number of subjects/patients exposed 
< 90 mg 90 mg 100 mg 115 mg 120 mg  150 mg  200 mg
Any 
dose 
123 
696 
Market formulation 
All formulations 
Subjects/patients are counted once for each dose received 
All subjects/patients counted in the “Market formulation” row are also counted in “All formulations" row 
89 
306 
0 
383 
34 
34 
66 
66 
10 
39 
0 
6 
0 
17 
•  Adverse events 
This section will focus on tolerability data of the market formulation in the population in which it was 
tested (healthy subjects) and tolerability data in the patient population (CINV) where it is intended for 
use (using a previous formulation). It must be emphasised that the exposure to fosaprepitant itself is 
brief  (undetectable  by  30  minutes),  although  fosaprepitant  plasma  levels  average  5800 ng/ml  at  the 
end of a 15-minute infusion with a 115-mg dose of the market formulation. 
Intravenous fosaprepitant including local tolerability 
Fosaprepitant  has  been  generally  well  tolerated  with  a  low  incidence  of  adverse  events,  including 
adverse events that occur at the infusion site. The incidence of adverse events among healthy subjects 
receiving  the  market  formulation  of  fosaprepitant  is  in  Table 13;  of  note,  subjects  who  received 
aprepitant 125 mg did not receive an intravenous placebo administration. 
30/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13.  Study 012L1: Number (%) of subjects with at least one adverse event exposed to 
market formulation of fosaprepitant 
Patients with one or more adverse events 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Infusion site erythema 
Infusion site induration 
Infusion site pain 
Tenderness 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Contusion 
Investigations 
Intraocular pressure test 
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Dysmenorrhoea 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Rash 
Fosaprepitant 
< 115 mg 
(N = 115) 
(%) 
n 
(14.8) 
17 
(0.0) 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
(7.0) 
8 
Fosaprepitant 
115 mg 
(N = 66) 
n 
7 
0 
0 
0 
5 
(%) 
(10.6) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(7.6) 
Fosaprepitant 
150 mg 
(N = 12) 
n 
3 
1 
1 
0 
1 
(%) 
(25.0) 
(8.3) 
(8.3) 
(0.0) 
(8.3) 
Aprepitant 
125 mg 
(N = 133) 
(%) 
n 
(4.5) 
6 
(0.8) 
1 
(0.0) 
0 
(0.8) 
1 
(0.0) 
0 
1 
0 
7 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
9 
3 
6 
0 
0 
1 
1 
(0.9) 
(0.0) 
(6.1) 
(0.9) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(7.8) 
(2.6) 
(5.2) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.9) 
(0.9) 
0 
1 
5 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 
0 
2 
0 
0 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
(1.5) 
(7.6) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(3.0) 
(0.0) 
(3.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
0 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
0 
2 
1 
1 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(8.3) 
(8.3) 
(8.3) 
(8.3) 
(8.3) 
(16.7) 
(0.0) 
(16.7) 
(8.3) 
(8.3) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
6 
1 
5 
0 
0 
0 
0 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(4.5) 
(0.8) 
(3.8) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
The  possibility  of  reactions  at  the  site  of  infusion  of  the  market  formulation  was  carefully  assessed 
because  previous  fosaprepitant  formulations  have  been  associated  with  local  reactions,  which  were 
dose,  infusion  rate,  and  formulation  dependent.  Although  the  market  formulation  contains  the 
solubilising agent PS80 which has been associated with hypersensitivity reactions. The concentration 
of  PS80  in  the  market  formulation  is  significantly  lower  (0.05%)  than  in  an  earlier  fosaprepitant 
formulation (0.25%) and also lower than in other marketed products such as the taxane chemotherapy 
agents. The lower PS80 concentration in the fosaprepitant formulation for market should have a low 
likelihood  of  hypersensitivity  reactions.  In  an  earlier  study,  using  the  fosaprepitant  PS80  0.25% 
formulation,  1  of  35  subjects  had  a  hypersensitivity  reaction.  Of  note,  no  hypersensitivity  reactions 
were  noted  in  123  subjects  who  were  administered  the  market  formulation  of  fosaprepitant.  The 
likelihood  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  is  further  diminished  by  the  co-administration  with 
dexamethasone as part of the CINV regimen. 
Safety experience in CINV patients (intravenous fosaprepitant mannitol) 
In  two  clinical  CINV  studies,  a  total  of  140  patients  received  fosaprepitant  mannitol  100 mg;  an 
additional  9  patients  received  60 mg  (administered  1  hour  prior  to  initiation  of  cisplatin-based).  In 
these studies, fosaprepitant was generally well tolerated compared with ondansetron with or without 
the use of other anti-emetic agents. Additionally, infusion site intolerability was reported infrequently. 
Safety of high dose oral aprepitant 
Aprepitant plasma exposure at or in excess of that provided by the market formulation of fosaprepitant 
has  occurred  in  patients  in  the  Phase  III  depression  programme  (i.e.  the  programme  evaluating 
aprepitant  as  an  anti-depressant),  patients  at  risk  for  CINV  in  the  Phase  II  programme  and  healthy 
young subjects in a multiple-dose pharmacokinetic study As illustrated in Figure 8, a single oral dose 
of  the  aprepitant  375-mg  capsule  provides  a  plasma  level  at  Cmax  greater  than  the  aprepitant  Cmax 
which occurs with single IV dose fosaprepitant. Figure 6 also shows how the aprepitant trough plasma 
31/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
levels associated with repeat dosing of oral aprepitant 375 mg and 250 mg exceed the level associated 
with a single IV dose of fosaprepitant. 
Figure 8.  Mean plasma aprepitant levels following 15-minutes IV infusion of 115-mg 
fosaprepitant in regard to oral aprepitant doses 
6000
6000
6000
6000
5000
5000
5000
5000
4000
4000
4000
4000
3000
3000
3000
3000
2000
2000
2000
2000
1000
1000
1000
1000
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
)
)
)
)
L
L
L
L
m
m
m
m
/
/
/
/
g
g
g
g
n
n
n
n
(
(
(
(
n
n
n
n
o
o
o
o
i
i
i
i
t
t
t
t
a
a
a
a
r
r
r
r
t
t
t
t
n
n
n
n
e
e
e
e
c
c
c
c
n
n
n
n
o
o
o
o
C
C
C
C
t
t
t
t
n
n
n
n
a
a
a
a
t
t
t
t
i
i
i
i
p
p
p
p
e
e
e
e
r
r
r
r
p
p
p
p
A
A
A
A
Aprepitant 375 mg: Multiple-day dosing trough levels†
Aprepitant 375 mg: Multiple-day dosing trough levels†
375
375-mg Aprepitant
375
375-mg Aprepitant
115-mg Fosaprepitant
115
115-mg Fosaprepitant
115
Aprepitant 250 mg: Multiple-day dosing trough levels†
Aprepitant 250 mg: Multiple-day dosing trough levels†
12
12
12
12
24
24
24
24
36
36
36
36
48
48
48
48
60
60
60
60
72
72
72
72
84
84
84
84
96
96
96
96
Time (hr)
Time (hr)
Time (hr)
Time (hr)
† Trough concentrations for daily, oral doses administered 
† Trough concentrations for daily, oral doses administered 
in the Depression program (Week 3)
in the Depression program (Week 3)
Oral  aprepitant  250  or  375 mg  was  administered  daily  for  8  weeks  to  180 patients  in  a 
placebo-controlled  depression  study  (Study  039).  Both  aprepitant  doses  provide  a  greater  plasma 
exposure than the peak plasma aprepitant exposure resulting from a single IV dose fosaprepitant. Both 
aprepitant  doses  were  well  tolerated  relative  to  the  control;  in  this  depression  study,  there  were  no 
serious  adverse  events  associated  with  aprepitant.  There  was  no  pattern  among  the  types  of  clinical 
adverse  event  that  caused  discontinuation  in  patients  receiving  either  dose  of  aprepitant  in  this 
prolonged  exposure  to  high  doses.  A  higher  percentage  of  patients  receiving  aprepitant  250 mg 
(16.5%), aprepitant 375 mg (13.5%) and paroxetine (15.1%) discontinued treatment due to an adverse 
event compared with placebo (1.1%). Table 14 displays adverse events with an incidence ≥ 5%. 
32/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14.  Study 039: Summary of adverse events (incidence ≥ 5%) following repeated 250- or 
375-mg aprepitant oral administration 
Patients with one or more adverse experiences 
Body as a whole/Site unspecified 
Abdominal pain 
Asthenia/fatigue 
Dizziness 
Influenza-like disease 
Upper respiratory infection 
Digestive system 
Diarrhoea 
Dry mouth 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Eyes, ears, nose, and throat 
Pharyngitis 
Musculoskeletal system 
Back pain 
Nervous system 
Headache 
Insomnia 
Somnolence 
Psychiatric disorder 
Anxiety 
Nervousness 
Skin and skin appendages 
Rash 
Urogenital system 
Ejaculation function disorder 
Erectile dysfunction 
Libido decreased 
Menstrual disorder 
Orgasmic dysfunction 
Sexual dysfunction 
Aprepitant
250 mg 
(N=91) 
(%) 
(73.6) 
(37.4) 
(2.2) 
(5.5) 
(14.3) 
(4.4) 
(14.3) 
(27.5) 
(8.8) 
(9.9) 
(9.9) 
(0.0) 
(12.1) 
(4.4) 
(9.9) 
(1.1) 
(29.7) 
(13.2) 
(4.4) 
(14.3) 
(9.9) 
(0.0) 
(0.0) 
(8.8) 
(1.1) 
(9.9) 
(2.1) 
(0.0) 
(2.2) 
(4.7) 
(1.1) 
(0.0) 
n 
67 
34 
2 
5 
13 
4 
13 
25 
8 
9 
9 
0 
11 
4 
9 
1 
27 
12 
4 
13 
9 
0 
0 
8 
1 
9 
1 
0 
2 
2 
1 
0 
Aprepitant
375 mg 
(N=89) 
n 
66 
36 
6 
8 
7 
5 
13 
31 
6 
9 
11 
1 
12 
5 
11 
5 
32 
18 
2 
13 
5 
3 
0 
7 
6 
11 
1 
0 
3 
1 
3 
1 
(%) 
(74.2) 
(40.4) 
(6.7) 
(9.0) 
(7.9) 
(5.6) 
(14.6) 
(34.8) 
(6.7) 
(10.1) 
(12.4) 
(1.1) 
(13.5) 
(5.6) 
(12.4) 
(5.6) 
(36.0) 
(20.2) 
(2.2) 
(14.6) 
(5.6) 
(3.4) 
(0.0) 
(7.9) 
(6.7) 
(12.4) 
(2.5) 
(0.0) 
(3.4) 
(2.0) 
(3.4) 
(1.1) 
Paroxetine 
20 mg 
(N=86) 
n 
73 
32 
4 
8 
5 
6 
8 
42 
12 
12 
22 
4 
9 
0 
11 
6 
34 
14 
14 
9 
15 
1 
4 
2 
0 
26 
3 
2 
7 
1 
8 
4 
(%) 
(84.9) 
(37.2) 
(4.7) 
(9.3) 
(5.8) 
(7.0) 
(9.3) 
(48.8) 
(14.0) 
(14.0) 
(25.6) 
(4.7) 
(10.5) 
(0.0) 
(12.8) 
(7.0) 
(39.5) 
(16.3) 
(16.3) 
(10.5) 
(17.4) 
(1.2) 
(4.7) 
(2.3) 
(0.0) 
(30.2) 
(8.6) 
(5.7) 
(8.1) 
(2.0) 
(9.3) 
(4.7) 
Placebo 
(N=92) 
(%) 
n 
62  (67.4) 
26  (28.3) 
(3.3) 
3 
(3.3) 
3 
(2.2) 
2 
(3.3) 
3 
13  (14.1) 
30  (32.6) 
(8.7) 
8 
(6.5) 
6 
(6.5) 
6 
(4.3) 
4 
(8.7) 
8 
(1.1) 
1 
(6.5) 
6 
1 
(1.1) 
27  (29.3) 
13  (14.1) 
(7.6) 
7 
(7.6) 
7 
(9.8) 
9 
(0.0) 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
(7.6) 
7 
(1.1) 
1 
(8.7) 
8 
(0.0) 
0 
(0.0) 
0 
(1.1) 
1 
(0.0) 
0 
(1.1) 
1 
(0.0) 
0 
A  Phase  II  CINV  study  (Study  040/042),  provides  important  comparative  safety  data.  In  this  study, 
the  aprepitant  375-mg  dose  (375/250  mg)  was  well  tolerated  and  was  similar  to  aprepitant  125-mg 
dose (125/80 mg) regimen (Table 15). 
33/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15.  Study 040/042: Summary of adverse events (incidence ≥ 5%) following various oral 
aprepitant regimens 
Patients with one or more adverse experiences 
Body as a whole/Site unspecified 
Abdominal pain 
Asthenia/fatigue 
Chest pain 
Dehydration 
Dizziness 
Mucous membrane disorder 
Digestive system 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Digestive gas symptoms 
Dyspepsia 
Gastritis 
Heartburn 
Nausea 
Oral candidiasis 
Vomiting 
Eyes, ears, nose and throat 
Epistaxis 
Pharyngitis 
Hemic and lymphatic system 
Anaemia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Neutropenia 
Metabolism and nutrition 
Anorexia 
Appetite change 
Weight loss 
Musculoskeletal system 
Muscular weakness 
Nervous system 
Headache 
Insomnia 
Respiratory system 
Hiccups 
Pneumonia 
Skin and skin appendages 
Rash 
Aprepitant regimens 
Standard 
375 mg 
(N=34) 
Aprepitant regimen plus Standard 
Therapy 
125 mg 
(N=214) 
n 
162 
93 
14 
43 
9 
20 
14 
10 
104 
29 
23 
8 
11 
4 
9 
27 
6 
14 
17 
1 
5 
27 
8 
13 
6 
41 
26 
7 
16 
13 
6 
37 
18 
4 
47 
26 
4 
22 
3 
Therapy 
40 mg 
(N=212) 
(N=120) 
(%) 
(%) 
n 
n 
(71.7) 
(70.8)  152 
85 
(37.7) 
80 
(37.5) 
45 
(3.3) 
7 
(3.3) 
4 
(16.5) 
35 
(12.5) 
15 
(5.2) 
11 
(5.0) 
6 
(6.1) 
13 
(6.7) 
8 
(6.1) 
13 
(6.7) 
8 
7 
(5.0) 
6 
(3.3) 
(46.7) 
99 
(45.8) 
55 
(13.2) 
28 
(11.7) 
14 
(12.3) 
26 
(10.8) 
13 
(0.5) 
1 
(1.7) 
2 
(5.7) 
12 
(3.3) 
4 
(1.9) 
4 
(1.7) 
2 
11 
(4.2) 
5 
(5.2) 
(11.3) 
24 
(11.7) 
14 
(0.5) 
1 
(3.3) 
4 
16 
(5.8) 
7 
(7.5) 
(11.3) 
24 
(13.3) 
16 
(1.9) 
4 
(3.3) 
4 
4 
(3.3) 
4 
(1.9) 
(10.8) 
23 
(10.8) 
13 
(4.7) 
10 
(4.2) 
5 
(3.8) 
8 
(7.5) 
9 
(6.1) 
13 
(1.7) 
2 
(20.3) 
43 
(16.7) 
20 
(10.8) 
23 
(5.8) 
7 
(2.4) 
5 
(0.8) 
1 
(5.7) 
12 
(5.8) 
7 
(9.4) 
20 
(10.0) 
12 
6 
(5.8) 
7 
(2.8) 
(17.0) 
36 
(13.3) 
16 
(10.4) 
22 
(7.5) 
9 
10 
(5.0) 
6 
(4.7) 
(16.5) 
35 
(18.3) 
22 
(9.0) 
19 
(15.8) 
19 
(0.9) 
2 
(0.8) 
1 
(3.3) 
7 
(7.5) 
9 
(0.5) 
1 
(1.7) 
2 
(%) 
(85.3) 
(50.0) 
(0.0) 
(20.6) 
(5.9) 
(8.8) 
(8.8) 
(5.9) 
(55.9) 
(14.7) 
(11.8) 
(8.8) 
(5.9) 
(5.9) 
(5.9) 
(20.6) 
(8.8) 
(2.9) 
(20.6) 
(5.9) 
(5.9) 
(14.7) 
(2.9) 
(5.9) 
(11.8) 
(11.8) 
(0.0) 
(5.9) 
(2.9) 
(5.9) 
(2.9) 
(17.6) 
(8.8) 
(5.9) 
(14.7) 
(8.8) 
(5.9) 
(11.8) 
(8.8) 
(%) 
(75.7) 
(43.5) 
(6.5) 
(20.1) 
(4.2) 
(9.3) 
(6.5) 
(4.7) 
(48.6) 
(13.6) 
(10.7) 
(3.7) 
(5.1) 
(1.9) 
(4.2) 
(12.6) 
(2.8) 
(6.5) 
(7.9) 
(0.5) 
(2.3) 
(12.6) 
(3.7) 
(6.1) 
(2.8) 
(19.2) 
(12.1) 
(3.3) 
(7.5) 
(6.1) 
(2.8) 
(17.3) 
(8.4) 
(1.9) 
(22.0) 
(12.1) 
(1.9) 
(10.3) 
(1.4) 
n 
29 
17 
0 
7 
2 
3 
3 
2 
19 
5 
4 
3 
2 
2 
2 
7 
3 
1 
7 
2 
2 
5 
1 
2 
4 
4 
0 
2 
1 
2 
1 
6 
3 
2 
5 
3 
2 
4 
3 
375 mg 
125 mg 
40 mg 
aprepitant 375 mg P.O. on Day 1 and 250 mg P.O. once daily on Days 2 to 5 
aprepitant 125 mg P.O. on Day 1 and 80 mg P.O. once daily on Days 2 to 5 
aprepitant 40 mg P.O. on Day 1 and 25 mg P.O. once daily on Days 2 to 5 
Standard Therapy: ondansetron 32 mg IV and dexamethasone 20 mg P.O. on Day 1 and dexamethasone 8 mg P.O. once daily 
on Days 2 to 5 
Additionally, a 4-week, multiple-dose safety study with aprepitant 375 mg was performed in healthy 
volunteers. No clinically important adverse experiences were reported. 
Safety oral aprepitant 
Since fosaprepitant is rapidly converted in aprepitant with similar off-peak plasma concentration and 
since there is no specific adverse event occurring following the infusion of fosaprepitant, the overall 
34/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety profile of the treatment fosaprepitant/aprepitant could also be based on the safety information of 
aprepitant. 
Frequently reported adverse reactions that were more common in the aprepitant treatment group were 
asthenia/fatigue  and  hiccups.  These  were  also  among  the  most  frequently  reported  drug-related 
adverse experiences. 
Other frequently reported adverse reactions that were slightly more common with aprepitant treatment 
included  dizziness,  diarrhoea,  and  cough.  Constipation,  headache,  and  anorexia  were  frequently 
reported as drug-related adverse experiences and were also more common in the aprepitant treatment 
group. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse experiences of dehydration and respiratory insufficiency were frequent with aprepitant 
treatment  during  Cycle  1,  but  not  during  the  Multiple-Cycle  extension.  The  pre-specified  adverse 
reactions,  selected  to  reflect  potential  chemotherapy-induced  haematologic  toxicity,  potential 
corticosteroid  induced-toxicity  and  also  toxicity  potentially  related  to  chemotherapy  and/or 
corticosteroids, were generally similar in frequency between the treatment groups. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory adverse reactions were generally similar in frequency between the treatment groups except 
for  elevated  alkaline  phosphatase  and  increases  aspartate  aminotransferase  that  were  both  slightly 
more common in the aprepitant treatment group. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Since  fosaprepitant  115  mg  on  Day  1  followed  by  oral  aprepitant  on  Days  2  and  3  provide  a 
comparable  efficacy  and  safety  profile  than  the  3-day  oral  regimen  in  patients  at  risk  for  CINV 
receiving either HEC or MEC, the following information is based on the oral aprepitant. 
No  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  based  on  gender,  age,  or  race.  Neither  fosaprepitant  nor  aprepitant 
have been evaluated in patients below 18 years of age. 
Additionally, no dose adjustment is necessary for patients with renal insufficiency or for patients with 
end  state  renal  disease  undergoing  haemodialysis  or  for  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic 
insufficiency. There are no clinical data in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Drug-drug  interactions  were  derived  from  studies  conducted  with  fosaprepitant  and  midazolam  or 
diltiazem and drug-interaction studies with oral aprepitant. As a general recommendation: 
•  Fosaprepitant  must  not  be  used  concurrently  with  pimozide,  terfenadine,  astemizole,  or 
cisapride. Inhibition of CYP3A4 by aprepitant could result in elevated plasma concentrations 
of these medicinal products, potentially causing serious or life-threatening reactions 
•  Caution is advised when warfarin, acenocoumarol, tolbutamide, phenytoin or other medicinal 
products  that  are  known  to  be  metabolised  by  CYP2C9  are  administered  during  this  time 
period 
•  Fosaprepitant  or  aprepitant  does  not  seem  to  interact  with  the  P-glycoprotein  transporter,  as 
demonstrated by the lack of interaction of oral aprepitant with digoxin. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Very  few  patients  discontinued  fosaprepitant  or  aprepitant  due  to  adverse  events  during  the  clinical 
studies. 
•  Post-marketing experience 
From  market  introduction  of  aprepitant  in  March  2003  through  September  2005,  a  total  of 
332 spontaneous  reports  from  both  healthcare  professionals  including  regulatory  agencies  (312)  and 
consumers (20) were identified. Eighty of the 312 reports identified were serious. Six of these reports 
described patients less than 18 years of age. 
35/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aprepitant is generally well tolerated, in particular, considering the potential drug interactions already 
highlighted.  It  is  noteworthy  that  the  post-marketing  surveillance  of  aprepitant  has  not  resulted  in 
reports clearly suggestive of clinically significant drug interactions. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  oral  aprepitant  programme,  with  plasma  aprepitant  exposures  at  or  above  the  peak  aprepitant 
levels  anticipated  after  fosaprepitant,  as  well  as  the  available  database  of  fosaprepitant  exposure, 
provide evidence that fosaprepitant is well tolerated. 
Because  hypersensitivity  reactions  with  polysorbate  80  have  been  documented,  the  formulation 
proposed in this Application for marketing authorisation utilises a low concentration of polysorbate 80 
that is less than that used in other marketed products. Using this polysorbate concentration (0.05%) in 
123 healthy volunteers did not reveal a clear hypersensitivity reaction. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance 
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Safety concern 
Important identified risks 
Local tolerability 
- Warning/precaution under SPC 
section 4.4 
- Listed as ADR under SPC section 4.8 
- Information on local tolerability 
included under SPC section 4.9 
(overdose) 
- Information on local tolerability 
included under SPC section 5.3 (pre-
clinical safety) 
- Follow-up in Protocol #130 (A 
Randomized, Double-Blind, Parallel-
Group Study Conducted Under 
In-House Blinding Conditions to 
Determine the Efficacy and Tolerability 
of Aprepitant for the Prevention of 
Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and 
Vomiting Associated with Moderately 
Emetogenic Chemotherapy) with 
optional extension cycle for treatment 
with IVEMEND (fosaprepitant 
dimeglumine) 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
- Non-clinical study designed in 
accordance with CPMP/SWP/2145/00 
with the commercial formulation and 
clinically relevant dosage regimen of 
fosaprepitant to investigate the potential 
risk for injection site reactions from 
accidentally mis-injected drug 
(i.e., paravenous, intramuscular, and 
subcutaneous exposure) 
36/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities  Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Safety concern 
Important identified risks  
Hypersensitivity 
- Evaluation of hypersensitivity within 
Protocol #130 (for aprepitant) with 
optional extension cycle for treatment 
with IVEMEND 
- Routine pharmacovigilance 
Important potential risks 
Medication errors 
- Routine pharmacovigilance monitoring 
- The MAH will continue to monitor post 
marketing reports of drug interaction 
and describe them in the PSURs 
Drug interactions: 
reduction of efficacy 
of oral 
contraceptives 
Important missing information 
Use in pregnancy 
- Routine pharmacovigilance monitoring 
in pregnant and lactating women 
- Contraindication in SPC section 4.3 
(Hypersensitivity to the active 
substance, aprepitant, polysorbate 80 or 
any of the excipients) 
- Statements in SPC sections 4.2 
(Posology and Method of 
administration), 4.4 (Special Warnings 
and Precautions, 6 (Pharmaceutical 
Particulars) and Package Leaflet 
- Statement in SPC section 4.4 (Special 
Warnings and Precautions), 4.5 (Drug 
Interactions) and Package Leaflet 
- Statement under SPC section 4.6 
(Pregnancy and Lactation), 5.3 
(pre-clinical safety data) and Package 
Leaflet 
Use in patients less 
than 18 years of age 
- Evaluation of PK/safety/efficacy in 
- Statement under SPC section 4.2 
patients < 18 years of age for aprepitant 
- Routine pharmacovigilance monitoring 
in patients less than 18 years of age 
(Posology and Method of 
Administration) and Package Leaflet 
- Follow-up under routine 
pharmacovigilance and describe them 
in the PSURs 
Events of special interest 
Hepatobiliary 
events, QTc interval 
prolongation, 
infection, SIADH, 
nervous system 
events, drug 
interactions 
- Periodic reassessment whether product 
information needs to be modified 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this medicinal product is considered satisfactory when used with the conditions defined 
in the SPC. 
The  documentation  provided  for  the  active  substance  fosaprepitant  (prodrug  of  aprepitant)  is 
comprehensive and well detailed. 
The  pharmaceutical  development  is  adequate  for  this  intravenous  formulation  and  took  into 
consideration properties such as hygroscopicity and thermal lability of the active substance. 
The excipients are those typically used for parenteral formulation. Similarly, the packaging material is 
well documented and no incompatibility has been noticed. 
The  validation  of  the  manufacturing  process  ensures  consistency  and  reproducibility  of  the  finished 
product. 
37/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  finished  product  has  been  satisfactorily  controlled  and  stability  studies  conducted  under  ICH 
conditions showed that the product is stable throughout the proposed shelf life. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Non-clinical  data  are  satisfactory  and  do  not  raise  any  concern.  However,  the  remained  issue  is  the 
need  for  a  non  clinical  study  investigating  the  potential  risk  for  significant  local  intolerance  due  to 
accidentally  miss-administered  drug  as  outlined  in  EU-guideline  CPMP/SWP/2145/00  for which  the 
Applicant has agreed as Follow-Up Measure. 
Efficacy 
No  confirmatory  clinical  efficacy  studies  have  been  conducted  with  fosaprepitant.  Activity  in 
monotherapy  and  in  combination  with  dexamethasone  on  acute  and  delayed  emesis  has  been 
demonstrated in exploratory studies. Overall from an efficacy perspective, the absence of confirmatory 
studies is found fully appropriate given the submitted data on pharmacokinetics, available data on the 
pharmacodynamics of aprepitant and the efficacy results of Phase III programme of oral aprepitant. 
Safety 
The safety profile as documented and reported raises no concerns. Mild injection site reactions have 
been  documented  as  a  common  event.  There  is  no  report  submitted  with  respect  to  extravasation. 
There  is  a  potential  for  hypersensitivity  reactions  related  to  PS80,  but  no  such  reactions  have  been 
reported yet for the formulation proposed for marketing. 
No clustering of adverse events in relation to expected peak concentrations was observed. 
An adequately designed thorough QTc study with moxifloxacin as positive control was conducted. A 
single dose of aprepitant of 200 mg is not associated with a clinically meaningful prolongation of QT. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk/management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
User consultation 
The Patient Information Leaflet (PIL) for IVEMEND (fosaprepitant) has not been tested in accordance 
with Articles 59(3) and 61(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended by Directive 2004/27/EC since the 
PIL  IVEMEND  is  similar  to  the  aprepitant  PIL  except  for  the  dosage  section.  This  was  considered 
acceptable justification. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were some outstanding quality issues with no impact on the 
benefit/risk.  The  applicant  undertook  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  Follow-Up  Measures 
within  an  agreed  timeframe  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this 
additional information. 
local 
The 
CPMP/SWP/2145/00 in a non clinical study as Follow-Up Measure. 
injection  sites  will  be 
tolerance  at 
investigated  according 
to 
the  Guideline 
Fosaprepitant I.V. infused over 15 minutes is rapidly converted into aprepitant. Bioequivalence with 
respect  to  aprepitant  AUC  between  115  mg  fosaprepitant  and  125  mg  aprepitant  has  been 
demonstrated.  Due  to  this  equivalent  exposure,  efficacy  of  the  regimen  containing  intravenous 
fosaprepitant on Day 1 is expected to be comparable to that provided when aprepitant is administered 
38/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
orally on Day 1. Although higher aprepitant peak levels are observed following fosaprepitant infusion 
as  compared  to  the  currently  registered  oral  aprepitant  formulation,  additional  efficacy  is  unlikely, 
since  brainstem  NK1  receptors  are  already  fully  occupied  with  the  125  mg  oral  regimen.  Additional 
higher  oral  doses  administered  in  the  Phase  II  programme,  which  generated  peak  aprepitant  plasma 
levels  similar  to  or  exceeding  those  following  fosaprepitant  administration,  were  associated  with 
similar  efficacy  as  125  mg  orally.  The  efficacy  profile  of  the  early  formulations  of  fosaprepitant  is 
consistent with the findings from the oral aprepitant studies. 
There are sufficient safety data to support the conclusion that there is acceptable tolerability with the 
higher  aprepitant  peak  plasma  levels  that  will  occur  with  fosaprepitant  relative  to  oral  aprepitant 
administration, including similar or higher peak concentration in the Phase II CINV (multiple-day but 
less  than  1  week,  exposure)  and  Phase  III  depression  (multiple-week  exposure)  programmes.  These 
exposures to aprepitant were well tolerated with no important differences from the tolerability profile 
already described in the aprepitant current SPC. Furthermore, fosaprepitant (various formulations) was 
well  tolerated  following  intravenous  administration  in  ~700 individuals,  78 of  whom  received 
≥ 115 mg with the proposed market formulation; there were no major local tolerability concerns with 
the marketed formulations. 
From a clinical perspective, benefit-risk is considered favourable. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that: 
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus/majority decision that the risk-benefit balance of IVEMEND in the prevention of acute and 
delayed nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cisplatin-based cancer chemotherapy 
and  of  nausea  and  vomiting  associated  with  moderately  emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
39/39 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
