EMA/287844/2018 
EMEA/H/C/000743 
Ivemend (fosaprepitant) 
An overview of Ivemend and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ivemend and what is it used for? 
Ivemend is a medicine for preventing nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting caused by chemotherapy 
cancer medicines.  
It is used in adults and children from 6 months of age who are undergoing chemotherapy known to 
cause moderate or severe nausea and vomiting. 
It contains the active substance fosaprepitant. 
How is Ivemend used? 
In adults, Ivemend is given as a slow infusion into a vein on the first day of chemotherapy. In children 
it may be given on the first day or on multiple days through a tube inserted into a large vein near the 
heart. 
Ivemend must always be given together with other medicines that prevent nausea and vomiting, 
including a corticosteroid (such as dexamethasone) and a ‘5HT3 antagonist’ (such as ondansetron).  
For more information about using Ivemend, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ivemend work? 
The active substance in Ivemend, fosaprepitant, is a ‘prodrug’ of aprepitant. This means that it is 
converted to aprepitant in the body. Aprepitant is a neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist. It stops a 
chemical in the body called ‘substance P’ from attaching to the NK1 receptors. When substance P 
attaches to these receptors, it causes nausea and vomiting. By blocking these receptors, Ivemend can 
prevent nausea and vomiting, which often happens during and after chemotherapy. Aprepitant has 
been authorised in the European Union (EU) as Emend since 2003. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Ivemend have been shown in studies? 
A main study in 2,000 patients with cancer showed that Ivemend was as effective as a Emend another 
medicine approved for preventing nausea and vomiting. Around 72% of patients treated with either 
medicine did not have any nausea or vomiting over the five days after receiving chemotherapy. 
What are the risks associated with Ivemend? 
The most common side effects with Ivemend (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are increased 
liver enzymes, headache, hiccups, constipation, dyspepsia (heartburn), loss of appetite and fatigue 
(weakness or tiredness). For the full list of side effects reported with Ivemend, see the package leaflet. 
Ivemend must not be used at the same time as pimozide (used to treat mental illness), terfenadine 
and astemizole (used to treat allergy symptoms) and cisapride (used to relieve certain stomach 
problems). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Ivemend authorised in the EU? 
A main study showed that Ivemend was as effective as Emend at preventing nausea and vomiting in 
patients undergoing chemotherapy and its side effects are considered to be manageable. The European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that Ivemend’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ivemend? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ivemend have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ivemend are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Ivemend are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ivemend 
Ivemend received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 11 January 2008. 
Further information on Ivemend can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2018. 
Ivemend (fosaprepitant)  
EMA/287844/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
