ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
IVEMEND 150 mg powder for solution for infusion.
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains fosaprepitant dimeglumine equivalent to 150 mg fosaprepitant, which corresponds
to 130.5 mg of aprepitant. After reconstitution and dilution 1 ml of solution contains 1 mg
fosaprepitant (1 mg/ml) (see section 6.6).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for solution for infusion.
White to off-white amorphous powder.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly and moderately emetogenic cancer
chemotherapy in adults and paediatric patients aged 6 months and older.
IVEMEND 150 mg is given as part of a combination therapy (see section 4.2).
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Posology
Adults
The recommended dose is 150 mg administered as an infusion over 20-30 minutes on Day 1, initiated
approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy (see section 6.6). IVEMEND should be administered
in conjunction with a corticosteroid and a 5-HT3 antagonist as specified in the tables below. 
2
The following regimens are recommended for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with
emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Table 1: Recommended dosing for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated
with highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimen in adults
IVEMEND 
Day 1 
150 mg 
intravenously
Day 2 
none 
Day 3
none
Day 4
none
Dexamethasone 
12 mg orally
8 mg orally 
8 mg orally twice
daily
8 mg orally twice
daily
none 
none
none
5-HT3
antagonists
Standard dose of
5-HT3 antagonists.
See the product
information for the
selected 5-HT3
antagonist for
appropriate dosing
information
Dexamethasone should be administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1 and in
the morning on Days 2 to 4. Dexamethasone should also be administered in the evenings on
Days 3 and 4. The dose of dexamethasone accounts for active substance interactions.
Table 2: Recommended dosing for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated
with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy regimen in adults
IVEMEND 
150 mg intravenously
Dexamethasone 
12 mg orally
Day 1
5-HT3 antagonists 
Standard dose of 5-HT3
antagonists. See the
product information for the
selected 5-HT3 antagonist
for appropriate dosing
information
Dexamethasone should be administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1. The
dose of dexamethasone accounts for active substance interactions.
Paediatric population
Paediatric patients aged 6 months and older, and not less than 6 kg
The recommended dose regimen of IVEMEND, to be administered with a 5-HT3 antagonist, with or
without a corticosteroid, for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with administration of
single or multi-day chemotherapy regimens of Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy (HEC) or
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy (MEC), is shown in Table 3. Single day chemotherapy
regimens include those regimens in which HEC or MEC is administered for a single day only.
Multi-day chemotherapy regimens include chemotherapy regimens in which HEC or MEC is
administered for 2 or more days.
An alternative dose regimen that may be used with single day chemotherapy regimens is shown in
Table 4.
3
 
 
Dosing for Single or Multi-Day Chemotherapy Regimens
For paediatric patients receiving single or multi-day regimens of HEC or MEC, administer IVEMEND
as an intravenous infusion through a central venous catheter on Days 1, 2, and 3. EMEND capsules or
EMEND for oral suspension may be used on Days 2 and 3 instead of IVEMEND, as shown in Table 3.
See the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for EMEND capsules or EMEND for oral
suspension for appropriate dosing instructions.
Table 3: Recommended dosing for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated
with single or multi-day regimens of HEC or MEC in paediatric patients
Population 
Day 1 
Day 2 
Day 3
IVEMEND* 
Paediatric 
patients 12 years 
and older 
115 mg 
intravenously 
Paediatric 
patients 6 months 
to less than 
12 years and not 
less than 6 kg 
3 mg/kg 
intravenously 
Maximum dose 
115 mg 
80 mg 
intravenously 
OR 
80 mg orally 
(EMEND 
capsules) 
2 mg/kg 
intravenously 
OR 
2 mg/kg orally 
(EMEND oral 
suspension) 
80 mg
intravenously
OR
80 mg orally
(EMEND
capsules)
2 mg/kg
intravenously
OR
2 mg/kg orally
(EMEND oral
suspension)
Maximum 
dose 80 mg 
Maximum dose
80 mg
Dexamethasone** 
All paediatric
patients
If a corticosteroid, such as dexamethasone, is
co-administered, administer 50% of the
recommended corticosteroid dose on days 1 through 4
5-HT3 antagonist  
All paediatric
patients
See selected 5-HT3 antagonist prescribing
information for the recommended dosage
* For paediatric patients 12 years and older, administer IVEMEND intravenously over 30 minutes,
completing the infusion approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy. For paediatric patients less
than 12 years, administer IVEMEND intravenously over 60 minutes, completing the infusion
approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy.
** Dexamethasone should be administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1.
Alternative Dosing for Single Day Chemotherapy Regimens
For paediatric patients receiving single day HEC or MEC, IVEMEND may be administered as an
intravenous infusion through a central venous catheter on Day 1.
4
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Alternative dosing for the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with
single day regimens of HEC or MEC in paediatric patients
IVEMEND* 
Population 
Paediatric patients 12 years and 
older 
Paediatric patients 2 to less than 
12 years  
Day 1
150 mg
intravenously
4 mg/kg
intravenously
Paediatric patients 6 months to
less than 2 years and not less than
6 kg
Dexamethasone**
All paediatric patients
Maximum dose 150 mg
5 mg/kg
intravenously
Maximum dose 150 mg
If a corticosteroid, such as
dexamethasone, is co-administered,
administer 50% of the
recommended corticosteroid dose
on days 1 and 2.
5-HT3 antagonist  
All paediatric patients
See selected 5-HT3 antagonist
prescribing information for the
recommended dosage
* For paediatric patients 12 years and older, administer IVEMEND intravenously over 30 minutes,
completing the infusion approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy. For paediatric patients less
than 12 years, administer IVEMEND intravenously over 60 minutes, completing the infusion
approximately 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy.
** Dexamethasone should be administered 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy treatment on Day 1.
The safety and efficacy of IVEMEND in infants below 6 months of age have not been established. No
data are available.
General
Efficacy data in combination with other corticosteroids and 5-HT3 antagonists are limited. For
additional information on the co-administration with corticosteroids, see section 4.5.
Refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of co-administered 5-HT3 antagonist medicinal
products.
Special populations
Elderly (≥65 years)
No dose adjustment is necessary for the elderly (see section 5.2).
Gender
No dose adjustment is necessary based on gender (see section 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment or for patients with end stage renal
disease undergoing haemodialysis (see section 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment. There are limited data in
patients with moderate hepatic impairment and no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
IVEMEND should be used with caution in these patients (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Method of administration
IVEMEND 150 mg should be administered intravenously and should not be given by the
intramuscular or subcutaneous route. Intravenous administration in adults occurs preferably through a
5
 
running intravenous infusion over 20-30 minutes. Intravenous administration in paediatric patients
aged 6 months and older is recommended through a central venous catheter and should be
administered over 30 minutes in patients aged 12 years and older or over 60 minutes in patients less
than 12 years of age (see section 6.6). Do not administer IVEMEND as a bolus injection or undiluted
solution. 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see
section 6.6.
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to polysorbate 80 or any of the other excipients listed in
section 6.1.
Co-administration with pimozide, terfenadine, astemizole or cisapride (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment
There are limited data in patients with moderate hepatic impairment and no data in patients with
severe hepatic impairment. IVEMEND should be used with caution in these patients (see section 5.2).
CYP3A4 interactions
IVEMEND should be used with caution in patients receiving concomitant active substances that are
metabolised primarily through CYP3A4 and with a narrow therapeutic range, such as ciclosporin,
tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, alfentanil, ergot alkaloid derivatives, fentanyl, and quinidine (see
section 4.5). Additionally, concomitant administration with irinotecan should be approached with
particular caution as the combination might result in increased toxicity. 
Co-administration with warfarin (a CYP2C9 substrate)
In patients on chronic warfarin therapy, the International Normalised Ratio (INR) should be monitored
closely for 14 days following the use of fosaprepitant (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with hormonal contraceptives
The efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced during and for 28 days after administration
of fosaprepitant. Alternative non-hormonal back-up methods of contraception should be used during
treatment with fosaprepitant and for 2 months following the use of fosaprepitant (see section 4.5).
Hypersensitivity reactions
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions including flushing, erythema, dyspnoea, and
anaphylaxis/anaphylactic shock have occurred during or soon after infusion of fosaprepitant. These
hypersensitivity reactions have generally responded to discontinuation of the infusion and
administration of appropriate therapy. It is not recommended to reinitiate the infusion in patients who
experience hypersensitivity reactions.
Administration and infusion site reactions
Infusion site reactions (ISRs) have been reported with the use of IVEMEND (see section 4.8). The
majority of severe ISRs, including thrombophlebitis and vasculitis, were reported with concomitant
vesicant (e.g., anthracycline-based) chemotherapy administration, particularly when associated with
extravasation. Necrosis was also reported in some patients with concomitant vesicant chemotherapy.
Mild injection site thrombosis has been observed at higher doses without concomitant vesicant
chemotherapy.
IVEMEND should not be given as a bolus injection, but should always be diluted and given as a slow
intravenous infusion (see section 4.2). IVEMEND should not be administered intramuscularly or
subcutaneously (see section 5.3). If signs or symptoms of local irritation occur, the injection or
infusion should be terminated and restarted in another vein.
6
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
When administered intravenously fosaprepitant is rapidly converted to aprepitant.
Fosaprepitant 150 mg, given as a single dose, is a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. Fosaprepitant does not
seem to interact with the P-glycoprotein transporter, as demonstrated by the lack of interaction of oral
aprepitant with digoxin. It is anticipated that fosaprepitant would cause less or no greater induction of
CYP2C9, CYP3A4 and glucuronidation than that caused by the administration of oral aprepitant. Data
are lacking regarding effects on CYP2C8 and CYP2C19. 
Interactions with other medicinal products following administration of intravenous fosaprepitant are
likely to occur with active substances that interact with oral aprepitant. The potential for interactions
with multi-day fosaprepitant regimens are anticipated to be no greater than those for oral aprepitant
regimens. Therefore, the recommendations for use of IVEMEND with other medicinal products in
paediatric patients are based upon adult data from fosaprepitant and aprepitant studies. When using
combined IVEMEND and EMEND regimens, please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics
(SmPC) section 4.5 for EMEND capsules or EMEND for oral suspension.
The following information was derived from studies conducted with oral aprepitant and studies
conducted with intravenous single dose fosaprepitant co-administered with dexamethasone,
midazolam, or diltiazem.
Effect of fosaprepitant on the pharmacokinetics of other active substances
CYP3A4 inhibition
As a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4, the fosaprepitant 150 mg single dose can cause a transient increase in
plasma concentrations of co-administered active substances that are metabolised through CYP3A4.
The total exposure of CYP3A4 substrates may increase up to 2-fold on Days 1 and 2 after co-
administration with a single 150 mg fosaprepitant dose. Fosaprepitant must not be used concurrently
with pimozide, terfenadine, astemizole, or cisapride. Inhibition of CYP3A4 by fosaprepitant could
result in elevated plasma concentrations of these active substances, potentially causing serious or life-
threatening reactions (see section 4.3). Caution is advised during concomitant administration of
fosaprepitant and active substances that are metabolised primarily through CYP3A4 and with a narrow
therapeutic range, such as ciclosporin, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus, alfentanil, diergotamine,
ergotamine, fentanyl, and quinidine (see section 4.4).
Corticosteroids
Dexamethasone: The oral dexamethasone dose should be reduced by approximately 50 % when
co-administered with fosaprepitant (see section 4.2). Fosaprepitant 150 mg administered as a single
intravenous dose on Day 1 increased the AUC0-24hr of dexamethasone, a CYP3A4 substrate, by 100 %
on Day 1, 86 % on Day 2 and 18 % on Day 3 when dexamethasone was co-administered as a single
8 mg oral dose on Days 1, 2, and 3.
Chemotherapeutic medicinal products
Interaction studies with fosaprepitant 150 mg and chemotherapeutic medicinal products have not been
conducted; however, based on studies with oral aprepitant and docetaxel and vinorelbine, IVEMEND
150 mg is not expected to have a clinically relevant interaction with intravenously administered
docetaxel and vinorelbine. An interaction with orally administered chemotherapeutic medicinal
products metabolised primarily or partly by CYP3A4 (e.g., etoposide, vinorelbine) cannot be
excluded. Caution is advised and additional monitoring may be appropriate in patients receiving
medicinal products metabolised primarily or partly by CYP3A4 (see section 4.4). Postmarketing
events of neurotoxicity, a potential adverse reaction of ifosfamide, have been reported after aprepitant
and ifosfamide co-administration.
7
Immunosuppressants
Following a single 150 mg fosaprepitant dose, a transient moderate increase for two days possibly
followed by a mild decrease in exposure of immunosuppressants metabolised by CYP3A4 (e.g.,
ciclosporin, tacrolimus, everolimus and sirolimus) is expected. Given the short duration of increased
exposure, dose reduction of the immunosuppressant based on Therapeutic Dose Monitoring is not
recommended on the day of and the day after administration of IVEMEND.
Midazolam
Fosaprepitant 150 mg administered as a single intravenous dose on Day 1 increased the AUC0-∞ of
midazolam by 77 % on Day 1 and had no effect on Day 4 when midazolam was co-administered as a
single oral dose of 2 mg on Days 1 and 4. Fosaprepitant 150 mg is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor as a
single dose on Day 1 with no evidence of inhibition or induction of CYP3A4 observed on Day 4.
The potential effects of increased plasma concentrations of midazolam or other benzodiazepines
metabolised via CYP3A4 (alprazolam, triazolam) should be considered when co-administering these
medicinal products with IVEMEND.
Diltiazem
Interaction studies with fosaprepitant 150 mg and diltiazem have not been conducted; however, the
following study with 100 mg of fosaprepitant should be considered when using IVEMEND 150 mg
with diltiazem. In patients with mild to moderate hypertension, infusion of 100 mg of fosaprepitant
over 15 minutes with diltiazem 120 mg 3 times daily, resulted in a 1.4-fold increase in diltiazem AUC
and a small but clinically meaningful decrease in blood pressure, but did not result in a clinically
meaningful change in heart rate, or PR interval.
Induction
The fosaprepitant 150 mg single dose did not induce CYP3A4 on Days 1 and 4 in the midazolam
interaction study. It is anticipated that IVEMEND would cause less or no greater induction of
CYP2C9, CYP3A4, and glucuronidation than that caused by the administration of the 3-day oral
aprepitant regimen, for which a transient induction with its maximum effect 6-8 days after first
aprepitant dose has been observed. The 3-day oral aprepitant regimen resulted in an about 30-35 %
reduction in AUC of CYP2C9 substrates and up to a 64 % decrease in ethinyl estradiol trough
concentrations. Data are lacking regarding effects on CYP2C8 and CYP2C19. Caution is advised
when warfarin, acenocoumarol, tolbutamide, phenytoin or other active substances that are known to be
metabolised by CYP2C9 are administered with IVEMEND.
Warfarin
In patients on chronic warfarin therapy, the prothrombin time (INR) should be monitored closely
during treatment with and for 14 days following the use of IVEMEND for the prevention of
chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (see section 4.4). 
Hormonal contraceptives
The efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced during and for 28 days after administration
of fosaprepitant. Alternative non-hormonal back-up methods of contraception should be used during
treatment with fosaprepitant and for 2 months following the use of fosaprepitant. 
5-HT3 antagonists
Interaction studies with fosaprepitant 150 mg and 5-HT3 antagonists have not been conducted;
however, in clinical interaction studies, the oral aprepitant regimen did not have clinically important
effects on the pharmacokinetics of ondansetron, granisetron, or hydrodolasetron (the active metabolite
of dolasetron). Therefore, there is no evidence of interaction with the use of IVEMEND 150 mg and 5-
HT3 antagonists.
8
Effect of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant resulting from administration
of fosaprepitant 150 mg
Concomitant administration of fosaprepitant with active substances that inhibit CYP3A4 activity
(e.g., ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, clarithromycin, telithromycin,
nefazodone, and protease inhibitors) should be approached cautiously, as the combination is expected
to result in several-fold increased plasma concentrations of aprepitant (see section 4.4). Ketoconazole
increased the terminal half-life of oral aprepitant about 3-fold.
Concomitant administration of fosaprepitant with active substances that strongly induce CYP3A4
activity (e.g., rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital) should be avoided as the
combination could result in reductions of the plasma concentrations of aprepitant that may result in
decreased efficacy. Concomitant administration of fosaprepitant with herbal preparations containing
St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) is not recommended. Rifampicin decreased the mean
terminal half-life of oral aprepitant by 68 %.
Diltiazem
Interaction studies with fosaprepitant 150 mg and diltiazem have not been conducted; however, the
following study with 100 mg of fosaprepitant should be considered when using IVEMEND 150 mg
with diltiazem. Infusion of 100 mg fosaprepitant over 15 minutes with diltiazem 120 mg 3 times daily,
resulted in a 1.5-fold increase of aprepitant AUC. This effect was not considered clinically important.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Contraception in males and females
The efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced during and for 28 days after administration
of fosaprepitant. Alternative non-hormonal back-up methods of contraception should be used during
treatment with fosaprepitant and for 2 months following the last dose of fosaprepitant (see sections 4.4
and 4.5).
Pregnancy
For fosaprepitant and aprepitant no clinical data on exposed pregnancies are available. The potential
for reproductive toxicities of fosaprepitant and aprepitant have not been fully characterised, since
exposure levels above the therapeutic exposure in humans could not be attained in animal studies.
These studies did not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy,
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3). The potential
effects on reproduction of alterations in neurokinin regulation are unknown. IVEMEND should not be
used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary.
Breast-feeding
Aprepitant is excreted in the milk of lactating rats after intravenous administration of fosaprepitant as
well as after oral administration of aprepitant. It is not known whether aprepitant is excreted in human
milk. Therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended during treatment with IVEMEND. 
Fertility
The potential for effects of fosaprepitant and aprepitant on fertility has not been fully characterised
because exposure levels above the therapeutic exposure in humans could not be attained in animal
studies. These fertility studies did not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to mating
performance, fertility, embryonic/foetal development, or sperm count and motility (see section 5.3).
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
IVEMEND may have minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness and fatigue
may occur following administration of IVEMEND (see section 4.8).
9
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
In clinical studies, various formulations of fosaprepitant have been administered to a total of
2,687 adults including 371 healthy subjects and 2,084 patients, and 299 children and adolescents with
chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). Since fosaprepitant is converted to aprepitant,
those adverse reactions associated with aprepitant are expected to occur with fosaprepitant. The safety
profile of aprepitant was evaluated in approximately 6,500 adults and 184 children and adolescents. 
Oral aprepitant
The most common adverse reactions reported at a greater incidence in adults treated with the
aprepitant regimen than with standard therapy in patients receiving HEC were: hiccups (4.6 % versus
2.9 %), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased (2.8 % versus 1.1 %), dyspepsia (2.6 % versus
2.0 %), constipation (2.4 % versus 2.0 %), headache (2.0 % versus 1.8 %), and decreased appetite
(2.0 % versus 0.5 %). The most common adverse reaction reported at a greater incidence in patients
treated with the aprepitant regimen than with standard therapy in patients receiving MEC was fatigue
(1.4 % versus 0.9 %).
The most common adverse reactions reported at a greater incidence in paediatric patients treated with
the aprepitant regimen than with the control regimen while receiving emetogenic cancer chemotherapy
were hiccups (3.3 % versus 0.0 %) and flushing (1.1 % versus 0.0 %).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions - aprepitant
The following adverse reactions were observed in a pooled analysis of the HEC and MEC studies at a
greater incidence with oral aprepitant than with standard therapy in adults or paediatric patients or in
post-marketing use.
The frequency categories given in the table are based on the studies in adults; the observed frequencies
in the paediatric studies were similar or lower, unless shown in the table. Some less common ADRs in
the adult population were not observed in the paediatric studies.
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000
to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) and very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated
from the available data).
Table 5: Tabulated list of adverse reactions – aprepitant
System organ class
Adverse reaction
Infection and infestations
candidiasis, staphylococcal infection
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders
febrile neutropenia, anaemia
Immune system disorders
hypersensitivity reactions including
anaphylactic reactions
Metabolism and nutrition
disorders
Psychiatric disorders
decreased appetite
polydipsia
anxiety
Nervous system disorders
headache
disorientation, euphoric mood
dizziness, somnolence
cognitive disorder, lethargy, dysgeusia
Eye disorders
conjunctivitis
Ear and labyrinth disorders
tinnitus
Frequency
rare
uncommon
not known
common
rare
uncommon
rare
common
uncommon
rare
rare
rare
10
System organ class
Adverse reaction
Cardiac disorders
palpitations
bradycardia, cardiovascular disorder
Vascular disorders
hot flush/flushing
Respiratory, thoracic and
mediastinal disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
Musculoskeletal and connective
tissue disorders
hiccups
oropharyngeal pain, sneezing, cough,
postnasal drip, throat irritation
constipation, dyspepsia
eructation, nausea*, vomiting*,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, abdominal
pain, dry mouth, flatulence
duodenal ulcer perforation, stomatitis,
abdominal distension, faeces hard, neutropenic
colitis
rash, acne
photosensitivity reaction, hyperhidrosis,
seborrhoea, skin lesion, rash pruritic,
Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal
necrolysis
pruritus, urticaria
muscular weakness, muscle spasms
Renal and urinary disorders
dysuria
General disorders and
administration site conditions
pollakisuria
fatigue
asthenia, malaise
Investigations
ALT increased
oedema, chest discomfort, gait disturbance
AST increased, blood alkaline phosphatase
increased
red blood cells urine positive, blood sodium
decreased, weight decreased, neutrophil count
decreased, glucose urine present, urine output
increased
Frequency
uncommon
rare
uncommon
common
rare
common
uncommon
rare
uncommon
rare
not known
rare
uncommon
rare
common
uncommon
rare
common
uncommon
rare
*Nausea and vomiting were efficacy parameters in the first 5-days of post-chemotherapy treatment and were
reported as adverse reactions only thereafter.
Description of selected adverse reactions
The adverse reactions profiles in the Multiple-Cycle extension of HEC and MEC studies in adults for
up to 6 additional cycles of chemotherapy were generally similar to those observed in Cycle 1.
In an additional active-controlled clinical study in 1,169 adult patients receiving aprepitant and HEC,
the adverse reactions profile was generally similar to that seen in the other HEC studies with
aprepitant.
Non-CINV studies
Additional adverse reactions were observed in adult patients treated with aprepitant for post-operative
nausea and vomiting (PONV) and a greater incidence than with ondansetron: abdominal pain upper,
bowel sounds abnormal, constipation*, dysarthria, dyspnoea, hypoaesthesia, insomnia, miosis, nausea,
sensory disturbance, stomach discomfort, sub-ileus*, visual acuity reduced, wheezing.
*Reported in patients taking a higher dose of aprepitant.
Fosaprepitant
In an active-controlled clinical study in adult patients receiving HEC, safety was evaluated for
1,143 patients receiving the 1-day regimen of IVEMEND 150 mg compared to 1,169 patients
receiving the 3-day regimen of aprepitant. Additionally, in a placebo-controlled clinical trial in adult
11
patients receiving MEC, safety was evaluated for 504 patients receiving a single dose of IVEMEND
150 mg compared to 497 patients receiving the control regimen.
The safety of the 1-day IV regimen was supported by a pooled analysis of 3 active-controlled clinical
studies in 139 paediatric patients (aged 6 months to 17 years) receiving either HEC or MEC and a
single dose of IVEMEND at or above the recommended 1-day regimen dose.
The safety of the 3-day IV regimen is supported by a single arm clinical study in 100 paediatric
patients (aged 6 months to 17 years) receiving either HEC or MEC and a 3-day regimen of IVEMEND
at the recommended dose (see section 4.2). The safety profile of the 3-day IV fosaprepitant regimen in
paediatric patients is similar to that of the 1-day fosaprepitant regimen.
The safety profile of fosaprepitant in adult and paediatric patients was generally similar to that
observed with aprepitant.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions – fosaprepitant
The following are adverse reactions reported in adult patients receiving fosaprepitant in clinical
studies or post-marketing that have not been reported with aprepitant as described above. The
frequency categories in the table are based on studies in adults; the observed frequencies in the
paediatric studies were similar or lower. Some adverse reactions that are commonly observed in the
adult population were not observed in the paediatric studies. Infusion site reactions (ISRs) have been
reported with the use of IVEMEND (see section 4.4).
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000
to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) and very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated
from the available data).
Table 6: Tabulated list of adverse reactions – fosaprepitant
System organ class
Adverse reaction
Vascular disorders
flushing, thrombophlebitis (predominantly,
infusion site thrombophlebitis)
Skin and subcutaneous tissue
disorders
erythema
General disorders and
administration site conditions
infusion site erythema, infusion site pain,
infusion site pruritus
infusion site induration
immediate hypersensitivity reactions
including flushing, erythema, dyspnoea,
anaphylactic reactions/anaphylactic shock
Frequency
uncommon
uncommon
uncommon
rare
not known
Investigations
blood pressure increased
uncommon
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
In the event of overdose, fosaprepitant should be discontinued and general supportive treatment and
monitoring should be provided. Because of the antiemetic activity of aprepitant, emesis induced by a
medicinal product may not be effective.
Aprepitant cannot be removed by haemodialysis.
12
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antiemetics and antinauseants, ATC code: A04AD12.
Fosaprepitant is the prodrug of aprepitant and when administered intravenously is converted rapidly to
aprepitant (see section 5.2). The contribution of fosaprepitant to the overall antiemetic effect has not
fully been characterised, but a transient contribution during the initial phase cannot be ruled out.
Aprepitant is a selective high-affinity antagonist at human substance P neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors.
The pharmacological effect of fosaprepitant is attributed to aprepitant.
1-Day Regimen of Fosaprepitant in Adults
Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy (HEC)
In a randomised, parallel, double-blind, active-controlled study, IVEMEND 150 mg (N=1,147) was
compared with a 3-day aprepitant regimen (N=1,175) in adult patients receiving a HEC regimen that
included cisplatin (≥ 70 mg/m2). The fosaprepitant regimen consisted of fosaprepitant 150 mg on
Day 1 in combination with ondansetron 32 mg IV on Day 1 and dexamethasone 12 mg on Day 1, 8 mg
on Day 2, and 8 mg twice daily on Days 3 and 4. The aprepitant regimen consisted of aprepitant
125 mg on Day 1 and 80 mg/day on Days 2 and 3 in combination with ondansetron 32 mg IV on
Day 1 and dexamethasone 12 mg on Day 1 and 8 mg daily on Days 2 through 4. Fosaprepitant
placebo, aprepitant placebo, and dexamethasone placebo (in the evenings on Days 3 and 4) were used
to maintain blinding (see section 4.2). Although a 32 mg intravenous dose of ondansetron was used in
clinical trials, this is no longer the recommended dose. See the product information for the selected
5-HT3 antagonist for appropriate dosing information.
Efficacy was based on evaluation of the following composite measures: complete response in both the
overall and delayed phases and no vomiting in the overall phase. IVEMEND 150 mg was shown to be
non-inferior to that of the 3-day regimen of aprepitant. A summary of the primary and secondary
endpoints is shown in Table 7.
Table 7: Percent of adult patients receiving Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy
responding by treatment group and phase —  Cycle 1
ENDPOINTS*
Complete response‡
Overall§ 
Delayed phase§§
No vomiting
Overall§
Fosaprepitant
regimen
(N =1,106)**
%
Aprepitant
regimen
(N =1,134)**
%
Difference† 
(95 % CI) 
71.9
74.3
72.9
72.3
74.2
-0.4 (-4.1, 3.3)
0.1 (-3.5, 3.7)
74.6
-1.7 (-5.3, 2.0)
*Primary endpoint is bolded.
**N: Number of adult patients included in the primary analysis of complete response.
†Difference and confidence interval (CI) were calculated using the method proposed by
Miettinen and Nurminen and adjusted for gender.
‡Complete response = no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy.
§Overall = 0 to 120 hours post-initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy.
§§Delayed phase = 25 to 120 hours post-initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy.
13
Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy (MEC)
In a randomised, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, IVEMEND 150 mg (N=502) in
combination with ondansetron and dexamethasone was compared with ondansetron and
dexamethasone alone (control regimen) (N=498) in adult patients receiving a moderately emetogenic
chemotherapy regimen. The fosaprepitant regimen consisted of fosaprepitant 150 mg on Day 1 in
combination with oral ondansetron 8 mg for 2 doses and oral dexamethasone 12 mg. On Days 2 and 3,
patients in the fosaprepitant group received placebo for ondansetron every 12 hours. The control
regimen consisted of fosaprepitant placebo 150 mg IV on Day 1 in combination with oral ondansetron
8 mg for 2 doses and oral dexamethasone 20 mg. On Days 2 and 3, patients in the control group
received 8 mg oral ondansetron every 12 hours. Fosaprepitant placebo and dexamethasone placebo (on
Day 1) were used to maintain blinding.
The efficacy of fosaprepitant was evaluated based on the primary and secondary endpoints listed in
Table 8 and was shown to be superior to the control regimen with regard to complete response in the
delayed and overall phases.
Table 8: Percent of adult patients receiving Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy
responding by treatment group and phase
ENDPOINTS*
Complete response†
Delayed phase‡
Complete response†
Overall§
Acute phase§§
Fosaprepitant
regimen
(N =502)**
%
Control 
regimen
(N =498)**
%
78.9
77.1
93.2
68.5
66.9
91
P-Value
< 0.001
< 0.001
0.184
*Primary endpoint is bolded.
**N: Number of adult patients included in the intention to treat population.
†Complete response = no vomiting and no use of rescue therapy.
‡Delayed phase = 25 to 120 hours post-initiation of chemotherapy.
§Overall = 0 to 120 hours post-initiation of chemotherapy.
§§Acute= 0 to 24 hours post-initiation of chemotherapy. 
The estimated time to first emesis is depicted by the Kaplan-Meier plot in Figure 1.
14
Figure 1: Percent of adult patients receiving Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy 
who remain emesis free over time
100
80
60
40
20
0
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
Fosaprepitant Regim en(N=502)
Control Regim en(N=498)
0 
12 
24 
36 
48 
60 
72 
84 
96 
108 
120
Tim e(hours) Since the First MEC Adm inistration
Paediatric population
In 3 active-controlled, open-label clinical studies, paediatric patients aged 6 months to 17 years
received either highly or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy and a single dose of fosaprepitant at or
above the recommended 1-day regimen dose (139 patients) or 3-day regimen (199 patients), in
combination with ondansetron with or without dexamethasone.
Paediatric Patients Receiving 1-Day Fosaprepitant Regimen
The efficacy of the 1-day fosaprepitant regimen in paediatric patients was extrapolated from that
demonstrated in adults receiving the 1-day fosaprepitant regimen as described in the 1-Day Regimen
of Fosaprepitant in Adults subsection.
The efficacy of a 1-day fosaprepitant regimen in paediatric patients is expected to be similar to that of
the 1-day adult fosaprepitant regimen.
Paediatric Patients Receiving 3-Day Fosaprepitant Regimen
The efficacy of the 3-day fosaprepitant regimen in paediatric patients was based on that demonstrated
in paediatric patients receiving the 3-day oral aprepitant regimen. 
The efficacy of a 3-day fosaprepitant regimen in paediatric patients is expected to be similar to that of
the 3-day oral aprepitant regimen. See the summary of product characteristics for EMEND capsules
and EMEND powder for oral suspension for complete clinical information regarding studies
performed with oral aprepitant.
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Fosaprepitant, a prodrug of aprepitant, when administered intravenously is rapidly converted to
aprepitant. Plasma concentrations of fosaprepitant are below quantifiable levels within 30 minutes of
the completion of infusion.
15
 
 
Aprepitant after fosaprepitant administration
Following a single intravenous 150 mg dose of fosaprepitant administered as a 20-minute infusion to
healthy adult volunteers, the mean AUC0-∞ of aprepitant was 35.0 µg•hr/ml and the mean maximal
aprepitant concentration was 4.01 µg/ml.
Distribution
Aprepitant is highly protein bound, with a mean of 97 %. The geometric mean volume of distribution
at steady state (Vdss) of aprepitant estimated from a single 150 mg intravenous dose of fosaprepitant is
approximately 82 l in humans.
Biotransformation
Fosaprepitant was rapidly converted to aprepitant in in vitro incubations with liver preparations from
humans. Furthermore, fosaprepitant underwent rapid and nearly complete conversion to aprepitant in
S9 preparations from other human tissues including kidney, lung and ileum. Thus, it appears that the
conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant can occur in multiple tissues. In humans, fosaprepitant
administered intravenously was rapidly converted to aprepitant within 30 minutes following the end of
infusion.
Aprepitant undergoes extensive metabolism. In healthy young adults, aprepitant accounts for
approximately 19 % of the radioactivity in plasma over 72 hours following a single intravenous
administration 100 mg dose of [14C]- fosaprepitant, a prodrug for aprepitant, indicating a substantial
presence of metabolites in the plasma. Twelve metabolites of aprepitant have been identified in human
plasma. The metabolism of aprepitant occurs largely via oxidation at the morpholine ring and its side
chains and the resultant metabolites were only weakly active. In vitro studies using human liver
microsomes indicate that aprepitant is metabolised primarily by CYP3A4 and potentially with minor
contribution by CYP1A2 and CYP2C19.
All metabolites observed in urine, faeces and plasma following an intravenous 100 mg [14C]-
fosaprepitant dose were also observed following an oral dose of [14C]-aprepitant. Upon conversion of
245.3 mg of fosaprepitant dimeglumine (equivalent to 150 mg fosaprepitant) to aprepitant, 23.9 mg of
phosphoric acid and 95.3 mg of meglumine are liberated.
Elimination
Aprepitant is not excreted unchanged in urine. Metabolites are excreted in urine and via biliary
excretion in faeces. Following a single intravenously administered 100 mg dose of [14C]- fosaprepitant
to healthy subjects, 57 % of the radioactivity was recovered in urine and 45 % in faeces.
The pharmacokinetics of aprepitant is non-linear across the clinical dose range. The terminal half-life
of aprepitant following a 150 mg intravenous dose of fosaprepitant was approximately 11 hours. The
geometric mean plasma clearance of aprepitant following a 150 mg intravenous dose of fosaprepitant
was approximately 73 ml/min.
Pharmacokinetics in special populations
Hepatic impairment: Fosaprepitant is metabolised in various extrahepatic tissues; therefore hepatic
impairment is not expected to alter the conversion of fosaprepitant to aprepitant. Mild hepatic
impairment (Child-Pugh class A) does not affect the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant to a clinically
relevant extent. No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild hepatic impairment.
Conclusions regarding the influence of moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class B) on
aprepitant pharmacokinetics cannot be drawn from available data. There are no clinical or
pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C).
Renal impairment: A single 240 mg dose of oral aprepitant was administered to patients with severe
renal impairment (CrCl< 30 ml/min) and to patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring
haemodialysis.
In patients with severe renal impairment, the AUC0- of total aprepitant (unbound and protein bound)
decreased by 21 % and Cmax decreased by 32 %, relative to healthy subjects. In patients with ESRD
16
undergoing haemodialysis, the AUC0- of total aprepitant decreased by 42 % and Cmax decreased by
32 %. Due to modest decreases in protein binding of aprepitant in patients with renal disease, the AUC
of pharmacologically active unbound aprepitant was not significantly affected in patients with renal
impairment compared with healthy subjects. Haemodialysis conducted 4 or 48 hours after dosing had
no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant; less than 0.2 % of the dose was recovered
in the dialysate.
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with renal impairment or for patients with ESRD
undergoing haemodialysis.
Paediatric population: As part of a 3-day IV/IV/IV regimen, simulated median AUC0-24hr of aprepitant
with median peak plasma concentration (Cmax) on Day 1 and the median concentrations at the end of
Day 1, Day 2 and Day 3 in paediatric patients (6 months to 17 years old) are shown in Table 9.
Table 9: Pharmacokinetic parameters of aprepitant for 3-day IV fosaprepitant regimen in
paediatric patients
Population 
3-day IV/IV/IV
dose 
AUC 0-24 hr.
(ng*hr/mL)
Cmax
(ng/mL)
C24
(ng/mL)
C48
(ng/mL)
C72
(ng/mL)
12 - 17 years old 
115 mg, 80 mg, 
80 mg
21,172 
2,475 
454 
424 
417
6 - < 12 years old 
25,901 
2,719 
518 
438 
418
2 - < 6 years old
3 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg,
2 mg/kg
20,568 
2,335 
336 
248 
232
6 months – 
< 2 years old
16,979 
1,916 
256 
179 
167
In the 1-day IV fosaprepitant setting, simulated median AUC0-24hr of aprepitant with median peak
plasma concentration (Cmax) on Day 1 and the median concentrations at the end of Day 1, Day 2
and Day 3 in paediatric patients (6 months to < 12 years old) and observed mean AUC0-24hr with
median peak plasma concentration (Cmax) on Day 1 and mean concentrations at the end of Day 1, Day
2 and Day 3 in paediatric patients (12 to 17 years old) are shown in Table 10.
Table 10: Pharmacokinetic parameters of aprepitant for 1-day IV fosaprepitant regimen in
paediatric patients
Population 
1-day IV
dose
AUC 0-24 hr.
(ng*hr/mL)
Cmax
(ng/mL)
C24
(ng/mL)
C48
(ng/mL)
C72
(ng/mL)
12 - 17 years old
150 mg 
30,400
3,500
735
NR
NR
6 - < 12 years old
35,766
3,637
746
227
69.2
4 mg/kg 
2 - < 6 years old
28,655
3,150
494
108
23.5
6 months – 
<2 years old
NR = Not Reported
5 mg/kg 
30,484
3,191
522
112
24.4
17
 
 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of aprepitant in paediatric patients (aged 6 months through
17 years) suggests that gender and race have no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics
of aprepitant.
Relationship between concentration and effect 
Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging studies, using a highly specific NK1 receptor tracer, in
healthy young men administered a single intravenous dose of 150 mg fosaprepitant (N=8)
demonstrated brain NK1 receptor occupancy of ≥ 100 % at Tmax, and 24 hours, ≥ 97 % at 48 hours, and
between 41 % and 75 % at 120 hours, following dosing. Occupancy of brain NK1 receptors, in this
study, correlate well with aprepitant plasma concentrations.
5.3  Pre-clinical safety data
Pre-clinical data obtained with intravenous administration of fosaprepitant and oral administration of
aprepitant reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of single and repeated
dose toxicity, genotoxicity (including in vitro tests), and toxicity to reproduction and development.
Carcinogenic potential in rodents was only investigated with orally administered aprepitant. However,
it should be noted that the value of the toxicity studies carried out with rodents, rabbits and monkeys,
including the reproduction toxicity studies, are limited since systemic exposures to fosaprepitant and
aprepitant were only similar or even lower than therapeutic exposure in adult humans. In the
performed safety pharmacology and repeated dose toxicity studies with dogs, fosaprepitant Cmax and
aprepitant AUC values were up to 3 times and 40 times, respectively, higher than clinical values.
In a toxicity study in juvenile dogs treated with fosaprepitant from postnatal day 14 to day 42, a
decreased testicular weight and Leydig cell size were seen in the males at 6 mg/kg/day and increased
uterine weight, hypertrophy of the uterus and cervix, and oedema of vaginal tissues were seen in
females from 4 mg/kg/day. In a juvenile toxicity study in rats treated with aprepitant from postnatal
day 10 to day 63, earlier vaginal opening in females from 250 mg/kg b.i.d. and delayed preputial
separation in males from 10 mg/kg b.i.d was seen. There were no treatment-related effects on mating,
fertility or embryonic/foetal survival, and no pathological changes in the reproductive organs. There
were no margins to clinically relevant exposure of aprepitant. For short term treatment, these findings
are considered unlikely to be clinically relevant. 
In laboratory animals, fosaprepitant in non-commercial formulations caused vascular toxicity and
haemolysis at concentrations below 1 mg/ml and higher, dependent on the formulation. In human
washed blood cells also evidence of haemolysis was found with non-commercial formulations at
fosaprepitant concentrations of 2.3 mg/ml and higher, although tests in human whole blood were
negative. No haemolysis was found with the commercial formulation up to a fosaprepitant
concentration of 1 mg/ml in human whole blood and washed human erythrocytes.
In rabbits, fosaprepitant caused initial transient local acute inflammation following paravenous,
subcutaneous and intramuscular administration. At the end of the follow-up period (post-dose day 8),
up to slight local subacute inflammation was noted following paravenous and intramuscular
administration and additional up to moderate focal muscle degeneration/necrosis with muscle
regeneration following intramuscular administration.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Disodium edetate (E386)
Polysorbate 80 (E433)
Lactose anhydrous
Sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) and/or 
Hydrochloric acid diluted (E507) (for pH adjustment)
18
6.2 
Incompatibilities
IVEMEND is incompatible with any solutions containing divalent cations (e.g., Ca2+, Mg2+), including
Hartman’s and lactated Ringer’s solutions. This medicinal product must not be mixed with other
medicinal products except those mentioned in section 6.6.
6.3  Shelf-life
2 years.
After reconstitution and dilution, chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for
24 hours at 25°C.
From a microbiological point of view, the medicinal product should be used immediately. If not used
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
10 ml Type I clear glass vial with a chlorobutyl or bromobutyl rubber stopper and an aluminium seal
with a grey plastic flip off cap.
Pack sizes: 1 or 10 vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
IVEMEND must be reconstituted and then diluted prior to administration.
Preparation of IVEMEND 150 mg for intravenous administration:
1. 
2. 
Inject 5 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into the vial. Assure that
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection is added to the vial along the vial wall in
order to prevent foaming. Swirl the vial gently. Avoid shaking and jetting sodium chloride
9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into the vial.
Prepare an infusion bag filled with 145 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for
injection (for example, by removing 105 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for
injection from a 250 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection infusion bag).
3.  Withdraw the entire volume from the vial and transfer it into an infusion bag containing 145 ml
of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection to yield a total volume of 150 ml
and final concentration of 1 mg/ml. Gently invert the bag 2-3 times.
4. 
Determine the volume to be administered from this prepared infusion bag, based on the
recommended dose (see section 4.2). 
Adults
The entire volume of the prepared infusion bag (150 ml) should be administered.
19
 
 
Paediatrics
In patients 12 years and older, the volume to be administered is calculated as follows: 
•  Volume to administer (ml) equals the recommended dose (mg) 
In patients 6 months to less than 12 years, the volume to be administered is calculated as
follows:
•  Volume to administer (ml) = recommended dose (mg/kg) x weight (kg) 
o  Note: Do not exceed maximum doses (see section 4.2).
5. 
If necessary, for volumes less than 150 ml, the calculated volume can be transferred to an
appropriate size bag or syringe prior to administration by infusion. 
The appearance of the reconstituted solution is the same as the appearance of the diluent. 
The reconstituted and diluted medicinal product should be inspected visually for particulate matter and
discoloration before administration.
Discard any remaining solution and waste material. Any unused medicinal product or waste material
should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
The medicinal product must not be reconstituted or mixed with solutions for which physical and
chemical compatibility has not been established (see section 6.2).
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER
EU/1/07/437/003
EU/1/07/437/004
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 11 January 2008
Date of latest renewal: 12 November 2012
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
20
 
 
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH
RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
21
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Merck Sharp & Dohme B. V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
• 
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
An updated RMP should be submitted:
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
22
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
23
A. LABELLING
24
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON 150 mg
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
IVEMEND 150 mg powder for solution for infusion
fosaprepitant 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains fosaprepitant dimeglumine equivalent to 150 mg fosaprepitant, which corresponds
to 130.5 mg of aprepitant. After reconstitution and dilution 1 ml of solution contains 1 mg
fosaprepitant (1 mg/ml).
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Disodium edetate, polysorbate 80, lactose anhydrous, NaOH and/or HCl diluted (for pH adjustment).
See the package leaflet for further information.
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
powder for solution for infusion
1 vial
10 vials
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Single use only.
Use of oral aprepitant not required
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
25
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator. 
After reconstitution and dilution: 24 hours at 25°C.
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/07/437/003 1 x 1 vial
EU/1/07/437/004 1 x 10 vials
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
IVEMEND 150 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
26
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL 150 mg
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
IVEMEND 150 mg powder for solution for infusion
fosaprepitant 
Intravenous use
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.  OTHER
27
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
28
Package leaflet: Information for the user
IVEMEND 150 mg powder for solution for infusion
fosaprepitant 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What IVEMEND is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you use IVEMEND
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use IVEMEND
Possible side effects
How to store IVEMEND
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What IVEMEND is and what it is used for
IVEMEND contains the active substance fosaprepitant which is converted to aprepitant in your body.
It belongs to a group of medicines called "neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonists". The brain has a
specific area that controls nausea and vomiting. IVEMEND works by blocking signals to that area,
thereby reducing nausea and vomiting. IVEMEND is used in adults, adolescents, and children aged
6 months or older in combination with other medicines to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by
chemotherapy (cancer treatment) that is a strong or moderate trigger of nausea and vomiting.
2.  What you need to know before you use IVEMEND
Do not use IVEMEND
• 
if you are allergic to fosaprepitant, aprepitant, or to polysorbate 80 or any of the other
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
• 
with medicines containing pimozide (used to treat psychiatric illnesses), terfenadine and
astemizole (used for hay fever and other allergic conditions), cisapride (used for treating
digestive problems). Tell your doctor if you are taking these medicines since the treatment must
be modified before you start using IVEMEND.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse before using IVEMEND.
Before treatment with this medicine, tell your doctor if you have liver disease because the liver is
important in breaking down the medicine in the body. Your doctor may therefore have to monitor the
condition of your liver.
Children and adolescents
Do not give IVEMEND to children under 6 months of age or who weigh less than 6 kg, because it has
not been studied in this population.
29
Other medicines and IVEMEND
IVEMEND can affect other medicines both during and after treatment with IVEMEND. There are
some medicines that should not be taken with IVEMEND (such as pimozide, terfenadine, astemizole,
and cisapride) or that require a dose adjustment (see also ‘Do not use IVEMEND’). 
The effects of IVEMEND or other medicines might be influenced if you take IVEMEND together
with other medicines including those listed below. Please talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you are
taking any of the following medicines:
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
birth control medicines which can include birth control pills, skin patches, implants, and certain
Intrauterine devices (IUDs) that release hormones may not work adequately when taken
together with IVEMEND. Another or additional non-hormonal form of birth control should be
used during treatment with IVEMEND and for up to 2 months after using IVEMEND,
ciclosporin, tacrolimus, sirolimus, everolimus (immunosuppressants), 
alfentanil, fentanyl (used to treat pain), 
quinidine (used to treat an irregular heart beat),
irinotecan, etoposide, vinorelbine, ifosfamide (medicines used to treat cancer),
medicines containing ergot alkaloid derivatives such as ergotamine and diergotamine (used for
treating migraines),
warfarin, acenocoumarol (blood thinners; blood tests may be required),
rifampicin, clarithromycin, telithromycin (antibiotics used to treat infections),
phenytoin (a medicine used to treat seizures), 
carbamazepine (used to treat depression and epilepsy),
midazolam, triazolam, phenobarbital (medicines used to produce calmness or help you sleep),
St. John’s Wort (an herbal preparation used to treat depression), 
protease inhibitors (used to treat HIV infections),
ketoconazole except shampoo (used to treat Cushing’s syndrome – when the body produces an
excess of cortisol),
itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole (antifungals),
nefazodone (used to treat depression),
diltiazem (a medicine used to treat high blood pressure),
corticosteroids (such as dexamethasone),
anti-anxiety medicines (such as alprazolam), 
tolbutamide (a medicine used to treat diabetes).
Tell your doctor about any other medicines or herbal medicines you are taking, have recently taken, or
might take.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
This medicine should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. If you are pregnant or
breast-feeding, may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for advice before
receiving this medicine.
For information regarding birth control, see ‘Other medicines and IVEMEND’.
It is not known whether IVEMEND is excreted in human milk; therefore, breast-feeding is not
recommended during treatment with this medicine. It is important to tell your doctor if you are
breast-feeding or are planning to breast-feed before receiving this medicine.
Driving and using machines
It should be taken into account that some people get dizzy and get sleepy after using IVEMEND. If
you get dizzy or get sleepy, avoid driving or using machines after using this medicine (see ‘Possible
side effects’).
IVEMEND contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
30
3.  How to use IVEMEND
In adults (18 years of age and older), the recommended dose of IVEMEND is 150 mg fosaprepitant on
Day 1 (day of chemotherapy). 
In children and adolescents (6 months to 17 years of age), the recommended dose of IVEMEND is
based on the patient’s age and weight. Depending on the chemotherapy treatment, there are two ways
IVEMEND may be given:
IVEMEND is given only on Day 1 (single day of chemotherapy)
IVEMEND is given on Day 1, 2, and 3 (single or multiple days of chemotherapy)
o  Oral formulations of aprepitant may be prescribed on Days 2 and 3 instead of IVEMEND.
The powder is reconstituted and diluted before use. The solution for infusion is given to you by a
health care professional, such as a doctor or nurse, via an intravenous infusion (a drip) approximately
30 minutes before you start the chemotherapy treatment in adults or 60 – 90 minutes before you start
the chemotherapy treatment in children and adolescents. Your doctor may ask you to take other
medicines including a corticosteroid (such as dexamethasone) and a ‘5HT3 antagonist’ (such as
ondansetron) for preventing nausea and vomiting. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not
sure.
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Stop taking IVEMEND and see a doctor immediately if you notice any of the following side
effects, which may be serious, and for which you may need urgent medical treatment:
-  Hives, rash, itching, difficulty breathing or swallowing, or a serious decrease of blood pressure
(frequency not known, cannot be estimated from the available data); these are signs of a serious
allergic reaction. 
Infusion site reactions (ISR) at or near the infusion site. Most severe ISR have happened with a
certain type of chemotherapy medicine that can burn or blister your skin (vesicant) with side
effects, including pain, swelling and redness. Death of skin tissue (necrosis) has happened in some
people getting this type of chemotherapy medicine.
- 
Other side effects that have been reported are listed below.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are:
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
constipation, indigestion,
headache,
tiredness,
loss of appetite,
hiccups,
increased amount of liver enzymes in your blood.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) are:
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
dizziness, sleepiness,
acne, rash, 
anxiousness,
burping, nausea, vomiting, heartburn, stomach pain, dry mouth, passing wind, 
increased painful or burning urination, 
weakness, generally feeling unwell,
reddening of the face/skin, hot flush,
fast or irregular heartbeats, blood pressure increased,
fever with increased risk of infection, lowering of red blood cells, 
31
- 
infusion site pain, infusion site redness, infusion site itching, infusion site vein inflammation.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) are:
- 
- 
difficulty thinking, lack of energy, taste disturbance,
sensitivity of the skin to sun, excessive sweating, oily skin, sores on skin, itching rash,
Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis (rare severe skin reaction),
euphoria (feeling of extreme happiness), disorientation,
bacterial infection, fungal infection,
severe constipation, stomach ulcer, inflammation of the small intestine and colon, sores in
mouth, bloating,
frequent urination, passing more urine than normal, presence of sugar or blood in urine,
chest discomfort, swelling, change in the manner of walking,
cough, mucus in back of throat, throat irritation, sneezing, sore throat,
eye discharge and itching,
ringing in the ear,
muscle spasms, muscle weakness,
excessive thirst,
slow heartbeat, heart and blood vessel disease,
lowering of white blood cells, low sodium levels in the blood, weight loss,
hardening of site of infusion.
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store IVEMEND
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The
first 2 numbers indicate the month; the next 4 numbers indicate the year.
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
The reconstituted and diluted solution is stable for 24 hours at 25C.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What IVEMEND contains
- 
The active substance is fosaprepitant. Each vial contains fosaprepitant dimeglumine equivalent
to 150 mg fosaprepitant. After reconstitution and dilution 1 ml of solution contains 1 mg
fosaprepitant (1 mg/ml).
The other ingredients are: disodium edetate (E386), polysorbate 80 (E433), lactose anhydrous,
sodium hydroxide (E524) (for pH adjustment) and/or hydrochloric acid diluted (E507) (for pH
adjustment).
- 
What IVEMEND looks like and contents of the pack
IVEMEND is a white to off-white powder for solution for infusion.
32
The powder is contained in a clear glass vial with a rubber stopper and an aluminium seal with a grey
plastic flip off cap.
Each vial contains 150 mg of fosaprepitant. Pack sizes: 1 or 10 vials.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder.
Belgique/België/Belgien 
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@msd.com
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: + 45 4482 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Eλλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel. + 370 5278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium 
Tél/Tel:  +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@msd.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 5300
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com 
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 
 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
33
France
MSD France
Tél: +33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@msd.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila
d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 5204 201
msd_slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Simi: +354 535 7000
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ.: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: +371 67364224
msd_lv@merck.com
This leaflet was last revised in 
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human
Health) Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
34
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Instructions of how to reconstitute and dilute IVEMEND 150 mg
1. 
2. 
Inject 5 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into the vial. Assure that
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection is added to the vial along the vial wall in
order to prevent foaming. Swirl the vial gently. Avoid shaking and jetting sodium chloride
9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into the vial.
Prepare an infusion bag filled with 145 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for
injection (for example, by removing 105 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for
injection from a 250 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection infusion bag).
3.  Withdraw the entire volume from the vial and transfer it into an infusion bag containing 145 ml
of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection to yield a total volume of 150 ml
and final concentration of 1 mg/ml. Gently invert the bag 2-3 times (see ‘How to use
IVEMEND’).
4. 
Determine the volume to be administered from this prepared infusion bag, based on the
recommended dose (see Summary of Product Characteristic (SmPC), section 4.2). 
Adults
The entire volume of the prepared infusion bag (150 ml) should be administered.
Paediatrics
In patients 12 years and older, the volume to be administered is calculated as follows: 
•  Volume to administer (ml) equals the recommended dose (mg) 
In patients 6 months to less than 12 years, the volume to be administered is calculated as
follows:
•  Volume to administer (ml) = recommended dose (mg/kg) x weight (kg) 
o  Note: Do not exceed maximum doses (see  Summary of Product
Characteristic (SmPC), section 4.2).
5. 
If necessary, for volumes less than 150 ml, the calculated volume can be transferred to an
appropriate size bag or syringe prior to administration by infusion. 
The reconstituted and diluted final solution is stable for 24 hours at 25C.
Parenteral medicines should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration before
administration whenever solution and container permit. 
The appearance of the reconstituted solution is the same as the appearance of the diluent.
Discard any remaining solution and waste material. Any unused medicinal product or waste material
should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
The medicinal product must not be reconstituted or mixed with solutions for which physical and
chemical compatibility has not been established (see Summary of Product Characteristic (SmPC),
section 6.2).
35
 
 
 
 
