EMA/519636/2019 
EMEA/H/C/005039 
authorised in the EU called Evoltra. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-
Ivozall contains the active substance clofarabine and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Ivozall 
Ivozall is a cancer medicine that is used to treat children and adults up to 21 years of age who have 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a cancer of the lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). It is 
used when the disease has not responded to, or has come back (relapsed) after at least two other 
treatments and when no other treatment is expected to work. 
What is Ivozall and what is it used for? 
contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already 
Ivozall (clofarabine) 
An overview of Ivozall and why it is authorised in the EU 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Doctors should review treatment in patients whose condition does not improve after one or two 
Ivozall can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be started and supervised by a 
dividing, such as cancer cells). It belongs to the group of cancer medicines called ‘antimetabolites’. 
The active substance in Ivozall, clofarabine, is a cytotoxic agent (a medicine that kills cells that are 
The recommended dose of Ivozall is based on the patient’s height and weight. It is given by infusion 
doctor who has experience in the management of patients with acute leukaemias. It is available as a 
How does Ivozall work? 
solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. 
How is Ivozall used? 
Clofarabine is an ‘analogue’ of adenine, one of the building blocks of the genetic material of cells (DNA 
and RNA). This means that clofarabine resembles adenine and by taking adenine’s place in the body, it 
lasting 2 hours every day for five days. This cycle of treatment should be repeated every 2 to 6 weeks. 
interferes with the action of enzymes involved in making genetic material, called ‘DNA polymerase’ and 
For more information about using Ivozall, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
answer document here. 
treatment cycles. 
‘RNA reductase’. This stops the cells making new DNA and RNA and from dividing, thereby slowing 
down the growth of cancer cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ivozall has been 
shown to be comparable to Evoltra. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Evoltra, the benefits 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Ivozall. There was no need for 
‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Ivozall is absorbed similarly to the reference medicine 
How has Ivozall been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Evoltra, and do not need to be repeated for Ivozall.  
reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ivozall authorised in the EU? 
What are the benefits and risks of Ivozall? 
and effective use of Ivozall have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because Ivozall is given by 
of Ivozall outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the bloodstream. 
Because Ivozall is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ivozall? 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Ivozall received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 14 November 2019. 
Ivozall are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Further information on Ivozall can be found on the Agency’s 
Other information about Ivozall 
This overview was last updated in 11-2019. 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
package leaflet. 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ivozall. Information on the reference medicine can 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ivozall are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
Ivozall (clofarabine)  
EMA/519636/2019  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
