Note 
Ivozall  
Assessment report 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005039/0000 
International non-proprietary name: clofarabine 
19 September 2019 
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Applicant: 
(ATC Code): 
Active substance: 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
Name of the medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
name/Common name: 
Ivozall 
FRANCE 
(L01BB06) 
clofarabine 
75005 Paris 
CLOFARABINE 
ORPHELIA Pharma  
85 Boulevard Saint-Michel 
antimetabolites, purine analogues 
Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
(ALL) in paediatric patients who have relapsed 
years old at initial diagnosis (see section 5.1). 
been assessed in studies of patients </= 21 
or are refractory after receiving at least two 
durable response.  Safety and efficacy have 
prior regimens and where there is no other 
treatment option anticipated to result in a 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Intravenous use 
vial (glass) 
1 mg/ml 
1 vial 
Route(s) of administration: 
Pharmaceutical form(s): 
Package size(s): 
Strength(s): 
Packaging: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 2/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 13 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development................................................ 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 14 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 14 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 14 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 15 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 15 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 15 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 16 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 16 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 20 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 21 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 21 
2.7.2. Additional monitoring ....................................................................................... 21 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 21 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 22 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 3/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Bioequivalence 
Captured volume 
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia 
Acute Myeloid Leukemia 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a ASMF 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Assessment Report 
Active Substance 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
AAS:  Atomic Absorption Spectrometry 
ALL: 
AML 
AP: 
API: 
AR: 
AS: 
ASM:  Active Substance Manufacturer 
ASMF:  Active Substance Master File 
ATC:  Anatomical therapeutic chemical classification system 
BCS:  Biopharmaceutics classification system 
BDL:  Below the limit of detection 
BE: 
BSE:  Bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
CEP:  Certificate of Suitability of the Ph. Eur. 
CFU:  Colony-forming unit 
CHMP:  The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
CoA:  Certificate of analysis 
CRS:  Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
CV: 
dNTP  Deoxynucleotide triphosphate 
DPM:  Drug Product Manufacturer 
DSC:  Differential scanning calorimetry 
EDQM:  European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
EMA:  European Medicines Agency 
EP: 
European Pharmacopoeia 
ERA:  Environmental Risk Assessment 
EU: 
European Union 
FP: 
Finished Product 
Gas chromatography 
GC 
GCP:  Good Clinical Practice 
GLP:  Good Laboratory Practice 
GMP:  Good Manufacturing Practice 
HDPE:  High Density Polyethylene 
HPLC:  High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
HT: 
ICH: 
IPC: 
IR: 
LDPE:  Low Density Polyethylene 
LOA: 
Letter of Access 
LOD:  Limit of Detection 
Log Kow: 
LOQ:  Limit of Quantitation 
LoQ: 
List of Questions 
QbD:  Quality by design 
QTPP:  Quality target product profile 
MAH:  Marketing Authorisation Holder 
MS:  Mass Spectrometry 
ND: 
Not detected 
NLT:  Not Less Than 
NMR:  Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
NMT  Not More Than 
ODG:  Office for Generic Drugs 
OOS:  Out of specification 
PBT: 
PDE:  Permitted Daily Exposure 
PE: 
Ph. Eur.: 
PIL: 
Holding time 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
In-process controls 
Infra-Red Spectroscopy 
Persistence Bioaccumulation Toxicity 
n-octanol/water partition coefficient 
Patient Information Leaflet 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Polyethylene 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 4/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
Polypropylene 
Stainless steel 
Ultraviolet Spectroscopy 
Transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of an ASMF 
PP: 
PVC:  Poly vinyl chloride 
PXRD:  Powder X-ray diffraction 
QOS:  Quality Overall Summary 
Qualified Person 
QP: 
Relative humidity 
RH: 
RLD:  Reference Listed Drug 
RP: 
RPM:  Rotation per minute 
RRT:  Relative retention time 
RSD:  Relative standard deviation 
SS: 
SmPC:  Summary of Product Characteristics 
TSE: 
TGA:  Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
USP:  United States Pharmacopoeia 
UV: 
UPLC:  Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography 
XRD:  X-Ray Diffraction 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 5/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The chosen reference product is: 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC) 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 26 April 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
The applicant ORPHELIA Pharma submitted on 17 September 2018 an application for marketing 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data. 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ivozall, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The 
paediatric patients who have relapsed or are refractory after receiving at least two prior regimens and 
which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for 
where there is no other treatment option anticipated to result in a durable response.  Safety and efficacy 
have been assessed in studies of patients ≤ 21 years old at initial diagnosis (see section 5.1). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Evoltra, 1mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Genzyme Europe B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 29-May-2006 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/06/334/001-005 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Evoltra, 1mg/ml, concentrate for solution for infusion 
Marketing authorisation holder: Genzyme Europe B.V. 
Date of authorisation: 29-May-2006 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/06/334/001-005 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies: 
reference medicinal product:  
than 10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
N/A 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
Page 6/23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
members on 
members on 
4 October 2018 
19 December 2018 
17 September 2018 
The procedure started on 
orphan medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: Simona Badoi 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
  Medicinal product no longer authorised
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP 
The Rapporteur circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing and/or in an 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
oral explanation to be sent to the applicant on 
marketing authorisation to Ivozall on  
applicant during the meeting on 
during the meeting on 
19 September 2019 
4 September 2019 
31 January 2019 
20 August 2019 
7 January 2019 
Questions on 
24 May 2019 
11 July 2019 
25 July 2019 
1 July 2019  
Issues on  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 7/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
infusion.  
This centralised procedure application is based on Article 10(1) for a generic product as defined in Article 
medicinal product, having the same qualitative and quantitative composition in terms of active substance 
where there is no other treatment option anticipated to result in a durable response. Safety and efficacy 
The product Ivozall is of the same indication, strength and route of administration as that of the reference 
The active substance clofarabine is a purine nucleoside anti-metabolite. The mode of action of clofarabine 
in paediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is believed to be due to 3 mechanisms: 
10(2)(a) referring to a so-called reference medicinal product with a marketing authorisation granted in 
paediatric patients who have relapsed or are refractory after receiving at least two prior regimens and 
the Union. The active substance clofarabine has been in medicinal use for more than 10 years in the 
and is of the same pharmaceutical form as the originator product. 
have been assessed in studies of patients ≤21 years old at initial diagnosis.  
The proposed indication for Ivozall is for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in 
European Union. The reference medicinal product is Evoltra, 1mg/ml, concentrate for solution for 
synthesis/repair; 
(dNTP) pools; 
- 
- 
- 
Ribonucleotide reductase inhibition with reduction of cellular deoxynucleotide triphosphate 
DNA polymerase ɑ inhibition resulting in termination of DNA chain elongation and/or DNA 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Disruption of mitochondrial membrane integrity with the release of cytochrome C and other 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion containing 1 mg/ml of 
5’-triphosphate. Clofarabine has high affinity for one of the activating phosphorylating enzymes, 
proapoptotic factors leading to programmed cell death even in non-dividing lymphocytes. 
deoxycytidine kinase, which exceeds that of the natural substrate, deoxycytidine. 
Other ingredients are sodium chloride and water for injection. 
greater than that of deoxyadenosine triphosphate. 
affinity of clofarabine triphosphate for DNA polymerase α and ribonucleotide reductase is similar to or 
decreased susceptibility to phosphorolytic cleavage than other active substances in its class whilst the 
the mono- and bi-phosphate by intracellular kinases, and then finally to the active conjugate, clofarabine 
Clofarabine must first diffuse or be transported into target cells where it is sequentially phosphorylated to 
In addition, clofarabine possesses greater resistance to cellular degradation by adenosine deaminase and 
The product is available in type I glass vials with grey chlorobutyl fluoropolymer coated rubber stopper, 
polypropylene flip-off cap and aluminium overseal, as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
clofarabine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 8/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General information 
analysis. 
The chemical name of clofarabine is (2R, 3R, 4S, 
water, sparingly soluble in methanol and soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide. 
The active substance is a white to off white non-hygroscopic crystalline powder. It is slightly soluble in 
5R)-5-(6-amino-2-chloro-purin-9-yl)-4-fluoro-2-(hydroxymethyl)tetrahydrofuran-3-ol corresponding to 
the molecular formula C10H11ClFN5O3. It has a molecular weight of 303.68 g/mol and the following 
structure: 
Clofarabine shows potential isomerism at the anomeric carbon of the arabinofuranose ring. The desired 
anomer is a beta: due to this, the content of alpha anomer is controlled at the release by means of HPLC 
The chemical structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of IR, UV and NMR 
spectroscopy (both 1H and 13C NMR spectrum), mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and optical 
rotation. The solid state properties of the active substance were measured by DSC and XRPD analysis. 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Crystallization of clofarabine is described in the literature either from water or from methanol providing 
crystals with melting points of 225 – 227 °C and 237 °C respectively. According to the manufacturing 
process, clofarabine is consistently obtained in a well-defined crystalline form. The consistency of the 
polymorph is ensured by melting point analysis at the release and by melting point determination by DSC 
During the marketing authorisation application assessment, a major objection was raised by the CHMP on 
the proposed regulatory starting materials for the active substance synthesis. The ASMF holder showed 
that both starting materials used for the manufacture of clofarabine are commercially available and 
well-characterized materials with defined chemical properties justifying the starting materials. The 
discussion on the carry-over of potential impurities has shown that possible impurities in the starting 
materials are sufficiently controlled. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 9/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
Stability of polymorphic form has been confirmed during accelerated and long-term stability studies by 
FT-IR analysis at the release and also by the melting point determination by DSC (test included also in the 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
Clofarabine is synthesized in three main steps using starting materials with acceptable specifications. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Clofarabine is obtained from a single supplier. 
in the stability studies. 
stability studies).  
 
 
 
 
The applicant has provided sufficient discussion on the possibility to obtain impurities with different 
stereochemistry through the whole process. All the modifications which are performed on the molecule, 
beside final deprotection, involve the anomeric center C1. None of the described reactions has the 
Specification 
possibility to alter the absolute configuration of any center other than the anomeric one. The absolute 
yeast and mould count (Ph. Eur.). 
chemistry of new active substances. 
intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
configuration of starting material 1 is proved by single crystal X-Ray analysis. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
(Ph. Eur.), water content (KF), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), residual solvents (GC), related substances 
The active substance specification includes tests for: description (visual inspection), identity (HPLC, IR, 
The active substance packaging complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for 
melting point via capillary method), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), sulfated ash (Ph. Eur.), pH value 
(HPLC), assay (HPLC), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), total aerobic microbial count (Ph. Eur.), and total 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
The active substance is complying with ICH Q3D and there is no risk for potential elemental impurities. 
The risk assessment has been performed for Class 1 elements (Cd, Pb, As, Hg), Class 2A elements (Co, V, 
Ni), Class 3 elements (Li, Sb, Cu) used in the manufacturing process of the active substance. The ASMF 
holder performed an elemental impurities screening by ICP-OES on 3 consecutive batches of clofarabine 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Stability data from three commercial scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer 
stored in the intended commercial package for up to 60 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% 
finished product batches. The Applicant committed to complete the batch analysis with the analytical 
results of a third batch of the active substance as soon as available and to provide the certificates of 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
controlled in the release specification. Based on the risk assessment, the manufacturer revised the active 
Batch analysis data on 4 commercial scale batches of the active substance are provided. The results are 
analyses in accordance with the active substance specification updated during the assessment procedure. 
So far, only two batches of the active substance have been used in the manufacture of industrial scale 
and the results were found to be below 30 % of ICH Q3D limit. Therefore these impurities are not 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH 
standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
substance specification to remove the test for heavy metal. 
This point is a quality recommendation by the CHMP. 
Stability 
guidelines were provided. Results on stress conditions: acid degradation (hydrochloric acid, phosphorous 
acid), basic degradation (sodium hydroxide), oxidative degradation (hydrogen peroxide, potassium 
permanganate), heat at 120°C for 1, 4, 7 and 15 days and light degradation under the lamp D65 were 
also provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
Page 10/23 
 
 
 
The following parameters were tested: description, identification (melting point), pH, specific optical 
rotation, water content, assay, related substances, bacterial endotoxins, TAMC, TYMC and specified 
micro-organisms. 
therefore must be diluted prior to use. 
formulation and process development. 
and other properties of the active substance. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
batches, examining the packaging of the originator and by literature search. 
solution for infusion is 4.5 - 7.5. The osmolarity range of the product is 270 – 310 mOsm/l.  
The aim of pharmaceutical development was to develop a stable one-to-one copy of the reference 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
All tested parameters were within the specifications. There was no significant change in impurity profile 
The product is available in one presentation of 20 mg/20 ml vial. The pH range of Ivozall concentrate for 
medicinal product Evoltra with acceptable physicochemical properties. The originator was characterised 
by performing deformulation studies, comparing laboratory batches of the finished product with Evoltra 
Ivozall concentrate for solution for infusion is a sterile, clear (free from visible particles), colourless 
aqueous solution that is terminally sterilized. The finished product is intended for intravenous use and 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 60 months stored in the 
proposed container at a mean temperature of 25 °C with allowed excursion at 15 – 30 °C. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
same dosage form and route of administration as the originator, and since it is administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution in the same concentration as in Evoltra, no bioequivalence study was 
properties and the results showed that they could be considered identical to Ivozall. As Ivozall contains 
the same active substance as the originator, it is identical in strength and concentration and it has the 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. Compatibility of the excipients 
The active substance is fully solubilized and delivered as an infusion. Therefore, the particle size and the 
finished product formulation is the same as for the innovator. The product is composed of clofarabine 1 
The formulation development has been evaluated through the use of risk assessment. The proposed 
The innovator samples of Evoltra were assessed with regards to composition, physical and chemical 
polymorphic form of the active substance have no impact on the bioavailability of the drug product. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
In order to obtain product and process understanding several parameters were studied during the 
with the active substance was demonstrated through stability testing of the finished product. 
mg/ml and sodium chloride 9 mg/ml in aqueous solution for tonicity adjustment. 
As the finished product is intended for intravenous administration and it shows good stability, terminal 
sterilisation by heat was selected as the sterilisation method. 
The primary packaging is Type I glass vial with grey chlorobutyl fluoropolymer coated rubber stopper, 
polypropylene flip-off cap and aluminium overseal. The flip-off seal does not come into contact with the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 11/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
needed.  
 
 
 
 
finished product. The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the container 
closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
preparation of non-sterile bulk solution, pre-filtration, filling and sealing, terminal sterilisation of filled 
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form: 
commercial  batches  consisting  of  three  bulk  solutions  and  three  filling  campaigns.  It  has  been 
description (visual), identification (HPLC, UV), clarity and degree of opalescence of liquids (Ph. Eur.), pH 
During the assessment the CHMP requested the applicant to tighten the proposed limits for pH (4.5 -7.5) 
Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  on  three 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended 
quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing 
(Ph. Eur.), osmolarity (Ph. Eur.), extractable volume (Ph. Eur.), particulate matter – subvisible particles 
(Ph. Eur.), particulate matter – visible particles (Ph. Eur.), assay clofarabine (HPLC), related substances 
since these were wider than those seen in batch analysis or stability studies. However these were justified 
based on the originator’s values and the fact that only a limited amount of data is available to date since 
vials and inspection.  
process and pharmaceutical form. 
Product specification  
(HPLC), bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.) and sterility (Ph. Eur.). . 
The finished product is a solution that is prepared in a five-step manufacturing process consists of 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed using a 
risk-based approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. Based on the risk 
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
only four batches have been manufactured at industrial scale at the time of opinion. Therefore, the 
been collected (production of ten batches at industrial scale). 
finished product specification. The information on the control of elemental impurities is satisfactory. 
traditional final product release testing. 
Stability of the product 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Applicant has committed to re-evaluate the pH acceptance criteria when a sufficient number of data has 
Batch analysis results are provided for three commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of the 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
assessment it can be concluded that it is not necessary to include any elemental impurity controls in the 
Stability data from three commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to 36 months under 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% 
RH) according to the ICH  guidelines were provided. The batches of medicinal  product are identical to 
those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested according to the finished product specification. The analytical procedures are the 
same as used for release and are stability indicating. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 12/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
All results remained within specifications and no significant changes have been observed. 
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of 
New Drug Substances and Products. The results of the photostability study demonstrate that the product 
is not sensitive to light. 
specification. The applicability of the generated data on the concentration ranges for administration and 
under refrigeration (2°C - 8°C) at a concentration range of 0.15 mg/ml to 0.83 mg/ml after dilution with 
with both types of infusion solutions (0.9 % sodium chloride solution or 5 % glucose solution) is stable for 
investigated dilution concentrations were 0.15, 0.40 and 0.83 mg/ml, according to the compatibility study 
report. As concentration range (0.15-0.83 mg/ml) was not entirely covered, the dilution with 5% glucose 
seven days at room temperature and under refrigeration (2 °C - 8 °C). Although no specification limits are 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 3 years and the finished product should not be 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for seven days at room temperature and 
The in-use stability data show that the infusion solution  in both PVC and non-PVC of infusion bags and 
stability of the clofarabine concentrate for solution for infusion diluted with 5% glucose infusion media 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%). 
frozen as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
on the type of plastic bags to be used is acceptable. However, the compatibility study evaluated the 
only for 0.15 and 0.40 mg/ml diluted concentrations, while for the sodium chloride solution the 
declared in the compatibility study, all tested parameters remained within limits of the shelf-life 
infusion cannot be accepted without experimental data generated on 0.83 mg/ml concentration. 
Therefore, the applicant decided to delete the proposed dilution with 5% glucose from the SmPC. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C unless dilution has taken place under controlled and validated 
Adventitious agents 
performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
control of the active substance and finished product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and would normally not 
The product has been developed as a generic of Evoltra. Information on development, manufacture and 
results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, 
aseptic conditions. 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 13/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
2. to re-evaluate the finished product pH acceptance criteria when a sufficient number of data has been 
clofarabine as soon as available. Moreover, the new certificates of analysis should be in accordance with 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
1. to complete the batch analysis with the analytical results of a third batch of the active substance 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
the API specification updated in March 2018. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature.  
collected (production of at least 10 batches of medicinal product at industrial scale). 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar. 
introduction of Ivozall manufactured by ORPHELIA Pharma is considered unlikely to result in any 
significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all clofarabine containing products and the 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
pharmacokinetic and toxicological profile and the experience from therapeutic use of the active 
The non-clinical overview is considered acceptable based on the established pharmacological, 
The overview justifies why the Applicant did not submit additional non-clinical pharmacology, 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects are considered adequate to support this application. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
infusion in glass vials for single use.  
substance. 
This is a generic centralised application for a medicinal product supplied as a concentrate for solution for 
pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
The applied indications, route of administration, dosage form and strength for Ivozall are the same as for 
the reference product Evoltra. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 14/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
Exemption  
No clinical bioequivalence studies have been submitted. The applicant applied for a waiver for 
bioequivalence studies/clinical studies on the basis that the proposed generic medicinal product has an 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/Corr **): “Bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test 
Therefore, for the current generic application the essential similarity with the reference medicinal product 
In addition, the test product contains the same excipients in identical amounts as the reference product 
identical qualitative and quantitative composition in the active substance and excipients compared to the 
product is to be administered as aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance as 
approved reference medicinal product, Evoltra 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion, and the 
same pharmaceutical form and route of administration as a concentrate for solution for infusion for 
intravenous use.  
authorized originator product. 
the currently approved product”. 
disposition of the drug substance. 
is only based on pharmaceutical equivalence. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
According to the Appendix II of the Guideline on the investigation of Bioequivalence 
and the excipients are not known to interact with the drug substance nor to otherwise affect the 
The applied product is to be administered as an aqueous solution for injection for intravenous 
administration containing the same active substance in the same concentration as the currently 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
same pharmaceutical form and route of administration as an aqueous solution for injection for 
intravenous use. That is acceptable from a pharmacokinetic point of view. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
proposed medicinal product has an identical qualitative and quantitative composition in the active 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
infusion in glass vials for single use. 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
This is a generic centralised application for a medicinal product supplied as a concentrate for solution for 
According to the Guideline on the investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr 
No bioequivalence study has been submitted. The applicant has claimed a biowaiver on the basis that the 
substance and excipients compared to the approved reference medicinal product Evoltra 1 mg/ml and the 
** Appendix II) no bioequivalence studies are required for intravenously administered aqueous solutions 
if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active 
substance as the currently approved product. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 15/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
Therefore, for the current generic application the essential similarity with the reference medicinal product 
is only based on pharmaceutical equivalence.  
A Clinical Overview based on published data was submitted. However, it is noted that the overview is 
based to a great extent on the information cited from Evoltra EPARs (2007 – 2018) and some (2016 – 
2018) scientific literature. This is acceptable with respect to the well-known basic pharmacology and 
The biowaiver is considered acceptable. 
Table SVIII.1: Summary of safety concerns 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Summary of the safety concerns  
experience from the therapeutic use of the active substance. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The clinical aspects are considered adequate to support this application. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
The applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP:  
- 
- Bone marrow failure (myelosupresion) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
-  Hemorrhage, including cerebral, gastrointestinal and 
-  Veno-occlusive liver disease 
pulmonary hemorrhage 
Tumor lysis syndrome 
-  Hepatic failure 
-  Hepatotoxicity 
-  Cardiotoxicity 
difficile colitis 
-  Hepatitis 
Pancreatitis 
syndrome 
-  Rash 
- 
- 
- 
Enterocolitis, including neutropenic colitis, caecitis and C. 
-  Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Infection (septic shock, sepsis, bacteremia, pneumonia, herpes 
zoster, herpes simplex, Clostridium difficile colitis, oral candidiasis) 
-  Systemic inflammatory response syndrome and capillary leak 
Important potential risks 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Nephropathy toxic 
Teratogenicity 
Infertility 
Off-label use in pediatric AML, in ALL patients with less than 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 16/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Missing information 
-  Safety of use for more than 3 cycles 
two prior regimens, or in combination with other drugs 
Table Part V.3: Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by safety 
concern 
Pharmacovigilance Plan  
No additional risk minimisation activities were proposed. 
Risk minimisation measures   
- 
- 
- 
- 
Pregnancy 
Tolerability and pharmacokinetics in renal impairment 
Tolerability and pharmacokinetics in cardiac impairment 
Tolerability and pharmacokinetics in hepatic impairment 
-  Drug interactions with commonly used co-medications 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 17/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 18/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 19/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
Discussion 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The originator has no additional risk minimisation activities. The safety information in the Product 
information is aligned to the safety information of the reference medicinal product. Consequently, the 
PRAC was of the opinion that, in line with the reference product, the proposed routine risk minimisation 
measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in the proposed indications and no additional 
The summary of safety concerns is in line with the reference product. Having considered the data in the 
safety specification, the PRAC agrees that the safety concerns listed by the Applicant are appropriate. 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
The PRAC is of the opinion that no additional pharmacovigilance activities are necessary. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan is acceptable.  
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Pharmacovigilance system 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
risk minimisation measures are necessary. 
Conclusion 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 20/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
As the innovator is under exceptional circumstances and under additional safety monitoring, generic 
products of clofarabine should submit annual PSURs, similarly to Evoltra, to ensure a harmonised 
assessment across all products. 
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Evoltra. The bridging report submitted by the applicant has 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
been found acceptable. 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.2.  Additional monitoring 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
safety information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
has been submitted by the applicant and has been found acceptable for the following reasons: 
monitoring list as the originator product Evoltra is approved under exceptional circumstances.  
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, clofarabine is included in the additional 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
This application concerns a generic version of clofarabine concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
reference product Evoltra is indicated for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in 
where there is no other treatment option anticipated to result in a durable response.  
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
a bioequivalence study was considered adequately substantiated.  
those included in the product information. 
efficacy and safety studies). The applicant provided a clinical overview with clinical information from 
The applicant did not submit clinical studies (pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
The originator product was authorised under exceptional circumstances, with the specific obligation of 
paediatric patients who have relapsed or are refractory after receiving at least two prior regimens and 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
published literature and this was considered adequate. Furthermore, exemption from the need to conduct 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
submitting yearly updates on any new information concerning efficacy and safety of the product in 
paediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia who have relapsed or are refractory after 
receiving at least two prior regimens and where there is no other treatment option anticipated to result 
in a durable response. 
The CHMP agreed that this specific obligation should not be imposed on this application for Ivozall but 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 21/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
annual PSURs (in which literature review will be provided) should be submitted for Ivozall, similarly to 
Evoltra. This would ensure a harmonised assessment across all products. 
4.  Recommendations 
anticipated to result in a durable response. Safety and efficacy have been assessed in studies of patients 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
The  CHMP  by  consensus  is  of  the  opinion  that  Ivozall  is  not  similar  to  Xaluprine,  Iclusig,  Blincyto, 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Outcome 
≤ 21 years old at initial diagnosis. 
the benefit-risk balance of Ivozall is favourable in the following indication: 
Besponsa and Kymriah within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in paediatric patients who have relapsed or are 
refractory after receiving at least two prior regimens and where there is no other treatment option 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
RMP. 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 22/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/585665/2019  
Page 23/23 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
