Summary of risk management plan for Ivozall 1 mg/ml 
concentrate for solution for infusion (clofarabine) 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of  Ivozall  1 
mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion RMP. 
Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and 
patient leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ivozall 1 
mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion should be used.  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution 
for infusion. The RMP details important risks of Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Ivozall 1 mg/ml 
concentrate for solution for infusion risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ivozall  1  mg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  is  authorised  for  Treatment  of  acute 
lymphoblastic  leukaemia  (ALL)  in  paediatric  patients  who  have  relapsed  or  are  refractory  after 
receiving at least two prior regimens and where there is no other treatment option anticipated to 
result  in  a  durable  response.  It  contains  clofarabine  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by 
intravenous route. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Further information about the evaluation of Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion ’s 
benefits can be found in Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion ’s EPAR, including in 
its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  EMA  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ivozall. 
Important risks of Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion together with measures to 
minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate 
for solution for infusion risks, are outlined below. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.   
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products include specific information, such 
as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  SmPC  addressed  to  healthcare 
professionals. 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for 
infusion is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion are risks that need special 
risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified 
 
 
 
 
risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Ivozall  1  mg/ml 
concentrate for solution for infusion. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine); 
Infection (septic shock, sepsis, bacteremia, pneumonia, herpes 
Systemic inflammatory response syndrome and capillary leak 
syndrome 
candidiasis) 
Cardiotoxicity 
Hepatotoxicity 
Tumor lysis syndrome 
Important identified risks 
Veno-occlusive liver disease 
Bone marrow failure (myelosuppression) 
List of important risks and missing information  
zoster, herpes simplex, Clostridium difficile colitis, oral 
Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Off-label use in pediatric AML, in ALL patients with less than 
Enterocolitis, including neutropenic colitis, caecitis and C. 
two prior regimens, or in combination with other drugs 
Drug interaction with commonly used co-medications 
Hemorrhage, including cerebral, gastrointestinal and 
Safety of use for more than 3 cycles 
Important potential risks 
pulmonary hemorrhage 
Missing information 
Nephropathy toxic 
Hepatic failure 
Teratogenicity 
difficile colitis 
Pancreatitis 
Infertility 
Hepatitis 
Rash 
Tolerability and pharmacokinetics in renal impairment 
Tolerability and pharmacokinetics in hepatic impairment 
Tolerability and pharmacokinetics in cardiac impairment 
 
List of important risks and missing information  
Pregnancy 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product. 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. 
II.B Summary of important risks 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Ivozall 1 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
 
 
