European Medicines Agency 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
IXIARO 
Common Name: Japanese Encephalitis Vaccine (inactivated, adsorbed) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000963 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENT 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 12 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 17 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 45 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 47 
Ixiaro 
2//50 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Intercell  AG  submitted  on  07  December  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  through  the  centralised  procedure  for 
IXIARO, which was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/05/348 on 24 January 2006. At 
the time of submission and validation, IXIARO was designated as an orphan medicinal product in the 
following  indication:  prevention  of  Japanese  Encephalitis.  At  the  time  of  orphan  designation,  the 
number of subjects at risk of this condition was estimated to be less than 3 per 10,000 persons in the 
EU. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
active immunization against Japanese encephalitis for adults. IXIARO should be considered for use in 
individuals at risk of exposure through travel or in the course of their occupation. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on 
applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and  bibliographic  literature  substituting/supporting  certain  tests  or 
studies. 
Scientific Advice / Protocol Assistance: 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  in  May  2005  (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/146087/2005)  and 
Protocol  Assistance  in  September  2007  (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/414690/2007)  from  the  CHMP.  The 
Scientific Advice in 2005 pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier and the 
Protocol Assistance in 2007 pertained to clinical aspects of the Paediatric Investigation Plan.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP : 
Rapporteur: 
Christian K. Schneider 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Liv Mathiesen 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 7 December 2007. 
The procedure started on 30 January 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
18 April 2008.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 18 April 2008. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, 
the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in 
less than 80 days.  
During  the  meeting  on  27-30  May  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 3 June 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  22 
August 2008. 
Ixiaro 
3//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 7 October 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  23  October  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of  Outstanding 
Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The  applicant  provided  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on  17  November 
2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 01 December 2008. 
During  the  meeting  on  15-18  December  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to IXIARO on 18 December 2008. The applicant provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  15 
December 2008. 
The Orphan criteria were reviewed at the March 2009 COMP meeting (3-4 March 2009). The 
COMP  recommended  the  removal  of  the  product  from  the  Community  registry  of  orphan 
medicinal products. 
The Applicant withdrew his Orphan Designation on 9 March 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Japanese  encephalitis  (JE)  is  a  mosquito-borne  arboviral  infection  and  the  leading  cause  of  viral 
encephalitis worldwide with an estimate of at least 50,000 cases of clinical disease per year. Children 
less than 10 years of age are primarily affected. JE is endemic in many Asian regions such as China, 
Korea, Japan, South-East Asia and India. In recent years sporadic epidemics have also been noted in 
previously  less  endemic  areas  such  as  Nepal,  Sri-Lanka  and  Northern  Australia.  Residents  of  rural 
endemic  regions  are  at  highest  risk  and  the  disease  occurs  much  less  frequently  in urban  areas.  The 
majority  of  infections  remain  asymptomatic  and  overt  encephalitis  occurs  in  only  one  out  of  50  to 
1,000 individuals infected. 
In adults, JE disease typically follows an incubation period of 4-14 days and is mostly characterized 
by  sudden  onset  of  fever,  chills,  and  aches,  including  headaches,  mental  confusion  and  sometimes 
nuchal rigidity. In children gastrointestinal pain and vomiting can be dominant initial symptoms and 
convulsions are very common. JE may present as a mild or moderate disease leading to an uneventful 
recovery  or  may  rapidly  progress  to  severe  encephalitis  with  mental  disturbances  (e.g.  confusion), 
general or focal neurological abnormalities (such as paralysis, movement disorders, abnormal posture, 
seizures) and coma. Out of the approximately annual 50,000 cases of JE more than 10,000 end fatally, 
and  about  15,000  survivors  are  left  with  neurological  and/or  psychiatric  sequelae  requiring 
rehabilitation and continued care.  
The overall risk of JE for travellers to endemic areas is considered rather low and was calculated to be 
about 1:5,000 to 1:20,000 per week. However, the risk may significantly increase when travelling in 
rural  destinations  and  during  the  season  of  enhanced  transmission  (mostly  May  to  September).  The 
CDC reviewed cases of JE among expatriates and travellers that occurred during 1978–1992. From a 
total of 24 cases outcome information was available for 15 patients, of whom 6 died, 5 were listed as 
disabled,  and  4  recovered.  Only  2  of  these  24  patients  were  tourists;  the  other  patients  were  doing 
research  or  medical  relief  work  or  were  soldiers.  Further  cases  of  JE  were  reported  from  tourists 
visiting Bali, Indonesia or Thailand.  
The immune response to JEV infection has not been fully characterized, and both humoral and cellular 
responses  may play a role. However, it is widely accepted that virus neutralizing antibodies provide 
the best evidence that protective immunity against JEV has been established. A linear titre-protection 
relationship has been demonstrated and data from efficacy studies in humans and animals corroborate 
the  role  of  neutralizing  antibodies  in  protection.  Monoclonal  antibodies  to  epitopes  on  the  envelope 
Ixiaro 
4//50 
 
 
 
  
 
 
glycoprotein both neutralize JEV in vitro and protect mice from lethal challenge. Murine studies have 
also demonstrated that protection can be mediated through either adoptive transfer of T-lymphocytes 
or  passive  administration  of  antisera  from  mice  infected  with  JEV.  Historically,  passive  transfer  of 
human post-infection sera to at-risk subjects was protective and correlated with detectable neutralizing 
antibodies in recipients. 
Vaccination against JE remains the most important strategy to prevent against JE disease worldwide. 
There is currently no medication treatment available for JE and thus pre-exposure protection against 
the disease is essential. Several first-generation, inactivated JE vaccines have been produced by Japan, 
Korea,  Vietnam  and  other  national  manufacturers  for  decades,  mostly  using  mouse  brains  as  a 
substrate for growth of the virus. More recently, Chinese manufacturers have produced inactivated and 
live virus vaccines, predominantly using a primary hamster cell substrate. However, the use of these 
vaccines has predominantly remained limited to domestic supply in these Asian countries. 
The  formalin-inactivated,  mouse  brain  derived  vaccine  JE-VAX  (virus  strain Nakayama-NIH)  is  the 
only JE vaccine in routine use outside Asia and is currently licensed in the USA, Canada, Israel and 
Australia  for  the  vaccination  of  travellers  and  military  personnel  against  JE.  Throughout  the  EU  no 
vaccine  against  JE  has  been  authorized  and  prophylaxis  for  travellers  from  the  EU  to  JE  endemic 
countries is commonly achieved by vaccination with JE-VAX. It is of note that the production of JE-
VAX has been discontinued in 2007 and that exhaustion of existing stocks is therefore conceivable. 
IXIARO  is  indicated  for  active  immunization  against  Japanese  encephalitis  for  adults.    IXIARO 
should be considered for use in individuals at risk of exposure through travel or in the course of their 
occupation. 
 Two  intramuscular  immunisations  of  the  vaccine  given  four  weeks  apart  are  intended  to  achieve 
optimal protection against JE. At current, no information on potential booster doses is available.  
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
IXIARO is an inactivated whole virus vaccine for active immunisation against Japanese encephalitis 
(JE). The vaccine has been designed to elicit the generation of neutralizing antibodies that have been 
implicated in conferring protection against JE. Vaccine production is based on the neuro-attenuated JE 
virus strain SA14-14-2 propagated in Vero cells. Virus harvests are purified, formalin inactivated and 
adsorbed to aluminium hydroxide. The vaccine is presented as a ready-to-use suspension for injection 
in a single-dose pre-filled syringe. Each dose of 0.5 ml (extractable volume set to ≥ 0.57 ml) contains 
JEV target total protein concentration of 6µg that corresponds to a potency of ≤ 460 ng ED50, adsorbed 
to 0.1% aluminium hydroxide. The vaccine is stored at 2°C-8°C and the manufacturer has proposed a 
preliminary shelf life period of 12 months. 
Active Substance 
The  active  substance  of  IXIARO  is  a  sterile  solution  containing  purified,  inactivated  Japanese 
Encephalitis  whole  virus,  which  has  been  propagated  in  Vero  cells.  The  non  adjuvanted  active 
substance bulk solution is clear and colourless with a pH of 7.5. 
•  Manufacture 
Manufacturing Process and Process Controls 
The manufacturing process of the active substance bulk can be divided into the following steps: 
(cid:131)  Virus propagation in Vero cells 
(cid:131)  Filtering, pooling and concentration of the harvest 
(cid:131)  Removal of Vero cell DNA  
(cid:131)  Purification via sucrose gradient centrifugation 
Ixiaro 
5//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Virus inactivation with formaldehyde  
(cid:131)  Neutralisation of the formaldehyde with sodium metabisulphite and sterile filtration 
A batch is defined by the volume of active substance obtained from the thawing of a specific number 
of  vials  of  Vero  Working  Cell  Bank,  which  are  then  expanded  in  cell  culture  and  infected  with  the 
appropriate amount of Working Virus Seed Bank material. The batch size is specified. 
Vero cells are used as substrate for the propagation of the attenuated Japanese encephalitis virus, strain 
SA14-14-2.  After  virus  inoculation  and  propagation,  virus  harvests  are  filtered,  pooled,  and 
concentrated.  The  concentrated  virus  pool  is  treated  with  protamine  sulphate  to  remove  Vero  cell 
DNA. The virus pool is then purified by centrifugation through a sucrose gradient. The purified virus 
material, a pool of sucrose gradient fractions from the centrifugation is inactivated with formaldehyde, 
and then neutralized. Following neutralization, the inactivated virus is sterile filtered through two 0.2 
μm filters. The active substance is processed immediately to Final Bulk Vaccine.  
The following steps have been identified as critical and have been used for validation studies:  
Infection of Vero cells with Working Virus Seed Bank 
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Reduction of host cell DNA  
(cid:131) 
(cid:131)  Sterile filtration  
Inactivation of virus by treatment with Formaldehyde 
The process development has been described from the developmental batches produced at the Walter 
Reed  Army  Institute  of  Research  (WRAIR),  USA  to  the  commercial  lots  produced  at  the  Intercell 
facilities  and  comparability  reports  have  been  provided.  The  equivalence  of  phase  III  and  the 
commercial production processes lots have been demonstrated. 
Cell substrate (cell banks) 
The Vero cell line, used as substrate, was originally derived from the kidney of a normal adult African 
green  monkey  in  Japan.  The  origin  and  the  establishment  of  the  current  Master  and  Working  Cell 
Banks are sufficiently documented. 
JE virus (origin and seed virus) 
Japanese  encephalitis  (JE)  virus  belongs  to  the  genus  Flavivirus  and  the  family  Flaviviridae.  The 
genome  of  JE,  like  other  flaviviruses,  is  a  positive-polarity  single-stranded  RNA  of  about  11  kb  in 
length, capped at the 5’ terminus but lacking a poly (A) tract at its 3’ end. JE particles are spherical 
enveloped viruses, about 50 nm in diameter. 
The  genomic  RNA  contains  one  long  open  reading  frame  encoding  three  structural  proteins  the 
envelope (E), capsid (C) and membrane (M, which is expressed as prM, precursor to M) proteins, at 
the 5’ end and seven non-structural proteins (NS1, NS2A, NS2B, NS3, NS4A, NS4B and NS5) at the 
3’  end.  The  structural  proteins  are  involved  in  the  majority of  the  biological  properties  of  the  virus, 
such as cell surface receptor binding and cell entry as well as invoking immunological responses (Ni 
and Barrett 1995). 
The  wild-type  parental  virus,  SA-14,  was  isolated  from  a  pool  of  Culex  pipiens  larvae  from  Xian, 
China, following 11 passages in mouse brain. The derivation of the strain SA14-14-2 was performed 
through an empirical process of serial passage performed in Beijing, China, in primary hamster kidney 
cells  (PHK)  and  was  given  the  strain  designation  SA14  clone  14-2    (also  designated  SA14-14-2).  No 
information  is  available  concerning  the  quality  of  the  animals,  cell  substrate,  reagents  or  facilities 
involved  in  the  attenuation  of  the  SA14  strain  in  China.  Following  a  risk  calculation  concerning  the 
possibility  of  TSE  contamination  during  the  attenuation  process  done  in  China  for  the  SA-14  virus 
strain the information provided by the Applicant was considered sufficient to justify the use of these 
materials.  
Ixiaro 
6//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At WRAIR, the SA14 clone 14-2 was first adapted to primary canine kidney (PDK) cells and then to 
Vero cells. The Master Virus Seed Bank was prepared at WRAIR under GMP conditions.  
The Working Virus Seed Bank  was established at Intercell Biomedical Ltd under GMP conditions.  
Virus propagation in Vero cells  
A  pooled  cell  suspension  is  divided  into  the  appropriate  number  of  cell  culture  containers  and 
incubated until virus is inoculated. Viral inoculation is done at a determined multiplicity of infection 
(MOI).  
 The virus harvests are filtered, pooled, and concentrated. 
Purification and filling 
The Vero Host cell nucleic acid from the concentrated harvest is removed and the batch is then further 
purified  by  centrifugation  in  a  sucrose  gradient.  This  purified  material,  is  then  inactivated  with 
formaldehyde.  Following  neutralization  of  the  formaldehyde,  the  inactivated  virus  is  sterile  filtered 
through  two 0.2  μm  filters.  The  filtered  active  substance  is  sampled  for  QC testing  and  then  further 
processed to final bulk vaccine. 
Control of Materials 
The following starting materials of biological origin are used in the production of the preparation of JE 
vaccine: JEV, strain SA14-14-2, Vero cell substrate, trypsin and foetal bovine serum.  
Other  raw  materials  and  cell  culture  reagents  have  been  used  during  the  establishment  of  the  MCB, 
WCB, MVSB, WVSB and during cell expansion, virus inoculation, harvest and concentration in the 
production process. In general, sufficiently detailed information has been provided on the source and 
control  of  the  starting  material  of  biological  origin  and  other  raw  materials.  Intercell’s  analytical 
methods used to test the raw materials include pH testing of the active substance, testing of osmolality 
using a calibrated osmometer, testing for the amount of endotoxin by kinetic chromogenic assay (Ph. 
Eur. 2.6.14 (Method D)) and determination of cell growth of the Vero cell line. The levels of residuals 
are also determined.  
Control of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
Suitable in-process controls are included throughout the cell culture, virus propagation, virus harvests 
and purification process steps.  
Process validation and/or evaluation 
Process  validation  and  evaluation  have  been  conducted  for  the  upstream  (virus  propagation)  and 
downstream processes, which include harvest filtration, pooling and concentration of the harvest, virus 
purification and inactivation and active substance sterile filtration.  
In  addition  to  an  evaluation  of  the  process  consistency  from  the  three  consistency  batches,  specific 
studies  have  been  undertaken  with  respect  to  validation  of  critical  steps  in  order  to  demonstrate  the 
suitability  and  the  efficiency  of  these  steps,  which  are  (1)  Infection  of  the  Vero  cells  with  Working 
Virus Seed Bank; (2) The reduction of host cell DNA; (3) The inactivation of virus by treatment with 
Formaldehyde  (including  plaque  assay  for  detection  of  live  virus)  and  (4)  Active  substance  sterile 
filtration. to demonstrate the suitability and the efficiency of these steps. Some of these studies are still 
on going and are to be reported as follow up measures. 
Manufacturing Process Development 
The Japanese encephalitis (JE) whole virus vaccine has been developed at, and initially manufactured 
by Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR), Forest Glen, MD, USA, (lots for Phase 1 and 
Phase  2  studies).  Intercell  sublicensed  the  rights  to  manufacture  the  vaccine  from  VaccGen 
International LLC, USA and transferred the process from WRAIR to Intercell’s manufacturing facility 
in Livingston, Scotland. Phase 3 clinical materials were prepared in this facility. The manufacture of 
Ixiaro 
7//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  commercial  active  substance  is  also  carried  out  in  this  facility,  but  in  new  clean  rooms.  Several 
important changes have been performed between the WRAIR production process and the Phase 3 and 
Commercial Process.  
A Comparability Protocol was developed to evaluate the comparability of the manufacturing processes 
conducted  at  the  WRAIR  and  Intercell  facilities  and  the  equivalence  of  vaccine  manufactured  for 
Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials and pivotal Phase 3 studies. Vaccine lots evaluated for the purposes of this 
protocol  include  the  Phase  2  WRAIR  lot  (historical  data  only),  small-scale  lots  manufactured  at 
WRAIR  and  Intercell  during  process  transfer,  and  five  consecutive  large-scale  lots  manufactured  at 
Intercell, three of which were evaluated in Phase 3 studies. The commercial manufacturing process for 
the Active substance remains largely the same as the process used for manufacture of Phase 3 clinical 
trial material. 
Comparability has been demonstrated for many of the parameters used to compare the WRAIR (Phase 
2  &  3  material)  with  the  Intercell  (Phase  3  material)  and  comparability  reports  have  been  provided. 
Possible impurities are adequately controlled by in-process controls or at the level of active substance 
release testing. 
Characterisation 
The identity of the JE vaccine virus strain was performed by PCR sequence analysis, by SDS-PAGE , 
Peptide Mass Fingerprinting and morphology by electron microscopy.  
In the literature, the molecular differences in the genomes of the virulent SA-14 and attenuated strain 
SA14-14-2 (the precursor strain to the present JE vaccine virus strain, adapted to growth in primary dog 
kidney  cells)  were  determined.  Forty-five  nucleotide  differences,  resulting  in  15  amino  acid 
substitutions,  were  detected  by  comparing  sequences  of  the  SA-14  and  strain  SA14-14-2  genomes. 
PCR  analysis  of  a  specific  region  of  the  Japanese  encephalitis  virus  was  performed  on  the  Master 
Virus Seed Bank (MVSB) and on the current Working Virus Seed Bank (WVSB). 
Peptide Mass Fingerprinting was used both to confirm the identity of the 3 major bands seen on SDS-
PAGE  of  the  JEV  proteome,  and  to  detect  and  characterize  distinctive  tryptic  peptides  of  the 
attenuated strain SA14-14-2 JEV strain. 
The Electron Micrograph structure of the JE virus from SA14-14-2 Virus Seed banks and preparations 
of the active substance shows the spherical nature and that virus particles have dimensions between 40 
and 60 nm in diameter. 
Aggregation  status  of  JEV  samples,  sucrose  gradient  purified  (SGP)  material  and  neutralised 
inactivated virus material (NIV), was further determined using Size Exclusion Chromatography with a 
Multi Angle Light Scattering (SEC-MALS) detection method. 
Impurities 
Impurities include substrate, virus and production process-related impurities. 
Impurities  derived  from  the  manufacturing  process,  i.e.  from  the  virus  (JEV  WVSB),  cell  substrate 
(host cell DNA, host cell protein, the cell culture media components, bovine serum) and residual from 
the production process (i.e. protamine sulphate, sucrose, formaldehyde, sodium metabisulphite) were 
examined  by  the  Applicant.  Process-related  impurities  also  consist  of  potential  contaminants  (viral, 
mycoplasma,  other  microbial  contaminants  and  TSE  agents).  The  Applicant  has  supplied  either 
adequate documentation or risk assessment for the reagents of animal origin used in production, when 
it  comes  to  TSE  agent  contamination,  concerning  production  in  the  United  States  or  at  Intercell  in 
Europe. Information concerning the reagents and cell substrates used in China for attenuation of the 
wild virus is not available.  
The Applicant also presented data on active substance-related impurities such as potential degradation 
products that could arise during manufacture and/or storage, including truncated viral forms, modified 
viral forms, non-inactivated virus and viral aggregates. 
Ixiaro 
8//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Specification 
The proposed testing protocol for the active substance bulk includes test methods for the appearance 
of  the  active  substance  solution,  pH,  sterility,  protein  content  and  JEV  specific  antigen  content  in 
addition to tests for residuals such as sucrose, formaldehyde,  bovine serum albumin, host cell DNA 
and  sodium  metabisulphite.  The  Plaque  assay  is  also  included  in  order  to  detect  potential  residual 
infectious JE virus 
The active substance content is controlled using the assay for total protein and a specific ELISA for 
JEV antigen. From both of these parameters, the specific activity in the active substance is calculated. 
These parameters have been implemented for active substance release testing. 
As an interim antigen content-indicating parameter the measurement of the total protein concentration 
of  the  Active  substance  was  performed.  However,  this  method  was  not  specific  for  the  JE  viral 
antigens. As requested, a quantitative ELISA for identification and quantification of JEV in the single 
virus  harvest  has  been  developed  and  validation  data  demonstrated  the  suitability  of  this  assay.  An 
ELISA  method  was  also  developed  to  determine  the  JEV  specific  antigen  content  in  the  inactivated 
active substance and formulation of vaccine batches to be produced from 2009 will be based on this 
parameter.  It  could  be  demonstrated  that  this  ELISA  method  is  also  capable  of  demonstrating  the 
identity  of  JEV  in  final  vaccine  lots  in  addition  to  being  able  to  discriminate  between  JEV  and 
flaviviruses from distantly related serocomplexes (i.e. Tick-borne Encephalitis Virus) and from closely 
related representatives from the same serocomplex (i.e. West Nile Virus). 
Container Closure System 
The  Active  substance  is  sterile  filtered  (2  x  0.2  μm  filters)  into  a  Stedim  50-L  Flexboy  bag  before 
further processing. Information is provided on the manufacturer of the container closure system and its 
suitability  with  regards  to  mechanical,  permeability,  compatibility  and  extractables.  Results  from 
stability studies do not raise concerns regarding the container active substance compatibility. 
•  Stability 
Since there are no specific stability data available to support the initial proposal for a 24 hours storage 
time at room temperature, formulation of the medicinal product will be done immediately after sterile 
filtration of active substance.  
Medicinal Product 
The vaccine is presented as a ready-to-use suspension for injection in a single-dose pre-filled syringe. 
Each 0.5 ml (extractable volume set to ≥ 0.57 ml) dose contains a target total protein amount of 6 µg 
corresponding to a potency of ≤ 460 ng ED50. The composition of a final dose is depicted in the table 
below: 
Composition of IXIARO per dose 
Component 
Quantity per dose  
(0.5-mL) 
Function 
Reference to standards 
Active substance 
JE-PIV (Japanese 
Encephalitis - purified 
inactivated virus) 
6.0 µg ± 1.2 µg (*) 
(Total protein) 
corresponding to a 
Potency ≤ 460 ng ED50 
Ixiaro 
9//50 
Antigen 
In-house specifications 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
Aluminium hydroxide, 
hydrated 
Phosphate Buffered 
Saline (PBS) (***) 
0.1 % (vol/vol) (**) 
Adsorbent/adjuvant 
Ph. Eur. 
to 0.57 mL (****) 
pH buffering 
agent/Active substance 
solvent 
In-house specifications  
(*) the total protein concentration is derived from the total protein concentration of the Active substance and the 
batch formula of the Final Bulk Vaccine, i.e. as 0.95 x total protein concentration of the Active substance. 
(**) corresponding to approximately 0.25 mg Al3+ 
(***) PBS 0.0067 M (PO4) 
(****) extractable volume 
The vaccine does not contain any preservative or antibiotics. In addition to the components listed in 
the  table,  each  dose  of  vaccine  contains  trace  amounts  of  residual  Vero  cell  protein,  sucrose, 
formaldehyde, protamine sulphate and sodium metabisulphite. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
IXIARO was initially developed and manufactured by WRAIR. Although the first GMP lot produced 
at WRAIR contained preservative (thiomersal), subsequent lots produced during product development 
and the commercial lots do not contain any preservative. Two clinical lots of IXIARO, filled in vials 
were  produced  at  WRAIR  for  vaccinating  human  volunteers  in  Phase  1  and  Phase  2  studies    After 
transfer of the process from WRAIR to Intercell’s manufacturing facility in Livingston, UK, Phase 3 
clinical materials (Active substance and Final Bulk Vaccine) were prepared in the Livingston facility. 
Final filling into single dose syringes and packaging of the Phase 3 material was performed at Nova 
Laboratories (Wigston, Leicester, UK). The Final medicinal product bulk from the commercial scale 
production process is produced at Intercell Biomedical Limited, Livingston UK but filled into single 
dose syringes and packaged at Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH & Co. KG, Ravensburg, Germany. 
The  Active  substance  is  adsorbed  onto  0.1%  hydrated  aluminium  hydroxide.  In  initial  formulation 
studies  employing  experimental  vaccine  batches,  it  was  shown  that  adsorption  of  the  purified 
inactivated JEV onto aluminium hydroxide occurred instantly with 88% of the antigen bound within 
10 minutes and about 93% at 4 hours. Formulation of the commercial vaccine lots is in principle the 
same  as  formulation  of  the  Phase  3  lots,  which  in  turn  is  similar  to  the  Phase  2  lots  produced  by 
WRAIR.  In  the  course  of  product  development,  the  adsorption  process  has  been  scaled  up  and  the 
mixing  procedure  has  been  improved.  The  supplier  of  aluminium  hydroxide  has  also  been  changed. 
Satisfactory  information  confirming  the  robustness  and  consistency  of  adsorption  procedure  chosen 
for the commercial product was gained by determining the adsorption rates of clinical consistency and 
commercial batches. 
A Comparability Protocol to evaluate the comparability of the manufacturing processes conducted at 
the WRAIR and Intercell facilities and the equivalence of vaccine manufactured for Phase 2 clinical 
trials  and  pivotal  Phase  3  studies  has  been  provided.  Intercell  has  initiated  commercial  scale 
manufacture of IXIARO Final medicinal product bulk in a new set of purpose-designed clean rooms 
entirely  within  the  same  manufacturing  building  at  Livingston.  This  material  is  filled  by  a  different 
Contract Manufacturer than was used for the Phase 3 clinical material. The filling is performed using 
an  automated  system  at  approximately  5-fold  larger  scale  than  was  used  for  filling  the  clinical  trial 
lots. The differences between the automated commercial filling process and the manual Phase 3 filling 
process have been outlined by the Applicant. Changes between Phase 3 manufacture and commercial 
Ixiaro 
10//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manufacture,  including  the  change  of  aluminium  hydroxide  supplier  and  filling  at  a  new  contract 
manufacturer, have been assessed and are considered to be satisfactory. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Vero cells are used as substrate to propagate Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus using strain SA14-14-2 
Working Viral Seed produced at Intercell Biomedical Ltd., Scotland, UK.  
The history of the establishment of the current JE Virus Seed Banks and current Vero Cell Banks are 
provided.  Briefly,  the  virus  strain  SA14,  isolated  from  a  pool  of  Culex  pipiens  larvae  following 
passages in mouse brain, was passaged in suckling mice and in primary hamster kidney (PHK) cells in 
China.  Unfortunately, no information is available any longer on biological materials used during all 
these early passages in China. 
The CHMP acknowledged that a live viral vaccine using the attenuated strain SA14-14-2 is currently 
on the market in China and has been given to several million people. However, since the prevalence of 
BSE  or  TSE  related  disease  is  not  known  in  China,  it  is  not  possible  to  determine  if  the  live  viral 
vaccine has been associated with any possible TSE related disease in the areas where it has been used. 
During  the  procedure,  the  Applicant  provided  pertinent  certificates  and  additional  information 
regarding  the  TSE  risk  assessments  of  the  virus  seeds  and  cell  banks  employed  for  manufacturing, 
which was considered sufficient to justifying their use.  
The Applicant has provided information on the cells used by WRAIR to adapt the virus strain SA14-
14-2 to grow in Vero cells and for the production of their master and working cell banks which have 
been used to produce the current working cell bank at Intercell. Information has also been given for 
the materials of biological origin used to produce both the virus seeds and the cell banks used. 
Information on the biological materials used during the manufacturing process of IXIARO as reagents 
and media are presented and biological material derived for TSE-relevant animal species used during 
the  manufacturing  process  are  given.  Information  regarding  compliance  with  TSE  guidelines 
concerning packaging, filters and tubing from the manufacturing process is also provided. 
Overall,  sufficient  information  has  been  submitted  to  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  CHMP  TSE 
NfG. The risk of transmitting TSE by IXIARO is considered very remote. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  following  sites  are  involved  in  the  manufacturing:  for  IXIARO  Intercell  Biomedical  Limited, 
Livingston,  UK  (formulation),  Brenntag  Nordic,  Frederikssund,  Denmark  (manufacture  of  the 
aluminum  hydroxide),  Vetter  Pharma-Fertigung  GmbH  &  Co.  KG,  Schützenstrasse,  Ravensburg, 
Germany (aseptic filling), Vetter Pharma-Fertigung  GmbH & Co. KG , Holbeinstrasse, Ravensburg, 
Germany  or  alternatively  Vetter  Pharma-Fertigung  GmbH  &  Co.  KG  ,  Mooswiesen,  Ravensburg, 
Germany  (labelling,  packaging  and  storage).  All  manufacturing  sites  have  been  found  to  be  in 
compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements. 
Following  adsorption  of  the  active  substance  onto  aluminium  hydroxide,  the  final  bulk  is  stored  at 
Intercell Biomedical Limited until shipment to the filling plant Vetter Pharma-Fertigung GmbH & Co. 
KG, Germany. The final bulk vaccine is mixed continually during the filling process, and the product 
is dispensed into sterile single dose syringes which are automatically closed with sterile plungers by 
the filling machine.  
The  medicinal  product  is  supplied  as  a  sterile  product  and  the  formulation  does  not  contain  any 
preservative. A sterility test is carried out on the Final Bulk Vaccine and on the Final Vaccine Lot, as 
part of release testing. 
Ixiaro 
11//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  integrity  of  the  container/closure  system  was  verified  and  integrity  was  also  determined  during 
stability testing when sterility tests were performed on samples during and at the end of the stability 
study. To date, all results from sterility testing have met the specification confirming integrity of the 
container closure system. 
•  Product Specification 
Release  test  methods  and  specifications  for  the  Final  Vaccine  Lot  include  a  test  for  identity, 
appearance,  pH  and  extractable  volume.  Moreover  the  tests  for  sterility,  bacterial  endotoxins, 
pyrogenicity, general safety and free formaldehyde content are done according to Ph.Eur. A suitable 
Potency test is included as well as a test for residual aluminium and a test for degree of adsorption. 
A  method  for  JEV  identity  determination  in  the  adsorbed  medicinal  product  has  been  developed, 
where the JEV antigen is first desorbed from the aluminium hydroxide by incubation with a specific 
buffer and the released antigen is subsequently measured by a validated JEV ELISA. The Applicant 
has committed to conduct pyrogenicity testing until enough information is available to confirm that the 
bacterial endotoxin assay can be used as the release test. A test for residual formaldehyde on the final 
product has also been introduced to the medicinal product specifications. 
To improve the potency determination for the medicinal product, a 2nd generation potency assay has 
been  implemented  by  further  development  of  the  original  1st  generation  assay.  The  preliminary 
potency specification is based on the 2nd generation potency assay and has been set at “not more than 
460 ng ED50/dose”.  
•  Stability of the Product 
During  the  course  of  the  licensing  procedure  the  stability  testing  programme  has  been  adapted  to 
include  not  only  appearance,  pH,  aluminium,  potency,  degree  of  adsorption,  sterility  and  bacterial 
endotoxins  but  also  specific  activity  determination.  Satisfactory  stability  data  from 
three 
manufacturing consistency batches stored at 5 ± 3° C are available for both the final bulk and the final 
vaccine  lot.  Supportive  data  are  provided  from  stability  of  Phase  3  clinical  batches.  From  the  data 
submitted, the preliminary shelf life of 12 month period of validity for the final vaccine lot, and a 6 
month period of validity for the final medicinal product bulk is considered acceptable. The preliminary 
shelf  life  assignment,  however,  has  to  be  substantiated  and  to  be  regularly  adjusted  on  the  basis  of 
upcoming  results  from 
includes  potency 
determination  using  the  2nd  generation  potency  assay.  Corresponding  commitments  have  been 
included in the table of follow-up measures. 
testing  programme  which 
improved  stability 
the 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  the  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  medicinal 
product  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  Results  from  the  tests  carried  out  indicate 
satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance clinically.  
At  the  time  of  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  a  number  of  minor  unresolved  quality  issues  that  had  no 
impact on the risk benefit balance of the product. The Applicant provided a Letter of Undertaking in 
which he committed to resolve these issues as follow-up measures within an agreed timeframe after 
the opinion. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  preclinical  toxicity  data  package  for  IXIARO  includes  one  formal  GLP  developmental  and 
reproductive  toxicity  study  performed  and  submitted.  Pharmacological  data  submitted  in  support  of 
IXIARO  licensure  are  limited  to  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies.  This  reduced  testing  approach 
Ixiaro 
12//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  justified  by  the  Applicant  and  agreed  by  the  EMEA  as  part  of  a  formal  Scientific  Advice 
procedure (EMEA/CHMP/ SAWP/146087/2005).  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Pharmacodynamic studies performed with IXIARO include immunogenicity studies in mice, rats and 
rabbits; and also the active-, passive- and heterologous-protection studies against lethal challenge with 
JEV in mice. With the exception of a WRAIR’s mice protection study using early batches (Lot #0574, 
#0475)  of  decreased  potency,  all  pharmacological  studies  used  vaccine  lots  manufactured  using 
Intercell’s  process,  as  were  used  in  the  developmental  toxicity  study  as  well  as  the  phase  3  clinical 
trials. 
Detailed information on the studies and respective vaccine batches is summarized in Table 1. 
Table 1: Overview of Pharmacology Studies  
Type of Study  
Species   IXIARO 
Lot Number  
IXIARO 
Route + Dose + Test Criteria  
Compliance 
Status  
QC Tests performed for Batch Release  
Potency  
(PRNT assay*)  
Mouse   Lot # 0475  
Lot # 0574  
Lot # 0737  
ICB05/501  
ICB05/502 
ICB05/503  
(All lots)  
Pharmacodynamic Studies  
Immunogenicity  
Rat  
D51029p1c  
Immunogenicity  
Rabbit  
D51029p1c  
(WRAIR)  
Active protection  
Mouse   Lot # 0475  
Lot # 0574  
Mouse  
ICB/05-501 
(USAMC-
AFRIMS)  
Active protection  
heterologous 
Protection  
Two s.c injections on day 0 and day 
28  
0.2 mL of IXIARO serial dilutions  
Neutralizing Ab titres by PRNT on 
Day 42  
GMP  
Four i.m. injections on days 0, 14, 28, 
and 42.  
6 µg / 0.5mL IXIARO  
Neutralizing Ab titres by PRNT (day 
21, 35, 49, 65)  
Four i.m. injections on days 0, 14, 28, 
and 42.  
6 µg / 0.5ml IXIARO  
Neutralizing Ab titres by PRNT (day 
21, 35, 49, 65)  
N/A  
(GLP facility)  
N/A  
(GLP facility)  
N/A  
N/A  
IXIARO serial dilutions on day 0 and 
day 14.  
Challenge with JEV SA14 (800 
LD
i.p). on day 28  
50
Survival for further 21 days  
Two i.p injections on day 0 and day 
14.  
170 µl of either IXIARO, JE-VAX or 
adjuvant  
Challenge on day 21 with JEV SA14 
or JEV Beijing  
Neutralizing Ab titres by PRNT on 
day 21 (challenge day)  
Survival for further 21 days  
In  addition  to  the  immunogenicity  studies  in  mice  using  different  batches  of  IXIARO  as  part  of 
Quality  Control  Batch  Release  Test,  an  immunogenicity  study  was  carried  out  in  female  rats  and 
rabbits  to  evaluate  whether  these  species  were  suitably  responsive  to  IXIARO  after  4  intramuscular 
injections given 2 weeks apart. Results showed that vaccination with IXIARO induced high levels of 
Ixiaro 
13//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JEV-specific neutralizing antibodies in all animals, with peak levels measured at day 35. There was no 
significant difference between rats and rabbits. 
A  challenge  study  (PN05-05/03)  was  conducted  in  mice  to  determine  vaccine-induced  active 
(heterologous)-protective  efficacy  against  JE  viruses.  JE-VAX  (BIKEN  JE-VAX)  was  used  as 
comparator. 
The experiment was divided into 2 parts: Part 1 (PN05-05/03-1; homologous challenge with 1000 PFU 
SA14)  and  Part  2  (PN05-05/03-2;  heterologous  challenge  with  500  PFU  Beijing-1  strain:  genotype 
III).  Groups  of  10  female  ICR  mice  (6-7-week  old)  were  immunized  with  170µl  of  varying 
concentrations of the vaccine via intraperitoneal (IP) injection on day 0 and day 14. Approximately 7 
days later (on day 21), mice were challenged intraperitoneally with 100µl of virus. 
For SA14 challenge, the effective dose 50 (ED50) for IXIARO was 4.7 ng (95% confidence interval: 
2.6 – 8.3 ng) and ED50 for JE-VAX was 14.2 ng (95% confidence interval: 7.4 – 26.3ng). These results 
show  that  vaccination  with  both  IXIARO  and  JE-VAX  provide  dose-dependent  protection  against 
lethal challenge with SA14. 
Serum  samples  analyzed  by  PRNT50  assay  on  challenging  day  demonstrated  a  dose-dependent 
relationship  between  vaccine  doses  and  neutralizing  antibody  titre  in  both  IXIARO  and  JE-VAX 
treatment  groups.  Furthermore,  comparison  of  GMT  titres  and  survival  demonstrated  a  direct 
relationship between the antibody titre and survival of mice. 
For  mice  challenged  with  Beijing-1  strain,  only  20%  control  mice  developed  disease  or  died. 
Nonetheless,  mice  vaccinated  with  IXIARO  or  JE-VAX  showed  a  statistically  significant  treatment 
trend,  and  immunization  with  higher  dose  of  vaccine  resulted  in  greater  protection  against 
heterologous challenge. 
A  passive  transfer  study  with  human  immune  sera  (PN05-05/04)  was  conducted  in  mice  to  test 
protection and to correlate protection with in vitro PRNT50 titres measured at Intercell. 
Human  immune  sera  were  prepared  from  vaccinees  enrolled  in  IC51-301  phase  III  trial,  where 
subjects received either 2 immunizations (days 0 and 28) with IXIARO vaccine or 3 doses (days 0, 7 
and 28) of JE-VAX. Sera collected on day 28 (IXIARO only) and day 56 post vaccination were pooled 
for actual antibody titres measured by the validated PRNT50 test at Intercell. 
For  this  passive  transfer  study,  sera  from  IXIARO  vaccinees  were  pooled  into  4  batches:  high  titre 
(214), medium titre (43), low titre (21), and negative titre (inputed to 5). Similarly, sera from JE-VAX 
vaccinees were also pooled (55) as positive control. The experiment was divided into 2 parts: Part 1 
(PN05-05/04-1: homologous challenge with 1000 PFU SA14) and Part 2 (PN05-05/04-2: heterologous 
challenge with 4000 PFU KE-093; genotype I). 
Groups of 10 female ICR mice (6-7-week old) received human antisera in 0.5 ml via intraperitoneal 
injection and were then challenged intraperitoneally 17 to 18 hours later with a lethal dose of either 
SA14  or  KE-093  strain.  Challenged  mice  were  observed  for  20  days  as  described  in  Study  PN05-
05/03. 
Blood  samples  were  collected  just  before  challenging  and  on  day  21  for  PRNT50  antibody  titres 
measured at Intercell. 
A statistically significant treatment trend was detected for mice pretreated with JEV positive immune 
serum.  The  highest  titered  serum  tested  (107.5)  rescued  9  of  10  mice  upon  challenge  with  the 
homologous strain SA14, with 60, 40, 30 and 0% survival observed in the next four treatment groups 
of  input  PRNT50  titres  21.5,  21.4,  10.5  and  4.3  respectively.  In  the  challenge  experiment  with  the 
heterologous KE-093 strain, a statistically significant treatment trend was detected for mice pretreated 
with IXIARO antisera.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No secondary pharmacodynamics studies were performed with IXIARO. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No safety pharmacology studies were performed with IXIARO. 
No cardiotoxic or respiratory specific risks were identified when IXIARO was administered as single 
or multiple doses in the immunogenicity studies in mice, rats and rabbits or in the rat pre- and post-
natal development study. Thus the ommision of further safety pharmacology studies was considered 
justified. 
Ixiaro 
14//50 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were performed with IXIARO. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Experimental studies to demonstrate absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of the active 
ingredients in IXIARO have not been performed. This is in line with guideline CPMP/SWP/465/95. 
Toxicology 
The overall toxicology data package for IXIARO is limited to one formal toxicology study, namely, a 
pre-  and  post-natal  toxicity  study  in  rats,  which  was  a  pivotal  GLP  study.  Animal  tests  performed 
during QC testing for batch release can give useful information on tolerability of IXIARO, however, 
they  are  not  toxicity  studies  per  se.  An  overview  of  toxicology  studies  performed  with  IXIARO  is 
presented in Table 2. 
Table 2: Overview of Toxicology Studies  
Type of Study  
Species  
IXIARO 
Lot No  
Single dose - QC Tests performed for Batch Release  
General Safety Test (21CFR 
610.11 and EP 2.6.9)  
All lots  
Mouse  
IXIARO 
Route + Dose  
Single i.p. injection  
0.5 mL IXIARO  
General Safety Test (21CFR 
610.11 and EP 2.6.9)  
Guinea 
Pig  
All lots  
Single i.p. injection  
5.0 mL IXIARO  
Compliance 
Status  
GMP  
GMP  
Toxicology Studies  
Pre- / post-natal 
developmental toxicity  
Rat  
ICB05/501  Two (day -7 before mating, day 6 after 
GLP  
mating) or 
Three (day -21, day -7 before mating, 
day 6 after mating) i.m. injections.  
6 µg/0.5mL of IXIARO  
Neutralizing Ab titers by PRNT50 (day 
21, 35, 49, 65)  
•  Single dose toxicity 
No  formal  single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  performed  with  IXIARO.  However,  single  doses  of 
IXIARO were tested in mice and guinea pigs in a general safety test performed as part of the routine 
Quality  Control  tests  for  batch  release  of  the  medicinal  product,  and  no  overt  signs  of  ill  health  or 
weight loss was observed during the test period. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
No formal repeat-dose toxicity studies were performed with IXIARO. However, the effects of multiple 
IXIARO doses were investigated in the primary pharmacodynamics (immunogenicity) studies in rats 
and  rabbits,  as  well  as  in  the  pre-  and  post-natal  development  study  performed  in  rats  according  to 
GLP. The study included histopathological evaluations. 
•  Genotoxicity 
No  genotoxicity  studies  were  conducted  which  is  in  line  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Preclinical 
pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95) 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were conducted which is in line with the Note for Guidance on Preclinical 
pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/95) 
Ixiaro 
15//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
A  formal  GLP-compliant  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  was  conducted  in  rats  for  the 
IXIARO  vaccine.  The  suitability  of  rats  as  a  model  was  demonstrated  in  previous  preliminary 
immunogenicity study. 
Groups  of  female  rats  (7  ~  7.5  week  old)  received  intramuscular  injections  of  either  IXIARO  (Lot 
number: ICB05/501; 6 µg/0.5 ml) or placebo control (0.1% alum/PBS) with two vaccine schedules: 
Vaccine I group and placebo control group: 3 injections at 14-day intervals, at 3 weeks (=day -21) and 
1 week (=day -7) before mating, and on day 6 of gestation (= the start of organogenesis); 
Vaccine II group: 2 injections at 14-day intervals, at 1 week (=day -7) before mating and on day 6 of 
gestation (= the start of organogenesis). 
This  design  is  based  on  the  antibody  profile  of  previous  immunogenicity  study  and  expected  to 
coordinate the time of mating or gestation with low and high maternal PRNT50 titres, thereby allowing 
to evaluate the effects of IXIARO vaccine on fertility and embryo-fetal development.  
Based  on  examination  of  all  adult  females/each  group  no  clinical  observations,  or  haematology, 
clinical chemistry parameters and necropsy findings were noted that were attributed to treatment. On 
request,  a  histopathological  examination  was  later  performed  on  retained  samples  from  this  study, 
which encompassed all the major organs. The results indicated 4 females out of 20 that reared young 
to weaning, plus 4 that were not pregnant, in the vaccine II group (receiving 2 injections; one week 
before mating and on day 6 of gestation) had thymic atrophy, graded either minimal or focal minimal. 
The histological changes consisted of phagocytosis of cell debris in the cortex. Thymic atrophy was 
considered to be secondary to maternal stress. This finding was not observed in control or vaccine I 
group  animals.  There  were  no  histology  findings  in  other  organs  associated  with  administration  of 
IXIARO. 
With respects to foetal abnormalities, the only finding was an increase in the incidence of incomplete 
ossification in some parameters in the foetuses from females in the vaccine II group, as measured on 
Day  20  of  gestation.  These  included  incomplete  ossification  of  >4  skull  bones,  pubes,  ischia,  sacral 
vertebral  arches,  and  2nd  and/or  4th  metacarpals.  The  incidence  of  the  findings  noted  in  vaccine  II 
group (2 vaccinations) was higher than that in the concurrent control group and the vaccine I group (3 
vaccinations)  (which  were  also  within  the  historical  background  range)  and  up  to  approximately  3 
times  greater  than  the  highest  value  of  the  historical  control  ranges.  Statistical  significance  was 
attained only for the following parameters: >4 skull bones and ischia (p<0.05 using the Fisher’s Exact 
test).  The  increased  incidence  of  incomplete  ossification  was  generally  due  to  an  increase  in  the 
number  of  foetuses  affected  within  the  litter  for  pubis  and  sacral  vertebral  arches,  but  for  the  other 
parameters (including those which attained statistical significance) the number of litters affected was 
increased. In addition, incomplete ossification of skull bones is not an uncommon finding but to find 
>4  skull  bones  with  incomplete  ossification  denotes  an  increase  in  severity  and  incidence  of  effect: 
incomplete ossification of >4 skull bones is usually not common. Examinations of the bone structure 
during the postnatal period were not performed.   
•  Local tolerance  
No separate study was performed for local tolerance. The effects of multiple IXIARO doses given by 
intramuscular injection were investigated in the immunogenicity studies in rats and rabbits as well as 
in the pre- and post-natal development study performed in rats. No concerns were raised with respect 
to local tolerance. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunogenicity described under pharmacology.  Other studies were not reported. 
Ixiaro 
16//50 
 
 
 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Development and manufacture of the Japanese encephalitis whole virus, purified, inactivated vaccine 
(the ancestor of IXIARO) has been initiated at the Pilot Production Facility, Department of Biologics 
Research, of the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR) in Forest Glen, USA. Two small 
scale lots that have been employed for clinical phase 1 (lot 0574) and phase 2 (lot 0737) studies have 
been  produced  at  the  WRAIR.  After  sublicensing,  the  manufacturing  process  was  transferred  to 
Intercell´s facility in Livingston, UK, where clinical phase 3 material and commercial final bulks have 
been produced.  
Clinical trial programme as conducted at the time of original dossier submission: 
Clinical trials: 
The  clinical  development  program  to  support  licensure  of  IXIARO  consists  of  9  studies  in  which 
approx.  4,700  subjects  were  enrolled  and  vaccinated.  Two  clinical  studies  are  ongoing  and  interim 
results are available.  
- Dose and regimen finding studies conducted at WRAIR, 49 subjects included 
Studies WRAIR 763 and WRAIR815 
- Pivotal studies providing the most relevant data to the formulation intended for commercialisation in 
a total of 3550 subjects enrolled. 
IC51-301: To demonstrate non-inferiority of IXIARO against JE-VAX in terms of immunogenicity 
IC51-302: To compare the safety and tolerability of IXIARO against placebo. 
IC51-303: Follow-up to investigate persistence of immunogenicity up to 36 months 
- Studies providing supporting immunogenicity data  
IC51-309: To compare three different IXIARO batches 
IC51-308: To address the effect of co-vaccination with Havrix 1440 
- Additional safety data were available from the ongoing study 
IC51-304: To compare standard two dose regimen to single dose regimen (only blinded day 56 safety 
data were available at time of initial submission) 
IC51-305: long-term follow-up study to assess persistence of immunogenicity (only blinded 6-months 
safety data currently available) 
During the procedure the  Applicant has submitted results of clinical trial IC51-310 and clinical trial 
IC51-304.  IC51-310  was  a  phase  3  study  conducted  to  compare  three  commercial  vaccine  batches 
(consistency  batches;  IC51/07E/006A,  IC51/07E/007A,  IC51/07F/008A)  in  terms  of  efficacy  and 
safety in 389 subjects (18 years of age and older).  
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the Applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No  clinical  pharmacology  studies  describing  the  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  IXIARO  were 
conducted  in  support  of  this  application,  as  the  kinetic  properties  of  vaccines  do  not  provide  useful 
information  for  establishing  their  pharmacological  effects  or  adequate  dosing  recommendations.  No 
information  is  available  on  the  metabolism  or  excretion  of  IXIARO.  Pharmacokinetic  studies  for 
aluminium hydroxide are considered dispensable since this is a well known adjuvant substance.  
Ixiaro 
17//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamic  principles  of  vaccines  can  be  described  as  the  induction  of  a  qualitative  and 
quantitative  acceptable  immune  response  within  an  acceptable  time  frame  suitable  to  protect  from 
infection  with  the  wild-type  antigen.  Successful  achievement  of  an  anamnestic  immune  response  is 
controlled  by  measuring  surrogate  parameters  present  in  the  serum  of  vaccinees  like  antibody 
concentrations  (=antibody  titres)  or  cell  mediated  immune  responses.  Such  immunological  markers 
above  a  specific  threshold  might  serve  as  correlates  for  protection  against  JE.  Pharmacodynamic 
studies assessing the neutralizing antibody response to JEV were assessed in Phase I, II and III studies. 
The  mechanism  of  action  of  the  protective  immunity  conferred  by  IXIARO  has  not  been  fully 
characterized although it is known that protection is mediated by neutralizing antibodies. Apart from 
the  assessment  of  immunogenicity  (SCRs  and  GMTs  using  PRNT50),  no  clinical  studies  have  been 
conducted  on  the  mechanism  of  action  of  IXIARO.  Study  WRAIR  763  assessed  the  presence  of 
immunoglobulin (Ig) M and IgG using enzyme immunosorbent assays with limited success: 2 out of 
25  subjects  had  IgG  antibodies  (1  subject  who  received  0.4  µg  and  1 subject  who  received  2 µg 
IXIARO) and 1 out of 25 subjects had IgM antibodies (1 subject who received 2 µg IXIARO). 
Although  JE  vaccine  immunogenicity  studies  have  focused  on  antibodies  (and  predominantly  those 
directed against the E protein), cellular immune responses might also be important. It is possible that 
cellular  immune  responses  alone  might  confer  protection  in  seronegative  vaccinees.  Inactivated  JE 
vaccines  induce  both  JE-specific  and  flavivirus  cross-reactive  human  lymphocyte  antigen  restricted 
T-cells. CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell memory has been demonstrated by lymphoproliferation in response to 
JE antigens. Data on cell mediated immune responses to vaccination with IXIARO are not contained 
in  this  submission  but  analysis  of  cellular  immunity  using  peripheral  blood  mononuclear  cells 
(PBMCs)  will  be  performed  for  a  subset  of  subjects  enrolled  in  study  IC51-301.  Peripheral  blood 
mononuclear  cells  have  been  isolated  and  cryo-preserved.  Results  will  be  forwarded  to  the  agency 
upon availability. 
The detailed characterization of the immunological response to IXIARO is discussed below. 
Clinical efficacy  
The analysis of clinical efficacy is performed on the generally accepted principle that a neutralizing 
antibody  titre  of  ≥1:10  confers  protection  against  JEV  infection.  This  surrogate  marker  is  widely 
recognised  and  used  worldwide.  In  all  clinical  efficacy  studies  submitted  for  IXIARO  a  validated 
PRNT50 assay was used to evaluate efficacy and the IXIARO vaccine strain SA-14-14-2 was used in 
the  assay.  A  threshold  of  anti-JEV  neutralizing  antibody  concentration  of  ≥1:10  was  defined  as 
surrogate marker for seroconversion.  
An overview on studies performed to evaluate the efficacy of IXIARO is given in Table 3: 
Ixiaro 
18//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Summary of efficacy studies 
Study  
Overview of Study Design  
Pivotal Efficacy Study  
IC51-301  
Randomized, active-controlled, observer-
blind, non-inferiority (IXIARO vs. JE-
VAX), phase 3 study   
Supporting Studies  
WRAIR 763   Randomized, active (IXIARO)-controlled, 
single-blind, dose and schedule-finding, 
phase 1 study (IXIARO booster also given 
8-9 months after 1st dose in subset)  
WRAIR 815  Randomized, active-controlled (JE-VAX) 
open-label, dose and schedule-finding, 
phase 2 study 
IC51-3031
   Multi-centre, follow-up, phase 3 study  
IXIARO  
Dose and Regimen 
6 µg, Days 0 and 28  
0.4 µg, Days 0 and 28  
0.4 µg, Days 0, 7 and 28  
2 µg, Days 0 and 28  
2 µg, Days 0, 7 and 28  
6 µg, Days 0 and 28  
6 µg, Days 0, 14 and 28  
12 µg, Days 0 and 28 
Not applicable  
IC51-304  
IC51-3052 
IC51-308  
IC51-3093
IC51-310  
Randomized, active (IXIARO)-controlled, 
observer-blind, non-inferiority (1x 12 µg vs. 
2x 6 µg), phase 3 study  
6 µg, Days 0 and 28  
6 µg, Day 0  
12 µg (2x 6µg), Day 0  
Open-label, follow-up, phase 3 study 
(IXIARO booster given at month 11 and/or 
23 if PRNT negative)  
Not applicable  
Randomized, active-controlled, single-blind, 
non-inferiority (IXIARO+HAVRIX vs. 
IXIARO, and IXIARO+HAVRIX vs. 
HAVRIX), phase 3 study  
Randomized, active (IXIARO)-controlled, 
double-blind, equivalence (of 3 clinical 
IC51 batches), phase 3 study  
Randomized, active (IXIARO)-controlled, 
double-blind, equivalence (of 3 commercial 
IC51 batches), phase 3 study  
6 µg, Days 0 and 28  
6 µg, Days 0 and 28  
6 µg, Days 0 and 28  
No Subjects 
Randomized 
Status 
867  
Completed  
25  
Completed  
94  
Completed 
6 months: 3258 
12 months: 181 
Ongoing  
374  
Completed  
356  
Ongoing  
192  
Completed  
639  
Completed  
389  
Completed  
1 Included subjects who had completed treatment in studies IC51-301 and IC51-302. Up to 12-month data 
available. 
2 Included subjects who had completed treatment in study IC51-304 (6-month blinded safety data available). 
3 In a follow-up study, a booster vaccination will be given to 200 subjects at Month 15 after the first vaccination 
in study IC51-309; follow-up will be for 12 months (study IC51-311). 
•  Dose response studies 
Two  clinical  studies  (WRAIR  763  and  WRAIR  815)  were  performed  to  assess  the  dose-response 
relation. In addition alternative vaccination schedules were evaluated in study IC51-304. 
WRAIR 763: 
Healthy  adults  between  the  ages  of  18  and  49  years  were  randomized  equally  to  receive  one  of  the 
following treatment arms:  
•  Group 1: 6 subjects, 0.4µg IXIARO (0.5 ml) i.m. injection on Day 0 and 28, and placebo (vaccine 
diluent) i.m. injection on Day 7  
•  Group 2: 5 subjects, 0.4µg IXIARO (0.5 ml) i.m. injection on Day 0, 7 and 28  
•  Group  3:  7  subjects,  2µg  IXIARO  (0.5  ml)  i.m.  injection  on  Day  0  and  28,  and  placebo  i.m. 
injection on Day 7  
•  Group 4: 7 subjects, 2µg IXIARO (0.5 ml) i.m. injection on Day 0, 7 and 28  
Ixiaro 
19//50 
 
  
 
 
 
Blood samples were drawn at day 0 and 56.  
Two  subjects  were  not  eligible  for  the  per  protocol  population  as  they  had  received  influenza 
vaccination (1 subject in group 1 and 1 subject in group 2). Thirteen of the above subjects received a 
single booster vaccination 8 to 9 months after the primary vaccination series. 
Following  the  primary  immunisation  course  only  29  –  71%  of  the  subjects  had  seroconverted 
indicating an unsatisfactory immune response and an inappropriate dose range used.  
None of the 13 returning subjects had detectable specific neutralizing antibody prior to their booster 
dose.  Following  booster  injection,  12/13  (92%)  subjects  demonstrated  seroconversion  compared  to 
5/13  (38.5%)  of  these  subjects  at  Day  56  following  the  primary  vaccination  series.  There  was  an 
associated increase in GMT following booster injection compared with GMT at Day 56 following the 
primary vaccination series, with the exception of the highest dose group (cumulative dose 8.0µg). 
WRAIR 815: 
Subjects were randomized equally to receive one of the following treatment arms:  
•  Group 1: 6µg IXIARO (0.5 ml) i.m. injection on Days 0 and 28  
•  Group 2: 6µg IXIARO (0.5 ml) i.m. injection on Days 0, 14 and 28  
•  Group 3: 12µg IXIARO (1 ml) i.m. injection on Days 0 and 28  
•  Group 4: JE-VAX 1 ml subcutaneous injection on Days 0, 7 and 28  
A follow-up visit was scheduled at Day 56, with optional visits at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post dose 1 
for  assessments  of  immunogenicity.  Blood  samples  were  drawn  for  the  determination  of  SCR  and 
GMTs at days 0, 28, and 56 and for evaluation of antibody persistence at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post 
dose 1. 
Baseline characteristics showed that there were considerably more elderly women (9 male/15 female) 
and African Americans in group 2 as compared to the other three groups.  
The  primary  endpoint  was  percentage  of  subjects  with  anti-JEV  neutralizing  antibody  titres  ≥1:10 
(SCR) at Day 56. At Day 56, 74% of JE-VAX recipients had seroconverted, compared with 95-100% 
of subjects in the IXIARO groups. At Day 365, the seroconversion rate in each IXIARO group was 
100%, compared with a SCR of 55% in the JE-VAX group. A similar trend was evident at Day 720, as 
the SCR was >83.33-100% in the IXIARO groups compared with 66.67% in the JE-VAX group.  
At Day 56, GMT was highest in group 3 (two doses of 12µg IXIARO, 516.3) and lowest in group 4 
(JE-VAX, 128.3). In all groups, GMT was higher at Day 56 than at subsequent time points, and was 
generally higher in the IXIARO groups than the JE-VAX group from Day 56 onwards.  
Based on the results of these studies a regimen of 2 doses of 6µg was further evaluated in the pivotal 
efficacy study.  
Study IC51-304:  
Study  IC51-304  was  conducted  with  the  aim  of  investigating  alternative  vaccination  schedules,  in 
particular whether or not single doses of either 6µg or 12µg of IXIARO would be equivalent to two 
doses of 6µg given 28 days apart. 
The  purpose  of  the  primary  immunogenicity  analysis  was  to  assess  non-inferiority  of  IXIARO  1x 
12µg vs. IXIARO 2x 6µg at Day 56 based on the difference in seroconversion rates (SCRs) in the per 
protocol (PP) population. Non-inferiority of 1x 12µg compared to 2x 6µg was accepted if the lower 
limit  of  the  95%  CI  of  the  adjusted  SCR  difference  was  higher  than  the  non-inferiority  margin  at  -
10%. Results were expressed as the Confidence Interval (CI), the SCR difference and the Significance 
Level.  
At Day 56 after the first vaccination, 28 of 66 subjects (42.4 %) from the Hamburg site and 19 of 48 
subjects  (39.6  %)  from  the  Belfast  site  given  1x  12µg  were  seroconverted  compared  to  61  of  64 
subjects (95.3 %) from the Hamburg site and 49 of 49 subjects (100 %) of the Belfast site given 2x 
6µg.  Adjusted  SCR  difference  of  1x  12µg  vs.  2x  6µg  was  -55.6  %  [CI  -65.3%;  -45.9%]  in  the  PP 
population. Results from IC51-304 clearly demonstrate that the 1x 12µg regimen is inferior to the 2x 
6µg  regimen  proposed  for  licensure.  Non-inferiority  of  the  IXIARO  1x  12µg  dose  regimen  to  the 
Ixiaro 
20//50 
 
IXIARO 2x 6µg dose regimen was not demonstrated (p>0.99) in terms of seroconversion rates at Day 
56  in  the  PP  population  (SCRs  of  41.2  %  vs.  97.3  %,  respectively).  Secondary  immunogenicity 
analyses also included investigation of GMT values at all visits for anti-JEV neutralizing antibodies. 
The corresponding maximum values for GMT were 23 at day 28 for a single dose of 12μg and 266 for 
two injections of 6μg measured at day 35. 
These  data  confirm  that  the  dose-regimen  of  2x  6µg  28  days  apart  is  justified  by  the  results  of  this 
trial. 
•  Main studies  
Study IC51-301 
Inclusion Criteria 
Healthy male or female subjects who met all of the following criteria for inclusion in the study: 
•  At least 18 years of age. 
• 
In  female  subjects  either  childbearing  potential  terminated  by  surgery  or  one  year  post-
menopausal,  or  a  negative  serum  pregnancy  test  during  screening  and  the  willingness  not  to 
become  pregnant  during  the  study  period  and  30  days  after  the  last  vaccination  by  practicing 
reliable methods of contraception  
•  Written informed consent obtained prior to study entry  
Exclusion Criteria 
Subjects who met any of the following exclusion criteria were not included in the study: 
•  Known history of hypersensitivity 
•  History of clinical manifestation of any flavivirus infection. 
•  History  of  vaccination  against  JE,  Yellow  fever  and  Dengue  fever  (an  anti-JEV  neutralizing 
antibody titre ≥1:10 at baseline was acceptable for inclusion, these subjects were part of the safety 
population and ITT population, but were not analyzed for immunogenicity in the Per Protocol [PP] 
analysis).  
•  Use of any other investigational or non-registered drug or vaccine in addition to the study vaccine 
during the study period or within 30 days preceding the first dose of study vaccine. 
Immunodeficiency including post-organ-transplantation or immunosuppressive therapy. 
•  Planned administration of another vaccine during the study period. 
• 
•  A family history of congenital or hereditary immunodeficiency. 
•  History of autoimmune disease. 
•  Administration of chronic (defined as more than 14 days) immunosuppressants or other immune-
modifying drugs within six months of vaccination. (For corticosteroids, this included prednisone, 
or equivalent, ≥0.05 mg/kg/day. Topical and inhaled steroids were allowed). 
•  Any acute infections within four weeks prior to enrolment. 
•  History of severe hypersensitivity reactions (in particular to a component of the IXIARO vaccine, 
e.g., protamine sulphate), anaphylaxis or severe cases of atopy requiring emergency treatment or 
hospital admission. 
Infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B or hepatitis C. 
• 
•  History of urticaria after hymenoptera envenomation, drugs, physical or other provocations, or of 
idiopathic cause. 
•  Drug addiction within six months prior to enrolment (including alcohol dependence, i.e. more than 
• 
approximately 60 g alcohol per day, or conditions which interfered with the study conduct). 
Inability or unwillingness to avoid more than the usual intake of alcohol during the 48 hours after 
vaccination. 
•  Diabetes mellitus in subjects receiving insulin therapy, severe cardiopulmonary disorders, history 
of malignancy in the past five years. 
•  Subjects with any condition which, in the opinion of the Investigator, made the subject unsuitable 
for inclusion. 
•  Pregnancy, lactation or unreliable contraception in female subjects  
Ixiaro 
21//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Group A: 2 doses of IXIARO, 6 µg, i.m. on days 0 and 28 and one 0.5 ml injection of placebo (PBS 
containing 0.1% aluminium hydroxide) on day 7 
Group B: 3 doses of JE-VAX (1.0 ml, s.c.) on days 0, 7 and 28. 
Objectives 
Primary Objective 
To demonstrate the non-inferiority of IXIARO (2 x 6µg) compared to JE-VAX (3 x 1.0 ml) JE vaccine 
in terms of the SCR and geometric mean titre (GMT) at day 56; four weeks after the last vaccination. 
Secondary Objectives 
To compare: 
•  The  superiority  of  IXIARO  versus  JE-VAX  SCR  and  GMT  at  day  56,  provided  that  non-
inferiority had been demonstrated 
•  The immunogenicity of both vaccines in regards to SCR and GMTs of the North American with 
the European study population 
•  The  immunogenicity  of  both  vaccines  in  regards  to  SCR  and  GMTs  in  subjects  older  versus 
younger than 50 years of age 
•  The safety of both vaccines regarding changes in laboratory parameters and AEs including local 
reactogenicity 
Immunogenicity endpoints 
For immunogenicity assessment blood samples were drawn in all studies on day 0, 28 and 56.  
The primary immunogenicity endpoint was the SCR (anti-JEV neutralizing antibody titre ≥1:10) and 
GMT (geometric mean of PRNT50) at day 56 for the entire study population. 
Laboratory methods 
JE  specific  antibody  responses  were  determined  by  a  plaque  reduction  neutralisation  assay  as 
described  below.  Moreover  in  study  IC51-301  a  TBE  ELISA  was  performed  to  determine  baseline 
anti-flavivirus antibodies. 
Plaque reduction neutralisation test (PRNT50) 
The PRNT50 was performed in the Clinical Immunology Laboratory of Intercell AG, Vienna. Briefly, 
serial  serum  dilutions  are  incubated  with  a  defined  number  of  plaque  forming  units  (400  pfu/ml)  of 
JEV  and  plated  in  triplicate  wells  onto  a  monolayer  of  Vero  cells.  The  neutralising  antibody  titre  is 
expressed as the serum dilution giving a 50% plaque reduction (PRNT50) compared to 100% plaque 
formation  in  virus  only  control.  Seroconversion  (the  threshold  antibody  level  for  protection)  was 
defined  as  a  PRNT50  titre  ≥  1:10,  as  recommended  by  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO).  All 
PRNT50 results are given as reciprocal titres throughout the clinical documents. GMT was defined as 
the geometric mean of PRNT50. Primary endpoints were assessed 4 weeks after the last vaccination in 
all  studies,  to  ensure  comparability  of  results.  It  should  be  noted  that  no  international  standard  is 
available. 
Assay validation was performed with regards of intra- and inter-assay precision, ruggedness, dilutional 
linearity and specificity. The specificity of the assay was evaluated by a JEV negative serum and sera 
from  subjects  vaccinated  against  Yellow  fever  virus  or  Tick-borne  encephalitis  virus,  two  closely 
related flaviviruses. 
Other immunological assays 
TBE-ELISA 
A  TBE  enzyme-linked  immunosorbent  assay  (ELISA)  test,  which  does  not  discriminate  between 
neutralizing  and  non-neutralizing  anti-TBE  antibodies  and  cross-reactive  anti-flavivirus  antibodies 
was performed at a certified laboratory for all serum samples from visit 0. Results from this test can 
reveal study subjects with pre-existing anti-flavivirus antibodies, mainly due to TBE vaccination, but 
potentially also to Yellow Fever vaccination or exposure to Dengue virus and West Nile Virus. Such 
pre-existing cross-reactive immunity may influence the kinetics of seroconversion to JEV as well as 
antibody titres. 
Ixiaro 
22//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
Anticipating  the  SCR  of  both  vaccines  being  75%  and  a  non-inferiority  limit  of  -10%  for  the  SCR-
difference “IXIARO minus JE-VAX”, the Applicant calculated a total of 792 subjects (396 per group) 
necessary in order to demonstrate non-inferiority with a two-sided CI of 95% and a power of at least 
80% 
Assuming a SD of 0.4 (log10 units) for the IXIARO-GMT, a non-inferiority limit of 1/1.5 for the 
GMT ratio “IXIARO / JE-VAX.”, a sample size of 109 subjects per group was calculated in order to 
demonstrate non-inferiority of the GMT with a two-sided 95%-CI and 80% power anticipating no true 
difference in GMTs between groups 
Statistical methods 
In  general,  data  were  described  by  means  of  statistical  characteristics  (categorical  data:  counts  and 
percentages,  continuous  data:  number  of  observations,  mean,  standard  deviation  (SD),  minimum, 
median, and maximum) stratified for treatment group. 
Immunogenicity analyses 
Primary analyses for non-inferiority or equivalence for immunogenetic parameter were based on (pre-
specified)  per  protocol  (PP)  populations  while  any  assessment  of  superiority  was  based  on  the 
corresponding  ITT  population.  The  calculation  of  GMT  ratios  and  their  95%  CIs  was  performed  by 
means of analyses of variance (ANOVA) with factors centre, age and treatment group applied to the 
log10-transformed PRNT50 values. The anti-log of least square means group differences and their two-
sided  95%  CIs  were  calculated  to  achieve  point  estimates  for  the  GMT  ratios  as  well  as  the 
corresponding 95%-CIs.  
Non-inferiority of IXIARO compared to JE-VAX in terms of the co-primary parameter SCR and GMT 
in study IC51-301 was assessed by a confidence interval approach: 
A two-sided 95% CI for the SCR difference at day 56 between the IXIARO group and the JE-VAX 
group was calculated, using a Mantel-Haenszel type statistic stratified for centre and age group (<50 
years versus ≥50 years). In case the lower limit of the confidence interval was > -10%, non-inferiority 
with respect to SCR was concluded. Non-inferiority with respect to GMT was concluded if the lower 
limit of the 95%-CI for the GMT ratio “IXIARO / JE-VAX” was above 1/1.5. 
If  non-inferiority  had  been  shown  with  respect  to  SCR  and  GMT,  superiority  of  IXIARO  was 
assessed. Only if both, the lower limit 95%-CI for the SCR difference at day 56 between both groups 
was  above  0  and  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the  ratio  of  GMTs  at  day  56  was  above  1, 
superiority of IXIARO compared to JE-VAX was concluded. 
In  further  analyses  SCR  and  GMT  on day 28  and  day  56  were  compared  between  treatment  groups 
within the North American study population and, separately within each treatment group, between the 
North  American  and  the  European  population.  Explorative  analyses  were  performed  to  assess  the 
influence of age (<50 years versus ≥50 years), baseline anti-flavivirus immune status (in the IXIARO 
treatment group) as well as anti-JEV immune status at baseline (anti-JEV neutralizing antibody titre 
≥1:10 vs <1:10) on immunogenicity parameter. 
PP Population: 
All randomized subjects without any protocol deviations. Subjects who were randomized incorrectly 
or took the wrong study medications were also excluded. 
ITT Population: 
All subjects randomized. Subjects were analyzed according to the treatment group to which they were 
randomized, rather than by the actual treatment they received.  
Results  
Recruitment 
A total of 1271 subjects were enrolled in 11 study centres and 867 subjects from 10 study centres were 
randomized  to  treatment;  664  from  North  America  and  203  from  Europe.  The  first  subject  was 
enrolled on 05 September 2005 and the last subject completed on 17 March 2006. 
Of the 867 subjects randomized to treatment, 430 were randomized to IXIARO and 437 to JE-VAX. 
71 subjects (8.2%) did not complete the study and the reasons for discontinuation were withdrawn of 
consent (2.2%), adverse event (1.4%), protocol violation (1.2%) and lost to follow-up (1.2%) 
Ixiaro 
23//50 
 
 
 
 
 
132  subjects  in  the  ITT  population  were  excluded  from  the  PP  population  due  to  major  protocol 
deviations. The most common major protocol deviations were less than three vaccinations (29 [6.7%] 
subjects in the IXIARO group and 34 [7.8%] in the JE-VAX group), anti-JEV neutralizing antibody 
titre  ≥1:10  at  baseline  (19  [4.4%]  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  group  and  18  [4.1%]  subjects  in  the  JE-
VAX  group),  and  no  post-baseline  seroconversion  results  (13  [3.0%]  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  group 
and 15 [3.4%] subjects in the JE-VAX group). 
Baseline data 
In  general  the  baseline  characteristics  of  the  study population  were  comparable  for  both vaccination 
groups. The median age was 41 years for both groups, with an age range of 18-79 years (IXIARO) and 
18-80  years  (JE-VAX),  respectively.  In  both  groups  more  female  than  male  subjects  were  enrolled 
(IXIARO: 62.4%/37.6% vs JE-VAX: 59.3%/40.7%) and most  study subjects were  Caucasians (79% 
vs 82.5%) followed by Black (13.8% vs 14.4%). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary Analysis  
The primary endpoints (SCR and GMT at Day 56) are presented in the Table 4 for the PP population, 
together with baseline results.  
By  definition  of  the  PP  population,  no  subjects  were  seroconverted  at  baseline.  At  Day  56,  the 
proportion  of  subjects  who  had  seroconverted  was  similar  for  both  treatment  groups  (96.4%  versus 
93.8% for IXIARO and JE-VAX, respectively). The SCR risk difference estimate for IXIARO minus 
JE-VAX  was  1.05%  (95%  CI:  -1.33%,  3.43%).  Since  the  lower  95%  CI  limit  of  the  risk  difference 
estimate  (-1.33%)  was  >-10%,  non-inferiority  was  demonstrated  for  Part  I  of  the  primary 
immunogenicity evaluation.  
At  Day  56,  the  GMT  was  over  two  times  higher  in  the  IXIARO  group  (243.6)  than  in  the  JE-VAX
group  (102.0).  The  GMT  ratio  for  IXIARO/JE-VAX  was  2.3  (95%  CI:  1.97,  2.75).  Since  the  lower 
95% CI limit for the GMT ratio (1.97) was >1/1.5, non-inferiority was demonstrated for Part II of the 
primary immunogenicity evaluation.  
Non-inferiority  of  IXIARO  to  JE-VAX
endpoint (both SCR and GMT at Day 56).  
was  demonstrated  for  both  components  of  the  primary 
Table 4: SCR and GMTs: PP Population (Study IC51-301) 
Time 
point 
Treatment  N 
SCR  
n (%)1  
SCR risk 
difference2 % 
GMT3 (SD/n) 
Baseline 
IXIARO 
JE-VAX 
Day 56 
IXIARO 
JE-VAX 
365 
370 
365 
370 
[95% CI] 
NA 
0 (0%) 
0 (0%) 
352 (96.4%) 
347 (93.8%) 
1.05  
[-1.33, 3.43] 
5.05 (0.0/365) 
5.05 (0.0/370) 
243.6 (1163.1/361) 
102.0 (221.0/364) 
GMT 
ratio4 
[95% CI] 
NA 
2.3  
[1.97, 
2.75] 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; GMT=geometric mean titre; n=number of subjects who seroconverted 
(for SCR) or with neutralizing antibody titres (for GMT); N= number of subjects in group; NA= not applicable; 
PRNT50=Serum dilution giving a 50% reduction of plaque counts in a plaque reduction neutralization test; 
SCR=seroconversion rate, SD=standard deviation. 
1 Percentages based on total number of subjects in the PP population for the respective treatment group 
2 Mantel-Haenszel type risk difference estimate (IXIARO minus JE-VAX) for seroconversion, stratified by centre 
and age group.  
3 For subjects with a minimum dilution factor <10 (PRNT50), the titre is set to 5  
4 Estimate for GMT ratio (IXIARO/JE-VAX) with 95% CI (from ANOVA with factors centre, age group and 
treatment). 
5 GMT of 5.0 was imputed for both groups at baseline. 
Ixiaro 
24//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a post hoc analysis the results of the primary efficacy analysis were repeated in order to generate 
confidence intervals for the SCRs. At Day 56, the SCRs were calculated as 96.44% for the IXIARO 
group (95% CI: 94.00%, 97.91%) and 93.78% for the JE-VAX group (95% CI: 90.85%, 95.82%). At 
Day  56,  the  GMTs  were  calculated  as  243.56  for  the  IXIARO  group  (95%  CI:  216.44,  274.07)  and 
101.99 (95% CI: 90.28, 115.23) for the JE-VAX group.  
The  distribution  of  PRNT50  values  at  Day  56  in  the  PP  population  is  presented  in  Figure  1, 
demonstrating  the  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  (JE-PIV)  group  compared  to  the 
JE-VAX  group  with  high  PRNT50  values.  This  is  reflected  in  the  higher  standard  deviation  for  the 
GMT in the IXIARO group (1163.1) compared to the JE-VAX  group (221.0).  
Figure 1: Distribution of PRNT50 at Day 56: PP Population 
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 
0 
Number of Subjects:
JE-PIV =  361
JE-VAX =  364
116
98
83
84
79
 64 
48
47
 17 
  9 
 19 
  3 
  6
 31 
 13 
prnt50 
<10 
10<= 
prnt50 
<=20 
20< 
prnt50 
<=40 
40< 
prnt50 
<=80 
80<
prnt50
<=160
160<
prnt50
<=320
320<
prnt50
<=640
Treatment: 
JE-PIV 
JE-VAX
 8
640<
prnt50
Ixiaro 
25//50 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Analyses: SCR and GMT Analyzed by Age 
The  secondary  analyses  stratified  by  age  revealed  no  significant  differences  in  immunogenicity 
following the primary immunisation series between subjects ≤65 years of age compared to those >65 
years of age (Table 5). In IXIARO recipients, SCR at Day 56 was 96.5% in subjects  ≤65 years and 
95.8% in subjects >65 years; GMT at Day 56 was 242.8 in subjects ≤65 years and 255.2 in subjects 
>65 years (Table 5).  
Table 5: Seroconversion Rates and Geometric Mean Titres At Day 56 Stratified by Age ≤65 
versus >65 years: PP Population (IC51-301)  
Age 
(years) 
≤65, 
N=692  
>65, 
N=43  
SCR1  
n (%) 
SCR risk 
difference2 % 
[95% CI] 
GMT 
IXIARO  
JE- VAX  
IXIARO  
JE-VAX  
329 
(96.5) 
23 
(95.8) 
330 
(94.0) 
17 
(89.5) 
2.10 
[-0.68, 4.89] 
11.11 
[-4.12, 26.34] 
242.8 
102.3 
255.2 
96.8 
GMT ratio  
estimate3  
[95% CI] 
2.37 
[2.00, 2.81] 
2.54 
[1.03, 6.28] 
P-value  
p=1.00004 
p=0.22014 
p=0.83895 
p=0.84405 
1 SCR calculated from all values (missing values included in N). 
2 Mantel-Haenszel type risk difference estimator (IXIARO minus JE-VAX) for seroconversion with 95% 
confidence interval, stratified for centre.  
3 Estimate for GMT ratio (IXIARO/JE-VAX) with 95% confidence interval (from analysis of variance with 
factors centre and treatment).  
4 P-value of Fisher's exact test for difference in seroconversion between age groups.  
5 P-value of analysis of variance for difference in PRNT50 between age groups.  
Secondary Analyses: SCR and GMT at Day 56 analyzed by baseline anti-flavivirus status 
SCRs  and  GMTs  at  Days  28  and  56  are  summarized  stratified  by  baseline  anti-flavivirus  status  in 
Table 6 for the ITT population. There were no significant effects of baseline anti-flavivirus status on 
SCR or GMT in the IXIARO group at Day 56. However, positive baseline  anti-flavivirus status did 
increase  both  SCR  and  GMT  at  the  earlier  Day  28  time  point  (SCR  76.5%;  GMT  28.4)  when 
compared to subjects with negative baseline anti-flavivirus status (SCR 49.0%; GMT 16.0). 
Table 6: Seroconversion Rates and Geometric Mean Titers of Subjects Receiving IXIARO 
Stratified by Baseline Anti-Flavivirus Status1: Intent-to-Treat Population (Study IC51-301) 
Time point  
Immune status 
N 
SCR n/N (%) 
Day 28  
Day 56  
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
81 
339 
81 
339 
62/81* (76.5) 
166/339* (49.0) 
78/81 (96.3) 
310/339 (91.4) 
GMT (n)2 
28.4* (81) 
16.0* (339) 
206.5 (81) 
186.7 (339) 
GMT=geometric mean titer; n=number of subjects who seroconverted (for SCR) or with neutralizing antibody 
titers (for GMT); N=number of subjects in group; NA=not applicable; PRNT50=Serum dilution giving a 50% 
reduction of plaque counts in a plaque reduction neutralization test; SCR=seroconversion rate. 1Determined by 
tick-borne encephalitis enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.  2For subjects with a minimum dilution factor <10 
(PRNT50),  the  titer  is  set  to  5.  *p<0.05  (based  on  Fisher’s  Exact  test  for  difference  between  baseline  anti-
flavivirus status). 
Ixiaro 
26//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
History  of  TBE  vaccination  (primary  immunization  or  booster  vaccinations  received  within  the 
previous  10  years)  was  recorded  as  present/absent  at  screening.  In  study  IC51-301  prior  TBE 
vaccination incidence was 12.4%.  
Immunogenicity, based on SCRs and GMTs, was analyzed by history of prior TBE vaccination (Table 
7).  SCR  at  Day  28  (after  1st  vaccination)  was  substantially  higher  in  subjects  with  prior  TBE 
immunization  compared  to  those  with  no  prior  TBE  immunization;  90.7%  and  48.4%,  respectively. 
Also GMT at Day 28 was higher in subjects with prior TBE immunization compared to those with no 
prior TBE immunization; 34.1 and 16.0 respectively. GMTs and SCRs were generally similar at Day 
56 irrespective of whether subjects had a history of prior TBE vaccination.  
Table 7: Seroconversion Rates and Geometric Mean Titers of Subjects Receiving IXIARO 
Stratified by Tick-borne Encephalitis Vaccination Status: Intent-to-Treat Population (IC51-301) 
TBE status 
SCR1 n (%) 
GMT (n) 
Prior vaccination, N=108 
Day 28  
Day 56  
49 (90.7) 
53 (98.1) 
No vaccination, N=759 
Day 28 
Day 56 
182 (48.4) 
344 (91.5) 
34.1 (54) 
230.3 (54) 
16.0 (376) 
182.7 (376) 
GMT=geometric mean titer; n=number of subjects who seroconverted or with neutralizing antibody titers (for 
GMT); N=number of subjects in group; SCR=seroconversion rate; TBE=tick-borne encephalitis. 1
calculated from all values (missing values included in N). 
 SCR 
•  Supportive studies  
Long-term antibody persistence 
Data on antibody persistence are currently available from study IC51-303. Further data are generated 
in on-going studies IC51-305 and IC51-311, in which antibody persistence and boosterability of the 
immune  response  are  evaluated.  Data  from  these  studies  are  provided  by  the  Applicant  upon 
availability. 
Study IC51-303 (Follow-up to studies IC51-301 and IC51-302) 
Study IC51-303 is an ongoing, uncontrolled, multi-centre, phase 3 follow-up study to investigate the 
immunogenicity of IXIARO in subjects 24 months after the first vaccination. Healthy adults who were 
correctly enrolled in, and had completed IC51-301 or IC51-302 (pivotal safety study) with at least one 
vaccination were eligible for inclusion. The study started on 07 October 2005 in 44 centres (4 centres 
are involved in the immunogenicity analysis). The study has been amended to follow up subjects for 5 
years. 
Subjects were eligible for the long-term immunogenicity part of the IC51-303 study if they had been 
treated with IXIARO per protocol in studies IC51-301 or IC51-302 and had given informed consent 
for inclusion. The first 298 subjects reaching Day 1 of this study who were willing to participate in the 
immunogenicity part of the study were included. Following the database lock for studies IC51-301 and 
IC51-302,  investigators  were  informed  which  subjects  in  the  immunogenicity  part  had  negative 
PRNT50 values or had received JE-VAX
or placebo; these subjects were discontinued.  
Serum analysis for the presence of antibody to the JE virus was performed at 6 and 12 months (and 
will be performed at 24 and 36 months) using PRNT50 assay. 
The  primary  endpoint  for  the  study  is  the  SCR  24  months  after  the  first  vaccination.  Secondary 
endpoints include SCR and GMT at 6, 12 and 36 months after first vaccination, and GMT at 24 and 36 
months  after  vaccination.  Immunogenicity  results  up  to  12  months  after  first  vaccination  were 
presented. 
Ixiaro 
27//50 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy analysis is based on the ITT population: all subjects who were enrolled in the study, were 
planned  to  participate  in  the  long-term  immunogenicity  part,  and  received  IXIARO  in  a  previous 
study.  An  additional  sensitivity  analysis  was  conducted,  in  which  all  missing  PRNT50  values  were 
counted as PRNT negative.  
At present interim reports on 6-months and 12 months long-term antibody persistence are available.   
The results on persistence of antibodies up to 12 months are presented in Table 8. As expected and as 
usual  for  vaccines  GMTs  decrease  over  time  and  some  individuals  may  drop  below  presumed 
seroprotection  levels.  Whether  or  not  this  is  of  any  clinical  significance  can  only  be  answered  by 
boostering the study population. Such booster studies are ongoing but no data are yet available. 
Table 8: 6- and 12-months long-term persistence of antibodies against Japanese 
encephalitis virus: PRNT50, including GMT: ITT Population (Study IC51-303) 
Time point 
Descriptive statistics 
IXIARO N=181 
Month 21 
n 
180 
GMT  (95% CI) 
310.8 (268.76, 359.44) 
SD 
Range 
Month 62 
n 
694.2 
5 to 6435 
181 
GMT (95% CI) 
83.5 (70.89, 98.38) 
SD 
Range 
Month 122 
n 
196.9 
5 to 2218 
181 
GMT (95% CI) 
41.2 (34.39, 49.33) 
SD 
Range 
86.9 
5 to 538 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; GMT=Geometric mean titre; N=number of subjects in group; 
n=number of subjects with data; SD=standard deviation 
1Missing values at Month 2 have not been replaced. 
2 Missing PRNT50 values due to previous PRNT negativity or due to vaccine-related adverse events are counted 
as PRNT negative and PRNT50 is set to 5. All other missing values are imputed by estimation using a repeated 
measures model. 
Heterologous neutralization potential 
In addition to efficacy against the vaccine strain, relevance against other circulating JE-virus isolates 
becomes  an  important  issue,  in  particular  since  IXIARO  (JE-PIV  or  IC51)  is  a  travellers’  vaccine 
claimed  to  be  effective  against  any  of  the  worldwide  circulating  JE  virus  wild-types.  The  Applicant 
has presented relevant investigations in the original application and has conducted additional studies in 
order to support and strengthen validity of the first data set. All heterologous neutralization studies are 
summarized in the Table 9: 
Table 9: Overview on in vitro heterologous neutralization studies 
Ixiaro 
28//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant has presented a useful summary of the geographical distribution of different genotypes 
of  JE  virus  and  data  on  protection  against  heterologous  JE  virus.  The  strongest  indication  for 
heterologous  protection  is  the  fact  that  all  vaccines  against  JE  virus  so  far  have  been  based  on 
genotype III and they have proved to be efficient in different geographical regions harbouring different 
genotypic strains. However, classification according to genotyping is not necessarily well correlated to 
an  immune  response  or  vaccine  efficacy.  Therefore,  the  evidence  of  heterologous  protection  for 
IXIARO must mainly be based on submitted non-clinical and clinical data. Variations in antigenicity, 
neutralising  antibodies,  as  well  as  protection  (animal  model),  which  have  been  reported  among 
different  isolates  of  JEV  have  to  be  taken  into  account.  For  example  in  the  Japanese  market  the 
Nakayama strain was replaced by the Beijing strain on the reason that the Beijing strain gave a higher 
titres against homologous and heterologous JEV strains.  The vaccine strain SA14-14-2 itself has been 
passed >100 times in different cell cultures with loss of virulence and is thus at a distance from clinical 
isolates.  A comparison with the use of live attenuated SA 14-14-2 vaccine used extensively in China is 
less relevant as a live vaccine induces a different immune response than an inactivated vaccine. Thus, 
even  if  cross-immunity  is  expected  among  different  genotypes  and  strains  of  JEV,  data  has  to  be 
presented to ensure that the link to the documented effect of JE-VAX is strong. 
In the initial application data for cross-immunity between SA14-14-2 and the Nakayama strains were 
reported for a representative subset, Subset 2, of sera from the IC51-301 clinical study.  The results are 
shown below: 
Ixiaro 
29//50 
 
 
 
 
Vaccine  Assay virus 
PRNT50 GMT 
IC51-301 
PRNT50 GMT 
Subset 2 
IXIARO 
SA14-14-2 
244 (n=361) 
235 (n=88) 
IXIARO  Nakayama 
240 (n=88) 
JE-VAX 
SA14-14-2 
102 (n=364) 
94 (n=93) 
JE-VAX  Nakayama 
1219 (n=89) 
The  neutralising  titres  in  the  sera  from  the  IXIARO  group  were  of  the  same  size  when  measured 
against the SA14-14-2 and the Nakayama strain. For sera from the JE-VAX group the titres against the 
homologous Nakayama strain was much higher than against the heterologous SA14-1-4-2 strain. 
Additional analysis of cross-immunity was performed on much smaller subset of sera, Subset 3, using 
5 strains of JEV (all genotype III).  
Study/Samples  
Vaccine   Assay virus 
Seroconversion 
(pos/total) 
PRNT50 GMT 
Subset 3  
22 IXIARO samples 
18 JE‐ VAX  samples 
IXIARO  
JE‐ VAX 
SA14-14-2 
Nakayama 
Beijing 
P‐ 20778 
SA‐ 14 
SA14-14-2 
Nakayama 
Beijing 
P‐ 20778 
SA‐ 14 
95% (21/22) 
95% (21/22) 
100% (22/22) 
100% (22/22) 
91% (20/22) 
94% (17/18) 
100% (18/18) 
94% (17/18) 
94% (17/18) 
83% (15/18) 
320 (n=22) 
161 (n=22) 
324 (n=22) 
120 (n=22) 
60 (n=22) 
56 (n=18) 
600 (n=18) 
172 (n=18) 
68 (n=18) 
44 (n=18) 
The Subset 3 was not representative for the whole set of sera (Subset 2).  The neutralising antibody 
titre for the IXIARO group was 36% higher than in Subset 2, while for the JE-VAX group it was 50% 
lower than in Subset 2.  Thus, a bias in favour of the IXIARO sera was introduced.  While a direct 
comparison  between  IXIARO  and  JE-VAX  is  therefore  not  correct,  it  is  demonstrated  that  both 
vaccines induce cross-immunity against a number of genotype III strains. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  some  new  data  on  cross-immunity  by  adding  more  sera  from  clinical 
study  IC51-301  to  the  analysis  of  neutralising  antibodies  performed  with  4  JE  virus  strains  (all 
genotype III). The sera were selected based on a mean value of GMT of 240 for IXIARO and a GMT 
of 100 for JE-VAX (measured against SA14-14-2).  The Subset 4 should therefore be representative for 
all samples from the trial. 
Study/Samples  
Vaccine   Assay virus  Seroconversion (pos/total)  PRNT50 GMT 
Subset 4 
27 IXIARO samples 
27 JE-VAX  samples 
IXIARO   SA14-14-2 
Beijing  
P-20778  
SA-14  
JE-VAX   SA14-14-2 
Beijing  
P-20778  
SA-14  
100% (27/27) 
93% (25/27)  
100% (27/27) 
96% (26/27) 
100% (27/27) 
100% (27/27) 
100% (26/26) 
100% (27/27) 
249 (n=27) 
54 (n=27) 
64 (n=27) 
40 (n=27) 
109 (n=27) 
100 (n=27)  
82 (n=26)  
53 (n=27) 
Ixiaro 
30//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unfortunately the Nakayama strain (JE-VAX vaccine strain), was not included. In subset 4 JE-VAX 
performs slightly better than IXIARO, but good cross-immunity is shown for both. 
In addition cross-immunity data has been presented based on 6 months sera from clinical study IC51-
303.  The sera were selected based on mean values  of GMT of 89 for IXIARO and 34 for JE-VAX 
(measured earlier against SA14-14-2). 
Study/Samples  
Vaccine   Assay virus  Seroconversion (pos/total)  PRNT50 GMT 
Subset 5 
27 IXIARO samples 
27 JE-VAX  samples 
IXIARO   SA14-14-2 
Nakayama 
Beijing  
P-20778  
SA-14  
JE-VAX   SA14-14-2 
Nakayama 
Beijing  
P-20778  
SA-14  
96% (26/27) 
85% (23/27) 
85% (23/27)  
85% (23/27) 
81% (22/27) 
70% (19/27) 
96% (26/27) 
67% (18/27) 
63% (17/26) 
80% (20/25) 
89  
33 
49 
29 
33 
34  
206 
22 
18 
26 
In the Subset 5 sampled at 6 months after vaccination IXIARO performs slightly better than JE-VAX 
with respect to cross-immunity. In study IC51-303 half of the subjects were vaccinated with a batch of 
IXIARO which deviated from the other consistency batches in that it gave a much higher neutralising 
titre.  This could have influenced the results at 6 months regarding cross-immunity.  For example, the 
ratio of GMT between SA14-14-2 and Nakayama for subjects vaccinated with IXIARO is close to 1 in 
the large Subset 2, while it is 2.7 in Subset 5. 
In conclusion, the selection of subsets of sera used for analysis of cross-immunity has a large influence 
on the outcome.  Nevertheless, even if there are differences, the data demonstrate that both IXIARO 
and JE-VAX are able to induce protective levels of neutralising antibodies against other JEV strains of 
genotype III.  For IXIARO the link to the efficacy documented for JE-VAX will be the response of 
neutralising titre against the Nakayama strain (JE-VAX vaccine strain).  While JE-VAX consistently 
induces  much  higher  levels  of  neutralising  titres  against  the  Nakayama  strain  than  IXIARO,  the 
response in the IXIARO group is still high and considered protective.  
The  Applicant  used  a  panel  of  JE  virus  isolates  in  order  to  document  cross-neutralizing  potential  of 
IXIARO. All of these isolates are related however to genotype III. Since import of  wild-type JE virus 
isolates belonging to other genotypes (I, II and IV) is subject to major restrictions the Applicant will 
establish necessary infrastructure in endemic regions in order to investigate cross-neutralizing activity 
of  serum  antibodies  of  individuals  vaccinated  with  IXIARO  against  other,  more  recently  collected 
isolates belonging to other genotype families.  
Concomitant use studies 
Study IC51-308 was a prospective, randomized, multi-centre, single-blind, active-controlled, phase 3 
study to demonstrate the non-inferiority of IXIARO + Havrix
as compared to IXIARO + placebo and 
Havrix  +  placebo  in  terms  of  immunogenicity.  Havrix  contains  a  sterile  suspension  of  inactivated 
Hepatitis A virus adsorbed on aluminium. 
The  study  was  conducted  at  3  centres  in  Germany  and  Austria  between  September  2005  and  July 
2006. Healthy adults aged ≥18 years were eligible for inclusion (subjects were excluded if they had a 
history of clinical manifestation of a flavivirus infection or HAV and/or if they had been vaccinated 
against JE, Yellow fever, Dengue fever or HAV). Subjects were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 
one of the following treatment arms:  
(cid:131) 
IXIARO + Havrix: 6 µg IXIARO (0.5 ml, Lot ICB05-01 [Batch A]) i.m. on Days 0 and 28, and 
Havrix
IXIARO + placebo: 6 µg IXIARO (0.5 ml, Lot ICB05-01 [Batch A]) i.m. on Days 0 and 28, and 
placebo (0.5 ml PBS solution containing 0.1% aluminium hydroxide) i.m. on Day 0  
1440 1.0 ml i.m. on Day 0  
(cid:131) 
Ixiaro 
31//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  Havrix + placebo: Havrix 1440 1.0 ml i.m. on Day 0, and placebo (0.5 ml PBS solution containing 
0.1% aluminium hydroxide) i.m. on Days 0 and 28  
Blood tests for immunogenicity testing were taken at screening and Days 28 and 56. Serum analysis 
for  the  presence  of  neutralizing  antibodies  to  the  JE  virus  was  performed  using  PRNT50  assay.  The 
immunologic  assays  regarding  antibodies  to  HAV  antigens  (anti-HAV)  were  determined  using  the 
AxSYM HAVAB 2.0 Quantitative assay (Abbott Diagnostics). Due to low antibody titres obtained in 
the initial analysis a reanalysis of the sera was performed using the Enzygnost Anti-HAV competitive 
EIA.   
The  primary  endpoints  were  GMT  for  anti-JEV  neutralizing  antibody  at  Day  56  and  GMT  for  anti-
HAV antibody at Day 28 (28 days after last active vaccination for IXIARO and Havrix, respectively). 
The  primary  immunogenicity  analysis  was  conducted  in  the  PP  population  (all  randomized  subjects 
without major protocol violations [possible violations included an anti-JEV neutralizing antibody titre 
≥1:10 or anti-HAV antibody level ≥20 mIU/ml at baseline]).  
The  primary  immunogenicity  analysis  was  tested  hierarchically.  First,  the  IXIARO  +  Havrix
group 
was  tested  for  non-inferiority  to  the  IXIARO  +  placebo  group  in  terms  of  the  GMT  for  anti-JEV 
neutralizing antibody at Day 56. If this test proved significant, a confirmatory test for non-inferiority 
of IXIARO + Havrix was performed, with the IXIARO + Havrix
group vs. Havrix + placebo group in 
terms of the GMT for HAV antibody at Day 28. In both cases, non-inferiority was demonstrated if the 
lower  bound  of  the  two-sided  95%  CI  for  the  GMT  ratio  was  >0.5.  Though  applying  a  hierarchical 
procedure, both tests were considered primary. If the first test failed, the second test was still applied, 
however in an exploratory manner.  
GMT  for  anti-JEV  neutralizing  antibody  at  Day  56  and  anti-HAV  antibody  at  Day  28  (using  the 
AxSYM HAVAB assay) are presented in Table 10 for the PP population. 
Table 10: GMTs for Anti-JEV Neutralizing Antibody at Day 56 and Anti-HAV Antibody at Day 
28: Per Protocol Population (Study IC51-308) 
Parameter 
n  GMT estimate (95% CI) 
p-value* 
Anti-JEV neutralizing antibodies,  Day 56 
GMT1  
IXIARO + Havrix, N=58 
IXIARO + Placebo, N=58 
Ratios of GMTs 
58 
55 
202.7 (153.7, 261.2) 
192.2 (147.9, 249.8) 
NA 
NA 
IXIARO + Havrix/ IXIARO + Placebo2 
IXIARO + Havrix/IXIARO + Placebo4 
1.0544 (0.7541, 1.4743)3 
1.1509 (0.7763, 1.7063) 
<0.0001 
<0.0001 
Anti-HAV antibodies,  Day 28 
GMT1 (mIU/ml) 
IXIARO + Havrix, N=58 
Havrix + Placebo, N=52 
Ratios of GMTs 
58 
52 
24.0 (19.1, 30.1)  
21.7 (17.2, 27.5) 
NA 
NA 
IXIARO + Havrix/Havrix + Placebo2 
IXIARO + Havrix/Havrix + Placebo4 
1.1048 (0.8115, 1.5041)3 
0.8809 (0.6314, 1.2292) 
<0.0001 
0.0005 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; GMT=Geometric mean titre, HAV: Hepatitis A virus; JEV: Japanese 
encephalitis virus; N=number of subjects in group; n=number of subjects with data; NA=not applicable. 
Observed values used. 
* One-sided, non-inferiority. 
1GMT and CIs for individual treatment groups are calculated descriptively. 
2Estimate for GMT ratios with CI (from analysis of variance with factors treatment and centre). 
3Primary immunogenicity comparison. 
Ixiaro 
32//50 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4Estimate for GMT ratios with CI (from analysis of variance with factors treatment and centre, including a 
treatment by centre interaction). 
Reanalysis  of  anti-HAV  antibody  titers  using  the  Enzygnost  Anti-HAV  EIA  resulted  in  higher  anti-
HAV  antibody  titers  (GMTs  of  124-150  mIU/mL)  than  those  using  the  AxSYM  HAVAB  assay 
(GMTs  of  22-24  mIU/mL)  at  Day  28.  SCRs  at  Day  28  were  96%-100%  using  the  Enzygnost  EIA 
compared  with  SCRs  of  65-74%  using  the  AxSYM  HAVAB.  The  GMTs  and  SCRs  seen  with  the 
Enzygnost EIA are comparable to those reported from previous trials with Havrix. 
Lot-to-lot consistency 
Two lot-to-lot consistency studies were conducted.   
Study  IC51-309  was  a  prospective,  randomized,  multi-centre,  double-blind,  reference-controlled, 
phase 3 study to demonstrate the equivalence of 3 IXIARO batches in terms of immunogenicity. The 
study was conducted at 6 centres in Austria and Germany. The study started in September 2006 and 
the  last  subject  completed  in  April  2007.  Healthy  adults  aged  ≥18  years  were  eligible  for  inclusion 
(subjects were excluded if they had a history of clinical manifestation of a flavivirus infection and/or if 
they had been vaccinated against JE, Yellow fever or Dengue fever).  
Subjects were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive one of the following treatment arms:  
• Batch A: 6 µg IXIARO (Lot ICB05-501) i.m. injection (0.5 ml) on Days 0 and 28  
• Batch B: 6 µg IXIARO (Lot ICB05-502) i.m. injection (0.5 ml) on Days 0 and 28  
• Batch D: 6 µg IXIARO (Lot ICB05-503) i.m. injection (0.5 ml) on Days 0 and 28  
Blood  tests  for  immunogenicity  testing  were  taken  on  Days  0,  28  and  56.  Serum  analysis  for  the 
presence of neutralizing antibodies to the JE virus was performed using PRNT50 assay.  
The primary endpoint was GMT for anti-JEV neutralizing antibody at Day 56. Equivalence between 
batches of IXIARO was to be determined if all three pairwise 95% CIs for GMT ratios were between 
0.5 and 2. The CIs of GMT ratios were calculated based on the observed PRNT50 values at Day 56 
without  imputation  of  missing  values.  An  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  applied  on  the  log-
transformed  PRNT50  values  including  the  factors  centre  and  batch.  The  primary  immunogenicity 
analysis was conducted in the PP population (all subjects in the ITT population without major protocol 
deviations [possible violations included a history of vaccination against JE, Yellow fever, or Dengue 
fever]). The ITT population comprised all randomized subjects, who had at least one dose of IXIARO, 
analyzed by treatment received.  
As  a  follow-up  study,  it  is  planned  to  administer  a  booster  vaccination  at  Month  15  to  200  subjects 
(who consent) who will then be followed up for a further 12 months.  
As shown in Table 11 GMT at Day 56 was higher in Batch B (272.24) compared to Batch A (160.71) 
and Batch D (127.56). Only the GMT ratio for Batch A/Batch D had a 95% CI entirely covered by the 
predefined equivalence limits of 0.5 and 2, thus equivalence between the three batches was not met.  
Table  11:  Geometric  Mean  Titre  at  Day  56  and  Pairwise  Comparisons:  PP  Population  (Study 
IC51-309) 
Parameter 
Treatment group (ratio) 
GMT  
Batch A, N=198  
Batch B, N=202  
Batch D, N=200  
GMT ratio   (Batch A/Batch B)  
(Batch A /Batch D) 
(Batch B/Batch D) 
GMT 
estimate 
160.711
272.241
127.56 1 
0.58572
1.24062 
2.11832 
n 
SD 
PRNT50 
range 
95% CI 
197 
202 
200 
NA 
NA 
NA 
304.2 
5-2391 
140.54, 183.76 
416.9 
5-3017 
237.22, 312.43 
209.7 
5-1399 
109.51, 148.57 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.4840, 0.7087 
1.0249, 1.5018 
1.7520, 2.5612 
Ixiaro 
33//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; GMT=geometric mean titer; n=number of subjects with data;  
N=number of subjects in group; NA=not applicable; PRNT50=Serum dilution giving a 50% reduction of  
plaque counts in a plaque reduction neutralization test; SD=standard deviation  
Observed values used.  
1 GMTs with CIs for single batches calculated descriptively. 2 Estimate for GMT ratios with CI (from analysis 
of variance with factors center and batch).  
However,  all  three  batches  induced  high  seroconversion  at  Day  56.  SCR  estimates  were  97.97%, 
99.01% and 96.50% in Batches A, B and D, respectively (PP population). SCR estimates in the ITT 
population confirmed these results. Pairwise comparison of IXIARO batches demonstrated similarity 
of the three batches in terms of SCR.  
Study IC51-310:  
In order to demonstrate equivalence between clinical trial lots used in the pivotal clinical studies and 
the  commercial  process  the  Applicant  has  conducted  a  second  lot-to-lot  consistency  study  using  the 
following 3 commercial lots produced at the Livingston, UK facility. 
• Batch A: 6 µg IXIARO (Lot IC51/07E/006A) i.m. injection (0.5 ml) on Days 0 and 28 
• Batch B: 6 µg IXIARO (Lot IC51/07E/007A) i.m. injection (0.5 ml) on Days 0 and 28 
• Batch C: 6 µg IXIARO (Lot IC51/07F/008A) i.m. injection (0.5 ml) on Days 0 and 28 
These lots were also well controlled for adsorption/desorption of the vaccine antigen from the AlOH 
adjuvant  as  well  as  for  antigen/protein  ratios  which  has  not  been  the  case  for  the  clinical  trial  lots. 
Overall, the Applicant aims to demonstrating that potential inconsistencies in production identified for 
the  clinical  trials  lots  did  not  have  much  impact  on  clinical  parameters,  in  particular  efficacy  as 
expressed by PRNT50 titres.  
Comparing results from the new lot-to-lot consistency study it becomes evident that firstly, individual 
lots do only differ minimally from each other as regards GMT estimates (see Table 12) and secondly, 
these results do not differ from those observed in previous studies. 
Table  12:  Geometric  Mean  Titre  at  Day  56  and  Pairwise  Comparisons:  PP  Population  (Study 
IC51-310) 
Parameter 
GMT  
GMT ratio 
Treatment group 
[ratio] 
Batch A 
Batch B 
Batch C 
[Batch A/ Batch B] 
[Batch A/ Batch C] 
[Batch B/ Batch C] 
GMT 
estimate 
160.801
188.211
168.431
0.85342
0.95702
1.12142
n 
SD 
PRNT50 
range 
95% CI 
124 
121 
119 
NA 
NA 
NA 
398.0 
410.2 
483.6 
NA 
NA 
NA 
5-3589 
133.51, 193.661 
25-3645 
163.77, 216.291 
5-2992 
136.20, 208.291 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.6630, 1.0984 
0.7426, 1.2333 
0.8689, 1.4474 
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; GMT=geometric mean titre; n=number of subjects with data; 
NA=not applicable; PRNT50=Serum dilution giving a 50% reduction of plaque counts in a plaque reduction 
neutralization test; SD=standard deviation. Observed values used. 
1 GMTs and CIs for single batches calculated descriptively. 
2 Estimate for GMT ratios with CI (from analysis of variance with factors centre and batch). 
Seroconversion  rates  consistently  exceed  95%  for  lots  investigated  in  present  (97.5%-100%)  and 
previous studies. In front of this background potential variances in production of clinical trial lots are 
unlikely  to  have  generated  biasing  clinical  results  and  conclusions  drawn  from  pivotal  trials  are 
consistent with those that can be drawn from trial IC51-310. 
Further  the  impact  of  minor  quality  changes  or  potentially  undetectable  quality  changes  will  be 
investigated  in  study  IC51-314.  In  this  study  one  batch  used  in  study  IC51-310  at  12,  18  and  24 
months post  filling will be evaluated.  The Applicant is committed to provide interim and final CSR 
upon availability.  
Ixiaro 
34//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure  
Safety data are available from 9 clinical studies. These include one phase I study (WRAIR 763), one 
phase  II  study  (WRAIR  815),  and  7  phase  III  studies  (IC51-301,  IC51-302,  IC51-303,  IC51-304, 
IC51-305, IC51-308, and IC51-309). Overall, 3558 subjects who have received at least one IXIARO 
vaccination were compared to 435 subjects who received at least on JE-VAX vaccination, 65 subjects 
with one Havrix 1440 vaccination and 657 with a placebo (PBS solution containing 0.1% aluminium 
hydroxide)  vaccination  (Table  13).  Study  IC51-302  was  the  pivotal  safety  study  including  2683 
subjects.  Data  from  all  phase  3  studies  except  IC51-310  were  included  in  a  pooled  6-months  safety 
analysis; the pooled analysis was performed before data were available from this study. Blinded data 
from studies IC51-304 and IC51-305 were included in the pooled 6-month safety analysis. Interim (6-
months  and  12-months)  safety  results  from  ongoing  study  IC51-303  and  Day  56  safety  results  from 
study IC51-309 have been presented. 
Table 13: 
Study ID  
Treatment  
N  
No of Dose 
Pivotal Safety Study  
IXIARO 
IC51-302  
1
Placebo
1993  1 dose  
2 doses  
657  
1 dose  
2 doses  
Pooled 6-Months Safety  
IXIARO 
3558  1 dose  
No. subjects 
(%) 
25 (1.3)  
1968 (98.7)  
12 (1.8)  
645 (98.2)  
76 (2.1)  
2 doses  
3482 (97.9)  
Placebo 
657  
1 dose  
2 doses  
JE-VAX 
435  
1 dose  
2 doses  
3 doses  
HAVRIX 
65  
1 dose  
12 (1.8)  
645 (98.2)  
21 (4.8)  
11 (2.5)  
403 (92.6)  
65 (100)  
•  Adverse events 
An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a subject administered an 
investigational product, whether or not related to treatment. Abnormalities already existing before the 
first administration of the investigational product were not considered as AEs, but were documented as 
medical history. All new abnormalities or any exacerbation in intensity or frequency (worsening) of a 
pre-existing condition during or after the first vaccination were documented as AEs.  
Treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs)  were  defined  as  events  which  were  not  present  at 
baseline, but started after the first vaccination or worsened with respect to severity following the start 
of treatment. AEs with missing start dates were considered treatment-emergent. Abnormalities already 
existing before the first administration of the investigational product were not considered as TEAEs, 
but were documented as medical history. 
IC51-302 (pivotal safety study): 
A total of 2683 subjects were randomized at 39 sites in Australia, Austria, Germany, United Kingdom 
(UK), Israel, New Zealand, Romania and the United States of America (USA). Informed consent was 
obtained  from  the  subjects  meeting  all  inclusion  and no  exclusion  criteria  prior  to  any  study  related 
procedures. After a screening period of up to 4 weeks subjects were randomized in a 3:1 ratio to one of 
the following two groups: 
Ixiaro 
35//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verum Group: two injections of IXIARO (6 µg, intramuscularly [i.m.], 0.5 mL) on Day 0 and Day 28, 
or Control Group: two injections of placebo (PBS solution containing 0.1% aluminium hydroxide, 0.5 
mL, i.m.) on Day 0 and Day 28. 
A summary of TEAEs is provided in Table 14. During the total study period, 58.9% of subjects in the 
IXIARO (IC51) group and 56.6% of subjects in the placebo group experienced at least one TEAE.  
Table 14: Overview of TEAEs (Total Study Period): Safety Population 
Category  
IXIARO 
N=1993  
n  
(%) 
Placebo 
N=657  
n  
(%) 
Overall 
N=2650  
n  
(%) 
p-value 
Subjects with at least   
    one TEAE  
    one severe TEAE  
    one serious TEAE  
1173  
(58.9) 
372 
(56.6) 
0.3159  
1545  
(58.3)  
102  
(5.1)  
34  
(5.2)  
0.9192  
136  
(5.1)  
10  
(0.5)  
6  
(0.9)  
0.2487  
16  
(0.6)  
    one possibly/probably related TEAE  
774  
(38.8) 
254 
(38.7) 
0.9632  
1028  
(38.8)  
    one medically attended TEAE  
    one TEAE leading to withdrawal  
254  
(12.7) 
80  
(12.2) 
0.7350  
334  
(12.6)  
12  
(0.6)  
5  
(0.8)  
0.5857  
17  
(0.6) 
Who died  
(0.0)  
N=number of subjects in group; n=number of subject with data; %=percentage of subjects based on number of 
patients in the group; TEAE=treatment emergent adverse even; p-value of Fisher’s exact test for comparing 
treatment groups;  
(0.0)  
(0.0)  
0  
0  
0  
- 
In  total,  46.2%  of  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  group  and  46.4%  of  subjects  in  the  placebo  group 
experienced  TEAEs  during  the  first  vaccination  period  and  the  number  of  subjects  experiencing 
TEAEs  in  the  second  vaccination  period  was  lower  (35.0%  and  31.8%  in  the  IXIARO  and  placebo 
groups, respectively). 
The most common system organ class (SOC) for TEAEs were nervous system disorders (29.4% and 
27.5%  for  IXIARO  and  placebo,  respectively),  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions 
(22.3% for IXIARO and 23.0% for placebo), musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (18.0% 
for IXIARO  and 18.3% for placebo), infections and infestations (13.8% for IXIARO  and 13.2% for 
placebo)  and  gastrointestinal  disorders  (10.0%  for  IXIARO  and  9.4%  for  placebo).  There  were  no 
clinical relevant differences between the two groups. 
The  most  common  TEAEs  reported  in  the  total  study  period  were  headache  (28.0%  and  26.3%  for 
IXIARO and placebo, respectively), myalgia (15.6% for IXIARO and 15.5% for placebo), influenza 
like illness (12.4% for IXIARO and 11.9% for placebo) and fatigue (11.4% for IXIARO and 11.7% 
for placebo).  
For  all  systemic  symptoms  (headache,  muscle  pain,  fever,  flu-like-symptoms,  nausea,  vomiting  and 
fatigue), the incidence one day after the first vaccination was slightly higher in the IXIARO group (the 
only  exception  being  rash);  after  the  second  vaccination  the  rate  of  headache,  fever  and  flu-like 
symptoms was slightly higher than in the placebo group. Local symptoms were most common on Day 
0 decreasing over time for both treatment groups. The incidence of pain and tenderness was slightly 
higher  in  the  IXIARO  group  compared  to  the  control  group  (first  vaccination,  pain  and  tenderness: 
18.5 % and 20.8 % in IXIARO group and 15.5 % and 17.4 % in the placebo group, respectively). 
The  severity  of  TEAEs  was  similar  between  the  two  groups  (Table  15).  In  the  safety  population, 
33.7%  of  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  (IC51)  group  and  34.1%  of  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  had 
TEAEs that were mild in intensity. Corresponding frequencies for moderate TEAEs were 20.1% and 
17.4%, respectively, and for severe TEAEs were 5.1% and 5.2%, respectively.  
Ixiaro 
36//50 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Severity of Common TEAEs (Total Study Period) – Safety Population 
Ixiaro 
37//50 
 
 
 
Source: Section 14, Table 4.2.4.1; N=number of subjects in group; n=number of subject with data; 
%=percentage of subjects based on number of patients in the group; TEAE=treatment emergent adverse event; 1 
Only includes SOCs in which TEAEs were reported in ≥2% subjects overall 2 Preferred terms only given for 
TEAEs occurring in ≥1.5% subjects overall 
The  pattern  of  causality  was  similar  between  the  two  groups.  There  were  no  clinical  relevant 
differences  in  causality  between  the  two  groups.  In  the  safety  population,  38.8%  subjects  in  the 
IXIARO  group  and  38.7%  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  experienced  TEAEs  that  were  possibly  or 
probably related to study treatment (or missing causality).  
The  most  common  SOC  for  treatment-related  TEAEs  was  nervous  system  disorders  (22.0%  and 
20.4%  of  subjects  for  IXIARO  and  placebo,  respectively),  followed  by  general  disorders  and 
administration site conditions (17.2% for IXIARO and 18.1% for placebo), and musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders (13.8% for IXIARO and 15.4% for placebo).  
The  most  common  treatment-related  TEAEs  were  headache  (21.5%  and  19.9%  of  subjects  for 
IXIARO  and  placebo,  respectively),  myalgia  (13.6%  for  IXIARO  and  14.3%  for  placebo),  fatigue 
(9.4% for IXIARO and 9.9% for placebo) and influenza like illness (8.9% for IXIARO and 8.7% for 
placebo).  A  higher  proportion  of  subjects  experienced  treatment-related  TEAEs  during  the  first 
vaccination period (31.6% and 33.0% of subjects for IXIARO and placebo, respectively) compared to 
the second vaccination period (20.0% for IXIARO and 18.1% for placebo). 
The severity of treatment related TEAEs was similar between the two groups. 
Very few medically attended TEAEs were considered related (2.1% of subjects in the IXIARO group 
and 2.0% of subjects in the placebo group). 
Pooled 6-Months-Analyses 
6-Months Pooled Safety Population  
Of  the  4715 subjects  who  were  included  in  the  6-months  pooled  safety  population,  1.5%  completed 
the  6-months  safety  visit.  Thereof  3558  received  at  least  one  IXIARO  vaccination,  435  subjects 
received  JE-VAX,  65  received  Havrix,  and  657  received  placebo.  The  mean  age  was  35.2  years 
(range: 18 to 86 years) and 82.7% of subjects were aged between 18 and 49 years, 13.9% between 50 
and  64  years,  and  3.4%  were  65  years  or  older.  Subjects  tended  to  be  older  in  the  JE-VAX  group 
(mean  41.1  years)  and  younger  in  the  Havrix  group  (mean  28.1  years).  There  were  slightly  more 
females (56.0%) than males (44.0%).  
The  objective  of  this  analysis  is  to  provide  a  compiled  overview  of  the  safety  and  tolerability  of 
IXIARO as observed in the ongoing clinical trial program supplemental to the specific clinical study 
reports.  The  comparator  groups  (JE-VAX/Havrix1440/placebo)  of  these  clinical  trials  provide 
information  on  background  incidences  and  are  used  to  validate  the  observed  safety  profile.  The 
definition of the safety analysis population was identical in all clinical trials covered. 
An overview on TEAEs is presented in Table 16.  
Ixiaro 
38//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16: Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) 
JE-VAX
Category 
N=435  
n  
IXIARO 
N=3558  
n  
Subjects with at least 
(%)  
(%)  
HAVRIX
N=65  
n  
(%)  
Placebo 
N=657  
n  
(%) 
one TEAE  
one severe TEAE  
one serious TEAE  
1
one related TEAE
2282 
(64.1)  279 
(64.1)  
31  
(47.7)   402  
(61.2) 
207  
(5.8)  
19  
(4.4)  
38  
(1.1)  
3  
(0.7)  
3  
0  
(4.6)  
(0.0)  
42  
13  
(6.4)  
(2.0)  
1362 
(38.3)  149 
(34.3)  
12  
(18.5)   255  
(38.8) 
2
one medically attended TEAE
668  
(19.4)  36  
(10.7)  
11  
(16.9)   129  
(19.6) 
one TEAE leading to withdrawal  
27  
(0.8)  
8  
(1.8)  
0  
(0.0)  
5  
(0.8) 
0  
1  
(0.0)  
(<0.1) 
Who died  
(0.0)  
1) Events with a causality reported as probable or possible or with a missing classification were considered 
related to study medication. 
2) Medically attended TEAEs were not collected during study IC51-304 and IC51-301(in which JE-VAX was 
administered) but were collected during follow-on study IC51-303. Therefore the JE-VAX column represents 
medically attended TEAEs collected from Month 2 to Month 6. All subjects in the pooled 6-month safety 
population receiving JE-VAX originate from study IC51-301. 
Abbreviations: N=number of subjects in group; n=number of subjects with event; %=percentage of subjects 
based on number of subjects in the group; TEAE=treatment-emergent adverse event. 
(0.0)  
0  
0  
TEAEs were experienced by similar percentages of subjects in the IXIARO group (64.1%), JE-VAX 
group (64.1%) and placebo group (61.2%), and by fewer subjects in the HAVRIX group (47.7%). 
The incidence of TEAEs with IXIARO was similar to placebo for severe TEAEs (5.8% and 6.4% of 
subjects,  respectively),  SAEs  (1.1%  and  2.0%,  respectively),  treatment-related  TEAEs  (38.3%  and 
38.8%, respectively), medically attended TEAEs (19.4% and 19.6%, respectively), and TEAEs leading 
to withdrawal (0.8% for both groups). 
Although the incidence of medically attended TEAEs was similar in the IXIARO group (19.4%) and 
the placebo group (19.6%), it was lower in the JE-VAX group (10.7%). All subjects in the pooled 6-
months  safety  population  receiving  JE-VAX  originate  from  study  IC51-301,  in  which  medically 
attended TEAEs were not collected. In contrast, only 802 subjects (22.6%) of the IXIARO group in 
the pooled 6-months safety population originate from IC51-301 or IC51-304 where medically attended 
TEAEs were not collected. 
TEAE considered to be treatment related are listed in Table 17. 
Table 17: Common Treatment-Related Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events 
TEAE system organ class and 
1
preferred term
IXIARO  
N=3558  
JE-VAX
N=435  
HAVRIX
N=65  
Placebo 
N=657  
2
Any treatment-related TEAE
Nervous system disorders  
Headache  
General disorders and 
administration site conditions  
Fatigue  
Influenza-like illness  
Pyrexia  
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders  
Myalgia  
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Ixiaro 
n  
(%)  
n  
(%)  
n  
(%)  
n  
(%) 
1362  
(38.3)  
149  
(34.3) 
12  
(18.5)   255  
(38.8) 
707  
684  
626  
339  
313  
76  
493  
478  
195  
(19.9)  
(19.2)  
(17.6)  
(9.5)  
(8.8)  
(2.1)  
(13.9)  
(13.4)  
(5.5)  
39//50 
80  
79  
73  
35  
30  
10  
54  
52  
29  
(18.4) 
(18.2) 
(16.8) 
(8.0)  
(6.9)  
(2.3)  
(12.4) 
(12.0) 
(6.7)  
7  
6  
2  
1  
1  
0  
1  
1  
1  
(10.8)   135  
(20.5) 
(9.2)   132  
(20.1) 
(3.1)   119  
(18.1) 
(1.5)  
(1.5)  
(0.0)  
65  
57  
15  
(9.9)  
(8.7) 
(2.3)  
(1.5)   101  
(15.4) 
(1.5)  
(1.5)  
94  
40  
(14.3) 
(6.1)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nausea  
Infections and infestations  
Nasopharyngitis  
162  
66  
28  
(4.6)  
(1.9)  
(0.8)  
26  
4  
3  
(6.0)  
(0.9)  
(0.7)  
0  
4  
3  
(0.0)  
(6.2)  
(4.6)  
37  
10  
4  
(5.6)  
(1.5)  
(0.6)  
The  percentage  of  subjects  reporting  treatment-related  TEAEs  was  similar  between  the  IXIARO 
(38.3%) and placebo groups (38.8%) for all of the most commonly reported events. 
The most common treatment-related TEAE by preferred term was headache in each treatment group 
(IXIARO:  19.2%;  placebo:  20.1%;  JE-VAX:  18.2%;  and  HAVRIX:  9.2%).  Myalgia  was  a  common 
treatment-related  TEAE  for  IXIARO  (13.4%  of  subjects),  placebo  (14.3%)  and  JE-VAX  (12.0%), 
while nasopharyngitis was commonly reported in the HAVRIX group (4.6%). 
Treatment-related severe TEAEs were reported for 2.4%, 2.7%, and 1.4% of subjects in the IXIARO, 
placebo  and  JE-VAX  groups,  respectively.  The  most  common  severe  treatment-related  TEAE  was 
headache in each of these three treatment groups (0.8%, 1.2%, and 0.7% of subjects, respectively).  
No  related  TEAE  with  fatal  outcome  was  observed  in  the  entire  6  months  study  period  in  any 
vaccination group. 
Local Tolerability: 
Local symptoms following up to 6 days following vaccination are summarised in Figure 2 and 3. 
47.9%  of  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  (IC51)  group  reported  at  least  one  local  symptom  (pain,  itching, 
tenderness,  hardening,  swelling  or  redness)  of  any  severity  within  the  first  week  after  the  first 
vaccination and 29.8% within the first week after the second vaccination on day 28. These proportions 
were comparable in the placebo group (day 0: 47.6% and day 28: 33.7%) and were higher in the JE-
VAX  group  (day  0:  45.7%  and  day  28:  42.0%)  and  in  the  HAVRIX  1440  group  (day  0:  79.7%,  no 
proportion for day 28). 
Figure 2: 
Figure 3:  
Ixiaro 
40//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5%  of  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  group  reported  at  least  one  local  symptom  of  severe  intensity  as 
judged by the investigator within the first week after the first vaccination and 1.3% of subjects after 
the  second  vaccination  on  day 28.  These  proportions  were  comparable  in  the  placebo  group  (day  0: 
2.0% and day 28: 1.3%) and higher in the JE-VAX (day 0: 5.8% and day 28: 10.5%) and HAVRIX 
1440 group (day 0: 4.7%, no proportion for day 28).  
The  analysis  of  events  of  special  interest  (rash,  pruritus,  conjunctivitis,  erythema,  dermatitis, 
hypersensitivity,  dyspnoea,  circulatory  collapse,  eye  pruritus,  flushing,  urticaria,  hypotension  and 
wheezing) demonstrated an event frequency of 3.5% (95% CI: 2.9% - 4.2%) for the IXIARO group, 
5.5% (95% CI: 3.6% - 8.1%) for the JE-VAX group, 4.6% (95% CI: 1.0% - 12.9%) for the HAVRIX 
1440 group and 3.7% (95% CI: 2.4% - 5.4%) for the placebo group. The most frequent events were 
rash and pruritus. 
Systemic tolerability: 
Systemic symptoms following up to 6 days after vaccination are given Figure 4 and 5. 
32.6% of subjects in the IXIARO (IC51) group reported at least one systemic symptom within the first 
week after the first vaccination and 17.5% within the first week after the second vaccination on day 
28. 
The corresponding results for the placebo group were comparable (first vaccination: 30.7% and second 
vaccination:  19.5%)  and  slightly  lower  in  the  JE-VAX  group  (first  vaccination:  29.2%  and  second 
vaccination:  12.3%).  The  most  frequent  systemic  symptoms  were  headache,  muscle  pain,  flu-like 
symptoms and excessive fatigue. 
Ixiaro 
41//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
Figure 5: 
Ixiaro 
42//50 
 
 
 
 
 
Study IC51-303: 12s month follow up of 301 and 302  
The 6-months safety analysis included all subjects. Of the 3258 enrolled subjects, 2283 had received 
IXIARO,  338  had  received  JE-VAX  and  637  had  received  placebo  in  the  previous  studies.  The  12-
months  safety  analysis  included  180  IXIARO  -treated  subjects  (long-term  safety  population).  The 
interim  analysis  of  safety following the  12-months  visit  (Visit  3) was  based  on  the  long-term  safety 
population. AEs were summarized that occurred between Visit 1 (Month 2) and Visit 3 (Month 12); 
AEs  that  occurred  during  the  preceding  studies  IC51-301  and  IC51-302  were  not  included  in  this 
analysis but have been reported in the respective clinical study reports.  
From  Month  2  to  Month  12  after  the  first  vaccination,  61  (33.9%)  of  180  subjects  in  the  long-term 
safety population experienced at least one AE. Most AEs were mild or moderate in intensity. No AEs 
were  considered  to  be  treatment-related.  Three  subjects  (1.7%)  experienced  a  severe  AE  and  36 
subjects  (20.0%)  experienced  at  least  one  medically  attended  AE  (none  considered  to  be  treatment 
related). No deaths were reported from Month 2 to Month 12 in the long-term safety population. 
•  Safety in special populations 
IXIARO was not investigated in a paediatric population or in pregnant or lactating women. Subjects 
with certain specified diseases were also excluded from the clinical trials. Excluded have been subjects 
with a history of flavivirus infection, immunodeficiency, autoimmune diseases, HIV, hepatitis B or C 
infections, diabetes mellitus, severe cardiopulmonary disorders, acute infections within 4 weeks prior 
to enrolment  or a history of malignancy in previous 5 years. 
Vaccination is currently not recommended in these subjects. 
A  phase  II  paediatric  clinical  study  (one  to  three  years  of  age)  has  been  initiated  in  an  endemic 
population (India) in 2007. 
Twenty-nine  female  subjects  in  the  IXIARO  program  have  become  pregnant,  24  of  those  received 
IXIARO.  Thirteen  of  the  subjects  who  were  vaccinated  with  IXIARO  had  live  births  with  normal 
outcome.  Four  subjects  were  considered  to  have  abnormal  pregnancy  (congenital  anomaly  of 
syndactyly,  ectopic  pregnancy,  stillbirth,  and  miscarriage).  Four  subjects  had  elective  termination,  2 
pregnancies  are  ongoing  and  1  pregnancy  has  an  unknown  outcome.  On  the  basis  of  these  data  a 
cumulation of risks can not be discovered.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In the clinical study IC51-308 concomitant vaccination with IXIARO and HAVRIX was studied.  No 
effect on the safety or immunogenicity of each vaccine was observed. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
IC51-302:  Seventeen  subjects  overall  experienced  TEAEs  which  led  to  the  withdrawal  of  study 
treatment: twelve (0.6%) in the IXIARO group and five (0.8%) in the placebo group. There were two 
severe TEAEs (gastroenteritis and rash) in the IXIARO group and three severe events in the placebo 
group (nuchal rigidity, migraine, acute coronary syndrome) that led to withdrawal.  
Eight  events  (two  events  of  headache,  influenza  like  illness,  allergic  dermatitis,  injection  site  pain, 
nausea, fatigue and rash) leading to treatment withdrawal in the IXIARO group and one event (nuchal 
rigidity) leading to withdrawal in the placebo group  had a possible or probable relation-ship to study 
treatment. 
IC51-301: TEAEs leading to withdrawal of  study drug were  experienced by 1.6% subjects (n=7) in 
the IXIARO group and 1.8% (n=8) subjects in the JE-VAX group. No clinical relevant differences in 
relationship or severity between the two groups. 
There were no withdrawals in the phase I/II studies.  
IC51-303: no withdrawals in the ITT population due to TEAEs 
IC51-309:  Eight  subjects  (1.3%)  overall  experienced  TEAEs  which  led  to  withdrawal  of  study 
medication: 4 subjects (1.9%) receiving IXIARO Batch A (rhinitis, neurodermatitis, respiratory tract 
infection,  and  nasopharyngitis),  2  subjects  (0.9%)  receiving  Batch  B  (gastroenteritis  and  abortion 
induced), and 2 subjects (0.9%) receiving Batch D (tonsillitis and gastrointestinal disorder). No TEAE 
Ixiaro 
43//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
leading to withdrawal was reported by more than one subject. Three events were considered possibly 
treatment-related; neurodermatitis and nasopharyngitis in the Batch A group, and gastroenteritis in the 
Batch B group. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
IC51-302: A total of 16 subjects who  experienced serious TEAEs during the total study period, ten 
(0.5%) subjects in the IXIARO group and six (0.9%) subjects in the placebo group. No serious TEAEs 
was considered treatment-related. No deaths occurred in this study. 
IC51-301:  Only  one  subject  in  the  IXIARO  group  experienced  a  serious  TEAE  (Myocardial 
infarction, unlikely to be related, recovered). No subjects died. 
IC51-303: During months 2-6: The frequency of SAEs was similar in the placebo group (7 subjects, 
1.1%), the IXIARO group (15 subjects, 0.7%) and the JE-VAX group (2 subjects, 0.6%). There was 
one death in the IXIARO group as a result of a SAE (lung adenocarcinoma metastatic). No SAEs were 
considered to be treatment-related.  
From months 6-12 five additional subjects (2.8%) experienced SAEs. No SAEs were considered to be 
treatment-related. 
IC51-308:  No  subjects  withdrew  from  the  study  as  a  result  of  a  TEAE  and  no  subjects  died.  One 
subject in the IXIARO + placebo group (1.5% of the treatment group and 0.5% overall) experienced 
one  SAE.  One  subject  presented  with  convulsion,  a  nervous  system  disorder  SAE  which  was 
medically attended, moderate in severity and considered unlikely to be related to study treatment.  
IC51-309: There were no deaths in this study. There was only one serious TEAE reported during the 
two months vaccination period. One (0.5%) subject who received Batch D reported a serious TEAE of 
acute abdomen, which was moderate in severity and judged unlikely to be related to study medication 
by the Investigator. 
•  Laboratory findings 
There were no safety concerns with regard to haematological parameters across studies.  
Of note were increases of liver enzymes (Table 18). 
Table 18: Subjects with Clinically Relevant Deviations in Clinical Chemistry Values: Safety 
Population (Study IC51-302)  
IXIARO  
N=1993 
 n (%)  
Placebo 
N=657  
n (%)  
Creatinine Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
Potassium Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
Calcium Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
AST Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
ALT Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
Alkaline phosphatase Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
7 (0.4) 
1 (0.1) 
2 (0.1) 
0 
2 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
7 (0.4) 
12 (0.6) 
6 (0.3) 
8 (0.4) 
9 (0.5) 
14 (0.7) 
2 (0.1) 
0 
1 (0.1) 
Ixiaro 
0 
1 (0.2) 
0 
2 (0.3) 
1 (0.2) 
0
0
0
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
3 (0.5) 
2 (0.3) 
3 (0.5) 
3 (0.5) 
0 
0
0
44//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bilirubin Screening 
Day 28  
Day 56  
7 (0.4)  
5 (0.3) 
5 (0.3) 
1 (0.2)  
0
0
Note: only data for any clinically relevant parameters included. If not clinically relevant in all groups/timepoints 
then the data (all zero values) have not been included. Abbreviations: N=number of subjects in group; 
n=number of subjects with event; %=percentage of subjects based on number of subjects in the group; AST= 
aspartate aminotransferase; ALT= alanine aminotransferase 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  Applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements and provides adequate evidence that the Applicant has the services of a qualified person 
responsible  for  pharmacovigilance  and  has  the  necessary  means  for  the  notification  of  any  adverse 
reaction suspected of occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
Table: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety 
concern 
Sensitivity / 
Allergy 
Reactions 
Central 
Neurological 
Adverse Events 
Ossification 
Delay 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
Intensified Post Marketing Surveillance 
within the spontaneous reporting system: Allergy 
/ Sensitivity Questionnaire  
• 
Clinical Studies 
Ongoing follow-up study IC51-303  
Ongoing follow-up study IC51-305 
Ongoing study IC51-311 
Ongoing study IC51-314 
• 
in 20,000 IXIARO recipients 
Enhanced Surveillance at Sentinel Sites 
Proposed risk minimisation 
activities 
SPC Section 4.3 Contrainidications:  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or 
to any of the excipients or to any residuals 
(e.g. protamin sulphate). 
Individuals who show hypersensitivity 
reactions after receiving the first dose of 
the vaccine should not be given the second 
dose. 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
within the spontaneous reporting system: 
Neurological Adverse Events Questionnaire  
• 
Intensified Post Marketing Surveillance 
Clinical Studies 
Ongoing follow-up study IC51-303  
Ongoing follow-up study IC51-305 
Ongoing study IC51-311 
Ongoing study IC51-314 
• 
in 20,000 IXIARO recipients 
Enhanced Surveillance at Sentinel Sites 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
within routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
Intensified Post Marketing Surveillance 
Ixiaro 
45//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thymic 
Atrophy 
Pediatric 
Population 
Vaccination in 
pregnant 
women  
Immuno-
compromised 
Individuals 
Elderly 
Individuals 
Co-vaccinated 
Individuals 
Spontaneous reporting system Pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
Questionnaire: specific question  
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
Questionnaire: unspecific question 
Spontaneous reporting system Pregnancy  
A phase 2 study in pediatric subjects 
The pediatric investigational plan for 
• 
aged 1- 3 years old was done in India.  
• 
phase 3 development is presently under 
discussion with the FDA and EMEA Scientific 
Advice has already been obtained.  Phase 3 trials 
are currently expected to start in 2009. Planning is 
underway to conduct the pivotal immunogenicity 
study (IC51-321, comparing IC51 to a locally 
available comparator in approximately 460 
children) and the safety study (IC51-323, 
approximately 1150 children) in South-East Asia.  
Additionally, a small immunogenicity study 
(IC51-322, approximately 50-100 children) will 
be conducted in western countries. 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
within the spontaneous reporting system: 
Pregnancy Questionnaire and Analysis follow up 
Programme 
Intensified Post Marketing Surveillance 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
results reported in PSUR 
Individual and cumulative analysis, 
SPC Section 4.2 Paediatric: 
• 
IXIARO is not recommended for use in 
children and adolescents due to lack of 
data on safety and efficacy 
SPC Section 4.6 Pregnancy and 
• 
Lactation:  
As a precautionary measure, the use of 
IXIARO during pregnancy or lactation 
should be avoided. 
• 
SPC Section 4.5 Interaction with 
other medicinal products and other forms 
of interaction:  
In patients receiving immunosuppressive 
therapy or patients with immunodeficiency 
an adequate immune response may not be 
obtained.  
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
results reported in PSUR 
Individual and cumulative analysis, 
Routine pharmacovigilance (ICSRs, 
• 
PSURs, monitoring safety profile, safety signal 
generation and detection) 
• 
results reported in PSUR 
Individual and cumulative analysis, 
Ixiaro 
46//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  format  and  content  of  the  RMP  and  included  updates  are  endorsed.    However,  the  Applicant  is 
committed to provide more detailed information (study synopsis) on the paediatric development plan 
and for the planned studies IC51-321, -322, and -323 mentioned in the table above. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The Applicant has made considerable progress towards the improvement of critical quality aspects in 
the production and control of IXIARO.  The outstanding major concerns raised during the procedure, 
which  were  related  to  the  need  to  introduce  additional  relevant  quality  control  procedures  and  to 
further  develop  existing  assays,  are  considered  adequately  addressed  with  data  and/or  follow-up 
commitments.  A  number  of  control  measures  have  been  successfully  implemented.  Some  activities 
related  to  the  quality  assurance  for  IXIARO  are  still  under  development  and  await  their  final 
implementation. The Applicant has committed to solve these issues through Follow-up measures.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Anti-JE  virus  neutralizing  antibodies  have  been  elicited  after  vaccination  in  rats  and  rabbits.  Mice 
vaccinated with IXIARO are highly protected from lethal challenge with homologous SA14 strain. In 
addition,  in  passive  protection  study,  passively  transferred  human  immune  anti-sera  raised  against 
IXIARO  can  effectively  protect  the  mice  from  lethal  challenge  either  with  homologous  SA14  strain 
(belongs to genotype III) or with a heterologous strain KE093 (belongs to genotype I). A correlation 
between  the  protection  and  the  titre  of  human  neutralising  antibodies  injected  has  been  shown. 
However, the definitive PRNT50 titre threshold for protection is not demonstrated in the mouse model. 
Overall, the pharmacodynamic program, including the choice of animal disease model, is considered 
suitable  for  pharmacological  evaluation  of  IXIARO,  and  the  studies  provide  proof  of  principle,  i.e. 
immunogenicity and protection for this vaccine. 
No dedicated single- or repeat-dose toxicity studies or local tolerance studies were conducted and data 
from histological examinations of vital organs and the injection site are lacking. This is due to the fact 
that  clinical  Phase  I/II  trials  had  already  been  completed  when  the  vaccine  was  taken  over  by  the 
Applicant  This issue of the appropriateness of the preclinical testing programme has previously been 
raised by the Applicant in a formal procedure.  
The Company conducted one GLP reproductive and developmental toxicity study in rats. No treatment 
related effects were observed with the exception of  the incidence of incomplete ossification of parts of 
the  skeleton  of  the  fetuses  (4  or  more  skull  bones  and  ischia)  which  was  statistically  significantly 
higher in one of the two vaccine groups (= in group II, 2 vaccinations) compared to the control group. 
The Applicant argues that the finding is isolated and not relevant for human use of the vaccine because 
it  was  not  observed  in  the  other  vaccine  group  (=  group  I,  3  vaccinations)  and  no  other  incomplete 
development  of  the  fetuses  was  observed.  As  no  other  effects  on  development  of  fetuses  or  birth 
weights  were  seen,  the  finding  does  not  fit  in  with  a  general  delay  in  development.  However,  at 
present  a  selective  or  specific  effect  of  the  treatment  on  ossification  rate  can  not  be  ruled  out. 
Normally  the  incomplete  ossification  is  recovered  during  the  postnatal  period.  However,  bone 
structure was not examined after birth. Therefore, the submitted data do not allow answering whether 
the incomplete ossification observed is just a delayed event or is persistent in nature.  
As requested during the procedure, the Applicant performed histopathological examination on retained 
samples from F0 lactating rats in the reproductive and development toxicity study, and presented the 
results.  The  only  finding  noted  was  thymic  atrophy,  graded  as  minimal  or  focal  minimal  in  the 
Vaccine  II  group  (receiving  2  injections).  The  Applicant  considered  the  thymic  atrophy  as  being 
secondary  to  maternal  stress,  which  could  be  a  reasonable  explanation.  Since  thymic  atrophy  and 
foetal incomplete ossification occurred in the same Vaccine group, the Applicant also speculated that 
maternal  stress  was  a  possible  cause  of  abnormal  ossification  finding.  Since  thymic  atrophy  is  also 
reported  as  isolated  and  accidental  event  in  other  studies  the  explanation  given  by  the  Applicant  is 
acceptable.   
Ixiaro 
47//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy  
In  the  pivotal  clinical  study  IXIARO  demonstrated  non-inferiority  for  genotype  III  of  the  JE  virus 
against JE-VAX, a mouse brain derived comparator vaccine. After two doses of IXIARO given within 
28  days  all  vaccinees  seroconverted.  Moreover,  GMTs  achieved  exceeded  those  achieved  with  JE-
VAX.  
The  presented  heterologous  neutralization  data,  although  limited,  together  with  the  review  of  cross-
immunity  and  distribution  among  JEV  strains  are  considered  sufficient.  The  applicant  will  present 
further  analyses  of  cross-immunity  including  analysis  of  neutralising  antibodies  against  all  4  JEV 
genotypes  and  a  correlation  analysis  performed  on  sera  from  subjects  vaccinated  with  IXIARO  and 
JE-VAX where neutralising antibodies will be measured against the SA 14-14-2 strain, the Nakayama 
strain, and an additional heterologous virus strain. 
Persistence of immunity following primary immunisation, 12 months data from individuals enrolled in 
non-inferiority study IC51-301 showed decreased GMTs over time. Some individuals dropped below 
presumed  seroprotection  levels.  Whether  this  is  of  clinical  significance  can  only  be  answered  by 
boostering the study population. Data from ongoing studies will be submitted. 
Safety 
3310 adults have completed the 6 months follow up visit and a 12 months safety interim analysis with 
180  IXIARO  treated  subjects  has  been  documented.  The  overall  number  of  included  subjects  in  the 
phase III studies is acceptable. 
The  number  of  adverse  reactions  or  severe,  serious  or  related  adverse  reactions  was  similar  after 
administration  of  IXIARO,  JE-VAX  or  Placebo  and  did  not  raise  any  safety  concerns.  No  related 
serious  adverse  reactions  have  been  observed.  The  most  common  adverse  reactions  reported  for 
IXIARO were headache, myalgia, influenza-like illness and fatigue. 
No  effect  was  seen  on  the  safety  profile  of  IXIARO  compared  to  placebo  (aluminium  hydroxide) 
when split on age groups, sex, or ethnic origin. In the group of elderly only 118 subjects have been 
evaluated, nevertheless 467 subjects aged 50 - 64 years old have been enrolled showing less related 
adverse events compared with the younger subjects group. Commonly used drugs for the treatment of 
coronary  heart  failure  or  hypertension  do  not  influence  the  safety  of  the  vaccine.  Receiving 
immunosuppressive therapy may diminish the immune response. This is mentioned in the SPC. 
Regarding local tolerability, IXIARO showed less adverse events than the comparator JE-VAX. Only 
pain occurred in a higher rate after the vaccination with IXIARO possibly related to the different way 
of vaccination. IXIARO has been administered i.m. while JE-VAX is used s.c.  
Due  to  a  different  manufacturing  process  IXIARO  seems  to  have  two  advantages  compared  to  JE-
VAX  regarding  safety  aspects.  Firstly,  the  absence  of  the  stabilizer  gelatine  may  decrease  the 
probability of serious allergic reactions  as well as the late onset of hypersensitivity. Secondly, since 
IXIARO is manufactured in a cell culture substrate instead of mouse brain tissue, severe neurological 
adverse effects are not expected following IXIARO vaccination.  
Although in the non-clinical reproductive study there were single findings on ossification interferences 
in one of two vaccine groups these findings are not indicative for an increased risk of malformations. 
During the clinical studies pregnancy was an exclusion criterion for enrolment, but in spite of that a 
number of females became pregnant. The Applicant did an extensive survey of the pregnancies with 
consideration of the week of gestation (29 female subjects have become pregnant, 24 of those received 
IXIARO). The babies were followed up for three months after delivery. On the basis of these data an 
accumulation  of  risks  has  not  been  discovered.  In  addition  there  is  currently  no  indication  of  an 
increased risk from the use of other inactivated JEV vaccines during pregnancy. Considering the non 
clinical and limited clinical data and according to guideline (EMEA/CHMP/203927/2005) pregnancy 
Ixiaro 
48//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is not a contraindication for the time being but vaccination should be avoided, if possible. A specific 
pregnancy questionnaire was developed and the Applicant will follow-up pregnant women that have 
been vaccinated with IXIARO in order to evaluate the risk post marketing. 
As  stated  in  the  SPC  IXIARO  may  also  be  administered  subcutaneously  (s.c.)  to  patients  with 
thrombocytopenia  or  bleeding  disorders.  This  is  a  common  practice,  however,  currently  no  clinical 
data  recommend  such  a  procedure.  The  SPC  states  that  there  are  no  efficacy  data  to  support  the 
subcutaneous route. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.   
•  User consultation 
The user/readability testing is considered acceptable.  The information on user testing provided by the 
Applicant was found to be satisfactory. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Clinical Context 
A  constantly  growing  number  of  people  travel  to  Japanese  encephalitis  endemic  countries  either  as 
tourists or on medical or military duty missions. These people are at risk of acquiring a fatal disease 
during their stay. Also, in recent years  sporadic epidemics have been reported  from previously non-
endemic areas (such as Nepal, Australia) indicating a trend for an ongoing enlargement of regions at 
risk. 
Benefits 
The  availability  of  an  effective  and  safe  vaccine  to  protect  travelers  from  Japanese  encephalitis  is 
necessary. So far, this demand has been accommodated by “JE-VAX” a Japanese encephalitis vaccine 
prepared in suckling mouse brains. However production of this vaccine has recently been discontinued 
and  exhaustion  of  stocks  is  therefore  conceivable.  IXIARO  is  considered  qualified  to  fill  the  gap 
originating from “JE-VAX” discontinuation. 
Risks 
The  most  common  adverse  reaction  reported  for  IXIARO  were  headache,  myalgia,  influenza-like 
illness and fatigue but these are not often of severe intensity and the safety profile would not preclude 
the use of the vaccine. 
The  current  database  is  considered  to  be  sufficient  to  describe  adverse  reactions  that  occur 
uncommonly  and  to  give  an  indication  of  any  rare  event.  The  number  of  any  adverse  reactions,  or 
severe,  serious  or  related  adverse  reaction  was  similar  after  administration  of  IXIARO,  JE-VAX  or 
placebo and did not raise any safety concerns. No related serious adverse events have been observed. 
Balance 
The overall B/R for IXIARO is positive 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns.  
Ixiaro 
49//50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Ixiaro  in  the  prophylaxis  of  Japanese  Encephalitis  for 
persons 18 years of age and older especially those at risk of exposure through travel or in the course of 
their  occupation  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
Ixiaro 
50//50 
 
 
 
 
 
