25 May 2012 
EMA/265375/2012 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
INN: Japanese encephalitis virus strain SA14-14-2 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/963/A-20/0029 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7051 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.2. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
3. Overall discussion and conclusion ........................................................... 7 
4. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 8 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
In February 2011 the Agency was informed by the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) of an out-of-
specification (OOS) result obtained during potency testing of the IXIARO batch JEV09L37 11 months 
after batch release (results of 1484ng and >3000ng in two consecutive assays for potency; 
specification is < 460ng; the assay results are expressed in reciprocal term, which means that the 
higher ng content the less potent the vaccine is). 
According to the manufacturer, this batch had been marketed in France, Italy, Spain, UK, Canada and 
Australia. This particular potency test was conducted on final lot vaccine 11 months after initial release 
as part of an additional 'abbreviated stability testing' requested by the Canadian Competent Authority 
for certain IXIARO batches put on the Canadian market. 
The MAH was requested to retest batch JEV09L37 11 months after batch release, and the OOS result 
was confirmed. All other quality assuring parameters were confirmed to be in full compliance with the 
approved specifications. 
At the time it was not clear whether the OOS results reflected a quality defect of batch JEV09L37 only, 
or the loss of potency over time could be observed in other marketed batches of IXIARO. 
Based on the information available at that time, it was recommended that revaccination be considered 
in patients who received the affected batch and envisage travelling to a country affected by Japanese 
encephalitis in the near future. In parallel, a recall of the affected batch was performed. 
Therefore, the European Commission initiated a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 and requested the CHMP to assess the impact of the OOS result observed on the safety and 
efficacy of IXIARO, and give its opinion on whether the marketing authorisation should be maintained, 
varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
IXIARO was first granted a marketing authorisation on 31 March 2009 and is indicated for active 
immunization against Japanese encephalitis (JE) in adults. It should be considered for use in 
individuals at risk of exposure through travel or in the course of their occupation. 
JE is a mosquito-borne arboviral infection and the leading cause of viral encephalitis worldwide, with an 
estimate of 35000 to 50000 cases per year. It is endemic in many Asian regions such as China, Korea, 
Japan, South-East Asia and India. In recent years sporadic epidemics have also been noted in 
previously less endemic areas such as Nepal, Sri Lanka and Northern Australia. 
Of the 35000 to 50000 cases of JE per year, more than 10000 are fatal, and about 15000 survivors are 
left with neurological and/or psychiatric sequelae requiring rehabilitation and continued care. There is 
currently no effective treatment for JE, so vaccination of the at-risk population is of the utmost 
importance.  
The primary vaccination series consists of two separate doses of 0.5 ml each according to the following 
schedule: first dose at day 0 and second dose 28 days later. 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
2.1.  Quality aspects 
The potency assay is based on a 2nd generation potency assay, which has been implemented by 
further development of the original 1st generation assay. The potency specification is based on the 2nd 
generation potency assay and has been set at “not more than 460 ng ED50/dose”.  
This particular potency test on batch JEV09L37 was conducted on this lot vaccine 11 months after 
initial release as part of an additional abbreviated stability testing imposed as a licensing requirement 
by the Canadian Competent Authority. This abbreviated stability testing was requested by the 
Canadian authority for those batches of IXIARO final lot vaccine, for which the potency of the final bulk 
vaccine is higher than 100ng. Such additional testing, at distinct time points after release, is not 
required for batches marketed in the EU, although selected batches continue to be tested regularly 
according to the real time stability program as declared in the marketing authorization dossier. 
Following the detection of this out-of-specification result, a full retesting of the affected batch 
JEV09L37 as well as other commercially released batches of IXIARO (i.e. JEV 08L18, JEV09L38 and 
JEV10B46) was performed by the MAH. The re-testing included potency assay, release testing program 
and additional exploratory testing for detailed analysis of batch properties.  
The potency failure at the 11 months time point was confirmed during the retesting exercise. IXIARO 
batch JEV09L37 was further confirmed to be conform in terms of the manufacture/processing tests 
including in-process data, test results for drug substance and drug product upon release and other 
stability parameters (antigen content, degree of adsorption).  
A comprehensive investigation was performed on the root cause of the potency failure detected for 
IXIARO batch JEV09L37 after 11 months of storage. In a series of experiments the company could 
demonstrate that the quality of the aluminium hydroxide lot 4230 used for formulation is the most 
probable root cause for the potency failure seen for batch JEV09L37. The most significant effect with 
regard to antigen degradation was detected with the adjuvant aluminium hydroxide (AlOH) Lot 4230 
(containing increased residual Cr, Fe, Ni and Cu) with the help of an ELISA test. Formulations made 
with AlOH Lot 4074 (which demonstrated a higher purity with regard to residual metals) generally 
showed a much higher ratio of specific epitope content compared to lots manufactured with AlOH Lot 
4230. Of note, the affected batch of IXIARO batch JEV09L37 was manufactured using AlOH Lot 4230. 
On the basis of these results, a mechanism is proposed by which the very high metal ion (and 
particularly Cu(II)) content of AlOH lot 4230 leads to a partial degradation of JEV antigen in the 
vaccine leading to a less antigenic potential, at least in the mouse model assay. The following 
experimental evidences have been gathered to support these conclusions: 
•  Metal ion content in AlOH lot 4230 has been determined and compared to other AlOH batches. Lot 
4230 has a much higher metal ion concentration (in particular Cu(II) and Ni(II) ions) than other 
AlOH lots. 
•  Spiking of drug substance material with different amounts of metal ions leads to an enhanced 
degradation of JEV antigen. This was shown using a newly developed ELISA method in which a 
monoclonal antibody is employed to detect the conformational integrity of a neutralising epitope of 
the JEV E-protein. This ELISA method could be a very useful tool to study degradation processes in 
the vaccine and to detect premature loss of immunogenicity. 
•  Other factors can contribute to antigen degradation (such as low pH) but the AlOH quality was 
identified to be the key determinant. 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
•  Differential antigen degradation was also observed when IXIARO batches, formulated with different 
batches of AlOH, were analyzed by ELISA method. Only those batches formulated with AlOH lot 
4230 showed enhanced epitope degradation.  
•  Most importantly, test formulations made with the same drug substance but different AlOH batches 
were tested after 1 month and 20 months of storage for in vivo potency. A greatly reduced potency 
was detected after 20 months only for the formulation made with AlOH lot 4230. No such effect 
was seen with other AlOH batches, despite the inherent variability of the assay.  
•  Ammonia alum solution, which is one starting material for AlOH manufacturing, was identified as 
the source of the metal ion contamination. The ammonia alum used for manufacture of AlOH lot 
4230 was very different – in metal ion content and even in its physical appearance – from other 
batches. Nevertheless, the AlOH lot 4230 was compliant with the current Ph. Eur. Monograph. 
•  AlOH lot 4230 was used in the production of final vaccine lots JEV09L37, JEV10B46 and JEV09M42. 
These batches of IXIARO are all beyond their period of shelf life expiry. AlOH lot 4230 was also 
used in the production of final vaccine lots JEV09K33 and JEV09K35, which have been used in 
clinical studies. 
These results provide convincing evidence that the quality of the AlOH lot 4230 is the actual root cause 
for the JEV09L37 potency failure after the 11 months of storage, due to an accelerated degradation of 
the epitope of interest.  
Further support for this conclusion was generated from other aspects reviewed during this procedure, 
in particular the critical review of the filling process which was initially assumed to be part of the 
potential root cause. In none of these other fields of activities any deviation or critical incident was 
detected that could have explained the lack of potency. Homogeneity of filling into final vaccine lot 
containers has been confirmed by analysis of constant AlOH and JEV antigen content throughout the 
entire filling process. 
Conclusions on Quality 
A comprehensive investigation on the root cause of the potency failure detected for IXIARO batch 
JEV09L37 after 11 months of storage was conducted. The analysis revealed that the root cause was an 
isolated event and results from elevated levels of metal ions (in particular Cu(II) and Ni(II) ions) in a 
particular lot of aluminium hydroxide, AlOH lot 4230.  In support of the identified root cause, a 
mechanism has been proposed by which the very high metal ion (and particularly Cu(II)) content of 
aluminium hydroxide lot 4230 leads to a partial degradation of JEV antigen in the vaccine leading to a 
less antigenic potential, as detected in the mouse model assay. Other potential root causes initially 
identified, including the filling process, could be excluded based on a review of all processes and 
operations at the filling site.   
In order to control the quality of AlOH regarding the metal ion content for future production of IXIARO, 
additional controls and release specifications will need to be introduced to assure the consistency and 
quality of ammonia alum lots for the production of future batches of IXIARO. Each lot of AlOH will have 
to be tested prior to ensure that only suitable lots are used for finished product production. 
Until regulatory approval of the variation on specifications for metal ion content of AlOH is finalised, 
batch release should only be performed when potency is established to be ≤100ng, and all batches 
should be retested for compliance with this limit 6 months after the initial release. This measure has 
been voluntarily put in place by the MAH over the course of this investigation, and should continue in 
place until the appropriate specifications can be defined for the AlOH used as adjuvant in the 
production of the vaccine. 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
2.2.  Clinical aspects 
In view of the OOS result with batch JEV09L37, it was investigated whether the use of the AlOH lot 
4230 had any impact on immunogenicity results obtained with IXIARO. 
Post marketing data 
A search of the MAH’s pharmacovigilance database identified no reports of Japanese encephalitis or 
suspected JE in any recipient of any lot of IXIARO, including recipients of batch JEV09L37. 
Three reports of seroconversion test negative/antibody test negative have been received since the 
marketing authorisation was first granted. These cases did not cluster in a certain period of time or 
with particular batches, and lot JEV09L37 was not involved in any of them.  
Given the overall estimate number of vaccinees exposed to IXIARO at the time that the OOS issue was 
detected, the number of seroconversion reports is within expectations. In the pivotal immunogenicity 
trial reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics, 3.6% of volunteers failed to seroconvert. 
Clinical trials 
Two batches of IXIARO formulated with the AlOH lot 4230 were used in clinical trials (JEV09K33 and 
JEV09K35).  
Study IC51-322 
This is an open-label, single arm study planned to recruit 100 children aged from 2 months to <18 
years. IC51-322 is currently ongoing and is conducted in Germany, Sweden, Australia and the United 
States. Children received a dose on days 0 and 28, and are followed up for safety and immunogenicity 
on day 56 and month 7. 
Thirty-four subjects in the study received two doses of JEV09K35 at time points between 9 and 18 
months after formulation of the lot. A preliminary statistical analysis of the immunogenicity data 
available for these subjects indicates that 100% achieved the protective titer of PRNT50>1:10. There 
was no apparent decline in individual titers when plotted against the data of vaccination (which reflects 
time elapsed since formulation of the lot). Based on the data available, it can be concluded that 
seroconversion rates (SCR) were comparable to those achieved in the trials in adults.  
As with SCR, geometric mean titers (GMT) were also comparable to those achieved in trials in adults. 
Stratification of GMTs by vaccine lot and subject age did not reveal any meaningful differences.  
Study IC51-323 
This study is part of the paediatric investigation plan for IXIARO. It is an open label, randomized, 
active controlled phase III study in 1869 children aged >2 months to <18 years of age. Subjects are 
randomized to receive either IXIARO or Havrix 720. IXIARO is administered on days 0 and 28, and all 
children are followed up for safety. A subgroup is also followed for immunogenicity on day 56 and 
month 7. The database for IC51-323, which was conducted in the Phillipines, has been locked and the 
final analysis according to the statistical analysis plan is currently ongoing. 
In this study, 463 vaccinations with JEV09K35 were given at a time point between 9 to 10.5 months 
after formulation. One hundred and fifteen children (13 from the immunogenicity group) received two 
doses of JEV09K35, 212 children (53 from the immunogenicity group) received only the first dose from 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this lot, and 21 children (4 from the immunogenicity group) received only the second dose from this 
lot. 
A preliminary statistical analysis of the immunogenicity data available indicates that 100% achieved 
the protective titer of PRNT50>1:10. Based on the data available, it can be concluded that SCR were 
comparable to those achieved in the trials in adults. 
As with SCR, GMT were also comparable to those achieved in trials in adults, regardless of whether 
subjects were administered 1 or 2 doses of JEV09K35. Stratification of GMTs by vaccine lot and subject 
age did not reveal any meaningful differences.  
Study IC51-315 
IC51-315 is an open label, uncontrolled phase IV study to assess the safety and immunogenicity of 
IXIARO in an elderly population of 200 subjects aged >65 years. IXIARO is administered on the 
standard posology (days 0 and 28), immunogenicity is followed-up on day 70 and safety is followed-up 
until month 7. All 200 subjects received two doses of JEV09K33, at time points between 6.5 and 16 
months after formulation. 
The database for the study has been locked and the final analysis according to the statistical analysis 
plan is currently ongoing. Based on the data available, SCR was 65% which is lower than the existing 
elderly datasets from previous phase III studies. 
Likewise, the GMT in IC51-315 of 37 was lower compared to previous results obtained in the elderly 
population. 
A stratification of the preliminary SCR and GMT values by age group did not reveal meaningful 
differences. There was no apparent decline in individual titers when plotted against the data of 
vaccination (which reflects time elapsed since formulation of the lot). 
Conclusions on Efficacy 
Information from post marketing reports and from the paediatric clinical trial is not indicative that the 
batches formulated using AlOH lot 4230 were impacted in terms of immunogenicity. While this 
information is reassuring, the statistical analysis is preliminary and the number of subjects considered 
is low (less than 50 individuals aged <3 up to <18 years).  
Unlike the JEV09K35 lot used in the paediatric trials, which was not re-tested after release for 
compliance with the potency specifications, lot JEV09K33 used in study IC51-315 was shown to be 
within specification throughout the shelf life, although close to the upper limit of 460 ng. Clinical 
results obtained with this lot deviate from previous data in the elderly, although it is recognised that 
previous datasets involved a much lower number of patients. Low potency lots of IXIARO are probably 
inadequate for an elderly population, but whether or not the use of the AlOH lot 4230 in the 
formulation is responsible for the lower clinical performance in this population cannot be concluded. 
But if low potency per se was to be responsible for these results, then the impact on immunogenicity 
would be expected to be seen across age ranges and not just in a specific subset of the population.  
3.  Overall discussion and conclusion 
Data submitted and assessed in the framework of this procedure provide convincing evidence that the 
quality of AlOH lot 4230 is the root cause for the potency failure of IXIARO batch JEV09L37 at 11 
months of storage.  
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical information from both the post marketing setting and clinical trials does not seem to indicate 
any impact of this potency failure episode on immunogenicity in humans. There is no evidence of 
breakthrough infections or lack of seroconversion being higher than would be expected in the general 
population. On the basis of the currently available information, a recommendation for revaccination 
does not appear necessary.  
No IXIARO batches formulated using the affected AlOH lot and within expiry date are currently on the 
market. Therefore no additional batch recall is needed. 
While this potency failure is considered to be an isolated event, to ensure that IXIARO continues to 
provide adequate protection against the Japanese encephalitis virus it is necessary that studies are 
conducted to establish an adequate set of specifications for the metal ion content of AlOH used in the 
manufacture of IXIARO, and that a variation application be submitted to introduce the new 
specifications in the marketing authorisation dossier. Until the approval of this variation application, 
potency should be demonstrated to be ≤100ng at batch release, and all batches should be retested for 
compliance with this limit 6 months after the initial release. 
Notwithstanding the fact that the benefit-risk balance of IXIARO is considered to be positive subject to 
the conditions described above, the CHMP recommends that the MAH puts in place a recall study to 
investigate immunogenicity in patients exposed to at least one dose of the IXIARO batch JEV09L37. 
The study should be completed by end of 2012 and interim reports should be provided to the CHMP at 
monthly intervals. 
4.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Having considered the overall submitted data provided by the MAHs in writing: 
• 
• 
• 
The Committee reviewed the data available in relation to the out of specification result for potency 
identified with batch JEV09L37. 
The Committee considered that the root cause of the occurrence has been identified to be the 
unusually high metal ion content of a specific batch of the adjuvant AlOH, and that measures can 
be put in place to prevent similar occurrences in the future. 
The Committee took note of the fact that no batches formulated with the above mentioned batch 
of the adjuvant are currently on the market. 
•  Based on currently available post marketing and clinical trial data, the Committee is of the opinion 
that patients who received the affected batch were not clinically impacted by the out of 
specification result. 
The Committee, as a consequence, concluded that the benefit/risk balance of IXIARO is positive, 
provided that adequate specifications are defined for the metal ion content of the adjuvant AlOH, and 
that until such specifications are established, potency testing is conducted at batch release and 
repeated after 6 months. 
The scientific conclusions and the grounds for the amendment of Annex II are set out in Annex IV of 
the opinion. 
Assessment report for IXIARO 
EMA/265375/2012  
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
