Summary of the risk management plan for Izba (travoprost)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Izba. The RMP details important 
risks of Izba, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Izba’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Izba’s  summaries  of  product  characteristics  (SmPCs)  and  their  package  leaflets  give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  these  products
should be used.
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Izba should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all 
which is part of the respective European Public Assessment Reports (EPARs).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Izba’s 
RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Izba is authorized for:
 Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in adult patients with ocular hypertension or 
open-angle glaucoma,
 Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in pediatric patients with ocular hypertension 
or pediatric glaucoma: pediatric patients aged 3 years to < 18 years.
Izba contains  travoprost  (eye  drops,  solution)  as  the  active  substance  at  the  following 
strengths:

travoprost 30 µg/mL: preserved with polyquad (PQ).
Further information about the evaluation of Izba’s benefits can be found in Izba’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: 
Izba: //ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/izba-epar-summary-public_en.pdf
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize 
or further characterize the risks
Important risks of Izba, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Izba’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 



package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Izba are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Izba. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II B: Summary of important risks
Not applicable, since there are no important risks/safety concerns.
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Izba.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no other studies required for Izba.
