18 May 2017 
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Invented name: Izba 
International non-proprietary name: travoprost 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002738/II/0005 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): Alcon Laboratories (UK) Ltd 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Type II variation .................................................................................................. 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 5 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .............................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.3.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 7 
2.3.2. Clinical pharmacology ........................................................................................ 8 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ..................................................................... 8 
2.3.4. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 8 
2.3.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................. 9 
2.3.6. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 21 
2.3.7. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .................................................................... 22 
2.4. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 22 
2.4.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 23 
2.4.2. Conclusions on clinical safety ............................................................................ 24 
2.4.3. PSUR cycle ..................................................................................................... 24 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 24 
2.6. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 26 
2.6.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 26 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 26 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 28 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 2/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADR  
AE  
AEMPS   
AGIS  
AL-5848  
AL-6221  
AM  
BAK  
CAI  
CI  
EU 
F  
FP  
ICH  
IOP  
ITT  
Adverse drug reaction 
Adverse event 
Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios 
Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study 
Travoprost free acid 
Travoprost 
In the morning (Ante Meridiem) 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitor 
Confidence interval 
European Union 
Female 
F-prostanoid Receptor 
International Conference of Harmonization 
Intraocular pressure 
Intent to treat 
LOCF    
Last observation carried forward 
M  
mg  
mL  
μg  
Male 
Milligram 
Millilitre 
Microgram 
mmHg   
Millimetres of mercury 
Max  
Min  
OAG  
OHT  
OSD  
PGA  
Maximum 
Minimum 
Open-angle glaucoma 
Ocular hypertension 
Ocular Surface Disease 
Prostaglandin analogue 
PGF2α   
Prostaglandin F2α Receptor 
PK  
PM  
PP  
PP  
PQ 
QD  
SE  
SmPC    
SofZia   
sPP  
USA  
Pharmacokinetics 
In the evening (Post Meridiem) 
Polypropylene 
Per protocol 
POLYQUAD Polyquaternium-1 
Once a day 
Standard error 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
An ionic buffer containing borate, sorbitol, propylene glycol, and zinc 
Natural syndiotactic polypropylene 
United States of America 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 3/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Alcon Laboratories (UK) Ltd submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 31 August 2016 an application for a variation.  
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA and 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
IIIB 
approved one  
Extension of Indication to include treatment of paediatric patients aged 2 months to < 18 years with ocular 
hypertension or paediatric glaucoma in order to decrease of elevated intraocular pressure.  As a 
consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC are updated. The Package leaflet has been 
updated accordingly. In addition, the marketing authorisation holder took the opportunity to introduce minor 
corrections in the SmPC and to update the list of local representatives in the PL. The RMP has updated to 
version 9.0 
Furthermore, the PI is brought in line with the latest QRD template version 10.0.  
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package 
Leaflet and to the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) 
P/0194/2016 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
 At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0194/2016 was completed.  
Scientific advice 
The MAH received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 28 January 2016 (EMEA/H/SA/1643/2/2015/PED/II). 
The Scientific Advice pertained to clinical aspects in relation to paediatric development of the dossier.  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Concepcion Prieto Yerro  
Co-Rapporteur:  
Greg Markey 
Timetable 
Submission date 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP Co-Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
Actual dates 
31 August 2016 
17 September 2016 
27 October 2016 
11 November 2016 
18 November 2016 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 4/29 
 
  
  
 
Timetable 
PRAC members comments 
Updated PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC Outcome 
CHMP members comments 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur(s) (Joint) Assessment Report 
Request for supplementary information and extension of timetable adopted by 
the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s responses 
circulated on: 
CHMP Members comments  
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s responses circulated 
on 
2nd Request for supplementary information and extension of timetable 
adopted by the CHMP on: 
Actual dates 
23 November 2016 
29 November 2016 
1 December 2017 
N/A 
N/A 
 15 December 2016 
19 January 2017 
27 February 2017 
13 March 2017 
17 March 2017 
23 March 2017 
MAH’s responses to the 2nd RSI submitted to the CHMP on: 
18 April 2017 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the MAH’s responses to the 2nd 
RSI circulated on: 
CHMP Members comments  
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s responses to the 2nd 
RSI circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
25 April 2017 
8 May 2017 
12 May 2017 
18 May 2017 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Paediatric glaucoma is a complex disease characterized by elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), optic disc 
cupping and progressive visual field loss. Early detection is critical, for treatment before corneal damage, 
optic nerve damage, and amblyopia occur can lead to significantly improved visual outcomes.  
Primary congenital glaucoma, the most common primary childhood glaucoma, is believed to be caused by 
dysplasia of the anterior chamber angle, and it is generally bilateral. Secondary glaucoma is defined as 
glaucoma associated with other ocular or systemic disorders and is common in children. Frequent causes of 
secondary glaucoma in children include trauma, lens-related disorders, phakomatoses, uveitis, anterior 
segment dysgenesis syndromes, and aniridia. 1   
1 Fung DS et al. Clinical Ophthalmology 2013:7 1739–1746 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 5/29 
 
  
  
 
                                                
Although  surgery  is  the  definitive  treatment  of  choice,  topical  medications  are  usually  also  needed  as 
temporary  treatment  before  surgery  or  as  adjunctive  postoperative  therapy.  Beta  blockers,  carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitors and prostaglandins have all been used in the treatment of pediatric glaucomas2.  
Travoprost is the isopropyl ester prodrug of a FP prostaglandin receptor agonist. It belongs to the 
pharmacological class of PGF2α agonists. Prostaglandin analogues have been shown to lower intraocular 
pressure by increasing the outflow of aqueous humour via trabecular meshwork and uveoscleral pathways.  
The  first  travoprost-containing  product  to  be  developed  was  Travoprost  40  μg/mL  eye  drops,  solution 
preserved with benzalkonium chloride (BAK). This product, marketed as Travatan, received EU marketing 
authorization  in  November  2001  (EU/1/01/199/001-002).  Travoprost  0.004%  Solution  preserved  with 
POLYQUAD (PQ) is the currently available formulation and was approved by the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) in November 2010. 
Another  formulation,  Travoprost  0.004%  Solution  preserved  with  SofZia®  (a  zinc-based  preservative 
system) was approved in the USA in September 2006 (NDA 21-994), and also is marketed in Canada and 
Japan.  Both  formulations  confer  a  potential  benefit  relative  to  the  original  Travoprost  0.004%  BAK 
formulation by providing an alternative to BAK, a preservative associated with conjunctival inflammation, 
tear film disruption, and symptoms of ocular surface health disease following chronic exposure. 
The  MAH  completed  2  clinical  studies  as  agreed 
in 
the  Paediatric 
Investigation  Plan 
(EMEA-001271-PIP01-12- M01). These studies were the basis for the approval of Travoprost 0.004% PQ for 
the paediatric indication (variation EMEA/H/C/000390/II/046, Commission Decision 19 December 2014). 
Izba  (Travoprost  0.003%  solution)  received  EU  marketing  authorization 
in  February  2014 
(EMEA/H/C/002738/0000).  With  the  exception  of  the  active  drug  concentration,  the  formulation  of 
Travoprost 0.003% solution is identical to the formulation of Travoprost 0.004% PQ. It is indicated for the 
decrease  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular 
hypertension.  
During the procedure to extend the indication of Travatan to paediatric population the CHMP recommended 
the  MAH  to  consider  submitting  a  paediatric  indication  for  the  lower  strength.  Dose-response  studies 
conducted  during  the  early  development  of  Travatan  revealed  that  doses  equal  or  higher  than  0.002%                                                                                                                     
reached  significant  (and  quantitatively  similar)  IOP  reductions  (C-96-52  and  C-97-02).  Izba  eye  drops 
(containing Travoprost 0.003% eye drops solution) showed certain advantages on safety without having 
impact on the IOP lowering effect in comparison to Travatan 0.004%. In principle, it would be expected that 
Travoprost 0.003% solution may also work in paediatric population. In addition, CHMP recommended that 
the  MAH  requests  Scientific  Advice  in  order  to  confirm  what  data  would  be  appropriate  to  support  this 
extension.  The  proposed  modelling  and  simulation  approach  to  support  the  paediatric  indication  of 
Travoprost 0.003% was discussed with EMA in January 2016 (EMEA/H/SA/1643/2/2015/PED/II). 
This type 2 variation application was seeking an extension of the current indication of Izba to patients from 
2 months to <18 years of age at the same posology as in adults.  
There  were  no  specific  clinical  studies  conducted  in  support  of  the  paediatric  indication  for  Travoprost 
0.003%. The clinical development plan is based on a modelling and simulation approach.  
References  to  clinical  trials  submitted  at  the  time  of  the  Travatan  MAA  or  the  extension  of  paediatric 
indication and those submitted in Izba MAA were also made. Since they have been already evaluated in 
previous procedures, no further assessment has been made. 
2 Quaranta L et al. Adv Ther (2016) 33:1305–1315 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 6/29 
 
  
  
 
                                                
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new clinical data have been submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The paediatric indication has recently been approved for Travatan (Travoprost 40 µg/ml). Izba is identical to 
the current formulation of Travatan with the exception of a 25% reduction in the active substance 
concentration. The proposed dosage regimen (1 drop once a day in the evening) is also identical. 
No new or additional clinical studies have been undertaken to support this application. The Applicant has 
used a modelling approach and data from four studies to extrapolate the IOP-lowering response for Izba in 
the paediatric population. It must be noted that there are two formulations of Travatan discussed in these 
studies: the originally approved formulation included benzalkonium chloride (BAK) as a preservative but it 
was later reformulated to replace BAK with polyquaternium-1 (PQ).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 7/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Clinical pharmacology 
The MAH has not conducted any clinical pharmacology studies with Travoprost 0.003% Solution. Instead, 
reference was made to the rabbit ocular tissue distribution and plasma data that showed both Cmax and 
AUC0-6h  levels  were  very  similar  following  topical  ocular  doses  of  Travoprost  0.004%  BAK,  and  with 
Travoprost 0.004% PQ that is formulated in the same vehicle as Travoprost 0.003% Solution. Therefore, it 
is reasonable to expect that ocular and systemic exposure levels would be approximately dose proportionally 
less with Travoprost 0.003% Solution compared to Travoprost 0.004% BAK and Travoprost 0.004% PQ. 
Clinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  assessed  in  previous  applications  have  clearly  demonstrated  very  low 
systemic plasma levels following topical administration of Travoprost 0.004% BAK with concentrations in 
most samples from 5 multiple-dose studies being below a sensitive assay’s quantitation limit of 10 pg/mL.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Non-clinical study P-11-510 supports similar bioavailability of Izba and Travatan3. It is not expected that 
changes in the preservative and the dose would affect differently the bioavailability of travoprost in children 
versus adults, leading to insufficient/unsafety ocular exposures.  
The systemic pharmacokinetics of travoprost free acid following topical ocular administration of Travoprost 
40 mcg/mL have been characterized in multiple studies in various adult populations. In addition, a paediatric 
pharmacokinetic  study  (Study  C-12-009)  was  conducted  as  part  of  the  Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  for 
Travatan. This study was aimed to evaluate the steady-state systemic exposure of travoprost 0.004% in 
paediatric subjects from 2 month to < 18 years of age with glaucoma or ocular hypertension.  Patients were 
administered the usual adult dose of travoprost. No clear relationship between plasma concentrations and 
age or body surface area (BSA) was apparent. Generally, the systemic exposure to AL-5848 acid metabolite 
was low. In most patients plasma levels were undetectable. Concentrations measured were similar to those 
reported for adults. Younger patients, especially those under 3 years were exposed to higher concentrations 
of  product.   The  safety  profile  was  consistent  with  that  already  known  for  adults  and  no  further  safety 
concerns have been raised.  
Systemic  levels  of  exposure  after  administering  Travoprost  0.003%  are  expected  to  be  lower  than 
Travoprost 0.004% so no safety concerns arise at this moment. Nevertheless, known factors affecting the 
bioavailability of the pharmacologically active substance in the site of action (e.g. esterases, protein binding, 
eye structures) could result in a different clinical response. 
Travoprost  (40  µg/ml)  and  latanoprost  (50  µg/ml),  dosed  as  in  adults,  are  currently  approved  for  the 
paediatric population. Age-related reduction in tear volume and ratio of surface area to internal volume can 
lead to ocular topically applied medications becoming concentrated in younger patients4. A new alternative 
containing a lower strength is welcome. 
2.3.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
No  studies  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics  of  Izba  in  paediatric 
population. From the available data, it seems that concentrations would be similar to those reported for 
adults but with some differences in the younger patients, especially those under 3 years that were seen to 
3 EPAR Izba Eye Drops, Solution (EMEA/H/C/002738/0000) 
4 Batchelor HK, Marriott JF. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2015; 79(3):405-418 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 8/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
                                                
be exposed to higher concentrations of product.  Systemic levels of exposure after administering Travoprost 
0.003% are expected to be lower than Travoprost 0.004% so no safety concerns arise at this moment.  
2.3.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Introduction 
There  were  no  specific  clinical  studies  conducted  in  support  of  the  paediatric  indication  for  Travoprost 
0.003%.  
At the time of designing the Travoprost 0.004% PQ paediatric PK study (C-12-009) and the Phase III efficacy 
study (C-12-008), the lower dose Izba product was not yet authorised in the EU. The EU application for the 
Izba product proceeded in parallel with the Travoprost 0.004% PQ paediatric clinical studies and therefore 
the lower dose product was not included.  
Modelling and Simulation Analysis  
This Modelling and Simulation Report quantifies the expected morning percent change from baseline IOP 
response in paediatric patients at the 30 μg/mL travoprost dose, based on the adult patient dose response 
data and 40 μg/mL travoprost paediatric patient data.  
•  Clinical Data Summary 
IOP  lowering  was  assessed  in  three  adult  clinical  studies  (C-97-02,  C-00-20,  and  C-11-034)  and  one 
paediatric  study  (C-12-008).  In  children,  travoprost  40  μg/mL  was  administered  at  9  PM  and  the  IOP 
response was measured at 9 AM. In adults, travoprost (concentration range from 1 μg/mL to 60 μg/mL) was 
administered at 8 PM and the percent change from baseline IOP response was measured at 5 time points, 
including  at  8  AM  and  10  AM.  Except  C-00-20,  all  adult  studies  had  8  AM  as  the  earliest  time-point;  in 
C-00-20 the earliest measured IOP time-point was 10 AM. The eye with the highest average IOP at baseline 
(i.e. the worst eye) at the 8 AM, and 10 AM time-points was used in this dose response analysis. The adult 
8 AM and 10 AM time-points were used since they provided the greatest breadth of doses to include in the 
dose-response model, while still allowing an approximation of the morning IOP response measured in the 
paediatric population.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 9/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table  1.-  Studies  included  in  travoprost  dose-response  characterization  and  paediatric  comparison
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 10/29 
 
  
  
 
 
•  Materials/Methods 
o  Model generation and selection 
In order to quantify morning (8-10 AM) percent change from baseline IOP dose response for travoprost (1 
μg/mL to 60 μg/mL) in adult patients (Objective 1), the IOP dose response for travoprost in adult glaucoma 
patients was modelled using six different models. Model selection was than based on Akaike information 
criterion (AIC). The first model built was based on the Sigmoid Emax Hill expression: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 11/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Both the time of day (8 am and 10 am) and the age of the subject would affect the baseline intraocular 
pressure. For this reason, the travoprost/vehicle induced IOP percent change from baseline was used as the 
response  variable,  instead  of  either  absolute  IOP  response  or  IOP  change  from  baseline  in  mmHg.  This 
allowed pooling of data from the 8 AM and 10 AM time-points and the comparison between paediatric and 
adult populations. 
Another family of sigmoid dose-response characterizations are the logit models: 
The meaning of the parameter are the same as in the Hill/Emax model, with the exception of 
the δ parameter. For the first logit model, the δ =1. For the second logit model, δ is 
estimated and determines the shape of the sigmoid, much like the Hill γ parameter. 
The last family of sigmoid dose-response characterization are the exponential family models: 
The parameters also have the same meanings as above, with the following additional 
parameters: 
ED63 = Effective dose to achieve half the maximum travoprost percent change from baseline IOP; 
d = Douglas Shape Parameter; 
H = Hodgkin shape parameter; 
For the exponential model, d = 1 and H = 1. For the Douglas model, H = 1 and d is 
estimated. For the Hodgkin model, H is estimated, and d = 1. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 12/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Model Qualification for Use in Paediatric Population 
In  order  to  verify  if  the  morning    (9  AM)  percent  change  from  baseline  IOP  for  40  μg/mL  travoprost  in 
paediatric  patients  is  comparable  to  the  day-time  (8  AM  and  10  AM)  percent  change  from  baseline  IOP 
lowering  in  adult  patients  for  40  μg/mL  travoprost  (Objective  2),    the  boxplot  of  individual,  repeated 
measures of the 9 AM paediatric IOP response with 40 μg/mL will be overlaid on the dose response model 
built on adult IOP data. 
o  Model-based simulation 
In  order  to  extrapolate  the  day-time  (9  AM)  IOP  lowering  for  30μg/mL  travoprost  in  paediatric  patients 
(Objective 3), and if adult and children have similar percent change-from-baseline for 40 μg/mL, the adult 
dose-response model will extrapolate the expected percent change-from-baseline in paediatric 30 μg/mL. 
•  Results 
Model Data: In the Travatan dose-response studies, travoprost concentrations ranging from 0.0001% to 
0.006%  were  included.  The  percent  change-from-baseline  was  used  to  evaluate  the  travoprost/vehicle 
induced IOP response. Since both the time-of-day and the age of the subject will affect the baseline IOP, the 
percent change-from-baseline was used as the appropriate metric to evaluate the dose response.  
  Both  IOP  (mmHg),  and  IOP  change  from  baseline  (%)  are  comparable  between  adults  and 
paediatric  patients  >  3  yrs  age.  While  both  are  similar  in  responses,  the  IOP  change  from 
baseline corrects the slight differences in IOP baseline and IOP responses between the paediatric 
populations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 13/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Model  Development:  The  Sigmoid  Emax  model  was  the  best  fit  (as  measured  by  Akaike  information 
criterion, AIC) to the dose response.  
The following conclusions can be drawn: 
 
The Hill model provides the best fit to the data (smallest AIC).  
  All models predict that drug response will plateau at or above a dose of 20 μg/mL. 
  Regardless  of  model  structure,  a  dose  of  30  μg/mL  is  in  the  satruable  región  of  the 
dose-response and will give the same response as a dose of 40 μg/mL. 
The dose-response model for travoprost QD administered in the evening in adult patients suggests that the 
maximum efficacy of travoprost may be achieved for concentrations between 20μg/mL to 40μg/mL. Hence, 
we expect the percent change-from-baseline IOP lowering for 30 μg/mL travoprost to be comparable to the 
40  μg/mL  travoprost  dose.  The  figure  below  also  summarises  the  model  parameters  and  their  residual 
standard error. 
A visual predictive check (VPC) of the model shows that it provides a good fit to the IOP dose response data 
in adults, and adequately captures the variability of the data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 14/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose response characterization both including and excluding the Japanese population have equivalent 
parameter values for the hill equation. Not only are the parameters equivalent, the inclusion/exclusion of the 
Japanese population did not affect the plateau that starting at > 20 μg/mL dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 15/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Model Qualification: The shape of the dose response was qualified for its use in paediatric population by 
modelling observed IOP in addition to IOP change from baseline. In either approach the maximum efficacy 
is achieved at travoprost concentration ranges from 20 μg/mL to 40 μg/mL (0.002% to 0.004%). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 16/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extrapolation: The model only predicts a 0.5% difference between 30 μg/mL (IZBA; -26.77% IOP change 
from baseline) and 40 μg/mL (TRAVATAN; -27.27% IOP change from baseline), which is much smaller than 
the observed model residual standard error of 12.2% (6761 degrees of freedom).  
Appropriateness of the Assumption of Steady-State Efficacy: To justify the fact that no time aspect 
was included in the model (taking into account that the treatment effect was assessed following different 
length of treatment, from 14 days to 3 months), available clinical data were analysed to confirm that IOP 
response with Travatan and Izba reaches steady state in 2 weeks’ time post initial dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 17/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Comparability between Adult and Paediatric populations  
The  IOP  dose-response  model  shows  that  the  percent  change-from  baseline  starts  to  plateau  at 
concentration  of  0.002%  and  that  the  IOP  lowering  for  travoprost  0.003%  is  comparable  to  travoprost 
0.004% dose. This was demonstrated in the clinical Study C-11-034 in adult glaucoma subjects, where Izba 
was equivalent to Travatan BAK-preserved for IOP-lowering efficacy.  
In the Model and Simulation analysis it was assumed that the observed IOP percent change-from-baseline in 
the paediatric subjects is comparable to the response in the adult population for travoprost 40 μg/mL dose. 
This  assumption  was  used  to  project  IOP  lowering  effect  of  Izba  in  children.  To  further  validate  this 
assumption two aspects were reviewed: (1) physiological evidence of similar concentrations in adults and 
paediatrics and (2) a comparison between adult and paediatric IOP-lowering responses in the literature. 
1.  The ocular concentrations of travoprost free acid should be similar between adult and paediatric 
patients from 3 - 18 yrs for the same dose. Supporting evidence include:  
a.  Ocular volume is similar between adults and paediatrics from 3-18 yr. This is a conservative 
assumption. If the dose-response holds, adjusting the IOP-lowering effect for paediatrics 
should slightly increase the projected effect. 
b.  Esterases,  which  convert  travoprost  to  the  active  free  acid,  are  found  in  ocular  tissues. 
Esterases are fully developed in hepatic tissues by age 3 . Consequently, the conversion rate 
of  travoprost  to  its  active  travoprost  free  acid  should  be  similar  between  adults  and 
paediatrics (3-18 yrs). 
c.  Hence, similar ocular exposure between adults and paediatrics > 3 yrs old is anticipated. 
d.  There  is  limited  literature  observational  evidence  on  ocular  volume  and  no  available 
literature information about ocular esterase activities in infants (< 3 years old). 
e.  There is no evidence in the available literature to support different binding of travoprost free 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 18/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
acid to FP2α receptor in children and adults; therefore ED50 should be similar between adult 
vs paediatric populations. 
f.  The IOP-lowering for PGAs is primarily due to a reduction of uveoscleral outflow, and the 
total  effect  is  likely  based  on  uveoscleral  outflow  capacity.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the 
available  literature  to  support  differences  in  uveoscleral  outflow  between  children  and 
adults.  Hence  the  magnitude  of  effect  (Emax)  should  be  similar  between  adults  and 
paediatric  patients.  Alcon  study  C-12-008  data  showed  observed  percent  change  from 
baseline in IOP is comparable between adults and children for travoprost 0.004%. 
2.  A review of available literature was carried out for glaucoma drugs to compare data on adult and 
paediatric subjects. This was done by using the OVID database with the keywords “Pediatric” and 
“Glaucoma”  in  the  Medline  database  on  May  10,  2016.  The  search  returned  414  articles.  These 
articles  were  further  manually  subset  to  paediatric  trials  where  an  ophthalmic  drug  was 
administered  in  the  absence  of  any  surgical  interventions.  The  paediatric  responses  were  then 
compared do adult responses.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 19/29 
 
  
  
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 20/29 
 
  
  
 
2.3.6.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
No new efficacy and safety data have been submitted in this application. Data from Travoprost adult dose 
response studies (C-97-02 and C-00-20), the pivotal study for Travoprost 0.003% Solution (C-11-034) and 
the phase 3 clinical trial completed with Travoprost 0.004% in paediatric patients (C-12-009), were used to 
project  the  IOP  lowering  by  Travoprost  0.003%  Solution  in  paediatric  patients  with  glaucoma  or  ocular 
hypertension. 
The model was developed using data from adults. As stated by the MAH, these adult studies were selected 
because they were sufficient to characterise the travoprost dose response relationship from 1μg/mL to 60 
μg/mL. Other studies including 15 μg/mL and/or 40μg/mL doses were not used in the model as these doses 
were  already  well  represented  in  the  model.  Other  adult  dose-response  study    with  different  posology 
(e.g.morning dosing) were not considered. This approach appears, in principle, appropriate. 
During  the  CHMP  Scientific  Advice  procedure,  the  MAH  was  requested  to  show  evidence  for  the 
appropriateness of using the change from baseline instead of IOP raw data. This efficacy endpoint could 
result in biased parameters as the error in the baseline observations will be carried on to all subsequent 
observations. The performance of this method would be better the smaller the residual error of the baseline 
observations.  Furthermore,  if  the  baseline  depends  on,  for  example  age,  by  expressing  the  variable  as 
percent  of  change  there  is  a  risk  of  masking  a  relationship  between  age  and  the  efficacy  of  the  drug. 
However, the model was built on data from adults where a relationship between age and response may not 
be expected. The MAH has presented a comparison of models using data with or without expressing the 
variable as change from baseline and no differences appear to be present. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 21/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The  inclusion  of  Japanese  population  was  object  of  discussion  as  this  population  seems  to  have  a  much 
higher inter-individual variability than other populations. The MAH presented an additional analysis showing 
that the inclusion/exclusion of data from Japanese people produces similar parameter values for the model 
and the plateau of the effect starts at the same point (i.e., 20 µg/mL). 
With  respect  to  the  fact  that  no  time  aspect  was  included  in  the  model  (taking  into  account  that  the 
treatment effect was assessed following different length of treatment, from 14 days to 3 months) the MAH 
has proven that the steady-state in the response is achieved at day 14 both in adults treated with Travatran 
and Izba, and in paediatric population treated with Travatan.  
The model that best described the dose-response relationship was a sigmoidal Emax model. A comparison of 
the selected model (Hill equation) versus other six different models has proven that the chosen model was 
the best one at statistical level, and no worse than the other models when graphical tools were used. All 
tested models predict a plateau of the effect at doses higher or equal to 20 µg/mL. 
The model predicted the observed data from adults adequately, and predicted an effect for children with the 
marketed tavoprost (0.004%) of -27.27% IOP change from baseline (which is similar to the observed data 
in the only study performed in children) and -26.77% IOP change from baseline with travoprost 0.003%. 
Both IOP (in terms of absolute values) and IOP change from baseline are comparable between adults and 
paediatric patients > 3 years of age. This is not the case for the paediatric patients ≤ 3 years of age.  
Physiological evidence of similar ocular concentrations of travoprost free acid (active substance disposable in 
the site of action) in adult and paediatric population for the same dose seems to be clear in patients aged 
3-18 years. According to literature ocular volume is similar between adults and paediatric population from 
3-18  years,  and  that  esterases  are  fully  developed  in  hepatic  tissues  by  age  3.  Similarly,  a  comparable 
response in terms of IOP change from baseline between adults and paediatric patients has been reported for 
travoprost 0.004%. However, less predictable response was observed in paediatric patients < 3 years of 
age.  This was also reported for latanoprost 0.005% in which the variability in IOP response to treatment was 
greatest among the youngest patients (< 3 years), even though comparable mean IOP  reductions were 
observed across the 3 age groups. 
In  summary,  the  assumption  that  there  are  no  differences  both  in  physiological  and  pathogenic 
characteristics of children and adults, and in the IOP response to IOP lowering agents cannot be accepted in 
the  youngest  group  of  age  (<  3  years)  without  further  reassurance  from  clinical  data.  The  indication  in 
paediatric population was consequently restricted to patients 3-18 years old.  
2.3.7.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The CHMP agreed that the modelling approach allows to confirm efficacy of Izba in children aged 3-18 years 
old.  
2.4.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
No new clinical studies have been undertaken to support this variation.  
Comparison of safety data from patients dosed with Izba and Travatan BAK 
The MAH has evaluated safety data from patients enrolled in clinical trial C-11-034, which was used to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 22/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
support the initial MAA for Izba. Safety parameters assessed during the clinical trial included adverse events 
(AEs), visual acuity, ocular signs (eyelids/conjunctiva, cornea, iris/anterior chamber, aqueous cells and 
flare, and lens), ocular hyperemia, pachymetry, visual fields, and dilated fundus parameters (vitreous, optic 
nerve, retina/macula/choroid, and cup/disc ratio).  
The majority of AEs reported for either treatment group during clinical trial C-11-034 were local ocular 
effects with a known causal association with the use of travoprost and topical ocular PGAs in general. As 
expected, lower exposure to travoprost resulted in a slightly lower incidence of adverse drug reactions 
(ADRs) reported in patients dosing with Izba versus Travatan BAK. The most common ADR reported in the 
study was hyperemia of the eye (ADRs for ocular and conjunctival combined). A numerically lower incidence 
of hyperemia of the eye was reported in the Izba group (ocular 6.1% and conjunctival 5.7%) relative to the 
Travatan BAK group (ocular 7.6% and conjunctival 6.9%). The severity of hyperemia was similar between 
the 2 treatment groups, as approximately 90% of the reports in each group were assessed as mild. Based on 
a review of AEs associated with ocular intolerance to study medication (defined as the MedDRA preferred 
terms of conjunctival hyperemia, eye irritation, eye pain, eye pruritus, eyelids pruritus, foreign body 
sensation in eyes and ocular hyperemia), no difference between the treatment groups was observed. 
Comparison of safety data from patients dosed with Izba and historical safety data for Travatan BAK, sofZia 
and PQ 
In addition, a comparison of safety data between IZBA and historical safety data from confirmatory clinical 
trials involved in the development of Travatan BAK, Travatan sofZia, and Travatan PQ was performed. 
Safety parameters evaluated in the comparison included adverse events and ocular hyperemia. Overall, the 
types of ADRs reported with the use of IZBA were consistent with ADRs reported in the development of 
Travatan preserved with BAK, sofZia, or PQ (C-97-71, C-97-72, and C-97-79 each utilizing the BAK 
formulation; C-04-17 the sofZia formulation; and C-08-40 the PQ formulation). No ADR was reported at an 
incidence that would indicate an unanticipated safety issue for the use of IZBA. 
In conclusion, consistent with the safety profile of Travatan BAK, adverse events associated with the use of 
Izba are predominantly local ocular side effects associated with hyperemia of the eye and comfort related 
side-effects. A decrease of the active ingredient in Travatan (preserved with BAK, sofZia, or PQ) by 25% 
(from 40 µg/mL to 30 µg/mL) provides a formulation of travoprost to help mitigate some of these local ocular 
side-effects. 
Post marketing experience 
Since the introduction of travoprost to the marketplace, as with topical ocular PGAs in general, no significant 
safety concerns have been identified in any subgroup of patients (with regards to age, gender, race, iris 
colour) that would negatively impact the overall favourable safety profile of this class of medication. 
2.4.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Clinical safety of Travoprost 0.003% was assessed during the Izba initial marketing authorization procedure 
(EMEA/H/C/002738/0000). Travoprost 0.003% safety profile appeared to be more favourable than that of 
Travoprost 0.004% BAK formulation. Most AEs reported for Izba were local ocular effects and they were 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 23/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
generally consistent with the known safety profile related to the use of travoprost.  A lower incidence of the 
most common adverse events (eye hyperaemia and AEs classified as ocular intolerance of travoprost) was 
reported with the low concentration of travoprost with respect to Travatan.3  
The clinical safety of Travoprost 0.004% in the paediatric population has been assessed in the procedure for 
the  extension  of  indication  for  Travatan  (EMEA/H/C/000390/II/0046).  The  most  common  adverse  drug 
reactions were eye disorders (ocular hyperemia - 16.9% and growth of eyelashes – 6.5%). Overall, the 
safety profile in paediatric population is consistent with the safety profile for adult population and with the 
one  already  known  for  other  topical  ocular  prostaglandin  analogues  (i.e.  latanoprost,  bimatoprost).  The 
incidence of growth of eye-lashes was higher in children as compared to adults and this is reflected in the 
SmPC.5 
The  MAH  claims  that  the  safety  profile  of  Travoprost  0.003%  is  expected  to  be  similar  to  the  approved 
Travoprost 0.004% PQ in the paediatric population have been acknowledged.  
2.4.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
Adverse events associated with the use of Izba appear consistent with the known safety profile of Travatan. 
In principle, the potential for local ocular adverse effects may be reduced as the Izba formulation provides 
lower drug exposure. 
Overall based on the clinical safety data presented, the safety profile of Izba in children is considered 
acceptable. Long-term safety data in children is not available and these should continue to be addressed in 
the post-marketing stage.  
2.4.3.  PSUR cycle  
The PSUR cycle remains unchanged. 
The annex II related to the PSUR, refers to the EURD list which remains unchanged. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan (RMP): 
The PRAC considered that the RMP version 9.0  is acceptable. The PRAC endorsed PRAC Rapporteur updated 
assessment report dated 25 November 2016 is attached. 
The CHMP endorsed the PRAC advice and approved the RMP version 9.0 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Table 1.  Summary of the safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Macular oedema 
•  Hyperpigmentation 
•  Hypertrichoses 
• 
Iris and uveal inflammations 
•  Cardiac and vascular disorders 
•  Respiratory disorders 
•  Hypersensitivity reactions 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 24/29 
 
  
  
 
 
Important potential risks 
•  Melanoma 
•  Corneal damage due to use of preserved eye drops 
•  Use during pregnancy and lactation 
Missing information 
• 
• 
Long term safety in the paediatric population 
Potential interactions 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
N/A 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 2.  Summary table of the risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important identified risks 
Macular oedema 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling. 
Hyperpigmentation 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable 
medicinal product labelling. 
Hypertrichoses 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling. 
Iris and uveal inflammations 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
Cardiac and vascular disorders 
medicinal product labelling 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling 
Respiratory disorders 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling 
Important potential risks 
Melanoma 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
Corneal damage due to use of 
preserved eye drops 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling 
medicinal product labelling 
Use during pregnancy and 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
lactation 
medicinal product labelling 
Missing information 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 25/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Long term safety in the paediatric 
population 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling 
Potential interactions 
Appropriate identification in the 
Not applicable. 
medicinal product labelling 
The MAH is reminded that, within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the Opinion, an updated version of Annex 
I of the RMP template, reflecting the final RMP agreed at the time of the Opinion should be submitted to 
h-eurmp-evinterface@emea.europa.eu. 
2.6.  Update of the Product information 
As a consequence of this new indication, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC have been 
updated. The Package Leaflet has been updated accordingly. 
Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line with the current QRD template which were reviewed and 
accepted by the CHMP. 
In addition, the list of local representatives in the PL has been revised to amend contact details for the 
representative of Spain.  
2.6.1.  User consultation 
The CHMP considered that the submitted type II variation to include a paediatric indication does not 
represent a significant change to the Package Leaflet (PL) and therefore the user consultation with target 
patient groups on the PL is not required.  
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Data from Travoprost adult studies were used to project the IOP lowering by Travoprost 0.003% solution in 
paediatric  patients  with  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension.  It  was  considered  that  the  response  in  the 
paediatric population and in the adult patients were comparable. This assumption was based on two facts: 
a) the physiological evidence of similar concentrations in adults and paediatrics and b) a comparable IOP 
lowering response between adult and children according to the literature reports. 
The model predicted the observed data from adults adequately, and predicted an effect for children with the 
marketed travoprost (0.004%) of -27.27% IOP change from baseline (which is similar to the observed data 
in the only study performed in children) and -26.77% IOP change from baseline with travoprost 0.003%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 26/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The clinical development plan for the extension of this indication is based on a modelling and simulation 
approach. The selection of paediatric dose is one of the modelling and simulation objectives. The biological 
plausibility of the assumptions made is of major relevance. These assumptions are not applicable to the 
paediatric patients ≤ 3 years of age in whom less predictable response was observed. This variability may 
result from several factors. Among them the status of the cornea, the presence or absence of surgery, the 
consistency of the IOP measurement technique, or the use of different sedation/ anesthesia may have a role. 
Also,  this  group  includes  a  large  proportion  of  Primary  Congenital  Glaucoma  patients,  in  which  lower 
responder rate to treatment has been reported with respect to non-PCG patients5.  
Pharmacokinetic and clinical data for similar products also reinforce this conclusion. Systemic exposure was 
higher in younger patients (< 3 years) when pharmacokinetics of travoprost was characterised in paediatric 
patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension after being treated with the usual adult dose of travoprost 
(0.004%) for 7 days4. Similar findings were observed when systemic pharmacokinetics (PK) of latanoprost 
was  evaluated  in  paediatric  subjects  with  glaucoma  or  ocular  hypertension  who  received  the  adult 
latanoprost dose6. The availability of a lower dose appears to address this issue. However, this reduced dose 
should  also  be  sufficient  to  achieve  an  adequate  response.  This  uncertainty  would  require  further 
reassurance from clinical data in this population (≤  3 years).   
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Travoprost  0.003%  safety  profile  appeared  to  be  more  favourable  than  that  of  Travoprost  0.004%  BAK 
formulation. Most AEs reported for Izba were local ocular effects and they were generally consistent with the 
known safety profile related to the use of travoprost.  A lower incidence of the most common adverse events 
(eye  hyperaemia  and  AEs  classified  as  ocular  intolerance  of  travoprost)  was  reported  with  the  low 
concentration of travoprost with respect to Travatan. 3 
The clinical safety of Travoprost 0.004% in the paediatric population has been assessed in the procedure for 
the  extension  of  indication  for  Travatan  (EMEA/H/C/000390/II/0046).  The  most  common  adverse  drug 
reactions were eye disorders (ocular hyperemia - 16.9% and growth of eyelashes – 6.5%). Overall, the 
safety profile in paediatric population is consistent with the safety profile for adult population and with the 
one  already  known  for  other  topical  ocular  prostaglandin  analogues  (i.e.  latanoprost,  bimatoprost).  The 
incidence of growth of eye-lashes is higher in children as compared to adults and this is reflected in the 
SmPC.  
Travatan PQ (Travoprost 0.004%) is authorized for the decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in patients 
from  2  months  to  <18  years  of  age  with  ocular  hypertension  or  paediatric  glaucoma.  Izba  (Travoprost 
0.003% Solution) formulation is identical to the Travoprost 0.004% but represents 25% reduction in the 
active drug concentration. In principle, this would reduce the drug exposure in patients while maintaining 
the efficacy and improving the safety profile.  
5 Maeda-Chubachi T. J Glaucoma 2013;22:614–619 
6 Raber S et al. Ophthalmology 2011; 118: 2022–2027 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 27/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The clinical development of Travatan in the paediatric population meant a limited exposure (both in number 
of patients and duration of treatment) to travoprost in this population. Some adverse events already known 
for  topical  PGAs  generally  occur  after  several  months  to  years  of  dosing  (e.g.:  periocular  skin 
hyperpigmentation or discolouration, iris hyperpigmentation, and changes in eyelash characteristics). It is 
unknown the true incidence of these adverse events in children. As these events are considered identified 
risks in the RMP further information is to be provided also for paediatric population.  
Benefit-Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Travoprost provides a useful, proven and well-tolerated alternative treatment option to treat children with 
raised IOP. 
Data  from  different  doses  of  travoprost  in  adults  were  modelled  in  order  to  predict  the  clinical  effects 
expected  in  the  paediatric  population,  assuming  that  the  IOP  dose  response  curve  to  travoprost  is 
comparable between adult and paediatric patients.  The predicted -26.77% IOP change from baseline is 
similar to change observed previously for Travatan and is considered to be clinically relevant. 
The  MAH  claims  that  the  safety  profile  of  Travoprost  0.003%  is  expected  to  be  similar  to  the  approved 
Travoprost  0.004%  PQ  in  the  paediatric  population.  This  has  been  acknowledged.  Nonetheless,  post 
marketing experience available for Travatan used in the paediatric population would be supportive for this 
application.   
Benefit-risk balance 
Benefit-risk balance of Izba in paediatric population aged 3 to 18 years is considered to be positive.  
Discussion on the Benefit-Risk Balance 
The CHMP noted that insufficient justification has been provided that there are no important differences in 
physiological and pathogenic characteristics in paediatric patients aged less than 3 years of age compared to 
adults, and hence that the modelling and simulation approach can be accepted as the basis for the Izba 
indication in this age group. Consequently, the MAH agreed to accept restriction of the indication to 3 to 18 
years of age.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the following 
change: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 28/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA and 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
IIIB 
approved one  
Extension of Indication to include treatment of paediatric patients aged 3 years to < 18 years with ocular 
hypertension or paediatric glaucoma in order to decrease of elevated intraocular pressure.  As a 
consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC are updated. The Package leaflet has been 
updated accordingly. In addition, the marketing authorisation holder took the opportunity to introduce minor 
corrections in the SmPC and to update the list of local representatives in the PL. The RMP has updated to 
version 9.0 
Furthermore, the PI is brought in line with the latest QRD template version 10.  
The variation leads to amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet and to 
the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance 
with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at the same 
time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/490886/2017 
Page 29/29 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
