EMA/344624/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002738 
EPAR summary for the public 
Izba 
travoprost 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Izba. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Izba. 
For practical information about using Izba, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Izba and what is it used for? 
Izba is an eye-drop solution that is used to reduce intraocular pressure (pressure inside the eye) in 
adults who have open-angle glaucoma (a disease where the pressure in the eye rises because fluid 
cannot drain out of the eye) and in adults with ocular hypertension (when the pressure in the eye is 
higher than normal). It can also be used in children from 3 years of age who have ocular hypertension 
or childhood glaucoma. 
Izba contains the active substance travoprost. 
How is Izba used? 
Izba is available as an eye-drop solution (30 microgram/ml) and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. The dose is one drop of Izba in the affected eye(s) once a day, preferably in the evening. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Izba work? 
When pressure in the eye is raised, it can cause damage to the retina (the light-sensitive membrane at 
the back of the eye) and to the optic nerve that sends signals from the eye to the brain. This can result 
in serious vision loss and even blindness. By lowering the pressure, Izba reduces the risk of damage.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Izba, travoprost, is a prostaglandin analogue (a man-made version of a 
prostaglandin, substances naturally found in the body). In the eye, prostaglandins increase the 
drainage of the watery fluid (aqueous humour) out of the eyeball. Izba acts in the same way and 
increases the flow of fluid out of the eye. This helps to reduce the pressure inside the eye. 
What benefits of Izba have been shown in studies? 
An eye-drop solution containing travoprost at a concentration of 40 microgram/ml has been already 
authorised in the EU as Travatan since 2001. Izba (30 microgram/ml) has been investigated in a main 
study involving 864 patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension, whose average eye 
pressure was 27 mmHg. The study showed that Izba was as effective as Travatan at reducing pressure 
in the eye following 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 3 months of treatment. Both medicines were given as one 
drop in the affected eye once a day, in the evening. In patients taking Izba, the average eye pressure 
(measured at 8 am in the morning) was 19.4, 19.3 and 19.2 mmHg following 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 3 
months of treatment, respectively, which matched the pressure seen at similar time points in patients 
taking Travatan (19.5, 19.3 and 19.3 mmHg). 
Evidence from studies with Izba in adults and with Travatan in children has also been used to work out 
the effectiveness of Izba in children. In the study of children with glaucoma or ocular hypertension 
given Travatan, the average eye pressure was reduced by around 27% after 12 weeks. It was 
calculated that Izba used in children would result in a similar reduction in pressure. 
What are the risks associated with Izba? 
The most common side effect with Izba (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is ocular 
hyperaemia (increased blood supply to the eye, leading to eye irritation and redness)  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Izba approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Izba’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP noted that 
Izba 30 microgram/ml is as effective as the 40 microgram/ml solution of travoprost. The safety profile 
of Izba seemed more favourable than that of the higher-strength solution, as side effects were less 
frequent with Izba. Izba is expected to be effective and safe in children from 3 years of age, based on 
adult studies and a study of 40 microgram/ml travoprost solution in children.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Izba? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Izba have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Izba 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Izba on 20 February 2014. 
Izba  
EMA/344624/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Izba can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Izba, read 
the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017. 
Izba  
EMA/344624/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
