ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
IZBA 30 micrograms/mL eye drops, solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One mL of solution contains 30 micrograms of travoprost. 
Excipients with known effect 
One mL of solution contains 7.5 mg propylene glycol and 2 mg polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor 
oil 40 (HCO-40) (see section 4.4). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Eye drops, solution (eye drops). 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in adult patients with ocular hypertension or open-angle 
glaucoma (see section 5.1). 
Decrease of elevated intraocular pressure in paediatric patients aged 3 years to <18 years with ocular 
hypertension or paediatric glaucoma (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Use in adults, including elderly patients 
The dose is one drop of travoprost in the conjunctival sac of the affected eye(s) once daily. Optimal 
effect is obtained if the dose is administered in the evening. 
Nasolacrimal occlusion or gently closing the eyelid after administration is recommended. This may 
reduce the systemic absorption of medicinal products administered via the ocular route and result in a 
decrease in systemic adverse reactions. 
If more than one topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used, the medicinal products must be 
administered at least 5 minutes apart. 
If a dose is missed, treatment should be continued with the next dose as planned. The dose should not 
exceed one drop in the affected eye(s) daily. 
When substituting another ophthalmic antiglaucoma medicinal product with IZBA, the other 
medicinal product should be discontinued and IZBA should be started the following day. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
Travoprost 30 µg/mL has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. However, 
travoprost 40 µg/mL has been studied in patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment and in 
patients with mild to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance as low as 14 mL/min). No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in these patients (see section 5.2). Therefore, no need for dose adjustment at 
the lower concentration of active ingredient is anticipated. 
Paediatric population 
IZBA can be used in paediatric patients from 3 years to <18 years at the same posology as in adults 
(see section 5.1). 
The safety and efficacy of IZBA in children below the age of 3 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology below the 
age of 3 years can be made. 
Method of administration 
For ocular use. 
For patients who wear contact lenses, please refer to section 4.4. 
The patient should remove the protective overwrap immediately prior to initial use. To prevent 
contamination of the dropper tip and solution, care must be taken not to touch the eyelids, surrounding 
areas or other surfaces with the dropper tip of the bottle. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Eye colour change 
IZBA may gradually change the eye colour by increasing the number of melanosomes (pigment 
granules) in melanocytes. Before treatment is instituted, patients must be informed of the possibility of 
a permanent change in eye colour. Unilateral treatment can result in permanent heterochromia. The 
long-term effects on the melanocytes and any consequences thereof are currently unknown. The 
change in iris colour occurs slowly and may not be noticeable for months to years. The change in eye 
colour has predominantly been seen in patients with mixed coloured irides, i.e., blue-brown, 
grey-brown, yellow-brown and green-brown; however, it has also been observed in patients with 
brown eyes. Typically, the brown pigmentation around the pupil spreads concentrically towards the 
periphery in affected eyes, but the entire iris or parts of it may become more brownish. After 
discontinuation of therapy, no further increase in brown iris pigment has been observed. 
Periorbital and eye lid changes 
In controlled clinical trials, periorbital and/or eyelid skin darkening in association with the use of 
IZBA has been reported in 0.2% of patients. 
Periorbital and lid changes including deepening of the eyelid sulcus have been observed with 
prostaglandin analogues. 
IZBA may gradually change eyelashes in the treated eye(s); these changes were observed in about half 
of the patients in clinical trials and include: increased length, thickness, pigmentation, and/or number 
of lashes. The mechanism of eyelash changes and their long-term consequences are currently 
unknown. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no experience of IZBA in inflammatory ocular conditions; nor in neovascular, angle-closure, 
narrow-angle or congenital glaucoma and only limited experience in thyroid eye disease, in 
open-angle glaucoma of pseudophakic patients and in pigmentary or pseudoexfoliative glaucoma. 
IZBA should therefore be used with caution in patients with active intraocular inflammation. 
Aphakic patients 
Macular oedema has been reported during treatment with prostaglandin F2a analogues. Caution is 
recommended when using IZBA in aphakic patients, pseudophakic patients with a torn posterior lens 
capsule or anterior chamber lenses, or in patients with known risk factors for cystoid macular oedema. 
Iritis/uveitis 
In patients with known predisposing risk factors for iritis/uveitis, IZBA should be used with caution. 
Contact with the skin 
Skin contact with IZBA must be avoided as transdermal absorption of travoprost has been 
demonstrated in rabbits. 
Prostaglandins and prostaglandin analogues are biologically active materials that may be absorbed 
through the skin. Women who are pregnant or attempting to become pregnant should exercise 
appropriate precautions to avoid direct exposure to the contents of the bottle. In the unlikely event of 
coming in contact with a substantial portion of the contents of the bottle, thoroughly cleanse the 
exposed area immediately. 
Contact lenses 
Patients must be instructed to remove contact lenses prior to application of IZBA and wait 15 minutes 
after instillation of the dose before reinsertion. 
Excipients 
IZBA contains propylene glycol which may cause skin irritation. 
IZBA contains polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 which may cause skin reactions. 
Paediatric population 
No long-term safety data are available in the paediatric population. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/contraception 
Travoprost must not be used in women of childbearing age/potential unless adequate contraceptive 
measures are in place (see section 5.3). 
Pregnancy 
Travoprost has harmful pharmacological effects on pregnancy and/or the foetus/new-born child. 
Travoprost should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether travoprost from eye drops is excreted in human breast milk. Animal studies 
have shown excretion of travoprost and metabolites in breast milk. The use of travoprost by 
breast-feeding mothers is not recommended. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of travoprost on human fertility. Animal studies showed no effect of 
travoprost on fertility at doses more than 250 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
IZBA has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Temporary blurred vision or other visual disturbances may affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
If blurred vision occurs at instillation, the patient must wait until the vision clears before driving or 
using machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In a clinical trial of 3 months duration (N=442) involving IZBA as monotherapy, the most common 
adverse reaction observed was hyperaemia of the eye (ocular or conjunctival) reported in 
approximately 12% of the patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions were assessed to be related with IZBA monotherapy and are 
classified according to the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to 
<1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) and very rare 
(<1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping in Table 1, adverse reactions are presented in 
decreasing order of seriousness. 
Table 1 
Travoprost 30 µg/mL eye drops, solution 
System Organ class 
Eye disorders 
Frequency 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction 
ocular hyperaemia  
dry eye, eye pruritus, ocular discomfort 
punctate keratitis, anterior chamber 
inflammation, blepharitis, eye pain, 
photophobia, visual impairment, vision blurred, 
conjunctivitis, eyelid oedema, eyelid margin 
crusting, eye discharge, dark circles under 
eyes, growth of eyelashes, eyelash thickening 
pruritus, rash 
The following adverse reactions were assessed to be related with travoprost 40 µg/mL eye drops, 
solution (either benzalkonium chloride [BAK] or Polyquad-preserved) and are classified according to 
the following convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping in Table 2, adverse reactions are presented in 
decreasing order of seriousness. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Travoprost 40 µg/mL eye drops, solution 
System Organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Not known 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Rare 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions  
Investigations 
Not known 
Rare  
Not known 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Rare 
Not known 
Rare 
Adverse reaction 
hypersensitivity, seasonal allergy 
depression, anxiety, insomnia 
headache 
dysgeusia, dizziness, visual field defect 
ocular hyperaemia 
iris hyperpigmentation, eye pain, ocular 
discomfort, dry eye, eye pruritus, eye irritation 
corneal erosion, uveitis, iritis, anterior chamber 
inflammation, keratitis, punctate keratitis, 
photophobia, eye discharge, blepharitis, 
erythema of eyelid, periorbital oedema, eyelids 
pruritus, visual acuity reduced, vision blurred, 
lacrimation increased, conjunctivitis, ectropion, 
cataract, eyelid margin crusting, growth of 
eyelashes 
iridocyclitis, ophthalmic herpes simplex, eye 
inflammation, photopsia, eczema eyelids, 
conjunctival oedema, halo vision, conjunctival 
follicles, hypoaesthesia eye, trichiasis 
meibomianitis, anterior chamber pigmentation, 
mydriasis, asthenopia, eyelash 
hyperpigmentation, eyelash thickening 
macular oedema, lid sulcus deepened 
vertigo, tinnitus 
palpitations 
heart rate irregular, heart rate decreased 
chest pain, bradycardia, tachycardia, arrhythmia 
blood pressure diastolic decreased, blood 
pressure systolic increased, hypotension, 
hypertension 
cough, nasal congestion, throat irritation 
dyspnoea, asthma, respiratory disorder, 
oropharyngeal pain, dysphonia, rhinitis allergic, 
nasal dryness 
asthma aggravated, epistaxis 
peptic ulcer reactivated, dry mouth 
gastrointestinal disorder, constipation 
diarrhoea, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting 
skin hyperpigmentation (periocular), skin 
discolouration, hair texture abnormal, 
hypertrichosis 
dermatitis allergic, , dermatitis contact, 
erythema, rash, hair colour changes, madarosis 
Pruritus, hair growth abnormal 
musculoskeletal pain, arthralgia 
dysuria, urinary incontinence 
asthenia 
Not known 
prostatic specific antigen increased 
6 
 
 
Paediatric population 
In a 3-month phase 3 study and a 7-day pharmacokinetic study, involving 102 paediatric patients 
exposed to travoprost 40 micrograms/mL eye drops, solution, the types and characteristics of adverse 
reactions reported were similar to what has been observed in adult patients. The short-term safety 
profiles in the different paediatric subsets were also similar (see section 5.1). The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in the paediatric population were ocular hyperaemia (16.9%) and growth of 
eyelashes (6.5%). In a similar 3-month study in adult patients, these events occurred at an incidence of 
11.4% and 0%, respectively. 
Additional adverse reactions reported in paediatric patients in the 3-month paediatric study (n=77) 
compared to a similar trial in adults (n=185) included erythema of eyelid, keratitis, lacrimation 
increased, and photophobia, all reported as single events with an incidence of 1.3% versus 0.0% seen 
in adults. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
A topical overdose is not likely to occur or to be associated with toxicity. A topical overdose of 
travoprost may be flushed from the eye(s) with lukewarm water. Treatment of a suspected oral 
ingestion is symptomatic and supportive. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Ophthalmologicals, antiglaucoma preparations and miotics, ATC code: 
S01EE04 
Mechanism of action 
Travoprost, a prostaglandin F2 analogue, is a highly selective full agonist which has a high affinity for 
the prostaglandin FP receptor, and reduces the intraocular pressure by increasing the outflow of 
aqueous humour via trabecular meshwork and uveoscleral pathways. Reduction of the intraocular 
pressure in man starts about 2 hours after administration and maximum effect is reached after 
12 hours. Significant lowering of intraocular pressure can be maintained for periods exceeding 
24 hours with a single dose. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In a clinical trial, patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension treated with IZBA dosed 
once-daily in the evening, demonstrated intraocular pressure lowering equivalent to travoprost 
40 µg/mL eye drops, solution at all on-therapy visits and time points (95% CI within ±1.0 mmHg). 
The mean reduction from baseline in IOP ranged from 7.1 to 8.2 mmHg as summarised in Table 3. 
The mean percent reductions in IOP from baseline to each study visit and assessment time point 
ranged from 28.4% to 30.7%. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
IOP change from baseline (mmHg) for IZBA 
Visit 
Week 2 
(N=442) 
Week 6 
(N=440*) 
Month 3 
(N=432*) 
Mean 
95% CI 
Mean 
95% CI 
Mean 
95% CI 
8 AM 
-8.0 
(-8.3, -7.7) 
-8.1 
(-8.4, -7.9) 
-8.2 
(-8.6, -7.9) 
10 AM 
-7.3 
(-7.6, -7.0) 
-7.4 
(-7.6, -7.1) 
-7.5 
(-7.9, -7.2) 
4 PM 
-7.1 
(-7.4, -6.8) 
-7.2 
(-7.5, -6.9) 
-7.1 
(-7.4, -6.8) 
*One subject had missing data at 8 AM at Week 6; one had missing data at 4 PM at Month 3. 
An improved safety profile has been observed for IZBA when compared to the marketed travoprost 
40 µg/mL eye drops, solution (benzalkonium chloride preserved or polyquaternium-1 perserved). The 
most common adverse reaction associated with both IZBA and travoprost 40 µg/mL eye drops, 
solution is hyperaemia. Hyperaemia (ocular or conjunctival) was observed in 11.8% of patients 
(N=442) exposed to IZBA compared with 14.5% observed for patients exposed to travoprost 
40 µg/mL eye drops, solution, benzalkonium chloride preserved. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Travoprost significantly increased optic nerve head blood flow in rabbits following 7 days of topical 
ocular administration (1.4 micrograms, once-daily). 
Travoprost 40 µg/mL eye drops, solution preserved with polyquaternium-1 induced minimal ocular 
surface toxicity, compared to eye drops preserved with benzalkonium chloride, on cultured human 
corneal cells and following topical ocular administration in rabbits. 
Paediatric population 
IZBA has not been specifically studied in a clinical trial involving paediatric subjects. However, a 
modelling approach demonstrated that IOP lowering would be expected to be equivalent in paediatric 
patients aged 3 years and above using both IZBA and TRAVATAN (travoprost 40 micrograms/mL 
eye drops, solution). The studies used in the model were two dose response trials, one Phase III study 
using IZBA and a paediatric study using TRAVATAN (travoprost 40 micrograms/mL eye drops, 
solution). 
The efficacy of TRAVATAN (travoprost 40 micrograms/mL eye drops, solution) in paediatric patients 
from 2 months to less than 18 years of age was demonstrated in a 12-week, double-masked clinical 
study of travoprost compared with timolol in 152 patients diagnosed with ocular hypertension or 
paediatric glaucoma. Patients received either travoprost 0.004% once daily or timolol 0.5% (or 0.25% 
for subjects younger than 3 years old) twice daily. The primary efficacy endpoint was the intraocular 
pressure (IOP) change from baseline at Week 12 of the study. Mean IOP reductions in the travoprost 
and timolol groups were similar (see Table 4). 
In the age groups 3 to <12 years (n=36) and 12 to <18 years (n=26), mean IOP reduction at Week 12 
in the travoprost group was similar to that in the timolol group. Mean IOP reduction at Week 12 in the 
2 months to <3 years of age group was 1.8 mmHg in the travoprost group and 7.3 mmHg in the 
timolol group. IOP reductions for this group were based on only 6 patients in the timolol group and 
9 patients in the travoprost group where 4 patients in the travoprost group versus 0 patients in the 
timolol group had no relevant mean IOP reduction at Week 12. No data are available for children less 
than 2 months old. 
8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effect on IOP was seen after the second week of treatment and was consistently maintained 
throughout the 12 week period of study for all age groups. 
Table 4 
Comparison of Mean IOP Change from Baseline (mmHg) at Week 12 
Travoprost 
Timolol 
N 
53 
Mean 
(SE) 
-6.4  
(1.05) 
N 
60 
Mean  
(SE) 
-5.8  
(0.96) 
Mean 
Differencea 
-0.5 
(95% CI) 
(-2.1, 1.0) 
SE = Standard Error; CI = Confidence Interval; 
aMean difference is travoprost – timolol. Estimates based on least squares means derived from a 
statistical model that accounts for correlated IOP measurements within patient where primary 
diagnosis and baseline IOP stratum are in the model. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Travoprost is an ester prodrug. It is absorbed through the cornea where the isopropyl ester is 
hydrolysed to the active free acid. Studies in rabbits have shown peak concentrations of 20 ng/g of the 
free acid in aqueous humour one to two hours after topical dosing of travoprost 40 µg/mL eye drops, 
solution. Aqueous humour concentrations declined with a half-life of approximately 1.5 hours. 
Distribution 
Following topical ocular administration of travoprost 40 µg/mL eye drops, solution to healthy 
volunteers, low systemic exposure to active free acid was demonstrated. Peak active free acid plasma 
concentrations of 25 pg/mL or less were observed between 10 and 30 minutes post-dose. Thereafter, 
plasma levels declined rapidly to below the 10 pg/mL assay quantitation limit before 1 hour 
post-administration. Due to the low plasma concentrations and rapid elimination following topical 
dosing, the elimination half-life of active free acid in man could not be determined. 
Biotransformation 
Metabolism is the major route of elimination of both travoprost and the active free acid. The systemic 
metabolic pathways parallel those of endogenous prostaglandin F2 which are characterised by 
reduction of the double bond in position C13-C14, oxidation of the 15-hydroxyl and -oxidative 
cleavages of the upper side chain. 
Elimination 
Travoprost free acid and its metabolites are mainly excreted by the kidneys. Travoprost 40 µg/mL eye 
drops, solution has been studied in patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment and in patients 
with mild to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance as low as 14 mL/min). No dosage 
adjustment is necessary in these patients. 
Paediatric population 
A pharmacokinetic study of TRAVATAN (travoprost 40 micrograms/mL eye drops, solution) in 
paediatric patients aged 2 months to <18 years demonstrated low plasma exposure to travoprost free 
acid, with concentrations ranging from below the 10 pg/mL assay limit of quantitation (BLQ) to 
54.5 pg/mL. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In ocular toxicity studies in monkeys, administration of travoprost at a dose of 0.45 microgram, twice 
a day, was shown to induce increased palpebral fissure. Topical ocular administration of travoprost to 
monkeys at concentrations of up to 0.012% to the right eye, twice daily for one year resulted in no 
systemic toxicity. 
Increased palpebral fissure observed in monkeys were not seen in rabbits or in the clinical trials with 
travoprost products and is considered to be species specific. 
Reproduction toxicity studies have been undertaken in rat, mice and rabbit by systemic route. Findings 
are related to FP receptor agonist activity in uterus with early embryolethality, post-implantation loss, 
foetotoxicity. In pregnant rat, systemic administration of travoprost at doses more than 200 times the 
clinical dose during the period of organogenesis resulted in an increased incidence of malformations. 
Low levels of radioactivity were measured in amniotic fluid and foetal tissues of pregnant rats 
administered 3H-travoprost. Reproduction and development studies have demonstrated a potent effect 
on foetal loss with a high rate observed in rats and mice (180 pg/mL and 30 pg/mL plasma, 
respectively) at exposures 1.2 to 6 times the clinical exposure (up to 25 pg/mL). 
Environmental risk assessment (ERA) 
Travoprost is considered a persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) substance. Hence, despite the 
very small amounts of travoprost used by patients in eye drops, a risk to the environment cannot be 
excluded. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Polyquaternium-1 
Polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 (HCO-40) 
Boric acid (E284) 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sodium chloride 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Sodium hydroxide and/or hydrochloric acid (to adjust pH) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
IZBA is packaged in a 4 mL syndiotactic polypropylene (sPP) oval bottle with polypropylene (PP) 
dispensing plugs and closures presented in an overwrap. Each 4 mL bottle will contain 2.5 mL of 
solution. 
Cartons containing 1 or 3 bottles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. It should be noted that travoprost is considered a PBT substance (see section 5.3). 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/13/905/001-002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 20 February 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 14 November 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
S.A. Alcon Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR SINGLE BOTTLE 4.0 mL + CARTON FOR 3 x 4.0 mL BOTTLES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
IZBA 30 micrograms/mL eye drops, solution 
travoprost 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
1 mL of solution contains 30 micrograms of travoprost 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Polyquaternium-1, polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 (HCO-40), boric acid, mannitol, 
sodium chloride, propylene glycol, sodium hydroxide and/or hydrochloric acid (to adjust pH) and 
purified water. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Eye drops, solution 
1 bottle of 2.5 mL 
3 bottles of 2.5 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Ocular use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
Opened (1): 
Opened (2) 
Opened (3) 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/13/905/001 1 x 2.5 mL 
EU/1/13/905/002 3 x 2.5 mL 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
IZBA 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
18 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
IZBA 30 micrograms/mL eye drops 
travoprost 
Ocular use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.5 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
OVERWRAP 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
IZBA 30 micrograms/mL eye drops 
travoprost 
Ocular use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.5 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet : Information for the user 
IZBA 30 micrograms/mL eye drops, solution 
travoprost 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
information important for you 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What IZBA is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use IZBA 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use IZBA 
Possible side effects 
How to store IZBA 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What IZBA is and what it is used for 
IZBA contains travoprost, one of a group of medicines called prostaglandin analogues. 
IZBA is used to reduce high pressure in the eye in adults, adolescents and children from 3 years 
old onward. This pressure can lead to an illness called glaucoma. 
2.  What you need to know before you use IZBA 
Do not use IZBA 
 
if you are allergic to travoprost or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Ask your doctor for advice if this applies to you. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IZBA may increase the length, thickness, colour and/or number of your eyelashes. Changes in 
the eyelids including unusual hair growth or in the tissues around the eye have also been 
observed. 
IZBA may gradually change the colour of your iris (the coloured part of your eye). This 
change may be permanent. 
If you have had cataract surgery talk to your doctor before you use IZBA. IZBA may increase 
the risk of inflammation of the back of the eye. 
If you have current or previous history of an eye inflammation (iritis and uveitis) talk to your 
doctor before you use IZBA. Eye inflammation is a possible side effect which may be 
associated with the use of prostaglandin analogues such as IZBA. 
Travoprost may be absorbed through the skin. If any of the medicinal product comes into 
contact with the skin, it should be washed off straight away. This is especially important in 
women who are pregnant or are attempting to become pregnant. 
If you wear soft contact lenses, do not use the drops with your lenses in. After using the drops 
wait 15 minutes before putting your lenses back in. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using IZBA. 
Children and adolescents 
Use of IZBA is not recommended to those children under 3 years of age. The safety and efficacy of 
travoprost have not been established in this age group. 
Other medicines and IZBA 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not use IZBA if you are pregnant. The effects of this medicine in pregnant women are not 
known. If you think that you may be pregnant speak with your doctor right away. If you could become 
pregnant you must use adequate contraception whilst you use IZBA. 
Do not use IZBA if you are breast-feeding. IZBA may get into your milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may find that your vision is blurred for a time just after you use IZBA. Do not drive or use 
machines until this has worn off. 
IZBA contains hydrogenated castor oil and propylene glycol which may cause skin reactions and 
irritation. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to use IZBA 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or the doctor treating your child has told you. You 
should check with your doctor, the doctor treating your child or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 
One drop in the affected eye or eyes, once a day in the evening. 
Only use IZBA in both eyes if your doctor told you to. Use it for as long as your doctor or the doctor 
treating your child told you to. 
IZBA can be used in children from 3 years to <18 years at the same dose as for adults. 
IZBA should only be used as an eye drop. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
 
Immediately before using a bottle for the first time, tear open the overwrap pouch, take the 
bottle out (picture 1) and write the date of opening on the carton in the space provided. 
 
 
  Wash your hands. 
 
Twist off the cap. 
 
Hold the bottle, pointing down, between your thumb and fingers. 
 
Tilt your head or your child’s head gently back. Pull down the eyelid with a clean finger, until 
there is a ‘pocket’ between the eyelid and the eye. The drop will go in here (picture 2). 
Bring the bottle tip close to the eye. Use a mirror if it helps. 
Do not touch the eye or eyelid, surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper. It 
could infect the drops. 
Gently squeeze the bottle to release one drop of IZBA at a time. (picture 3). 
After using IZBA, keep the eyelid closed, apply gentle pressure by pressing a finger into the 
corner of the eye, by the nose (picture 4) for at least 1 minute. This helps to stop IZBA getting 
into the rest of the body. 
If you use drops in both eyes, repeat the steps for the other eye. 
Close the bottle cap firmly immediately after use. 
Only use one bottle at a time. Do not open the pouch until you need to use the bottle. 
 
 
 
 
 
If a drop misses your eye, try again. 
If you or your child are using other eye preparations such as eye drop or eye ointment, wait for at 
least 5 minutes between putting in IZBA and the other eye preparations. 
If you or your child use more IZBA than you should 
Rinse all the medicine out with warm water. Don’t put in any more drops until it’s time for your next 
regular dose. If IZBA is swallowed, consult your doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
If you forget to use IZBA 
Continue with the next dose as planned. Do not use a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Never use more than one drop in the affected eye(s) in a single day. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop using IZBA 
Do not stop using IZBA without first speaking to your doctor or the doctor treating your child, the 
pressure in your eye or your child’s eye will not be controlled which could lead to loss of sight. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, the doctor treating your 
child or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects have been observed with IZBA: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
Effects in the eye: eye redness. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Effects in the eye: eye discomfort, itchy eye, and dry eye. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Effects in the eye: inflammation inside the eye, eye surface inflammation with/out surface damage, 
inflammation of the eyelids, inflammation of the conjunctiva, eye pain, sensitivity to light, blurred or 
abnormal vision, swelling or crusting of eyelids, eye discharge, darkening of skin around the eye(s), 
growth and thickening of the eyelashes. 
General side effects: rash or itching of the skin. 
In addition, the following side effects have been observed with another medicine containing a 
higher strength of travoprost (40 micrograms/mL): 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
Effects in the eye: eye redness. 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
Effects in the eye: changes in the colour of the iris (coloured part of the eye), eye irritation. eye pain, 
eye discomfort, dry eye, itchy eye. 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
Effects in the eye: corneal disorder, eye inflammation, iris inflammation, inflammation inside the eye, 
eye surface inflammation with/out surface damage, sensitivity to light, eye discharge, eyelid 
inflammation, eyelid redness, swelling around the eye, eyelid itching, blurred vision, increased tear 
production, infection or inflammation of the conjunctiva (conjunctivitis), abnormal turning outward of 
the lower eyelid, clouding of the eye, eyelid crusting, growth of eyelashes. 
General side effects: increased allergic symptoms, headache, irregular heart beat, cough, stuffy nose, 
throat irritation, darkening of skin around the eye (s), skin darkening, abnormal hair texture, excessive 
hair growth. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
Effects in the eye: perception of flashing lights, eczema of the eyelids, abnormally positioned 
eyelashes that grow back toward the eye, eye swelling, reduced vision, halo vision, decreased eye 
sensation, inflammation of the glands of the eyelids, pigmentation inside the eye, increase in pupil 
size, eyelash thickening, change in eyelash colour, tired eyes. 
General side effects: eye viral infection, dizziness, bad taste, irregular or decreased heart rate, 
increased or decreased blood pressure, shortness of breath, asthma, nasal allergy or inflammation, 
nasal dryness, voice changes, gastrointestinal discomfort or ulcer, constipation, dry mouth, redness or 
itching of the skin, rash, hair colour change, loss of eyelashes, joint pain, musculoskeletal pain, 
generalised weakness. 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
Effects in the eye: inflammation of the back of the eye, eyes appear more inset. 
General side effects: depression, anxiety, insomnia, sensation of false movement, ringing in ears, chest 
pain, abnormal heart rhythm, increased heart beat, worsening of asthma, diarrhoea, nose bleeds, 
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, itching, abnormal hair growth, painful or involuntary urination, 
increase in prostate cancer marker. 
In children and adolescents, the most common side effects seen with the medicine containing a higher 
strength of travoprost (40 micrograms/mL) are eye redness and growth of eyelashes. Both side effects 
were observed with a higher incidence in children and adolescents compared to adults. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store IZBA 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and the box after ‘EXP’. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
You must throw away the bottle 4 weeks after you first opened it, to prevent infections, and use a 
new bottle. Write down the date you opened it in the space on each carton box. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer used. These measures will help protect the environment. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What IZBA contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is travoprost. Each mL of solution contains 30 micrograms of travoprost. 
The other ingredients are: polyquaternium-1, polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40, 
propylene glycol (see end of section 2), sodium chloride, boric acid, mannitol and purified 
water. Tiny amounts of hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide are added to keep acidity levels 
(pH levels) normal. 
What IZBA looks like and contents of the pack 
IZBA eye drop is a liquid (a clear, colourless solution) supplied in a 4 mL plastic bottle with a screw 
cap. Each bottle contains 2.5 mL of travoprost eye drops and each bottle is placed in a pouch. 
Pack sizes: 1 or 3 bottles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
S.A. Alcon Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
