19 September 2013 
EMA/CHMP/801864/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Jakavi 
International non-proprietary name: ruxolitinib 
Procedure No:  EMEA/H/C/002464/PSUV/0009 
Period covered by the PSUR:  16.11.11 - 22.02.13 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Jakavi, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
In line with the more extended exposure, an additional number of tuberculosis cases have been reported, 
which warrants revision of the product information. Tuberculosis has been reported in the clinical studies 
which formed the basis for the initial approval of Jakavi in 3 cases among 300 patients (1%) treated with 
Jakavi. In the current data set, where the clinical study database has increased to 4755 patients exposed 
to ruxolitinib (approximately 3000 patients from compassionate use and expanded access programs), 13 
cases of tuberculosis have been reported. No cases have been reported among placebo exposed patients, 
although the number of patients is limited (approximately 220).  
The review of the cases described suggests that several of these cases did not have any other obvious 
explanation for the development of tuberculosis. A higher susceptibility due to the disease condition 
should be acknowledged. Nevertheless, the mechanism of action of ruxolitinib supports the increased risk 
for infections including tuberculosis (listed among Important identified risks). 
Therefore, in view of available data regarding reported cases of tuberculosis, the PRAC considered that 
changes to the product information were warranted.  
Consequently, sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet 
should be updated with respect to the adverse reaction tuberculosis. 
These changes do not warrant further updates of the RMP since tuberculosis was already included as an 
important identified risk. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Jakavi, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance ruxolitinib is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
 
 
 
