Summary of the risk management for Jakavi® (ruxolitinib)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Jakavi. The RMP details important 
risks  of  Jakavi,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about Jakavi’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Jakavi’s summary of product information (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to health care professionals (HCPs) and patients on how Jakavi should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Jakavi should be read in the context of all this information 
including the AR of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Jakavi’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Jakavi is a selective inhibitor of the Janus kinases. Jakavi is authorized for the treatment 
in  adult  patients  with  primary 
of  disease-related  splenomegaly  or  symptoms 
myelofibrosis (MF) (also known as chronic idiopathic MF), post-polycythemia vera (PV)-MF 
or  post-essential  thrombocythemia-MF.  Jakavi  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adult 
patients  with  PV  who  are  resistant  to  or  intolerant  of  hydroxyurea  (HU). Currently, 
ruxolitinib  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  graft  versus  host  disease 
(GvHD) aged 12 years and older who have inadequate response to corticosteroids or other 
systemic therapies. Jakavi contains “ruxolitinib” as the active ingredient and it is given by 
oral route.
The  recommended  starting dose of Jakavi in MF is 15 mg given orally b.i.d. for patients 
with a platelet count between 100000/mm3 and 200000/mm3 and 20 mg b.i.d. for patients 
with a platelet count of > 200000/mm3. The recommended starting dose in patients with 
platelet  counts  between  75000/mm3  and  < 100000/mm3 and  between  50000/mm3 and 
< 75000/mm3 is 10 mg b.i.d. and 5 mg b.i.d., respectively. The patients should be titrated 
cautiously.
The recommended starting dose of Jakavi in PV is 10 mg given orally b.i.d. There is limited 
information  to  recommend  a  starting  dose  for  patients  with  platelet  counts  between 
50000/mm3  and  < 100000/mm3.  The  maximum  recommended  starting  dose  in  these 
patients is 5 mg b.i.d. and the patients should be titrated cautiously.
The  recommended  starting  dose  of  ruxolitinib  in  acute  GvHD (aGvHD) and  chronic 
GvHD (cGvHD) is 10 mg given orally b.i.d.
Doses may be titrated based on safety and efficacy. Treatment should be discontinued for 
platelet  counts  less  than  50000/mm3 or  absolute  neutrophil  count  (ANC) less  than 
500/mm3. In PV, treatment should also be interrupted when hemoglobin is below 8 g/dl. 
After recovery of blood counts above these levels, dosing may be re-started at 5 mg b.i.d. 
and gradually increased based on careful monitoring of complete blood cell count, including 
a white blood cell (WBC) count differential.
Dose reductions should be considered if the platelet count decreases below 100000/mm3, 
with the goal of avoiding dose interruptions for thrombocytopenia. In PV, dose reductions 
should also be considered if hemoglobin decreases below 12 g/dl and is recommended if it 
decreases below 10 g/dl.
Dose  reductions  and  temporary  interruptions  may  be  needed  in  GvHD patients  with 
thrombocytopenia,  neutropenia,  and  elevated  total  bilirubin  after  standard  supportive 
therapy including growth factors, anti-infective therapies and transfusions.
One dose level reduction step is recommended (10 mg b.i.d. to 5 mg b.i.d. or 5 mg b.i.d. 
to 5 mg once daily). In patients who are unable to tolerate ruxolitinib at a dose of 5 mg 
once daily, treatment should be interrupted.
In GvHD, tapering of ruxolitinib may be considered in patients with a response and after 
having discontinued corticosteroids. 50% dose reduction every 2 months is recommended. 
If signs or symptoms of GvHD reoccur during or after the taper of ruxolitinib, re-escalation 
of treatment should be considered.
Further information about the evaluation of Jakavi’s benefits can be found in Jakavi’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) 
website, under the medicine’s webpage link to product’s EPAR summary landing page on 
the EMA webpage:
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
_Summary_for_the_public/human/002464/WC500133225.pdf .
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or
further characterize the risks
Important risks of Jakavi together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Jakavi’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the 



package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together,  these  measures  constitute  routine  risk  minimization  measures.  There  are  no 
additional risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment 
so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use  of Jakavi is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below:
 Safety in pediatric patients ≥12 years (GvHD only).
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Jakavi are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Jakavi. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risk
Serious infections
Important potential risk
Developmental toxicity
Missing information
Safety in pediatric patients ≥ 12 years (GvHD only)
II.B: Summary of important risks
Table 2
Important identified risk: Serious infections
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
The frequently reported infections include: viral reactivation of 
Herpes  zoster  (HZ) (shingles),  Urinary  tract  infection  (UTI). 
Infections  were  frequently  reported  cause  of  death  due  to 
adverse events (AEs) in patients with MF. The frequency and 
severity of infections appear to be higher in MF patients than 
in PV patients.
In  GvHD  indication,  as  expected  in  this  patient  population, 
infections  were  frequently  reported  AEs;  cytomegalovirus
infections  including  reactivation  and  sepsis  are  common 
infections in aGvHD and pneumonia and upper respiratory tract 
infections are common infections in cGvHD.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization
measures
disease, 
pulmonary 
Low  neutrophil  count,  pre-existing  comorbidities  chronic 
diabetes, 
obstructive 
co-medication  (corticosteroids),  higher  dose,  lack  of  dose 
adjustment  if  strong  cytochrome  P450 3A4  inhibitors  or 
fluconazole  are  used  or  the  patient  develops  hepatic 
impairment, moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 30 mL/min)  or  has  end  stage  renal  failure 
requiring hemodialysis.
asthma, 
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC  Section  4.4:  Precaution  for  monitoring,  treatment  and 
description of risk factors and nature of risk.
Section  4.8:  The  adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs) of  UTI,  HZ, 
pneumonia, tuberculosis and sepsis are listed.
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Table 3
Important potential risk: Developmental toxicity
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Myelofibrosis  or  PV  is  mainly  a  condition  of  the  adult 
population; the median age of patients recruited in Phase III 
studies was about 66 years. Cases of childhood age are very 
rare. The number of female patients of child-bearing potential 
receiving  Jakavi  is  therefore  expected  to  be  limited.  In  the 
pivotal  studies,  6 female  patients,  ≤ 45 years  representing 
1.1% of the total population were enrolled. Due to the severity 
of  the  oncological  condition  the  fertility  rate  of  these  elderly 
female patients is expected to be low. There are no data from 
the use of Jakavi in pregnant women with PV. Animal studies 
have  shown that Jakavi is embryotoxic (causing harm to the 
embryo) and fetotoxic (causing harm to the fetus). Women of 
child-bearing  potential  should  use  effective  contraception 
during  the  treatment  with  Jakavi.  In  case  pregnancy  should 
occur  during  treatment  with  Jakavi,  a  risk-benefit  evaluation 
must  be  carried  out  on  an  individual  basis  with  careful 
counseling regarding potential risks to the fetus.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Women  of  child-bearing  potential  not  using  effective 
contraception, breast-feeding women and children.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.1
Section 4.2
Section 4.3
Section 4.6
Section 5.3
There are no data from the use of Jakavi in pregnant women.
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Table 4
Missing information: Safety in pediatric patients ≥ 12 years (GvHD 
only)
Risk minimization 
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.2:  The  ruxolitinib  dose  in  pediatric  patients 
with GvHD aged 12 years and older is the same as in adults.
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Study INC424F12201:  This  is  a  study  of  pharmacokinetics, 
activity and  safety  of  ruxolitinib  in  pediatric  patients  with 
grade 2 to 4 in aGvHD.
Study INC424G12201:  This  is  a  study  of  activity,  safety  and 
pharmacokinetics  in  pediatric  subjects  with  moderate  and 
severe  cGvHD  after  allogeneic  stem  cell  transplantation 
(allo-SCT).
See  Section II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the 
post-authorization development plan.
II.C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Jakavi.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Table 5
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Study short name
Rationale and study objectives
Study CINC424F12201
Open-label, single-arm, 
multi-center study of 
ruxolitinib added to 
corticosteroids in pediatric 
patients with grade 2 to 4 
aGvHD after allo-SCT.
Study CINC424G12201
Open-label, single-arm, 
multi-center study of 
ruxolitinib added to 
corticosteroids in pediatric 
subjects with moderate and 
severe cGvHD after 
allo-SCT.
The rationale of the study is based on current knowledge 
of aGvHD pathophysiology and published studies showing 
that  ruxolitinib  impairs  antigen  presenting  cell  (APC)
function,  inhibits  donor  T cell  proliferation,  suppresses 
adverse  cytokine  production,  and  improves  survival  and 
disease  manifestations  in  GvHD  mouse  models.  Further, 
published data has shown that ruxolitinib has evidence of 
clinical  efficacy  when  added  to 
immunosuppressive 
therapy in patients with steroid refractory aGvHD. Clinical 
studies  using  ruxolitinib  (10 mg b.i.d.)  alone  or  in 
comparison to best available therapy (BAT) are currently 
underway in the steroid refractory (SR)-aGvHD setting for 
adult patients and adolescents ≥ 12 years of age. Recent 
data with ruxolitinib in SR-aGvHD pediatric patients (ages 
1.6 years  -16.4 years)  have  shown  encouraging  overall 
response rate compared to corticosteroids +/- calcineurin 
inhibitor alone.
The rationale of the study is based on current knowledge 
of cGvHD pathophysiology and published studies showing 
that ruxolitinib impairs APC function, inhibits donor T cell 
proliferation, suppresses adverse cytokine production, and 
improves  survival  and  disease  manifestations  in  GvHD 
in  cGvHD 
mouse  models.  This  signaling  cascade
determined  in  the  mouse  model  and  adult  subjects  with 
cGvHD,  is  expected  to  be  the  same  in  pediatric  subjects 
< 12 years of age as compared to subjects ≥ 12 years of 
age. Further, published data has shown that ruxolitinib has 
evidence 
to 
immunosuppressive  therapy  in  subjects  with  SR-cGvHD. 
Clinical studies using ruxolitinib (10 mg b.i.d.) alone or in 
comparison  to  BAT  are  currently  underway  in  the 
SR-cGvHD  setting  for  adult  patients  and  adolescents 
≥ 12 years of age. Despite children being at a lower risk 
of developing cGvHD than adults, the incidence of cGvHD 
in the pediatric population is substantial and has increased 
recently in association with the expanded use of peripheral 
blood stem cells and unrelated donors.
efficacy  when 
added 
clinical
of 
