12 October 2017 
EMA/136195/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ruxolitinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010015/201702 
Period covered by the PSUR: 23 February 2016 to 22 February 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ruxolitinib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The review of post-marketing cases revealed 11 noteworthy cases of pneumonia in myelofibrosis patients 
(MF). Several of these cases support a causal association between ruxolitinib and pneumonia with an at 
least reasonable possibility. Infections including pneumonia are described as important identified risks in 
the current RMP and are being closely monitored and as such discussed in each PSUR. The MAH should 
include pneumonia as an adverse drug reaction (ADR) in MF patients in section 4.8 of the SmPC.  
During the interval one noteworthy case of tuberculosis was reported in a polycythemia vera (PV) patient. 
Tuberculosis is included as an important identified risk in the RMP and it is listed as an uncommon ADR 
for MF patients in the SmPC including a relevant warning. The MAH should update the warning to include 
that tuberculosis has been reported also in PV patients.  
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC rapporteur considered that 
changes to the product information of medicinal products containing ruxolitinib were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ruxolitinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ruxolitinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
