EMA/525450/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000722 
EPAR summary for the public 
Januvia 
sitagliptin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Januvia. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Januvia. 
What is Januvia? 
Januvia is a medicine that contains the active substance sitagliptin. It is available as tablets (25, 50 
and 100 mg). 
What is Januvia used for? 
Januvia is used in patients with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) levels. 
It is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
 
on its own, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on diet and exercise and in whom 
metformin (an antidiabetes medicine) is not suitable; 
 
in combination with metformin or a PPAR-gamma agonist (a type of antidiabetes medicine) such as 
a thiazolidinedione, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin or the PPAR-
gamma agonist used on its own; 
 
in combination with a sulphonylurea (another type of antidiabetes medicine) in patients who are 
not satisfactorily controlled with a sulphonylurea used on its own and in whom metformin is not 
suitable; 
 
in combination with both metformin, and a sulphonylurea or a PPAR-gamma agonist, in patients 
who are not satisfactorily controlled on the two medicines; 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in combination with insulin, with or without metformin, in patients who are not satisfactorily 
controlled on a stable dose of insulin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Januvia used? 
Januvia is taken at a dose of 100 mg once a day. If Januvia is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, 
the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia 
(low blood sugar levels). 
In patients with moderately or severely reduced kidney function the dose of Januvia should be 
reduced. 
How does Januvia work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Januvia, sitagliptin, is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown 
of ‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the 
pancreas to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin 
stimulates the pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does 
not work when the blood glucose is low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the 
liver, by increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, these 
processes reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Januvia been studied? 
Januvia was studied in nine studies involving almost 6,000 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood 
glucose levels were not adequately controlled: 
 
four of the studies compared Januvia with placebo (a dummy treatment). Januvia or placebo were 
used on their own in two studies involving 1,262 patients, as an add-on to metformin in one study 
involving 701 patients, and as an add-on to pioglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in one study 
involving 353 patients; 
 
two studies compared Januvia with other antidiabetes medicines. One study compared Januvia with 
glipizide (a sulphonylurea), when they were used as an add-on to metformin in 1,172 patients. The 
other study compared Januvia with metformin, used on their own, in 1,058 patients; 
 
three additional studies compared Januvia with placebo when they were added to other 
antidiabetes medicines: glimepiride (another sulphonylurea), with or without metformin, in 441 
patients; the combination of metformin and rosiglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in 278 patients; 
and a stable dose of insulin, with or without metformin, in 641 patients. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Januvia shown during the studies? 
Januvia was more effective than placebo when it was taken alone or in combination with other 
antidiabetes medicines. In patients taking Januvia on its own, HbA1c levels fell from around 8.0% at 
the start of the studies by 0.48% after 18 weeks and 0.61% after 24 weeks. In contrast, they rose by 
Januvia  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
0.12% and 0.18%, respectively, in the patients taking placebo. Adding Januvia to metformin reduced 
HbA1c levels by 0.67% after 24 weeks, compared with a fall of 0.02% in the patients adding placebo. 
When added to pioglitazone, Januvia reduced HbA1c levels by 0.85% after 24 weeks, compared with a 
fall of 0.15% in the patients adding placebo. 
In the studies comparing Januvia with other medicines, the effectiveness of adding Januvia to 
metformin was similar to that of adding glipizide. When taken on their own, Januvia and metformin 
produced similar reductions in HbA1c levels, but the effectiveness of Januvia seemed to be slightly 
lower than that of metformin. 
In the additional studies, adding Januvia to glimepiride (with or without metformin) led to a reduction 
in HbA1c levels of 0.45% after 24 weeks, compared with an increase of 0.28% in the patients adding 
placebo. HbA1c levels were reduced by 1.03% after 18 weeks in patients adding Januvia to metformin 
and rosiglitazone, compared with a fall of 0.31% in those adding placebo. Finally, they were reduced 
by 0.59% in patients adding Januvia to insulin (with or without metformin), compared with a fall of 
0.03% in those adding placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Januvia? 
Serious side effects reported with Januvia include pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) and 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions). Hypoglycaemia has been reported in combination with a 
sulphonylurea in 4.7-13.8% of patients and with insulin in 9.6% of patients. For the full list of all side 
effects reported with Januvia, see the package leaflet. 
Januvia must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to sitagliptin or any of the other 
ingredients. 
Why has Januvia been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Januvia’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Januvia 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Januvia on 21 March 2007.  
The full EPAR for Januvia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Januvia, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2012. 
Januvia  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
 
