ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Each tablet contains sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and 850 mg
of metformin hydrochloride.
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
Each tablet contains sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet).
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Capsule-shaped, pink film-coated tablet with “515” debossed on one side.
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
Capsule-shaped, red film-coated tablet with “577” debossed on one side.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
For adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus:
Janumet is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients
inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin alone or those already being
treated with the combination of sitagliptin and metformin.
Janumet is indicated in combination with a sulphonylurea (i.e., triple combination therapy) as an
adjunct to diet and exercise in patients inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of
metformin and a sulphonylurea.
Janumet is indicated as triple combination therapy with a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
gamma (PPAR) agonist (i.e., a thiazolidinedione) as an adjunct to diet and exercise in patients
inadequately controlled on their maximal tolerated dose of metformin and a PPAR agonist. 
Janumet is also indicated as add-on to insulin (i.e., triple combination therapy) as an adjunct to diet
and exercise to improve glycaemic control in patients when stable dose of insulin and metformin alone
do not provide adequate glycaemic control.
2
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Posology
The dose of antihyperglycaemic therapy with Janumet should be individualised on the basis of the
patient’s current regimen, effectiveness, and tolerability while not exceeding the maximum
recommended daily dose of 100 mg sitagliptin.
Adults with normal renal function (GFR ≥ 90 mL/min)
For patients inadequately controlled on maximal tolerated dose of metformin monotherapy
For patients not adequately controlled on metformin alone, the usual starting dose should provide
sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) plus the dose of metformin already
being taken.
For patients switching from co-administration of sitagliptin and metformin
For patients switching from co-administration of sitagliptin and metformin, Janumet should be
initiated at the dose of sitagliptin and metformin already being taken.
For patients inadequately controlled on dual combination therapy with the maximal tolerated dose of
metformin and a sulphonylurea
The dose should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) and a dose of
metformin similar to the dose already being taken. When Janumet is used in combination with a
sulphonylurea, a lower dose of the sulphonylurea may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia
(see section 4.4).
For patients inadequately controlled on dual combination therapy with the maximal tolerated dose of
metformin and a PPAR agonist
The dose should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) and a dose of
metformin similar to the dose already being taken.
For patients inadequately controlled on dual combination therapy with insulin and the maximal
tolerated dose of metformin
The dose should provide sitagliptin dosed as 50 mg twice daily (100 mg total daily dose) and a dose of
metformin similar to the dose already being taken. When Janumet is used in combination with insulin,
a lower dose of insulin may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia (see section 4.4).
For the different doses on metformin, Janumet is available in strengths of 50 mg sitagliptin and
850 mg metformin hydrochloride or 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride.
All patients should continue their recommended diet with an adequate distribution of carbohydrate
intake during the day. 
Special populations
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate
[GFR]  60 mL/min). A GFR should be assessed before initiation of treatment with metformin-
containing products and at least annually thereafter. In patients at increased risk of further progression
of renal impairment and in the elderly, renal function should be assessed more frequently, e.g. every
3-6 months.
The maximum daily dose of metformin should preferably be divided into 2-3 daily doses. Factors that
may increase the risk of lactic acidosis (see section 4.4) should be reviewed before considering
initiation of metformin in patients with GFR < 60 mL/min. 
If no adequate strength of Janumet is available, individual monocomponents should be used instead of
the fixed-dose combination.
3
GFR mL/min 
Metformin
Sitagliptin
60-89 
45-59
30-44
Maximum daily dose is 3,000 mg.
Dose reduction may be considered in
relation to declining renal function.
Maximum daily dose is 2,000 mg. 
The starting dose is at most half of the
maximum dose.
Maximum daily dose is 1,000 mg. 
The starting dose is at most half of the
maximum dose.
Maximum daily dose is 100 mg.
Maximum daily dose is 100 mg.
Maximum daily dose is 50 mg.
< 30 
Metformin is contraindicated. 
Maximum daily dose is 25 mg.
Hepatic impairment
Janumet must not be used in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2).
Elderly
As metformin and sitagliptin are excreted by the kidney, Janumet should be used with caution as age
increases. Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of metformin-associated lactic
acidosis, particularly in the elderly (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
Paediatric population
Janumet should not be used in children and adolescents 10 to 17 years of age because of insufficient
efficacy. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2. Janumet has not been
studied in paediatric patients under 10 years of age.
Method of administration
Janumet should be given twice daily with meals to reduce the gastrointestinal adverse reactions
associated with metformin.
4.3  Contraindications
Janumet is contraindicated in patients with:
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
dehydration,
severe infection,
shock,
intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents (see section 4.4);
hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 (see
sections 4.4 and 4.8);
any type of acute metabolic acidosis (such as lactic acidosis, diabetic ketoacidosis); 
diabetic pre-coma;
severe renal failure (GFR< 30 mL/min) (see section 4.4);
acute conditions with the potential to alter renal function such as:
- 
- 
- 
- 
acute or chronic disease which may cause tissue hypoxia such as:
cardiac or respiratory failure,
- 
recent myocardial infarction,
- 
- 
shock;
hepatic impairment;
acute alcohol intoxication, alcoholism;
breast-feeding.
4
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
General
Janumet should not be used in patients with type 1 diabetes and must not be used for the treatment of
diabetic ketoacidosis.
Acute pancreatitis
Use of DPP-4 inhibitors has been associated with a risk of developing acute pancreatitis. Patients
should be informed of the characteristic symptom of acute pancreatitis: persistent, severe abdominal
pain. Resolution of pancreatitis has been observed after discontinuation of sitagliptin (with or without
supportive treatment), but very rare cases of necrotising or haemorrhagic pancreatitis and/or death
have been reported. If pancreatitis is suspected, Janumet and other potentially suspect medicinal
products should be discontinued; if acute pancreatitis is confirmed, Janumet should not be restarted.
Caution should be exercised in patients with a history of pancreatitis.
Lactic acidosis
Lactic acidosis, a rare but serious metabolic complication, most often occurs at acute worsening of
renal function or cardiorespiratory illness or sepsis. Metformin accumulation occurs at acute
worsening of renal function and increases the risk of lactic acidosis. 
In case of dehydration (severe vomiting, diarrhoea, fever or reduced fluid intake), metformin should be
temporarily discontinued and contact with a health care professional is recommended.
Medicinal products that can acutely impair renal function (such as antihypertensives, diuretics and
NSAIDs) should be initiated with caution in metformin-treated patients. Other risk factors for lactic
acidosis are excessive alcohol intake, hepatic insufficiency, inadequately controlled diabetes, ketosis,
prolonged fasting and any conditions associated with hypoxia, as well as concomitant use of medicinal
products that may cause lactic acidosis (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
Patients and/or care-givers should be informed of the risk of lactic acidosis. Lactic acidosis is
characterised by acidotic dyspnoea, abdominal pain, muscle cramps, asthenia and hypothermia
followed by coma. In case of suspected symptoms, the patient should stop taking metformin and seek
immediate medical attention. Diagnostic laboratory findings are decreased blood pH (< 7.35),
increased plasma lactate levels (> 5 mmol/L) and an increased anion gap and lactate/pyruvate ratio.
Renal function
GFR should be assessed before treatment initiation and regularly thereafter (see section 4.2). Janumet
is contraindicated in patients with GFR < 30 mL/min and should be temporarily discontinued during
conditions with the potential to alter renal function (see section 4.3).
Hypoglycaemia
Patients receiving Janumet in combination with a sulphonylurea or with insulin may be at risk for
hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a reduction in the dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may be necessary.
Hypersensitivity reactions
Post-marketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with sitagliptin have
been reported. These reactions include anaphylaxis, angioedema, and exfoliative skin conditions
including Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Onset of these reactions occurred within the first 3 months after
initiation of treatment with sitagliptin, with some reports occurring after the first dose. If a
hypersensitivity reaction is suspected, Janumet should be discontinued, other potential causes of the
event should be assessed, and alternative treatment for diabetes should be instituted (see section 4.8).
Bullous pemphigoid
There have been post-marketing reports of bullous pemphigoid in patients taking DPP-4 inhibitors
including sitagliptin. If bullous pemphigoid is suspected, Janumet should be discontinued.
5
Surgery
Janumet must be discontinued at the time of surgery under general, spinal or epidural anaesthesia.
Therapy may be restarted no earlier than 48 hours following surgery or resumption of oral nutrition
and provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable.
Administration of iodinated contrast agent
Intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents may lead to contrast-induced nephropathy,
resulting in metformin accumulation and an increased risk of lactic acidosis. Janumet should be
discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours
after, provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable (see sections 4.3 and
4.5).
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes
A patient with type 2 diabetes previously well controlled on Janumet who develops laboratory
abnormalities or clinical illness (especially vague and poorly defined illness) should be evaluated
promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis. Evaluation should include serum electrolytes
and ketones, blood glucose and, if indicated, blood pH, lactate, pyruvate, and metformin levels. If
acidosis of either form occurs, treatment must be stopped immediately and other appropriate corrective
measures initiated.
Vitamin B12 Deficiency
Metformin may reduce vitamin B12 serum levels. The risk of low vitamin B12 levels increases with
increasing metformin dose, treatment duration, and/or in patients with risk factors known to cause
vitamin B12 deficiency. In case of suspicion of vitamin B12 deficiency (such as anaemia or
neuropathy), vitamin B12 serum levels should be monitored. Periodic vitamin B12 monitoring could
be necessary in patients with risk factors for vitamin B12 deficiency. Metformin therapy should be
continued for as long as it is tolerated and not contra-indicated and appropriate corrective treatment for
vitamin B12 deficiency provided in line with current clinical guidelines.
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Co-administration of multiple doses of sitagliptin (50 mg twice daily) and metformin (1,000 mg twice
daily) did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of either sitagliptin or metformin in patients
with type 2 diabetes.
Pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies with Janumet have not been performed; however, such
studies have been conducted with the individual active substances, sitagliptin and metformin.
Concomitant use not recommended
Alcohol
Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in cases of
fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment.
Iodinated contrast agents
Janumet must be discontinued prior to or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at
least 48 hours after, provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable (see
sections 4.3 and 4.4).
Combinations requiring precautions for use
Some medicinal products can adversely affect renal function, which may increase the risk of lactic
acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors,
6
angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop diuretics. When starting or using such
products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.
Concomitant use of medicinal products that interfere with common renal tubular transport systems
involved in the renal elimination of metformin (e.g., organic cationic transporter-2 [OCT2] / multidrug
and toxin extrusion [MATE] inhibitors such as ranolazine, vandetanib, dolutegravir, and cimetidine)
could increase systemic exposure to metformin and may increase the risk for lactic acidosis. Consider
the benefits and risks of concomitant use. Close monitoring of glycaemic control, dose adjustment
within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be considered when such
products are co-administered.
Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes) beta-2-agonists, and diuretics have intrinsic
hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitoring
performed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. If necessary, the
dose of the anti-hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other
medicinal product and on its discontinuation.
ACE-inhibitors may decrease the blood glucose levels. If necessary, the dose of the
anti-hyperglycaemic medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal
product and on its discontinuation.
Effects of other medicinal products on sitagliptin
In vitro and clinical data described below suggest that the risk for clinically meaningful interactions
following co-administration of other medicinal products is low.
In vitro studies indicated that the primary enzyme responsible for the limited metabolism of sitagliptin
is CYP3A4, with contribution from CYP2C8. In patients with normal renal function, metabolism,
including via CYP3A4, plays only a small role in the clearance of sitagliptin. Metabolism may play a
more significant role in the elimination of sitagliptin in the setting of severe renal impairment or
end-stage renal disease (ESRD). For this reason, it is possible that potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (i.e.,
ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, clarithromycin) could alter the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin in
patients with severe renal impairment or ESRD. The effects of potent CYP3A4 inhibitors in the setting
of renal impairment have not been assessed in a clinical study.
In vitro transport studies showed that sitagliptin is a substrate for p-glycoprotein and organic anion
transporter-3 (OAT3). OAT3 mediated transport of sitagliptin was inhibited in vitro by probenecid,
although the risk of clinically meaningful interactions is considered to be low. Concomitant
administration of OAT3 inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo.
Ciclosporin: A study was conducted to assess the effect of ciclosporin, a potent inhibitor of
p-glycoprotein, on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin. Co-administration of a single 100 mg oral dose
of sitagliptin and a single 600 mg oral dose of ciclosporin increased the AUC and Cmax of sitagliptin by
approximately 29 % and 68 %, respectively. These changes in sitagliptin pharmacokinetics were not
considered to be clinically meaningful. The renal clearance of sitagliptin was not meaningfully altered.
Therefore, meaningful interactions would not be expected with other p-glycoprotein inhibitors.
Effects of sitagliptin on other medicinal products
Digoxin: Sitagliptin had a small effect on plasma digoxin concentrations. Following administration of
0.25 mg digoxin concomitantly with 100 mg of sitagliptin daily for 10 days, the plasma AUC of
digoxin was increased on average by 11 %, and the plasma Cmax on average by 18 %. No dose
adjustment of digoxin is recommended. However, patients at risk of digoxin toxicity should be
monitored for this when sitagliptin and digoxin are administered concomitantly.
In vitro data suggest that sitagliptin does not inhibit nor induce CYP450 isoenzymes. In clinical
studies, sitagliptin did not meaningfully alter the pharmacokinetics of metformin, glyburide,
simvastatin, rosiglitazone, warfarin, or oral contraceptives, providing in vivo evidence of a low
7
propensity for causing interactions with substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, and organic
cationic transporter (OCT). Sitagliptin may be a mild inhibitor of p-glycoprotein in vivo. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of sitagliptin in pregnant women. Studies in animals have
shown reproductive toxicity at high doses of sitagliptin (see section 5.3).
A limited amount of data suggests the use of metformin in pregnant women is not associated with an
increased risk of congenital malformations. Animal studies with metformin do not indicate harmful
effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonic or foetal development, parturition or postnatal
development (see section 5.3).
Janumet should not be used during pregnancy. If a patient wishes to become pregnant or if a
pregnancy occurs, treatment should be discontinued and the patient switched to insulin treatment as
soon as possible.
Breast-feeding
No studies in lactating animals have been conducted with the combined active substances of this
medicinal product. In studies performed with the individual active substances, both sitagliptin and
metformin are excreted in the milk of lactating rats. Metformin is excreted in human milk in small
amounts. It is not known whether sitagliptin is excreted in human milk. Janumet must therefore not be
used in women who are breast-feeding (see section 4.3).
Fertility
Animal data do not suggest an effect of treatment with sitagliptin on male and female fertility. Human
data are lacking.
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Janumet has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However, when
driving or using machines, it should be taken into account that dizziness and somnolence have been
reported with sitagliptin.
In addition, patients should be alerted to the risk of hypoglycaemia when Janumet is used in
combination with a sulphonylurea or with insulin.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
There have been no therapeutic clinical studies conducted with Janumet tablets however
bioequivalence of Janumet with co-administered sitagliptin and metformin has been demonstrated (see
section 5.2). Serious adverse reactions including pancreatitis and hypersensitivity reactions have been
reported. Hypoglycaemia has been reported in combination with sulphonylurea (13.8 %) and insulin
(10.9 %).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Sitagliptin and metformin
Adverse reactions are listed below as MedDRA preferred term by system organ class and absolute
frequency (Table 1). Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10);
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000) and not
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
8
Table 1: The frequency of adverse reactions identified from placebo-controlled clinical studies of
sitagliptin and metformin alone, and post-marketing experience
Adverse reaction
Frequency of adverse reaction
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
thrombocytopenia
Immune system disorders
hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic
responses*,†
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
hypoglycaemia†
Vitamin B12 decrease/deficiency†
Nervous system disorders
somnolence
Rare
Frequency not known
Common
Common
Uncommon
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
interstitial lung disease*
Frequency not known
Gastrointestinal disorders
diarrhoea
nausea
flatulence
constipation
upper abdominal pain
vomiting
acute pancreatitis*,†,‡
fatal and non-fatal haemorrhagic and necrotizing
pancreatitis*,†
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
pruritus*
angioedema*,†
rash*,†
urticaria*,†
cutaneous vasculitis*,†
exfoliative skin conditions including
Stevens-Johnson syndrome*,†
bullous pemphigoid*
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
arthralgia*
myalgia*
pain in extremity*
back pain*
arthropathy*
Renal and urinary disorders
impaired renal function*
acute renal failure*
*Adverse reactions were identified through post-marketing surveillance.
† See section 4.4.
‡ See TECOS Cardiovascular Safety Study below.
9
Uncommon
Common
Common
Uncommon
Uncommon
Common
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Uncommon
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Frequency not known
Description of selected adverse reactions
Some adverse reactions were observed more frequently in studies of combination use of sitagliptin and
metformin with other anti-diabetic medicinal products than in studies of sitagliptin and metformin
alone. These included hypoglycaemia (frequency very common with sulphonylurea or insulin),
constipation (common with sulphonylurea), peripheral oedema (common with pioglitazone), and
headache and dry mouth (uncommon with insulin).
Sitagliptin
In monotherapy studies of sitagliptin 100 mg once daily alone compared to placebo, adverse reactions
reported were headache, hypoglycaemia, constipation, and dizziness.
Among these patients, adverse events reported regardless of causal relationship to medicinal product
occurring in at least 5 % included upper respiratory tract infection and nasopharyngitis. In addition,
osteoarthritis and pain in extremity were reported with frequency uncommon (> 0.5 % higher among
sitagliptin users than that in the control group).
Metformin
Gastrointestinal symptoms were reported very commonly in clinical studies and post-marketing use of
metformin. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and loss of
appetite occur most frequently during initiation of therapy and resolve spontaneously in most cases.
Additional adverse reactions associated with metformin include metallic taste (common); lactic
acidosis, liver function disorders, hepatitis, urticaria, erythema, and pruritus (very rare). Frequency
categories are based on information available from metformin Summary of Product Characteristics
available in the EU.
Paediatric population 
In clinical studies with Janumet in paediatric patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus aged 10 to
17 years, the profile of adverse reactions was generally comparable to that observed in adults. In
paediatric patients on or not on background insulin, sitagliptin was associated with an increased risk of
hypoglycaemia.
TECOS Cardiovascular Safety Study
The Trial Evaluating Cardiovascular Outcomes with Sitagliptin (TECOS) included 7,332 patients
treated with sitagliptin, 100 mg daily (or 50 mg daily if the baseline eGFR was ≥ 30 and
< 50 mL/min/1.73 m2), and 7,339 patients treated with placebo in the intention-to-treat population.
Both treatments were added to usual care targeting regional standards for HbA1c and CV risk factors.
The overall incidence of serious adverse events in patients receiving sitagliptin was similar to that in
patients receiving placebo. 
In the intention-to-treat population, among patients who were using insulin and/or a sulfonylurea at
baseline, the incidence of severe hypoglycaemia was 2.7 % in sitagliptin-treated patients and 2.5 % in
placebo-treated patients; among patients who were not using insulin and/or a sulfonylurea at baseline,
the incidence of severe hypoglycaemia was 1.0 % in sitagliptin-treated patients and 0.7 % in
placebo-treated patients. The incidence of adjudication-confirmed pancreatitis events was 0.3 % in
sitagliptin-treated patients and 0.2 % in placebo-treated patients. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
During controlled clinical studies in healthy subjects, single doses of up to 800 mg sitagliptin were
administered. Minimal increases in QTc, not considered to be clinically relevant, were observed in one
10
study at a dose of 800 mg sitagliptin. There is no experience with doses above 800 mg in clinical
studies. In Phase I multiple-dose studies, there were no dose-related clinical adverse reactions
observed with sitagliptin with doses of up to 600 mg per day for periods of up to 10 days and 400 mg
per day for periods of up to 28 days.
A large overdose of metformin (or co-existing risks of lactic acidosis) may lead to lactic acidosis
which is a medical emergency and must be treated in hospital. The most effective method to remove
lactate and metformin is haemodialysis.
In clinical studies, approximately 13.5 % of the dose was removed over a 3- to 4-hour haemodialysis
session. Prolonged haemodialysis may be considered if clinically appropriate. It is not known if
sitagliptin is dialysable by peritoneal dialysis.
In the event of an overdose, it is reasonable to employ the usual supportive measures, e.g., remove
unabsorbed material from the gastrointestinal tract, employ clinical monitoring (including obtaining an
electrocardiogram), and institute supportive therapy if required.
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Medicinal products used in diabetes, Combinations of oral blood glucose
lowering medicinal products, ATC code: A10BD07
Janumet combines two antihyperglycaemic medicinal products with complementary mechanisms of
action to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes: sitagliptin phosphate, a
dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, and metformin hydrochloride, a member of the biguanide
class.
Sitagliptin
Mechanism of action
Sitagliptin phosphate is an orally-active, potent, and highly selective inhibitor of the dipeptidyl
peptidase 4 (DPP-4) enzyme for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. The DPP-4 inhibitors are a class of
agents that act as incretin enhancers. By inhibiting the DPP-4 enzyme, sitagliptin increases the levels
of two known active incretin hormones, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and glucose-dependent
insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP). The incretins are part of an endogenous system involved in the
physiologic regulation of glucose homeostasis. When blood glucose concentrations are normal or
elevated, GLP-1 and GIP increase insulin synthesis and release from pancreatic beta cells. GLP-1 also
lowers glucagon secretion from pancreatic alpha cells, leading to reduced hepatic glucose production.
When blood glucose levels are low, insulin release is not enhanced and glucagon secretion is not
suppressed. Sitagliptin is a potent and highly selective inhibitor of the enzyme DPP-4 and does not
inhibit the closely-related enzymes DPP-8 or DPP-9 at therapeutic concentrations. Sitagliptin differs in
chemical structure and pharmacological action from GLP-1 analogues, insulin, sulphonylureas or
meglitinides, biguanides, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR) agonists,
alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, and amylin analogues.
In a two-day study in healthy subjects, sitagliptin alone increased active GLP-1 concentrations,
whereas metformin alone increased active and total GLP-1 concentrations to similar extents.
Co-administration of sitagliptin and metformin had an additive effect on active GLP-1 concentrations.
Sitagliptin, but not metformin, increased active GIP concentrations.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Overall, sitagliptin improved glycaemic control when used as monotherapy or in combination
treatment in adult patients with type 2 diabetes. 
11
In clinical studies, sitagliptin as monotherapy improved glycaemic control with significant reductions
in haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and fasting and postprandial glucose. Reduction in fasting plasma glucose
(FPG) was observed at 3 weeks, the first time point at which FPG was measured. The observed
incidence of hypoglycaemia in patients treated with sitagliptin was similar to placebo. Body weight
did not increase from baseline with sitagliptin therapy. Improvements in surrogate markers of beta cell
function, including HOMA-β (Homeostasis Model Assessment-β), proinsulin to insulin ratio, and
measures of beta cell responsiveness from the frequently-sampled meal tolerance test were observed.
Studies of sitagliptin in combination with metformin
In a 24-week, placebo-controlled clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the addition of
sitagliptin 100 mg once daily to ongoing metformin, sitagliptin provided significant improvements in
glycaemic parameters compared with placebo. Change from baseline in body weight was similar for
patients treated with sitagliptin relative to placebo. In this study there was a similar incidence of
hypoglycaemia reported for patients treated with sitagliptin or placebo.
In a 24-week placebo-controlled factorial study of initial therapy, sitagliptin 50 mg twice daily in
combination with metformin (500 mg or 1,000 mg twice daily) provided significant improvements in
glycaemic parameters compared with either monotherapy. The decrease in body weight with the
combination of sitagliptin and metformin was similar to that observed with metformin alone or
placebo; there was no change from baseline for patients on sitagliptin alone. The incidence of
hypoglycaemia was similar across treatment groups.
Study of sitagliptin in combination with metformin and a sulphonylurea
A 24-week placebo-controlled study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sitagliptin
(100 mg once daily) added to glimepiride (alone or in combination with metformin). The addition of
sitagliptin to glimepiride and metformin provided significant improvements in glycaemic parameters.
Patients treated with sitagliptin had a modest increase in body weight (+1.1 kg) compared to those
given placebo.
Study of sitagliptin in combination with metformin and a PPAR agonist
A 26-week placebo-controlled study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sitagliptin
(100 mg once daily) added to the combination of pioglitazone and metformin. The addition of
sitagliptin to pioglitazone and metformin provided significant improvements in glycaemic parameters.
Change from baseline in body weight was similar for patients treated with sitagliptin relative to
placebo. The incidence of hypoglycaemia was also similar in patients treated with sitagliptin or
placebo. 
Study of sitagliptin in combination with metformin and insulin
A 24-week placebo-controlled study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sitagliptin
(100 mg once daily) added to insulin (at a stable dose for at least 10 weeks) with or without metformin
(at least 1,500 mg). In patients taking pre-mixed insulin, the mean daily dose was 70.9 U/day. In
patients taking non-pre-mixed (intermediate/long-acting) insulin, the mean daily dose was 44.3 U/day.
Data from the 73 % of patients who were taking metformin are presented in Table 2. The addition of
sitagliptin to insulin provided significant improvements in glycaemic parameters. There was no
meaningful change from baseline in body weight in either group.
12
Table 2: HbA1c results in placebo-controlled combination therapy studies of sitagliptin and
metformin*
Study
Sitagliptin 100 mg once
daily added to ongoing
metformin therapy 
(N=453)
Sitagliptin 100 mg once
daily added to ongoing
glimepiride + metformin
therapy
(N=115)
Sitagliptin 100 mg once
daily added to ongoing 
pioglitazone + metformin 
therapy¶ 
(N=152)
Sitagliptin 100 mg once
daily added to ongoing
insulin + metformin
therapy 
(N=223) 
Initial Therapy (twice
daily):
Sitagliptin 50 mg + 
metformin 500 mg 
(N=183)
Mean
baseline
HbA1c (%)
Mean change from
baseline HbA1c (%)
Placebo-corrected mean
change in HbA1c (%)
(95 % CI)
8.0 
8.3 
8.8 
-0.7†
-0.6†
-1.2†
8.7 
-0.7§ 
8.8 
-1.4†
-0.7†,‡
(-0.8, -0.5)
-0.9†,‡
(-1.1, -0.7)
-0.7†,‡ 
(-1.0, -0.5)
-0.5§,‡
(-0.7, -0.4)
-1.6†,‡
(-1.8, -1.3)
8.8 
Initial Therapy (twice
daily): 
Sitagliptin 50 mg + 
metformin 1,000 mg 
(N=178)
* All Patients Treated Population (an intention-to-treat analysis).
† Least squares means adjusted for prior antihyperglycaemic therapy status and baseline value.
‡ p< 0.001 compared to placebo or placebo + combination treatment.
 HbA1c (%) at week 24.
¶ HbA1c (%) at week 26.
§ Least squares mean adjusted for insulin use at Visit 1 (pre-mixed vs. non-pre-mixed [intermediate- or long-acting]), and
baseline value.
-2.1†,‡
(-2.3, -1.8)
-1.9†
In a 52-week study, comparing the efficacy and safety of the addition of sitagliptin 100 mg once daily
or glipizide (a sulphonylurea) in patients with inadequate glycaemic control on metformin
monotherapy, sitagliptin was similar to glipizide in reducing HbA1c (-0.7 % mean change from
baselines at week 52, with baseline HbA1c of approximately 7.5 % in both groups). The mean glipizide
dose used in the comparator group was 10 mg per day with approximately 40 % of patients requiring a
glipizide dose of  5 mg/day throughout the study. However, more patients in the sitagliptin group
discontinued due to lack of efficacy than in the glipizide group. Patients treated with sitagliptin
exhibited a significant mean decrease from baseline in body weight (-1.5 kg) compared to a significant
weight gain in patients administered glipizide (+1.1 kg). In this study, the proinsulin to insulin ratio, a
marker of efficiency of insulin synthesis and release, improved with sitagliptin and deteriorated with
glipizide treatment. The incidence of hypoglycaemia in the sitagliptin group (4.9 %) was significantly
lower than that in the glipizide group (32.0 %).
13
 
 
A 24-week placebo-controlled study involving 660 patients was designed to evaluate the
insulin-sparing efficacy and safety of sitagliptin (100 mg once daily) added to insulin glargine with or
without metformin (at least 1,500 mg) during intensification of insulin therapy. Among patients taking
metformin, baseline HbA1c was 8.70 % and baseline insulin dose was 37 IU/day. Patients were
instructed to titrate their insulin glargine dose based on fingerstick fasting glucose values. Among
patients taking metformin, at Week 24, the increase in daily insulin dose was 19 IU/day in patients
treated with sitagliptin and 24 IU/day in patients treated with placebo. The reduction in HbA1c for
patients treated with sitagliptin, metformin, and insulin was -1.35 % compared to -0.90 % for patients
treated with placebo, metformin, and insulin, a difference of -0.45 % [95 % CI: -0.62, -0.29]. The
incidence of hypoglycaemia was 24.9 % for patients treated with sitagliptin, metformin, and insulin
and 37.8 % for patients treated with placebo, metformin, and insulin. The difference was mainly due to
a higher percentage of patients in the placebo group experiencing 3 or more episodes of
hypoglycaemia (9.1 vs. 19.8 %). There was no difference in the incidence of severe hypoglycaemia.
Metformin
Mechanism of action
Metformin is a biguanide with antihyperglycaemic effects, lowering both basal and postprandial
plasma glucose. It does not stimulate insulin secretion and therefore does not produce hypoglycaemia.
Metformin may act via three mechanisms:
- 
- 
by reduction of hepatic glucose production by inhibiting gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis
in muscle, by modestly increasing insulin sensitivity, improving peripheral glucose uptake and
utilisation
by delaying intestinal glucose absorption.
- 
Metformin stimulates intracellular glycogen synthesis by acting on glycogen synthase. Metformin
increases the transport capacity of specific types of membrane glucose transporters (GLUT-1 and
GLUT-4).
Clinical efficacy and safety
In humans, independently of its action on glycaemia, metformin has favourable effects on lipid
metabolism. This has been shown at therapeutic doses in controlled, medium-term or long-term
clinical studies: metformin reduces total cholesterol, LDLc and triglyceride levels.
The prospective randomised (UKPDS) study has established the long-term benefit of intensive blood
glucose control in type 2 diabetes. Analysis of the results for overweight patients treated with
metformin after failure of diet alone showed:
- 
a significant reduction of the absolute risk of any diabetes-related complication in the metformin
group (29.8 events/1,000 patient-years) versus diet alone (43.3 events/1,000 patient-years),
p=0.0023, and versus the combined sulphonylurea and insulin monotherapy groups
(40.1 events/1,000 patient-years), p=0.0034
a significant reduction of the absolute risk of any diabetes-related mortality: metformin
7.5 events/1,000 patient-years, diet alone 12.7 events/1,000 patient-years, p=0.017
a significant reduction of the absolute risk of overall mortality: metformin
13.5 events/1,000 patient-years versus diet alone 20.6 events/1,000 patient-years, (p=0.011), and
versus the combined sulphonylurea and insulin monotherapy groups
18.9 events/1,000 patient-years (p=0.021)
a significant reduction in the absolute risk of myocardial infarction: metformin
11 events/1,000 patient-years, diet alone 18 events/1,000 patient-years, (p=0.01).
- 
- 
- 
The TECOS was a randomised study in 14,671 patients in the intention-to-treat population with an
HbA1c of ≥ 6.5 to 8.0 % with established CV disease who received sitagliptin (7,332) 100 mg daily (or
50 mg daily if the baseline eGFR was ≥ 30 and < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2) or placebo (7,339) added to
usual care targeting regional standards for HbA1c and CV risk factors. Patients with an eGFR
< 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 were not to be enrolled in the study. The study population included
2,004 patients ≥ 75 years of age and 3,324 patients with renal impairment
(eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2).
14
Over the course of the study, the overall estimated mean (SD) difference in HbA1c between the
sitagliptin and placebo groups was 0.29 % (0.01), 95 % CI (-0.32, -0.27); p < 0.001. 
The primary cardiovascular endpoint was a composite of the first occurrence of cardiovascular death,
nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or hospitalisation for unstable angina. Secondary
cardiovascular endpoints included the first occurrence of cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial
infarction, or nonfatal stroke; first occurrence of the individual components of the primary composite;
all-cause mortality; and hospital admissions for congestive heart failure.
After a median follow up of 3 years, sitagliptin, when added to usual care, did not increase the risk of
major adverse cardiovascular events or the risk of hospitalisation for heart failure compared to usual
care without sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes (Table 3).
Table 3: Rates of Composite Cardiovascular Outcomes and Key Secondary Outcomes
Sitagliptin 100 mg
Placebo
Incidenc
e rate
per 100
patient-
years* 
Incidence
rate per
100
patient-
years*
N (%)
N (%) 
Hazard Ratio
(95 % CI) 
p-value†
Analysis in the Intention-to-Treat Population
Number of patients 
7,332 
7,339
  Primary Composite Endpoint
(Cardiovascular death, nonfatal
myocardial infarction, nonfatal
stroke, or hospitalisation for
unstable angina) 
  Secondary Composite Endpoint
(Cardiovascular death, nonfatal
myocardial infarction, or nonfatal
stroke)
Secondary Outcome
Cardiovascular death
All myocardial infarction (fatal
and non-fatal) 
All stroke (fatal and non-fatal) 
Hospitalisation for unstable
angina 
Death from any cause
839 (11.4) 
4.1 
851 (11.6) 
4.2 
0.98 (0.89–1.08) 
<0.001
745 (10.2) 
3.6 
746 (10.2) 
3.6 
0.99 (0.89–1.10) 
<0.001
380 (5.2) 
1.7 
366 (5.0) 
1.7 
1.03 (0.89-1.19) 
0.711
300 (4.1) 
178 (2.4) 
116 (1.6) 
547 (7.5) 
1.4 
0.8 
0.5 
2.5 
316 (4.3) 
183 (2.5) 
129 (1.8) 
537 (7.3) 
1.5 
0.9 
0.6 
2.5 
0.95 (0.81–1.11) 
0.97 (0.79–1.19) 
0.487
0.760
0.90 (0.70–1.16) 
0.419
1.01 (0.90–1.14) 
0.875
Hospitalisation for heart failure‡
0.983
* Incidence rate per 100 patient-years is calculated as 100 × (total number of patients with ≥ 1 event during eligible exposure
228 (3.1) 
229 (3.1) 
1.1 
1.1 
1.00 (0.83–1.20) 
period per total patient-years of follow-up).
† Based on a Cox model stratified by region. For composite endpoints, the p-values correspond to a test of non-inferiority
seeking to show that the hazard ratio is less than 1.3. For all other endpoints, the p-values correspond to a test of differences
in hazard rates.
‡ The analysis of hospitalisation for heart failure was adjusted for a history of heart failure at baseline.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with
Janumet in all subsets of the paediatric population in type 2 diabetes mellitus (see section 4.2 for
information on paediatric use).
The safety and efficacy of the addition of sitagliptin in paediatric patients aged 10 to 17 years with
type 2 diabetes and inadequate glycaemic control on metformin with or without insulin was assessed
in two studies over 54 weeks. The addition of sitagliptin (administered as sitagliptin + metformin or
15
sitagliptin + metformin extended release (XR)) was compared to the addition of placebo to metformin
or metformin XR.
While superiority of HbA1c reduction was demonstrated for sitagliptin + metformin / sitagliptin +
metformin XR over metformin at Week 20 in the pooled analysis of these two studies, results from the
individual studies were inconsistent. Furthermore, greater efficacy for sitagliptin + metformin /
sitagliptin + metformin XR compared to metformin was not observed at Week 54. Therefore, Janumet
should not be used in paediatric patients aged 10 to 17 years old because of insufficient efficacy (see
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Janumet
A bioequivalence study in healthy subjects demonstrated that the Janumet (sitagliptin/metformin
hydrochloride) combination tablets are bioequivalent to co-administration of sitagliptin phosphate and
metformin hydrochloride as individual tablets.
The following statements reflect the pharmacokinetic properties of the individual active substances of
Janumet.
Sitagliptin
Absorption
Following oral administration of a 100-mg dose to healthy subjects, sitagliptin was rapidly absorbed,
with peak plasma concentrations (median Tmax) occurring 1 to 4 hours post-dose, mean plasma AUC
of sitagliptin was 8.52 M•hr, Cmax was 950 nM. The absolute bioavailability of sitagliptin is
approximately 87 %. Since co-administration of a high-fat meal with sitagliptin had no effect on the
pharmacokinetics, sitagliptin may be administered with or without food.
Plasma AUC of sitagliptin increased in a dose-proportional manner. Dose-proportionality was not
established for Cmax and C24hr (Cmax increased in a greater than dose-proportional manner and C24hr
increased in a less than dose-proportional manner).
Distribution
The mean volume of distribution at steady state following a single 100-mg intravenous dose of
sitagliptin to healthy subjects is approximately 198 litres. The fraction of sitagliptin reversibly bound
to plasma proteins is low (38 %).
Biotransformation
Sitagliptin is primarily eliminated unchanged in urine, and metabolism is a minor pathway.
Approximately 79 % of sitagliptin is excreted unchanged in the urine.
Following a [14C]sitagliptin oral dose, approximately 16 % of the radioactivity was excreted as
metabolites of sitagliptin. Six metabolites were detected at trace levels and are not expected to
contribute to the plasma DPP-4 inhibitory activity of sitagliptin. In vitro studies indicated that the
primary enzyme responsible for the limited metabolism of sitagliptin was CYP3A4, with contribution
from CYP2C8.
In vitro data showed that sitagliptin is not an inhibitor of CYP isoenzymes CYP3A4, 2C8, 2C9, 2D6,
1A2, 2C19 or 2B6, and is not an inducer of CYP3A4 and CYP1A2.
Elimination
Following administration of an oral [14C]sitagliptin dose to healthy subjects, approximately 100 % of
the administered radioactivity was eliminated in faeces (13 %) or urine (87 %) within one week of
dosing. The apparent terminal t½ following a 100-mg oral dose of sitagliptin was approximately
12.4 hours. Sitagliptin accumulates only minimally with multiple doses. The renal clearance was
approximately 350 mL/min.
16
Elimination of sitagliptin occurs primarily via renal excretion and involves active tubular secretion.
Sitagliptin is a substrate for human organic anion transporter-3 (hOAT-3), which may be involved in
the renal elimination of sitagliptin. The clinical relevance of hOAT-3 in sitagliptin transport has not
been established. Sitagliptin is also a substrate of p-glycoprotein, which may also be involved in
mediating the renal elimination of sitagliptin. However, ciclosporin, a p-glycoprotein inhibitor, did not
reduce the renal clearance of sitagliptin. Sitagliptin is not a substrate for OCT2 or OAT1 or PEPT1/2
transporters. In vitro, sitagliptin did not inhibit OAT3 (IC50=160 M) or p-glycoprotein (up to
250 M) mediated transport at therapeutically relevant plasma concentrations. In a clinical study
sitagliptin had a small effect on plasma digoxin concentrations indicating that sitagliptin may be a
mild inhibitor of p-glycoprotein.
Characteristics in patients
The pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin were generally similar in healthy subjects and in patients with
type 2 diabetes.
Renal impairment
A single-dose, open-label study was conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of a reduced dose of
sitagliptin (50 mg) in patients with varying degrees of chronic renal impairment compared to normal
healthy control subjects. The study included patients with mild, moderate, and severe renal
impairment, as well as patients with ESRD on haemodialysis. In addition, the effects of renal
impairment on sitagliptin pharmacokinetics in patients with type 2 diabetes and mild, moderate, or
severe renal impairment (including ESRD) were assessed using population pharmacokinetic analyses.
Compared to normal healthy control subjects, plasma AUC of sitagliptin was increased by
approximately 1.2-fold and 1.6-fold in patients with mild renal impairment (GFR ≥ 60 to
< 90 mL/min) and patients with moderate renal impairment (GFR ≥ 45 to < 60 mL/min), respectively.
Because increases of this magnitude are not clinically relevant, dose adjustment in these patients is not
necessary.
Plasma AUC of sitagliptin was increased approximately 2-fold in patients with moderate renal
impairment (GFR ≥ 30 to < 45 mL/min), and approximately 4-fold in patients with severe renal
impairment (GFR < 30 mL/min), including patients with ESRD on haemodialysis. Sitagliptin was
modestly removed by haemodialysis (13.5 % over a 3- to 4-hour haemodialysis session starting
4 hours post-dose).
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment for sitagliptin is necessary for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment
(Child-Pugh score  9). There is no clinical experience in patients with severe hepatic impairment
(Child-Pugh score > 9). However, because sitagliptin is primarily renally eliminated, severe hepatic
impairment is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin.
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required based on age. Age did not have a clinically meaningful impact on the
pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of Phase I and Phase II
data. Elderly subjects (65 to 80 years) had approximately 19 % higher plasma concentrations of
sitagliptin compared to younger subjects.
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin (single dose of 50 mg, 100 mg or 200 mg) were investigated in
paediatric patients (10 to 17 years of age) with type 2 diabetes. In this population, the dose adjusted
AUC of sitagliptin in plasma was approximately 18 % lower compared to adult patients with type 2
diabetes for a 100 mg dose. No studies with sitagliptin have been performed in paediatric patients < 10
years of age.
Other patient characteristics
No dose adjustment is necessary based on gender, race, or body mass index (BMI). These
characteristics had no clinically meaningful effect on the pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin based on a
17
composite analysis of Phase I pharmacokinetic data and on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of
Phase I and Phase II data.
Metformin
Absorption
After an oral dose of metformin, Tmax is reached in 2.5 h. Absolute bioavailability of a 500 mg
metformin tablet is approximately 50-60 % in healthy subjects. After an oral dose, the non-absorbed
fraction recovered in faeces was 20-30 %.
After oral administration, metformin absorption is saturable and incomplete. It is assumed that the
pharmacokinetics of metformin absorption is non-linear. At the usual metformin doses and dosing
schedules, steady state plasma concentrations are reached within 24-48 h and are generally less than
1 µg/mL. In controlled clinical studies, maximum metformin plasma levels (Cmax) did not exceed
5 µg/mL, even at maximum doses.
Food decreases the extent and slightly delays the absorption of metformin. Following administration
of a dose of 850 mg, a 40 % lower plasma peak concentration, a 25 % decrease in AUC and a 35 min
prolongation of time to peak plasma concentration was observed. The clinical relevance of this
decrease is unknown.
Distribution
Plasma protein binding is negligible. Metformin partitions into erythrocytes. The blood peak is lower
than the plasma peak and appears at approximately the same time. The red blood cells most likely
represent a secondary compartment of distribution. The mean Vd ranged between 63 – 276 L.
Biotransformation
Metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine. No metabolites have been identified in humans.
Elimination
Renal clearance of metformin is > 400 mL/min, indicating that metformin is eliminated by glomerular
filtration and tubular secretion. Following an oral dose, the apparent terminal elimination half-life is
approximately 6.5 h. When renal function is impaired, renal clearance is decreased in proportion to
that of creatinine and thus the elimination half-life is prolonged, leading to increased levels of
metformin in plasma.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
No animal studies have been conducted with Janumet.
In 16-week studies in which dogs were treated with either metformin alone or a combination of
metformin and sitagliptin, no additional toxicity was observed from the combination. The NOEL in
these studies was observed at exposures to sitagliptin of approximately 6 times the human exposure
and to metformin of approximately 2.5 times the human exposure.
The following data are findings in studies performed with sitagliptin or metformin individually.
Sitagliptin
Renal and liver toxicity were observed in rodents at systemic exposure values 58 times the human
exposure level, while the no-effect level was found at 19 times the human exposure level. Incisor teeth
abnormalities were observed in rats at exposure levels 67 times the clinical exposure level; the
no-effect level for this finding was 58-fold based on the 14-week rat study. The relevance of these
findings for humans is unknown. Transient treatment-related physical signs, some of which suggest
neural toxicity, such as open-mouth breathing, salivation, white foamy emesis, ataxia, trembling,
decreased activity, and/or hunched posture were observed in dogs at exposure levels approximately
23 times the clinical exposure level. In addition, very slight to slight skeletal muscle degeneration was
also observed histologically at doses resulting in systemic exposure levels of approximately 23 times
18
the human exposure level. A no-effect level for these findings was found at an exposure 6-fold the
clinical exposure level.
Sitagliptin has not been demonstrated to be genotoxic in preclinical studies. Sitagliptin was not
carcinogenic in mice. In rats, there was an increased incidence of hepatic adenomas and carcinomas at
systemic exposure levels 58 times the human exposure level. Since hepatotoxicity has been shown to
correlate with induction of hepatic neoplasia in rats, this increased incidence of hepatic tumours in rats
was likely secondary to chronic hepatic toxicity at this high dose. Because of the high safety margin
(19-fold at this no-effect level), these neoplastic changes are not considered relevant for the situation
in humans.
No treatment related effects on fertility were observed in male and female rats given sitagliptin prior to
and throughout mating.
In a pre-/post-natal development study performed in rats sitagliptin showed no adverse reactions.
Reproductive toxicity studies showed a slight treatment-related increased incidence of foetal rib
malformations (absent, hypoplastic and wavy ribs) in the offspring of rats at systemic exposure levels
more than 29 times the human exposure levels. Maternal toxicity was seen in rabbits at more than
29 times the human exposure levels. Because of the high safety margins, these findings do not suggest
a relevant risk for human reproduction. Sitagliptin is secreted in considerable amounts into the milk of
lactating rats (milk/plasma ratio: 4:1).
Metformin
Preclinical data for metformin reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of
safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to
reproduction.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Tablet core
microcrystalline cellulose (E460) 
povidone K29/32 (E1201)
sodium lauryl sulfate
sodium stearyl fumarate
Film coating
poly(vinyl alcohol)
macrogol 3350
talc (E553b) 
titanium dioxide (E171) 
iron oxide red (E172) 
iron oxide black (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3  Shelf life
2 years.
19
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 25 °C.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
Opaque blisters (PVC/PE/PVDC and aluminium). 
Packs of 14, 28, 56, 60, 112, 168, 180, 196 film-coated tablets, multi-packs containing 196 (2 packs of
98) and 168 (2 packs of 84) film-coated tablets. Pack of 50 x 1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit
dose blisters.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/001
EU/1/08/455/002
EU/1/08/455/003
EU/1/08/455/004
EU/1/08/455/005
EU/1/08/455/006
EU/1/08/455/007
EU/1/08/455/015
EU/1/08/455/017
EU/1/08/455/019
EU/1/08/455/020
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/008
EU/1/08/455/009
EU/1/08/455/010
EU/1/08/455/011
EU/1/08/455/012
EU/1/08/455/013
EU/1/08/455/014
EU/1/08/455/016
EU/1/08/455/018
EU/1/08/455/021
EU/1/08/455/022
20
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 16 July 2008
Date of latest renewal: 13 March 2013
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
21
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH
RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
22
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
• 
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
An updated RMP should be submitted:
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
23
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
24
A. LABELLING
25
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and 850 mg
of metformin hydrochloride.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 film-coated tablets
28 film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
60 film-coated tablets
112 film-coated tablets
168 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
196 film-coated tablets
50 x 1 film-coated tablets
Multi-pack containing 196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets
Multi-pack containing 168 (2 packs of 84) film-coated tablets
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
26
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 C.
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/455/001 14 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/002 28 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/003 56 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/019 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/004 112 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/005 168 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/020 180 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/006 196 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/007 50 x 1 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/015 196 (2 x 98) film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/017 168 (2 x 84) film-coated tablets
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Janumet
50 mg/850 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
27
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
28
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
INTERMEDIATE CARTON for Multi-packs 2 packs – without blue box - 50 mg/850 mg
film-coated tablets
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and 850 mg
of metformin hydrochloride.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
98 film-coated tablets. Component of a multi-pack, can’t be sold separately.
84 film-coated tablets. Component of a multi-pack, can’t be sold separately.
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 C.
29
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/455/015
EU/1/08/455/017
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Janumet
50 mg/850 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
Not applicable.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
Not applicable.
30
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS
BLISTER
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg tablets
sitagliptin/metformin HCl
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
MSD
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.  OTHER
31
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 film-coated tablets
28 film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
60 film-coated tablets
112 film-coated tablets
168 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
196 film-coated tablets
50 x 1 film-coated tablets
Multi-pack containing 196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets
Multi-pack containing 168 (2 packs of 84) film-coated tablets
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
32
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 C.
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/455/008 14 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/009 28 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/010 56 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/021 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/011 112 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/012 168 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/022 180 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/013 196 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/014 50 x 1 film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/016 196 (2 x 98) film-coated tablets
EU/1/08/455/018 168 (2 x 84) film-coated tablets
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Janumet
50 mg/1,000 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
33
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
34
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
INTERMEDIATE CARTON for Multi-packs 2 packs – without blue box - 50 mg/1,000 mg
film-coated tablets
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains sitagliptin phosphate monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
98 film-coated tablets. Component of a multi-pack, can’t be sold separately.
84 film-coated tablets. Component of a multi-pack, can’t be sold separately.
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 25 C.
35
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/08/455/016
EU/1/08/455/018
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Janumet
50 mg/1,000 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
Not applicable.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
Not applicable.
36
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS 
BLISTER
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg tablets
sitagliptin/metformin HCl 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
MSD
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.  OTHER
37
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
38
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
sitagliptin/metformin hydrochloride
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
- 
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Janumet is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you take Janumet
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Janumet
Possible side effects
How to store Janumet
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Janumet is and what it is used for
Janumet contains two different medicines called sitagliptin and metformin.
• 
sitagliptin belongs to a class of medicines called DPP-4 inhibitors (dipeptidyl
peptidase-4 inhibitors)
• 
metformin belongs to a class of medicines called biguanides.
They work together to control blood sugar levels in adult patients with a form of diabetes called
‘type 2 diabetes mellitus’. This medicine helps to increase the levels of insulin produced after a meal
and lowers the amount of sugar made by your body.
Along with diet and exercise, this medicine helps lower your blood sugar. This medicine can be used
alone or with certain other medicines for diabetes (insulin, sulphonylureas, or glitazones).
What is type 2 diabetes?
Type 2 diabetes is a condition in which your body does not make enough insulin, and the insulin that
your body produces does not work as well as it should. Your body can also make too much sugar.
When this happens, sugar (glucose) builds up in the blood. This can lead to serious medical problems
like heart disease, kidney disease, blindness, and amputation.
2.  What you need to know before you take Janumet
Do not take Janumet
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to sitagliptin or metformin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine
(listed in section 6). 
if you have severely reduced kidney function
if you have uncontrolled diabetes, with e.g. severe hyperglycaemia (high blood glucose),
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, rapid weight loss, lactic acidosis (see “Risk of lactic acidosis”
below) or ketoacidosis. Ketoacidosis is a condition in which substances called ‘ketone bodies’
accumulate in the blood and which can lead to diabetic pre-coma. Symptoms include stomach
pain, fast and deep breathing, sleepiness or your breath developing an unusual fruity smell.
39
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have a severe infection or are dehydrated
if you are going to have an X-ray where you will be injected with a dye. You will need to stop
taking Janumet at the time of the X-ray and for 2 or more days after as directed by your doctor,
depending on how your kidneys are working
if you have recently had a heart attack or have severe circulatory problems, such as ‘shock’ or
breathing difficulties
if you have liver problems
if you drink alcohol to excess (either every day or only from time to time)
if you are breast-feeding
Do not take Janumet if any of the above apply to you and talk with your doctor about other ways of
managing your diabetes. If you are not sure, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking
Janumet.
Warnings and precautions
Cases of inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) have been reported in patients receiving Janumet
(see section 4).
If you encounter blistering of the skin it may be a sign for a condition called bullous pemphigoid.
Your doctor may ask you to stop Janumet.
Risk of lactic acidosis
Janumet may cause a very rare, but very serious side effect called lactic acidosis, particularly if your
kidneys are not working properly. The risk of developing lactic acidosis is also increased with
uncontrolled diabetes, serious infections, prolonged fasting or alcohol intake, dehydration (see further
information below), liver problems and any medical conditions in which a part of the body has a
reduced supply of oxygen (such as acute severe heart disease). 
If any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor for further instructions.
Stop taking Janumet for a short time if you have a condition that may be associated with
dehydration (significant loss of body fluids) such as severe vomiting, diarrhoea, fever, exposure to
heat or if you drink less fluid than normal. Talk to your doctor for further instructions.
Stop taking Janumet and contact a doctor or the nearest hospital immediately if you experience
some of the symptoms of lactic acidosis, as this condition may lead to coma. 
Symptoms of lactic acidosis include: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
vomiting
stomach ache (abdominal pain)
muscle cramps
a general feeling of not being well with severe tiredness
difficulty in breathing
reduced body temperature and heartbeat
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in a hospital.
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Janumet:
- 
- 
if you have or have had a disease of the pancreas (such as pancreatitis)
if you have or have had gallstones, alcohol dependence or very high levels of triglycerides (a
form of fat) in your blood. These medical conditions can increase your chance of getting
pancreatitis (see section 4)
if you have type 1 diabetes. This is sometimes called insulin-dependent diabetes
if you have or have had an allergic reaction to sitagliptin, metformin, or Janumet (see section 4)
if you are taking a sulphonylurea or insulin, diabetes medicines, together with Janumet, as you
may experience low blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia). Your doctor may reduce the dose of
your sulphonylurea or insulin
- 
- 
- 
40
If you need to have major surgery you must stop taking Janumet during and for some time after the
procedure. Your doctor will decide when you must stop and when to restart your treatment with
Janumet.
If you are not sure if any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking
Janumet. 
During treatment with Janumet, your doctor will check your kidney function at least once a year or
more frequently if you are elderly and/or if you have worsening kidney function.
Children and adolescents
Children and adolescents below 18 years should not use this medicine. It is not effective in children
and adolescents between the ages of 10 and 17 years. It is not known if this medicine is safe and
effective when used in children younger than 10 years.
Other medicines and Janumet
If you need to have an injection of a contrast medium that contains iodine into your bloodstream, for
example, in the context of an X-ray or scan, you must stop taking Janumet before or at the time of the
injection. Your doctor will decide when you must stop and when to restart your treatment with
Janumet.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other
medicines. You may need more frequent blood glucose and kidney function tests, or your doctor may
need to adjust the dose of Janumet. It is especially important to mention the following:
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
medicines (taken by mouth, inhalation, or injection) used to treat diseases that involve
inflammation, like asthma and arthritis (corticosteroids) 
medicines which increase urine production (diuretics) 
medicines used to treat pain and inflammation (NSAID and COX-2-inhibitors, such as
ibuprofen and celecoxib)
certain medicines for the treatment of high blood pressure (ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II
receptor antagonists)
specific medicines for the treatment of bronchial asthma (β-sympathomimetics)
iodinated contrast agents or alcohol-containing medicines
certain medicines used to treat stomach problems such as cimetidine
ranolazine, a medicine used to treat angina
dolutegravir, a medicine used to treat HIV infection
vandetanib, a medicine used to treat a specific type of thyroid cancer (medullary thyroid cancer)
digoxin (to treat irregular heartbeat and other heart problems). The level of digoxin in your
blood may need to be checked if taking with Janumet.
Janumet with alcohol
Avoid excessive alcohol intake while taking Janumet since this may increase the risk of lactic acidosis
(see section “Warnings and precautions”).
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. You should not take this medicine
during pregnancy. Do not take this medicine if you are breast-feeding. See section 2, Do not take
Janumet.
Driving and using machines
This medicine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. However,
dizziness and drowsiness have been reported with sitagliptin, which may affect your ability to drive or
use machines.
41
Taking this medicine in combination with medicines called sulphonylureas or with insulin can cause
hypoglycaemia, which may affect your ability to drive and use machines or work without safe
foothold.
Janumet contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.  How to take Janumet
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist
if you are not sure.
• 
• 
• 
Take one tablet:
• 
• 
twice daily by mouth
with meals to lower your chance of an upset stomach.
Your doctor may need to increase your dose to control your blood sugar. 
If you have reduced kidney function, your doctor may prescribe a lower dose.
You should continue the diet recommended by your doctor during treatment with this medicine and
take care that your carbohydrate intake is equally distributed over the day.
This medicine alone is unlikely to cause abnormally low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia). When this
medicine is used with a sulphonylurea medicine or with insulin, low blood sugar can occur and your
doctor may reduce the dose of your sulphonylurea or insulin.
If you take more Janumet than you should
If you take more than the prescribed dose of this medicine, contact your doctor immediately. Go to the
hospital if you have symptoms of lactic acidosis such as feeling cold or uncomfortable, severe nausea
or vomiting, stomach ache, unexplained weight loss, muscular cramps, or rapid breathing (see section
“Warnings and precautions”).
If you forget to take Janumet
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember. If you do not remember until it is time for your
next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule. Do not take a double dose of
this medicine.
If you stop taking Janumet
Continue to take this medicine as long as your doctor prescribes it so you can continue to help control
your blood sugar. You should not stop taking this medicine without talking to your doctor first. If you
stop taking Janumet, your blood sugar may rise again.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
STOP taking Janumet and contact a doctor immediately if you notice any of the following serious side
effects:
• 
Severe and persistent pain in the abdomen (stomach area) which might reach through to your
back with or without nausea and vomiting, as these could be signs of an inflamed pancreas
(pancreatitis).
42
Janumet may cause a very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people), but very serious side effect
called lactic acidosis (see section “Warnings and precautions”). If this happens, you must stop taking
Janumet and contact a doctor or the nearest hospital immediately, as lactic acidosis may lead to
coma.
If you have a serious allergic reaction (frequency not known), including rash, hives, blisters on the
skin/peeling skin and swelling of the face, lips, tongue, and throat that may cause difficulty in
breathing or swallowing, stop taking this medicine and call your doctor right away. Your doctor may
prescribe a medicine to treat your allergic reaction and a different medicine for your diabetes.
Some patients taking metformin have experienced the following side effects after starting sitagliptin:
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): low blood sugar, nausea, flatulence, vomiting
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): stomach ache, diarrhoea, constipation, drowsiness
Some patients have experienced diarrhoea, nausea, flatulence, constipation, stomach ache or vomiting
when starting the combination of sitagliptin and metformin together (frequency is common).
Some patients have experienced the following side effects while taking this medicine with a
sulphonylurea such as glimepiride:
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): low blood sugar
Common: constipation
Some patients have experienced the following side effects while taking this medicine in combination
with pioglitazone:
Common: swelling of the hands or legs
Some patients have experienced the following side effects while taking this medicine in combination
with insulin:
Very common: low blood sugar
Uncommon: dry mouth, headache 
Some patients have experienced the following side effects during clinical studies while taking
sitagliptin alone (one of the medicines in Janumet) or during post-approval use of Janumet or
sitagliptin alone or with other diabetes medicines:
Common: low blood sugar, headache, upper respiratory infection, stuffy or runny nose and sore throat,
osteoarthritis, arm or leg pain
Uncommon: dizziness, constipation, itching 
Rare: reduced number of platelets
Frequency not known: kidney problems (sometimes requiring dialysis), vomiting, joint pain, muscle
pain, back pain, interstitial lung disease, bullous pemphigoid (a type of skin blister)
Some patients have experienced the following side effects while taking metformin alone:
Very common: nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, stomach ache and loss of appetite. These symptoms may
happen when you start taking metformin and usually go away
Common: a metallic taste, decreased or low vitamin B12 levels in the blood (symptoms may include
extreme tiredness (fatigue), a sore and red tongue (glossitis), pins and needles (paraesthesia) or pale or
yellow skin). Your doctor may arrange some tests to find out the cause of your symptoms because
some of these may also be caused by diabetes or due to other unrelated health problems.
Very rare: hepatitis (a problem with your liver), hives, redness of the skin (rash) or itching
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
43
5.  How to store Janumet
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and the carton after 'EXP'.
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month.
Do not store above 25 C.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Janumet contains
- 
The active substances are sitagliptin and metformin.
o 
Each Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablet (tablet) contains sitagliptin phosphate
monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and 850 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
Each Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablet (tablet) contains sitagliptin phosphate
monohydrate equivalent to 50 mg of sitagliptin and 1,000 mg of metformin
hydrochloride.
- 
The other ingredients are:
o 
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose (E460), povidone K 29/32 (E1201), sodium lauryl
sulfate, and sodium stearyl fumarate.
Film coating: poly(vinyl alcohol), macrogol 3350, talc (E553b), titanium dioxide (E171),
iron oxide red (E172), and iron oxide black (E172).
o 
o 
What Janumet looks like and contents of the pack
- 
Janumet 50 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets are capsule-shaped, pink film-coated tablets with
“515” debossed on one side.
Janumet 50 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets are capsule-shaped, red film-coated tablets with
“577” debossed on one side.
- 
Opaque blisters (PVC/PE/PVDC and aluminium). Packs of 14, 28, 56, 60, 112, 168, 180,
196 film-coated tablets, multi-packs containing 196 (2 packs of 98) and 168 (2 packs of
84) film-coated tablets. Pack of 50 x 1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB “Merck Sharp & Dohme”
Tel. +370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
44
България
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel.: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel:  +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 888 53 00
hungary_msd@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: +45 4482 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel.: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Eλλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε
Τηλ: + 30-210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +4021 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila d.o.o.
Tel: + 386 1 5204 201
msd_slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel.: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
45
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 804 650
info@msd.fi
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ: 80000 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: +371 67364 224
msd_lv@merck.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency
web site: http://www.ema.europa.eu.
46
