9 November 2017 
EMA/19602/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): empagliflozin, empagliflozin / metformin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010388/201704 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 October 2016 to 17 April 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for empagliflozin, empagliflozin / 
metformin, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The MAH has submitted an updated cumulative review of complicated urinary tract infections (UTIs) in 
the Periodic safety update report (PSUR) specific section “characterization of risk”. This review includes 
information on clinical trials and post-marketing sources. Current SmPC of empagliflozin and 
empagliflozin/metformin includes a warning in section 4.4 on UTI (including a recommendation of 
temporary interruption of empagliflozin in patients with complicated UTIs) and in section 4.8 UTI is 
included as an Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) with frequency common. In relation to other Sodium-
dependent glucose co-transporter type 2 (SLGT-2) inhibitors currently authorised in the EU 
(canagliflozin and dapagliflozin), information on pyelonephritis and urosepsis is reflected in both EU 
Product Informations.  
In view of the fact that UTIs are an identified risk for empagliflozin but pyelonephritis and urosepsis are 
not specifically included in section 4.8 of EU-SmPC of empagliflozin and empagliflozin/metformin, that 
the cases of pyelonephritis and urosepsis with a positive dechallenge or no confounding factors have 
been seen in postmarketing data, data from Clinical Trials (CT) regarding UTIs leading to treatment 
discontinuation in addition to urosepsis data from clinical EMPA-REG study and known information of 
other SGLT2 on this issue, it is considered that there is enough evidence to include more information 
regarding these risks in the EU Product Information of empagliflozin (Jardiance) and 
empagliflozin/metformin (Synjardy).Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the 
PRAC considered that changes to the product information of medicinal products containing empagliflozin 
and empaglifllozin/metformin were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for empagliflozin, empagliflozin / metformin the CHMP is of 
the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing empagliflozin, 
empagliflozin / metformin is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/19602/2018 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
