EMA/580417/2023  
EMEA/H/C/002677 
Jardiance (empagliflozin) 
An overview of Jardiance and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Jardiance and what is it used for? 
Jardiance is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes, chronic (long-term) heart failure and chronic 
kidney disease. 
In type 2 diabetes, Jardiance is used in adults and children aged 10 years and above whose condition 
is not controlled well enough. It is used with appropriate diet and exercise in patients who cannot take 
metformin (another treatment for diabetes). It can also be used as an ‘add-on’ treatment to other 
diabetes medicines. 
In chronic heart failure (a condition in which the heart does not pump blood around the body as well as 
it should), Jardiance is used in adults to treat symptoms of the disease. Jardiance is also used in adults 
with chronic kidney disease. 
Jardiance contains the active substance empagliflozin. 
How is Jardiance used? 
Jardiance is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
For type 2 diabetes, heart failure and chronic kidney disease, the recommended dose is 10 mg once a 
day. 
For type 2 diabetes, the dose may be increased in suitable patients; if Jardiance is used in combination 
with insulin or medicines that make the body produce insulin, the doses of these medicines may need 
to be reduced to decrease the risk of hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar levels).  
For more information about using Jardiance, see the package leaflet or contact your healthcare 
provider. 
How does Jardiance work? 
The active substance in Jardiance, empagliflozin, blocks the action of a protein in the kidneys called 
sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2). As blood is filtered by the kidneys, SGLT2 stops the kidneys 
passing glucose from the blood into the urine. Patients with diabetes have high levels of glucose in the 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
blood. By blocking the action of SGLT2, empagliflozin causes the kidneys to pass more glucose into the 
urine, thereby reducing the levels of glucose in the blood. 
Blocking the action of SGLT2 also increases the removal of salt and water in the urine. This decreases 
the overall blood volume, reducing the effort needed for the heart to pump blood. This improves heart 
function in patients with heart failure and also preserves kidney function in patients with chronic kidney 
disease, regardless of having diabetes.  
What benefits of Jardiance have been shown in studies? 
Type 2 diabetes 
A beneficial effect of Jardiance on blood glucose has been shown in four main studies involving over 
2,700 patients. Jardiance was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) when used alone or added 
to treatment with other diabetes medicines (metformin, pioglitazone, or metformin plus either 
pioglitazone or sulphonylurea). The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of a 
substance in the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well 
the blood glucose is controlled, after 24 weeks of treatment. When blood sugar levels decrease, HbA1c 
levels also decrease. 
All the studies showed a modest but clinically meaningful decrease in HbA1c with Jardiance compared 
with placebo: in the study investigating use of Jardiance without other medicines, the reduction in 
HbA1c was 0.74% more than placebo with the 10 mg dose and 0.85% more than placebo with the 
25 mg dose. Modest but clinically meaningful reductions in HbA1c were also seen when Jardiance was 
added to other medicines. In addition, the results indicated that Jardiance treatment was associated 
with a beneficial fall in body weight and blood pressure. 
Supportive evidence was provided from a further six studies. Some of these were continuations of the 
main studies, and suggested that the benefits of the medicine continued with longer therapy. There 
was also supportive evidence suggesting benefit when the medicine was combined with insulin. 
Another main study showed that adding Jardiance to usual treatment reduced harmful cardiovascular 
(heart and blood vessels) effects. The study involved patients with type 2 diabetes who already had 
cardiovascular disease (such as angina, heart attack and stroke). The main measure of effectiveness 
was the occurrence of one of three major cardiovascular events: stroke, heart attack or death caused 
by cardiovascular disease. On average, patients in the study were followed up for 3.1 years. In those 
receiving Jardiance, cardiovascular events occurred in 10.5% (490 out of 4,687) of patients compared 
with 12.1% (282 out of 2,333) of patients receiving placebo. 
Jardiance was also effective in a study involving 158 children and adolescents aged 10 years and older. 
After 26 weeks of treatment, HbA1c levels fell by around 0.17 percentage points in those treated with 
Jardiance compared with a rise of around 0.68 percentage points in those who took placebo. 
Heart failure 
In the treatment of heart failure, irrespective of diabetes, a beneficial effect of Jardiance was shown in 
two studies involving 3,730 and 5,988 patients, respectively, who were given either Jardiance or 
placebo.  
In the first study, 19.4% (361 out of 1,863) of patients who took Jardiance for around 14 months were 
hospitalised for heart failure or died of cardiovascular causes, compared with 24.7% (462 out of 1,867) 
of those who took placebo.  
Jardiance (empagliflozin)  
EMA/580417/2023 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
In the second study, 13.8% (415 out of 2,997) of patients who took Jardiance for around 23 months 
were hospitalised for heart failure or died of cardiovascular causes, compared with 17.1% (511 out of 
2,991) of those who took placebo. 
Chronic kidney disease 
Jardiance was effective in treating adult patients with chronic kidney disease, irrespective of whether 
they had diabetes, based on a study involving over 6,600 patients. When Jardiance was added to their 
usual treatment for chronic kidney disease, 13.1% (432 out of 3,304) of patients taking Jardiance 
experienced worsening of their kidney function or died because of heart or kidney problems compared 
with 16.9% (558 out of 3,305) of those taking placebo; the risk was 28% lower with Jardiance than 
with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Jardiance? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Jardiance, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effect with Jardiance (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar) when the medicine is taken with sulphonylurea or insulin (other 
treatments for type 2 diabetes), and reduced amounts of fluids in the body when used to treat heart 
failure.  
Why is Jardiance authorised in the EU? 
Jardiance was shown to be effective in lowering blood glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes 
when given alone or in combination with other diabetes medicines with different mechanisms of action. 
Jardiance was also shown to reduce cardiovascular events in patients with type 2 diabetes who already 
had cardiovascular disease and patients who suffered from long-term heart failure irrespective of 
whether they had diabetes. In patients with chronic kidney disease, irrespective of having diabetes, 
Jardiance was also shown to reduce the risk of kidney function decline or death due to kidney or heart 
problems, when added to the patient’s usual treatment. In addition, beneficial reductions in weight and 
blood pressure were seen in patients treated with Jardiance. Regarding safety, overall the side effects 
were considered manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Jardiance’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Jardiance? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Jardiance have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Jardiance are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Jardiance are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Jardiance 
Jardiance received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 May 2014. 
Further information on Jardiance can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/jardiance. 
Jardiance (empagliflozin)  
EMA/580417/2023 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 12-2023. 
Jardiance (empagliflozin)  
EMA/580417/2023 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
