16 December 2021 
EMA/193077/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): empagliflozin, empagliflozin / metformin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010388/202104 
Period covered by the PSUR: 17/04/2019 To: 17/04/2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S) 
ANNEX IV 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for empagliflozin, 
empagliflozin/metformin, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on tubulointerstitial nephritis from the literature and spontaneous reports highly 
suggestive of causality association including a close temporal relationship and a positive dechallenge, the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between empagliflozin, empagliflozin/metformin and 
tubulointerstitial nephritis is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing empagliflozin, empagliflozin/metformin should be amended 
accordingly. 
In view of available data on the drug-drug interaction between empagliflozin and lithium from clinical 
trials and the literature suggestive for causal association, including in some cases a close temporal 
relationship and positive dechallenge/rechallenge and in view of a plausible mechanism of interaction, the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between empagliflozin, empagliflozin/metformin and drug-drug 
interaction with lithium is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing empagliflozin, empagliflozin/metformin should be amended 
accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for empagliflozin, empagliflozin/metformin the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing empagliflozin, 
empagliflozin/metformin is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
