Summary of risk management plan for vinflunine 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Javlor® concentrate for solution for infusion 
(sterile concentrate). 
One mL of concentrate contains 25 mg of vinflunine (as ditartrate). 
One 2 mL vial contains 50 mg of vinflunine (as ditartrate). 
One 4 mL vial contains 100 mg of vinflunine (as ditartrate). 
One 10 mL vial contains 250 mg of vinflunine (as ditartrate). 
The RMP details important risks of Javlor® concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate), 
how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained on  vinflunine risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
The summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for Vinflunine and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Vinflunine should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Javlor® should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Repart (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to current concerns will be included in updates of the RMP for 
Javlor®. 
I.  
The medicine and what it is used for 
Javlor® is indicated in monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with advanced or metastatic 
transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelial tract after failure of a prior platinum-containing regimen. 
It contains vinflunine (as detartrate) as the active substance and is given by the intravenous infusion 
route of administration. 
II.  
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Javlor® concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) are identified. 
Measures to minimize such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.,  with 
medical prescription by a physician qualified in the use of  anticancer chemotherapy) can 
help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Javlor® concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate), are risks that 
need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the 
medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Navelbine soft capsules. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).  
Table Part VI.1: Safety concerns  
Important identified risks  
-  None  
Important potential risks 
-  Torsade de pointe/QT prolongation 
Missing information  
-  None  
II.B  
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risks for Vinflunine: None 
Important potential risk for Vinflunine: 
Table Part VI.2: Summary of important potential risk  
Important potential risk: Torsade de pointe / QT prolongation 
Description of the 
risk title  
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Torsade de pointe ; QT prolongation 
Vinca-alkaloids are not known to be associated with QTc interval prolongation 
and its associated pro-arrhythmic events.  
In VFL phase I studies, QTc prolongation was not observed except in 1 subject 
whose change in QTc from baseline was found to be 67 msec at distance (~ 
167h)  from  the  infusion  of  VFL,  when  plasma  concentration  of  VFL  had 
decreased  to  a  low  level  of  3.7ng/mL  (higher  plasma  concentration 
concentrations  were  not  associated  with  QTc  prolongation  in  this  subject). 
Nevertheless,  QT  prolongation  and  Torsade de  pointe  were  considered  as  a 
safety matter to be taken into account and an important potential risk in the 
RMP. 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
•  Vinflunine  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  increase  of  the 
proarrhythmic  risk  (e.g.,  congestive  heart  failure,  known  history  of  QT 
interval prolongation, hypokalaemia) (see section 4.4 of the SmPC). 
•  The concomitant use of two or more QT/QTc interval prolonging substances 
is not recommended (see section 4.5 of the SmPC).  
 
 
 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.8 and relevant 
PIL section. 
Special attention is recommended when vinflunine is administered to patients 
with prior history of myocardial infarction/ischaemia or angina pectoris with 
history of prolongation of cardiac conduction intervals, particularly QTc. 
In addition, co-administration with QT-prolonging drugs and co-administration 
with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (regardless of their QT prolonging effects) are 
also risk factors for cardiac events with vinflunine. 
Missing Information for vinflunine: None 
II.C  
Post -authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
None. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
None. 
 
 
 
