25 April 2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Javlor 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: vinflunine 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/000983/PSUV/0015 
Period covered by the PSUR: 22.09.12 – 21.09.13 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Javlor, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
The safety information that became available in this reporting period is generally 
consistent with the known safety profile of vinflunine.  Although no new safety 
concerns have been identified, the MAH proposed two changes to the product 
information.  
The MAH has proposed to add a warning to section 4.4 of the SmPC regarding the risk 
of hyponatraemia, including cases that are due to syndrome of inappropriate 
antidiuretic hormone secretion, which was identified as a risk in the previous PSUR and 
included in the SmPC as a listed adverse reaction. Given the high frequency of grade 3 
or 4 events of hyponatraemia (11.7 %), which includes a fatal outcome, the adverse 
impact of hyponatraemia on survival in cancer patients and the potential for it to cause 
serious CNS sequelae (e.g. confusion, seizures), this proposal was endorsed. 
Finally, the MAH has proposed minor amendments to the list of adverse reactions in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC in order to ensure consistency in how these reactions are 
coded. The changes do not impact on the frequency categories for the listed ADRs 
apart from “peripheral sensory neuropathy” which is upgraded from common to very 
common and “tumour pain”, which is now categorised as uncommon (previously its 
frequency was not known). No new ADRs have been added and no ADRs have been 
removed, other than “anorexia” which has been re-classified as “decreased appetite”. 
These changes are considered acceptable.   
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing 
Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Javlor, the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance 
VINFLUNINE DITARTRATE is favourable subject to the proposed changes to the 
product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be 
varied. 
2 
 
 
 
 
