22 April 2021 
EMA/303143/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Jayempi  
International non-proprietary name: azathioprine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005055/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 8 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 12 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development .......................................... 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 19 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 19 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development................................................ 19 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 20 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 20 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 20 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 20 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 20 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 21 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 21 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 21 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 30 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 30 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 30 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 33 
2.5. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 34 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 34 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 35 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 35 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 35 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 36 
Outcome ................................................................................................................ 36 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 2/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
Quality 
BCS  
CEP  
CHMP    
CFU 
CRS 
DAD  
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Certificate of Suitability of the EP 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
Colony Forming Units 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Diode Array Detection  
EDQM   
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
EC 
GC 
HDPE 
HPLC     
ICH 
IPC 
ICP-MS  
KF  
LDPE 
MCC  
6-MP  
Ph. Eur. 
QTPP    
RH 
SmPC   
TAMC    
TSE 
TYMC    
USP 
PET 
European Commission 
Gas Chromatography 
High Density Polyethylene 
High performance liquid chromatography 
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for 
Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
In-process control 
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry 
Karl Fischer titration 
Low Density Polyethylene 
Microcrystalline cellulose  
6-mercoaptopurine 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Quality target product profile 
Relative Humidity 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Total Aerobic Microbial Count 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Total Combined Yeasts/Moulds Count 
United States Pharmacopoeia 
Preservative Efficacy Test 
Clinical/Non-Clinical 
6-MeTIMP  
6-methylthioinosine monophosphate  
6-MP  
6-MPN   
6-TG  
6-TGN   
8-OHMP  
ACE  
ADME    
ANOVA  
AUC  
BMI 
CD  
CLp  
Cmax    
CNS  
6-Mercaptopurine 
6-Mercaptopurine Nucleotides  
6-Thioguanine 
6-Thioguanine Nucleotides  
8-Hydroxy-6-Mercaptopurine 
Angiotensin Converting Enzyme 
Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion  
Analysis of variance 
Area Under the Curve 
Body mass index  
Cluster of Differentiation 
Plasma Clearance 
Maximal Concentration 
Central nervous system 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 3/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CV  
DCP  
DMARDs 
DNA 
EC  
ECG 
EDTA 
EMA  
EU  
GCP  
GLP 
GMPS 
Coefficient of variation 
Decentralised procedure 
Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
Deoxyribonucleic Acid 
European Commission 
Electrocardiogram 
Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 
European Medicines Agency 
European Union 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Guanosine monophosphate synthetase 
HPLC    
High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
HPRT 
HSDB 
i.p.  
i.v.  
IARC  
IBD  
IMP  
ISR 
Hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase 
Hazardous Substances Data Bank 
Intraperitoneal 
Intravenous 
International Agency for Research on Cancer 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Investigational medicinal product 
Incurred Sample Reanalysis 
ITPase   
Inosine triphosphate pyrophosphatase 
IV  
kg  
Intravenous 
Kilogram 
LC-MS/MS 
Liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry  
MAA 
MAH  
mg  
MHRA    
mL  
MNACI   
MNGI    
MNTI    
MRP  
MS 
MTX  
N, N’-MNIC  
NUDT15  
p.o.  
PD  
PDCO 
PK  
RBC  
s.c.  
SCE  
Marketing Authorisation Application 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Milligram 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency 
Millilitre 
1-methyl-4-nitro-5-(N-acetyl-S-cysteinyl) imidazole 
1-methyl-4-nitro-5-(S-glutathionyl)-imidazole 
1-methyl-4-nitro-5-thioimidazole 
Mutual recognition procedure 
Mass spectrometer 
Methotrexate 
N,N'-[5-(1-Methyl-4-Nitro)Imidazolyl]Cystine 
Nudix Hydrolase 15 
Per Os (L: By Mouth) 
Pharmacodynamics 
Paediatric Committee 
Pharmacokinetic 
Red Blood Cells 
Subcutaneous 
Sister Chromatid Exchange 
SmPC    
Summary of Product Characteristics 
STD  
TEAE 
TGNs 
Standard 
Treatment-emergent adverse event 
Thioguanine nucleotides 
TPMT    
Thiopurine Methyl Transferase 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 4/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TUA  
UHPLC   
UK  
VDss 
XO  
Thiouric Acid 
Ultra high performance liquid chromatography 
United Kingdom 
Steady-state volume of distribution 
Xanthine Oxidase 
* This is a general list of abbreviations. not all abbreviations will be used. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 5/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited submitted on 21 November 2019 an application for 
Marketing authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Jayempi, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 31 May 2018. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure under Article 3(2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 was based on demonstration of 
interest of patients at Community level. 
The application concerns a hybrid medicinal product as defined in Article 10(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in a Member State on the basis of a complete dossier in 
accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
Jayempi is indicated in combination with other immunosuppressive agents for the prophylaxis of 
transplant rejection in patients receiving allogenic kidney, liver, heart, lung or pancreas transplants.  
Azathioprine is indicated in immunosuppressive regimens as an adjunct to immunosuppressive agents 
that form the mainstay of treatment (basis immunosuppression). 
Jayempi is used as an immunosuppressant antimetabolite either alone or, more commonly, in 
combination with other agents (usually corticosteroids) and/ or procedures which influence the immune 
response.  
Jayempi is indicated in patients who are intolerant to glucocorticosteroids or if the therapeutic 
response is inadequate despite treatment with high doses of glucocorticosteroids, in the following 
diseases: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (chronic polyarthritis) that cannot be kept under control by 
less toxic agents (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs – DMARDs)   
auto-immune hepatitis 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
dermatomyositis 
polyarteritis nodosa 
pemphigus vulgaris and bullous pemphigoid 
Behçet’s disease 
refractory auto-immune haemolytic anaemia, caused by warm IgG antibodies 
chronic refractory idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Jayempi is used for the treatment of moderately severe to severe forms of chronic inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD) (Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis) in patients in whom glucocorticosteroid therapy is 
necessary, but where glucocorticosteroids are not tolerated, or in whom the disease is untreatable with 
other common means of first choice. 
It is also indicated in relapsing multiple sclerosis, if an immunomodulatory therapy is indicated but 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 6/38 
 
 
 
beta interferon therapy is not possible, or a stable course has been achieved with previous treatment 
with azathioprine. 
Jayempi is indicated for the treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis. Depending on the severity of 
the disease, Jayempi should be given in combination with glucocorticoids because of slow onset of 
action at the beginning of treatment and the glucocorticoid dose should be gradually reduced after 
several months of treatment. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Hybrid application (Article 10(3) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Imurek 50 mg film-coated tablets instead of 
non-clinical and clinical data unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not 
less than 10 years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Imurek 50mg film-coated tablets     
Marketing authorisation holder: Aspen Pharma Trading Limited    
Date of authorisation: 30-11-2004 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Member State (EEA): Germany   
National procedure  
− 
Marketing authorisation number: 6101735.00.00 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:Imurek 50mg film-coated tablets     
Marketing authorisation holder: Aspen Pharma Trading Limited     
Date of authorisation: 30-11-2004     
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Member State (EEA): Germany 
− 
National procedure  
Marketing authorisation number: 3101735.00.00 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Imurek 50mg film-coated tablets     
Marketing authorisation holder: Aspen Pharma Trading Limited     
Date of authorisation: 30-11-2004     
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Member State (EEA): Germany 
− 
National procedure  
Marketing authorisation number: 3101735.00.00 
Bioavailability study number(s): INV691 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 7/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
John Joseph Borg 
Co-Rapporteur: N/A 
CHMP Peer reviewer: N/A 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
21 November 2019 
2 January 2020 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members 
23 March 2020 
on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC 
06 April 2020 
members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to the 
30 April 2020 
applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
13 August 2020 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant's 
18 September 2020 
responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to CHMP during 
01 October 2020 
the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the applicant on 
15 October 2020 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
26 January 2021 
Outstanding Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses to the 
10 February 2021 
List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
18 February 2021 
Page 8/38 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP agreed on a 2nd list of outstanding issues to be sent to the applicant 
25 February 2021 
on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the 2nd CHMP consolidated List of 
23 March 2021 
Outstanding Issues on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the responses to the 
2nd List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
07 April 2021 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the 
responses to the 2nd List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 
15 April 2021 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific discussion 
22 April 2021 
within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a marketing 
authorisation to Jayempi on  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Azathioprine has been in clinical use as an immunosuppressant for more than 50 years. Azathioprine is 
an inactive 6-mercaptopurine derivative (6-MP), which acts as a purine antagonist but requires cellular 
uptake and intracellular anabolism to thioguanine nucleotides (TGNs) for immunosuppression. It 
belongs to the Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic and immunomodulating active substances; 
Immunosuppressive agents – Other immunosuppressive agents. ATC code: L04AX01. 
TGNs and other metabolites (e.g. 6-methylmercaptopurine ribonucleotides) inhibit de novo purine 
synthesis and purine nucleotide interconversions. The TGNs are also incorporated into nucleic acids and 
this contributes to the immunosuppressive effects of the drug. Other potential mechanisms of 
azathioprine include the inhibition of many pathways in nucleic acid biosynthesis, hence preventing 
proliferation and activity of cells involved in the immune response (B and T lymphocytes). 
With respect to oral therapy, only a tablet form of azathioprine in a limited number of strengths is 
available. This inflexibility in dosing poses a challenge to accurate dosing and titrating to the optimum 
dose, especially in children. An age appropriate azathioprine formulation has been identified by the 
EMA Paediatric Working Party/Paediatric Committee as a paediatric need in different areas such as 
gastroenterology (EMA/PDCO/552359/2015), immunology (EMEA/381922/2006) and rheumatology 
(EMEA/CHMP/234105/2005). Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited has therefore developed an oral liquid 
formulation of azathioprine for use in adults and children.  
One bioequivalence study (INV691) was conducted to support this application using the reference 
product is Imurek 50 mg film-coated tablets marketed by Aspen Pharma Trading Limited and first 
authorised in the community on 30 November 2004 and sourced from Germany.       
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 9/38 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction  
The finished product is presented as an oral suspension containing 10mg/mL of azathioprine as active 
substance.  
Other ingredients are: sodium benzoate (E211), sucralose (E955), banana flavour, citric acid 
monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium, xanthan gum, and purified water.  
The product is available in an amber type III glass bottle with tamper evident child-resistant closure 
(HDPE with expanded polyethylene liner) containing 200 mL of oral suspension. 
Each pack contains one bottle, an HDPE bottle adaptor, a 3 mL polyethylene oral dosing syringe with 
red plunger (0.1 mL dose graduations) and a 12 mL polyethylene oral dosing syringe with white 
plunger (0.25 mL dose graduations), as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The chemical name of azathioprine is 6-[(1-Methyl-4-nitro-1H-imidazol-5-yl)sulfanyl]-7H-purine 
corresponding to the molecular formula C9H7N7O2S. It has a relative molecular mass of 277.26 g/mol 
and the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The active substance is a pale-yellow powder, practically insoluble in water and in ethanol (96 per 
cent), soluble in dilute solutions of alkali hydroxides, and sparingly soluble in dilute mineral acids.  
No indication of hygroscopicity has been revealed in stability studies performed by the active substance 
manufacturer. 
No polymorphism has ever been detected in azathioprine by the active substance manufacturer.  
As there is a monograph of azathioprine in the European Pharmacopoeia, the manufacturer of the 
active substance has been granted a Certificate of Suitability of the European Pharmacopoeia (CEP) for 
azathioprine which has been provided within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. The 
Certificate of Suitability confirms that the azathioprine is suitably controlled by the Ph. Eur. monograph 
(no. 0369). 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 10/38 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
The relevant information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests as per Ph. Eur. Monograph 0369, namely: 
identification (Ph. Eur.), assay (Ph. Eur.), related substances (Ph. Eur.), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), 
sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), water content (KF), heavy metals (ICP-MS), and residue on ignition (Ph. 
Eur.). In addition, the manufacturer of the active substance controls ethanol (a residual solvent) by 
GC, in accordance with the current CEP. The finished product manufacturer (Nova Laboratories) applies 
the same specification for active substance testing with an additional test for particle size distribution 
(laser diffraction). All additional methods have been adequately validated and described according to 
ICH Q2 (R1). 
The relevant information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
The maximum daily dose of azathioprine administered is ≤ 2 g/day. Therefore, the limit for any 
unspecified impurity of 0.10% as stated in the monograph meets the requirements of Ph. Eur. 2034. 
The limits specified for the impurities A and B and the total impurities are also according to the same 
monograph. 
The finished product manufacturer performs a particle size test on receipt as a check to confirm the 
absence of large aggregates. The particle size of the azathioprine, as received, has been shown to be 
of a suitable particle size for an oral suspension and is supported by data obtained from the 
bioequivalence study. The particle size has been shown to be quite consistent during the manufacture 
and stability studies performed for the finished product. Since the particle size may influence the 
stability of the finished product and in vivo dissolution, the applicant was requested to tighten the 
upper particle size specification limit D(v,0.9) based on the batch data for this attribute, or otherwise 
justify the limitchosen for the active substance specification. The applicant submitted additional 
D(v,0.9) particle size data obtained from the active substance manufacturer and based on forty-four 
batches of active substance. The conclusion from the process capability charts is that the upper 
specification limit could be tightenedDetails of the analytical procedure used for the determination of 
the particle size distribution and its validation report have been provided. 
The reference standards by the finished product manufacturer for testing the active substance are 
those required in the Ph Eur monograph for azathioprine 0369, namely EDQM CRS reference standards 
azathioprine, impurity A and G CRS. This is acceptable. 
Batch analysis results are provided for three commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of 
the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
The active substance is stored in the delivery containers from receipt to manufacture of the finished 
product at Nova Laboratories, which are double polyethylene bags placed in either a fibre or a plastic 
drum. Reference is made to the CEP with confirmation that the container closure system used for the 
storage of the active substance is the same as that specified on the CEP and assessed by the EDQM. 
This is adequate. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 11/38 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
The applicant refers to the data submitted to the EDQM, and therefore the re-test period of the 
substance is that specified on the CEP, that is 5 years if stored in double polyethylene bags placed in 
either a fibre or a plastic drum. No further information was submitted. This is adequate. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product, Jayempi 10 mg/mL oral suspension is a yellow viscous suspension. Its 
composition, per nominal 1 mL dose and per 200 mL bottle has been presented.  
The product has been developed as a hybrid of Imurek 50mg tablet, based on the fact that it has a 
different pharmaceutical form and a different strength.  
The suspension is filled into amber Type III glass bottles at a nominal fill of 200 mL, and closed with a 
tamper evident, child resistant, high density polyethylene (HDPE) screw cap. The liquid contact surface 
(wad) is expanded polyethylene.  
The bottle and other components are packaged in a cardboard carton. In use, the screw cap is 
removed, a low-density polyethylene (LDPE) syringe adapter, for use with an oral dosing syringe, is 
inserted into the neck of the bottle and the original cap replaced.  Graduated 3 mL and 12 mL dosing 
syringes are provided with each bottle. The medical devices have been CE-marked prior to submission 
of the dossier for the medicinal product. 
The choice of the size of the syringes was discussed by the applicant to address a major objection 
raised during the review regarding the possible confusion with the inclusion of two syringes to choose 
from to measure the required dose and potential medication errors. The applicant has submitted a 
study report to demonstrate that a reproducible and accurate dose of the product is delivered under 
testing conditions throughout the entire dose ranges which simulate the use of the product. In 
addition, clear instructions have been included in the SmPC on how the doses are to be measured 
accurately with the syringes provided. 
Azathioprine is a cytotoxic, imidazole derivative of 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP). It has been used as an 
immunosuppressant antimetabolite either alone or in combination with other agents for the prophylaxis 
of transplant rejection. It is also used to treat an array of autoimmune diseases, including rheumatoid 
arthritis. It is also an important therapy and steroid-sparing agent for inflammatory bowel disease 
(such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis) and for multiple sclerosis.  
For transplants, the initial dose in adults and children is up to 5 mg/kg and the usual maintenance 
dose is 1-4 mg/kg/day. In autoimmune conditions, the typical maintenance dose is 1-3 mg/kg/day. 
Doses are adjusted according to clinical response and haematological tolerance. Therefore, the daily 
dose of azathioprine can vary significantly, for example for children up to 9 years based on the 50th 
percentile weight (according to WHO growth data) doses are expected to be from 3.3. mg to 143.4 
mg. 
Therefore, the applicant claimed that the optimum mg/kg dosing for a child of any given age, results in 
a wide range of doses that can only be truly individualised and delivered accurately with an oral liquid 
formulation. Moreover, liquid preparations are considered as the formulation of choice for younger 
paediatric patients unable to swallow capsules or tablets. However, currently, in the EU, azathioprine is 
only available as 25mg, 50mg, 75mg and 100mg tablets.  
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 12/38 
 
 
 
There are some limitations associated with the active substance, being a BCS Class IV drug, highly 
insoluble in aqueous media and relatively unstable in alkaline conditions.  
With these objectives and limitations in mind, a suspension formulation was selected for development. 
A liquid formulation, rather than a powder for reconstitution, was chosen in order to minimise handling 
operations (especially the potentially dusty powder handling operations) for a cytotoxic drug.  Thus, 
the quality target product profile (QTPP) was to develop a palatable oral suspension formulation at a 
concentration of 10 mg/mL, in a pack size of 200 mL, which can facilitate dose adjustment, with a 
minimum shelf-life of 12 months, and intended for the treatment of a variety of conditions, particularly 
in children.  
The applicant has identified the physico-chemical properties of the active substance that are clinically 
relevant, e.g. particle size and solubility. These properties have been adequately specified and 
controlled. 
In fact, as indicated under the active substance section, the applicant was requested to justify the 
choice of the particle size specification and whether it should include particle size distribution instead of 
the one limit of D (v, 0.9) chosen, based on the possible effect of the particle size and its distribution 
on the dissolution, solubility and bioavailability, the processing during manufacture, the stability, 
uniformity of content and product appearance relevant to the suspension (ref. decision tree #3 of ICH 
Q6A quality guideline) and the potential for particle growth. Development data to support the 
discussion was also requested.  
The particle size was also tested throughout stability and shows no significant change between the 
active substance and the finished product. Furthermore, there was no significant change in particle size 
at any storage condition for up to 24 months. The discussion presented by the applicant adequately 
justifies that by setting the limits at D(V,0.9) and D(V, 0.5) the particle size specification is considered 
appropriate for a BCS class IV molecule for controlling of the largest particles, coupled with a 
discriminatory dissolution test. 
Regarding the viscosity of the formulation, the applicant has stated that the mixture provides adequate 
viscosity to the suspension to ensure that there is very minimal sedimentation of particles and quicker 
re-dispersion of sedimented particle upon shaking to allow accurate measurements and dosing. 
Viscosity is a critical parameter for this proposed oral suspension and although some of the formulation 
studies submitted have included its measurement, a good discussion on this critical parameter was 
lacking at day 120 including an appropriate justification which is expected for the proposed release and 
stability specification for this parameter. In his responses, the applicant provided more detailed 
discussion on the choice of proposed viscosity specification for the finished product and tightened its 
limit. The in-use stability data shows that the viscosity of the formulation decreases slightly during the 
12 weeks in-use period, however, homogeneous doses can be withdrawn as demonstrated by the 
homogeneity of suspension data.  
The excipients included in the formulation are regularly used in these amounts in similar products. 
These include sodium benzoate (preservative), sucralose (sweetener), banana liquid flavour (flavouring 
agent), microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium (suspending agent), xanthan gum (viscosity 
modifier), citric acid monohydrate (pH modifier) and water (diluent/vehicle). No novel excipients have 
been used in this proposed oral suspension. 
The applicant has discussed the choice of excipients including their use in pharmaceutical suspensions 
for paediatric use and their effect on the acceptability of the final finished product to children with 
respect to thixotropic properties required by the suspension to deliver the correct dose as well as other 
aspects such as pH, microbiological attributes and physical and chemical stability. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 13/38 
 
 
 
Compendial excipients comply with the monograph in the current edition of the European 
Pharmacopoeia. The applicant has confirmed they will continue to comply with any monograph revision 
that may be issued in the future. The applicant confirmed that each excipient is qualified in-house to 
ensure full compliance to the relevant compendial monograph for the parameters which were not 
included in the CoAs submitted for the excipients. This is acceptable.  
For xanthan gum the applicant has discussed some of the functional related characteristics listed in the 
Eur Ph monograph. A specific grade manufactured to be suitable for use in pharmaceutical 
preparations and which allows faster hydration upon contact with water is used. The particle size, 
viscosity and viscosity ratio of xanthan gum is controlled by the manufacturer to ensure that there is 
no significant variation in the rheological properties of the finished product. The applicant has updated 
the relevant sections of the dossier to include the specific grade of xanthan gum used. 
For the microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium (MCC) powdered mixture, the applicant has 
mentioned the control of the particle size of the excipient in order to aid suspension stability. The 
applicant has confirmed the grade employed. The particle size is controlled by the manufacturer to 
ensure that there is no significant difference in the physical properties of finished product. Viscosity is 
listed as a functionality related characteristic in the Ph. Eur. monograph (2050) for the microcrystalline 
cellulose and carmellose sodium (MCC) powdered mixture when used as a suspending agent. 
Therefore, the applicant has updated their specification to include this parameter.  
Banana liquid flavour is added to mask the taste of the active substance and other components of the 
suspension, and aid patient acceptability.  The specifications for this non compendial excipient have 
been listed. The flavour complies with Regulation (EC) N° 1334/2008 which is acceptable for this 
product which is an oral suspension.  
None of the compendial excipients detailed above contain any material derived from human and animal 
origins and hence do not pose a Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE)/ Transmissible Spongiform 
Encephalopathy (TSE) risk. 
The quantities of the excipients were adequately discussed for the use in this oral suspension, except 
for the preservative, sodium benzoate, where more justification was required. 
The applicant presented a study with a formulation without any preservative and varying 
concentrations of two different preservatives: sodium benzoate and domiphen bromide to justify that a 
preservative was required. To address this major objection, the applicant provided preservative 
efficacy data for the 18 months samples stored at 25°C/60% RH and 35°C/65% RH for three pilot 
scale batches. The Preservative Efficacy Test (PET) data after 18 months stability for all the batches 
met the specification criteria as defined in the Efficacy of Antimicrobial Preservation Test (Ph. Eur 
5.1.3). The applicant stated that the inclusion of sodium benzoate at specific concentration is therefore 
required in the proposed azathioprine formulation to provide adequate antimicrobial protection during 
the shelf-life. However the azathioprine formulations with lower concentrations of sodium benzoate at 
different were all able to meet the acceptance criteria for the preservative efficacy test and therefore it 
was not justified that the concentration used in terms of efficacy and safety is the minimum 
concentration of preservative that gives the required level of efficacy throughout the intended shelf life 
of the product.    
In his day 180 responses, the applicant presented further data to discuss and justify his initial choice of 
the concentration of sodium benzoate.  
The applicant also carried out preservative efficacy testing on a 19-month-old batch of azathioprine 
suspension after 14-weeks of in-use stability testing. It also met the preservative efficacy test criteria 
demonstrating that the preservative, sodium benzoate, is effective through to the end of the proposed 
shelf life and in-use period. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 14/38 
 
 
 
This is acceptable and the major objections raised with respect to the preservative system and its 
efficacy are considered resolved. 
During the review, the applicant was also requested to discuss in more detail the development of the 
finished product in line with the “Guideline on pharmaceutical development of medicines for paediatric 
use”, for aspects such as safety of all the excipients and acceptability of the proposed product with 
respect to the palatability of the formulation. This was satisfactorily addressed, including a 
consideration of the safety aspect of the excipients in children as well as a reference to a study done to 
assess the palatability. 
A discussion on the suitability of this formulation for use within the geriatric population was also 
requested. This was addressed as per the “draft CHMP Reflection paper on the pharmaceutical 
development of medicines for use in the older population (EMA/CHMP/QWP/292439/2017)”.                                                                                                                                                                                   
At day 120, another major objection was raised because the applicant only provided an overview of the 
studies conducted for the formulation development, but the actual results from all these studies that 
support the conclusions reached were missing. The applicant has updated section 3.2.P.2.2 to include 
further data and discussion in response to the specific issues raised. 
A discussion and rationale for the development of the dissolution method, its discriminatory nature and 
for the proposed specification limit and its clinical relevance was submitted following a major objection 
raised by the CHMP. The studies submitted by the applicant support the choice of the dissolution 
method. 
The dissolution profiles of test product (Azathioprine 10 mg/mL oral suspension batch 1267f004 used 
in the bioequivalence study) at pH 1.3 (0.1M HCl), pH 4.5 (acetate buffer) and pH 6.8 (phosphate 
buffer), were provided.  
With regards to the manufacturing process development, the applicant has outlined the order and 
steps required for the optimum manufacturing process to be attained. During developmental trials the 
critical steps have been identified. Three stability batches (pilot batches of 30L) manufactured by this 
process were stated to confirm the suitability of the process.  
As indicated above, the primary packaging consists of an amber type III glass bottle with tamper evident 
child-resistant closure (HDPE with expanded polyethylene liner) containing 200 ml of oral suspension. 
Each pack contains one bottle, an HDPE bottle adaptor and 2 polyethylene dosing syringes: a 3 mL oral 
dosing syringe (with 0.1 mL dose graduations) and a 12 mL oral dosing syringe (with 0.25 mL dose 
graduations). The material complies with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements for materials which are in 
contact with food (1935/2004). The bottle adaptor and the syringes have a CE mark. The relevant 
declaration of conformity has been submitted by the notified body for the syringes and adaptor. It 
includes the TSE declaration.  
These syringes have been primarily selected based on the typical doses administered to children in the 
age range 2 to 9 years (who are most likely to prefer an oral liquid), ensuring a palatable volume and 
accuracy down to 1 mg increments. It is however accepted that Jayempi azathioprine 10 mg/mL oral 
suspension may also be beneficial in adolescents and adult patients, especially those with difficulty 
swallowing tablets (for example dysphagia in elderly patients or secondary to stroke). Based on 
reports, the mean maintenance dose in transplant patients is 1-2 mg/kg/day and in inflammatory 
disease is approximately 2-2.5 mg/kg/day, a typical 80 kg adult patient would need up to 20 mL of 
liquid, which is achievable with two uses of the 12 mL syringe. 
At day 120 the applicant was requested to present the extractables and leaching studies conducted as 
compatibility studies of the formulation with the measuring devices. The applicant responded that a 
compatibility study of the formulation with the measuring device has not been performed as the 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 15/38 
 
 
 
migration studies carried out by the supplier along with the low aqueous solubility of azathioprine and 
the transient nature of the contact between the finished product and the syringe, confirm the potential 
of extractables and leachables from the syringe into the finished product can be considered negligible. 
This is acceptable. 
Both the measuring devices are CE marked and are compliant with the EU regulations for materials in 
contact with food. For both syringes, overall migration and specific migration studies have been 
performed by the supplier as described in European Commission regulation (EC) No 10/2011 (and 
amendments) relating to plastic materials and articles intended to come into contact with food 
including studies in aqueous solutions. The statement regarding compliance to GMO requirements is 
included in the declaration. A statement regarding TSE/BSE requirement for the Expanded 
Polyethylene Wad has also been provided. 
The choice of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the 
intended use of the product.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process comprises a number of mixing of the excipients and homogenisation steps 
in sequential order, followed by pH adjustment, addition and dispersion of the active substance and 
filling. The process is considered to be a non-standard manufacturing process. 
There are no process intermediates generated during this manufacturing process. 
Adequate details have been given for the sequence of the process steps, as well as the speed and 
times for mixing and temperature at which this takes place. 
The main critical steps and the IPCs have been identified.   
Samples are taken during the filling process at the start, middle and end of filling. The typical length of 
a production run has been defined the applicant declared that the start of shelf life conforms to the NfG 
on the start of shelf-life of the finished product. 
The applicant has submitted the process validation on three commercial scale batches.  
Major  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies.  It  has  been 
demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended 
quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing 
process. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form: 
appearance (visual), pH (Ph. Eur.), viscosity (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of mass of delivered doses (Ph. Eur.), 
azathioprine  content  (HPLC),  identification  of  azathioprine  (HPLC,  DAD),  impurities  HPLC),  sodium 
benzoate content (HPLC),  identification of sodium benzoate (HPLC, DAD), homogeneity of suspension 
(HPLC), dissolution (Ph. Eur.), particle size (Ph. Eur.), TAMC, TYMC and E. coli (Ph. Eur.). 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 16/38 
 
 
 
The discussion on the potential degradation products is acceptable and characterisation details of the 
degradation products have been provided. The applicant has justified the main degradation products of 
azathioprine 10 mg/mL oral suspension.  
The maximum daily dose is taken as 400 mg. The qualification limit of 0.2% as per ICH Q3B has been 
applied for the specified impurities listed at release. The total impurity level has been justified. This is 
acceptable. The applicant was requested to submit additional information to support the qualification of 
the limits for some impurities which are higher than the qualification threshold stipulated by the Note 
for guidance on impurities in new drug products (CPMP/ICH/2738/99). The applicant submitted 
relevant literature in Module 4 at day 121 responses which supports the limits chosen for the end of 
shelf life for those impurities (see non-clinical section). This is acceptable. 
During the review several questions on the proposed limits for different parameters were raised. All 
have been addressed and the revised specifications are acceptable. 
In particular, as discussed under the pharmaceutical development section, during the review the 
applicant was requested to review proposed specification limit for particle size. Based on the data 
provided, the revised limits at D(V,0.9) and D (V, 0.5) are considered appropriate for a BCS class IV 
molecule for controlling of the largest particles, coupled with a discriminatory dissolution test. 
For dissolution, the applicant initially proposed a dissolution specification without adequate 
justification, which resulted in a Major Objection. In their responses, they revised the dissolution test 
method with respect to the paddle speed and the specification limit. Based on the data provided, the 
applicant was requested to further tighten the dissolution limit. The applicant reviewed the dissolution 
data available and submitted a table showing that some of the batches, including the bio-batch, were 
non-compliant to the suggested tighter limit for individual values at the S1, showing the presence of 
some  possible variability in the dissolution values which would not affect the product performance in 
vivo, due to the high solubility overall of the product, notwithstanding the active substance being of 
BCS Class IV. The CHMP acknowledges the potential for variability for the finished product dissolution, 
especially in view of the low rotation speed. The applicant has also shown that the test was 
discriminatory for a “bad” batch. In view of the review of dissolution data presented and the possible 
variability of the dissolution values shown which would affect neither the finished product performance 
nor the discriminatory power of the dissolution QC test, the proposal made by the applicant to keep the 
dissolution limit to the initially revised level, together with the commitment made to review “the 
specification post-approval, once a statistically appropriate number of active substance/finished 
product batches have been tested” is acceptable. 
However, the applicant has committed to analyse the dissolution data from the first three commercial 
batches of Jayempi 10mg/ml oral suspension, and submit a variation to tighten the dissolution 
specification limit to the level requested by CHMP during the review if the data indicates that it is 
feasible (see recommendations section). 
A risk analysis for elemental impurities following the recommendations of ICH Q3D Options 2b and 3 
was performed. To support the predicted values of elemental impurities, 3 batches of azathioprine 
suspension were analysed for Class 1 and Class 2A elements. In addition, the levels of additional 
potential impurities were also measured and compared against the Option 3 limits as defined in ICH 
Q3D. The conclusion from the risk assessment and the batch analysis is that there are no Class 1 or 
Class 2A elemental impurities at a level above the control threshold (30% of the PDE) as defined in 
ICH 3QD, and that residues of additional potential impurities were also below control thresholds is 
acceptable. Based on the risk assessment and the presented batch data it can be concluded that it is 
not necessary to include any elemental impurity controls.  
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 17/38 
 
 
 
A major objection on the lack of a risk evaluation concerning the potential presence of nitrosamine 
impurities in the product applying the principles outlined in the notice “Information on nitrosamines for 
marketing authorisation holders (EMA/189634/2019)” was raised during the procedure.  
At day 121, the applicant provided a risk evaluation that included an appendix from the active 
substance manufacturer. The API manufacturer concluded that there is no risk of N-nitrosamine 
contamination of the API and that no confirmatory testing is required, however the risk evaluation 
provided did not consider all the currently known potential sources for N-nitrosamines formation. This 
was not acceptable.  
The applicant submitted an updated risk evaluation in the D181 responses for both the active substance 
and  finished  product  as  requested,  including  aspects  mentioned  in  the  EMA  guidance  such  as 
manufacturing  equipment,  cross  contamination  of  manufacturing  lines  and  storage  of  the  finished 
product, as well as the possibility of the presence of nitrites and/or nitrosamines in the excipients using 
information  gathered  from  the  excipient/  raw  materials  and  packaging  suppliers  as  confirmation.  The 
risk  evaluation  submitted  determines  the  potential  for  nitrosamine  contamination  in  accordance  with 
EMA/189634/2019.  The  overall  conclusion  of  the  evaluation  is  that  there  is  no  risk  for  nitrosamine 
formation in Azathioprine Oral Suspension. Therefore Step 2 confirmatory Testing is not required.  
The  analytical  methods  used  have  been  adequately  described  and  non-compendial  appropriately 
validated  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guidelines.  Satisfactory  information  regarding  the  reference 
standards for azathioprine and sodium benzoate has been presented. Azathioprine Chemical Reference 
Standard (CRS) sourced from EDQM is the primary reference standard. As Sodium Benzoate CRS from 
the EDQM is not available, the primary reference standard is defined as USP Sodium Benzoate RS. 
Batch analysis results are provided for seven commercial scale batches confirming the consistency of 
the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 4 commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to 24 months under 5°C, 
25°C/60% RH, 30°C/65% RH in upright position; 25°C/60% RH (inverted); and for up to 6 months at 
40°C/75% RH (upright) according to the ICH guidelines. The batches of Jayempi are representative to 
those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples  were  tested  for  appearance,  pH,  viscosity,  azathioprine  content,  azathioprine  related 
substances,  sodium benzoate  content, homogeneity of  suspension,  particle  size,  TAMC,  TYMC,  E.  Coli 
and preservative efficacy. 
Results  show  that  the  key  parameters  tested  are  within  the  proposed  shelf  life  specification  for  all 
batches. No major differences were observed in data for batches stored at 25°C/60% RH upright and 
25°C/60% RH inverted. There were no significant changes in parameters for product stored at 40°C/75% 
RH for 6 months, except fora couple of impurities, which both exceeded the shelf-life specification after 
about 4 months. In addition, the preservative system is demonstrated to be acceptable, with preservative 
efficacy data meeting the requirements of Ph. Eur. 5.1.3 and no total viable counts above the detectable 
limit. 
A  photo-stability  study  was  also  conducted  on  one batch.  The  packaging  for Jayempi  oral  suspension 
consists  of  a  200  mL  amber  glass  bottle  as  the  primary  container  within  a  cardboard  box  secondary 
container.  Samples  were  exposed  to  a  minimum  of  1.2  million  lux  hours  and  2000-watt  hours/m2. 
Samples were tested for appearance, pH, viscosity, sodium benzoate content, azathioprine content and 
related substances. The data indicated that azathioprine is susceptible to photodegradation. However, 
storage in amber glass bottles offers sufficient protection against photo-degradation.  
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 18/38 
 
 
 
An in-use stability study was also conducted on one commercial 4-month-old and a 19-month-old batch 
for over 12 and 14 weeks, respectively. Bottles were stored at 15-25°C for the duration of both studies. 
On each day of sampling the bottle was removed from storage, the sample removed, then the bottle 
returned to 15-25°C storage. This allowed the withdrawal of product on up to 70 occasions from a single 
bottle of product. There was no detectable bioburden at the end of the study.  
The  test  procedures  used  for  the  in-use  stability  studies  were  the  same  as  those  as  defined  in  the 
specification. There was no loss of potency of azathioprine during the studies. There were no significant 
increases  in  any  related  substance  over  the  duration  of  the  studies.  All  analytical  and  microbiological 
parameters remained within specification. Microbiological contamination remained at very low levels and 
preservative efficacy met the requirements of Ph.Eur.5.1.3. Therefore, an in-use shelf life of 12 weeks 
when stored at no more than 25°C is supported. 
Based  on  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf-life  of  24  months  when  the  product  is  stored 
unopened at a temperature of not more than 25°C, and an in-use shelf life of 12 weeks after first opening 
of the bottle, when stored at a temperature of not more than 25°C, as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) 
are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The finished product, Jayempi 10 mg/mL oral suspension, has been developed to facilitate 
administration of azathioprine to young children and patients who cannot swallow the existing tablet 
formulations. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
As discussed in the report a number of quality major objections were raised during the review. These 
pertained to the justification of the proposed QC dissolution method, the addition of particle size 
distribution to the finished product specification, the provision of a risk evaluation on the potential 
presence of nitrosamine impurities in the product, the suitability of the proposed syringes for the 
dosing of the product and instructions to the user and the missing data from the formulation 
development studies. All these have been resolved, with an outstanding recommendation for the 
applicant to evaluate the dissolution data from the first three commercial batches of the product and 
evaluate whether further tightening of the dissolution limit to the level requested by CHMP is feasible 
and submit a variation to revise this limit as applicable. This has been committed to by the applicant 
and is acceptable. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 19/38 
 
 
 
The applicant has committed to analyse the dissolution data from the first three commercial batches of 
Jayempi 10mg/ml oral suspension and submit a variation to tighten the dissolution specification limit to 
the level requested by CHMP if the data indicates that it is feasible. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Jayempi manufactured by Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all azathioprine containing products 
and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Jayempi has been developed to 
substitute for approved azathioprine oral tablet products. 
According to Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use (26 
May 2016 EMA/CHMP/SWP/44609/2010 Rev. 1), the justification of the absence of significant increase 
of the environmental exposure, demonstrated by suitable information, can be accepted as a 
justification for the absence of a complete ERA.  
Thus, the impact on the environment is expected to be unchanged.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Jayempi containing 10 mg azathioprine per ml of suspension, has been developed to substitute for 
approved azathioprine oral tablet products. Reference is made to the non-clinical data obtained with 
the innovator product. A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology 
has been provided, which is based on updated scientific literature. In the CHMP’s view, the non-clinical 
overview adequately justifies that there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicology data.  
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Jayempi 10mg/ml oral suspension from a non-clinical point of 
view.  
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 20/38 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for Jayempi 10mg/ml oral suspension containing 10mg azathioprine per ml. To 
support the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted a bioequivalence study with 
cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for this application. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in 
its current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted the following bioequivalence study: 
Study INV691: Single centre, single dose, open-label, randomised, two period crossover study to 
assess the bioequivalence of an oral azathioprine suspension 10 mg/mL (Jayempi™) versus oral 
azathioprine tablet 50 mg (Imurek) in at least 30 healthy adult subjects under fasting conditions. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study protocol of the comparative bioequivalence study protocol version 1.2 dated 17 January 2019 
and was reviewed and approved 22 February 2019 by the North East - York Research Ethics 
Committee (Newcastle, United Kingdom). 
The study was a single dose, open-label, randomised, two period crossover study under fasting 
conditions, to establish comparative bioequivalence of Jayempi azathioprine suspension 10 mg/mL 
(Test: manufactured by Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited) and Imurek azathioprine tablet 50 mg 
(MAH: Aspen Pharma Trading Limited, Dublin, Ireland sourced from Germany). The primary objective 
of the study was to assess whether oral azathioprine suspension (Jayempi and a marketed tablet 
formulation (Imurek) were bioequivalent. The secondary objectives were to assess the safety and 
tolerability of the test product, azathioprine oral 10 mg/mL suspension and to determine the plasma 
concentrations and pharmacokinetics of the metabolite mercaptopurine. 
The study centre was in United Kingdom. The studies were conducted between 15 April 2019 and 17 
June 2019. The bioanalytical part was conducted between 25 April 2019 to 24 May 2019. 
In line with the set eligibility criteria, all subjects who consented to the study had to undergo 
thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) phenotyping to confirm eligibility and those with a deficient, low 
or intermediate TPMT enzyme activity were excluded from taking part. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 21/38 
 
 
 
Subjects received either the test (Jayempi azathioprine suspension 10 mg/mL) or reference (Imurek 
azathioprine tablet 50 mg) product once, according to the randomisation schedule, under fasting 
conditions. After an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, subjects received either the reference or test 
product according to the randomisation schedule. The reference investigational medicinal product 
(Imurek azathioprine tablet 50 mg) was administered with 240 mL of water. 
For the solution (test product), 5 mL of the suspension was prepared by drawing up into a syringe for 
oral administration according to the instructions provided by Nova Laboratories Ltd. The syringe was 
placed directly into the mouth of the subject and the contents gently released. Immediately after 
dosing the syringe was rinsed with 5 mL of water which the subject also swallowed, followed by 
drinking 235 mL of water. 
Subjects completed a palatability (taste, aftertaste, smell, texture, ease of use and other comments) 
questionnaire on the day they received the test (Jayempi azathioprine suspension 10 mg/mL) product. 
Pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected at the following times: Blood collections were collected 
at pre-dose (within 30 minutes before administration) and at 15 mins (±2 mins), 30 mins (±2 mins), 
45 mins (±2 mins), 1hr (±2 mins), 1 hr 20 mins (±2 mins), 1 hr 40 mins (±2 mins), 2hrs (±5 mins), 
2hrs 20 mins (±5 mins), 2hrs 40 mins (±5 mins), 3hrs (±5 mins), 4hrs (±5 mins), 5hrs (±5 mins), 
6hrs (±5 mins), 8hrs (±5 mins), and 12hrs (±5 mins) after study drug administration. The total 
number of blood collections was 32, 16 samples per period.  
Test and reference products  
Identity of Investigational Medicinal Products 
Population(s) studied   
There were 30 subjects randomised into the study with a mean age of 37.1 years (SD: 9.88) and 
comprising 19 male (63.3%) and 11 female (36.7%) subjects. The subjects were predominantly White 
(90.0%). All subjects were analysed in the safety analysis set and all but one subject in the Tablet 50 
mg/Suspension 10 mg/mL treatment sequence (Tablet 50 mg group) was excluded from the PK set: 
Subject 001/029, who did not complete the study because he withdrew consent.  
Subjects were selected according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria in order to obtain a low 
individual variability within the subject group. Subjects who met all the inclusion and none of the 
exclusion criteria were enrolled into the study.  
The inclusion criteria were as follows: 
•  Healthy male and female subjects, 18 years to 50 years inclusive at time of signing the 
informed consent form. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 22/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Females of childbearing potential with a negative pregnancy test at screening and willing to use 
a condom plus 1 highly effective method of contraception from first dose until 6 months after 
last dose of IMP. 
Females of non-childbearing potential, defined as those who have no uterus, ligation of the 
fallopian tubes, or permanent cessation of ovarian function due to ovarian failure or surgical 
removal of the ovaries or post-menopausal females defined as being at least 45 years of age 
with a history of amenorrhoea for 12 months without an alternative medical reason.  
•  Male subjects willing to use 2 highly effective methods of contraception from the first IMP dose 
until 6 months after the last IMP dose. 
•  Body mass index (BMI) between 18 and 33 kg/m2. 
•  Body weight not less than 50 kg. 
•  Subjects with no clinically significant abnormal serum biochemistry, haematology and urine 
examination values within 28 days before the first IMP dose. 
•  Medical history, physical examination, standard 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) and vital 
signs investigations: Findings clinically acceptable or within reference ranges, unless the 
investigator considered the deviation irrelevant for the purpose of the study. 
•  Non-smokers. 
Other than oral contraception, subjects had to refrain from using any medication, prescribed or over-
the-counter (including herbal remedies, St. John's wort [hypericum perforatum]) for 2 weeks before 
the first IMP dose and for the duration of the study. Occasional use of paracetamol ≤2 g/day and/or 
ibuprofen (≤1200 mg/day) was allowed for pain. 
Analytical methods   
Analysis was conducted using a validated high performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass 
spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method (number 0001/117). The method was validated prior to sample 
analysis.  
The applicant provided a full bioanalytical report, including the analysis results for calibration 
standards, quality control samples, study samples, and incurred sample reanalysis, in compliance with 
the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09).  
Study samples: Receipt, Storage and Analysis 
A total of 944 human plasma samples (plus 944 back up samples) from Sponsor Study Number 
INV691 were received frozen on dry ice and in good condition from 21 May 2019 to 30 May 2019 for 
analysis. All samples were stored at a nominal temperature of -80°C until analysed and were returned 
to these storage conditions post-analysis. Sample analysis was performed from 28 May 2019 to 14 Jun 
2019. 
The analytical procedure involved extraction of azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine in human plasma 
using protein precipitation extraction followed by separation. LC-MS/MS was performed using a mass 
spectrometer (MS) with ultra high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) system running 
software and using quantitation software. 
The date of the first sample collection was 25 April 2019. The date of the last sample extraction was 12 
June 2019. Based on the number of days from the first sample collection date and last sample 
extraction date, samples were stored at a nominal temperature of -80°C for a maximum of 48 days. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 23/38 
 
 
 
All samples were analysed within the determined storage stability period of 91 days for azathioprine 
and 171 days for 6-mercaptopurine at a nominal temperature of -80°C. 
Bioanalytical report 
The bioanalytical report was submitted (0001/117 report version 02 dated 28 May 2019) with 20% of 
the subject chromatograms. Azathioprine-d3 and 6-mercaptopurine-13C2,15N (sourced from Toronto 
Research Chemicals) were used as the internal standards for the determination of azathioprine and 6-
mercaptopurine concentrations in human plasma samples, respectively. Certificates of analysis for the 
reference and internal standards of azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, azathioprine-d3 and 6-
mercaptopurine-13C2,15N have been provided and are deemed acceptable. 
Calibration standards (at 9 different concentrations) and quality controls samples were prepared 
according to the sample analysis plan and contained azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine. All 
concentrations were back-calculated from calibration curves generated from lines fitted through the 
standard data points with a nominal concentration range of 0.200 ng/mL to 100 ng/mL for azathioprine 
and 6-mercaptopurine from 100 μL human plasma. Standards were injected in ascending order with 
one standard curve at the beginning of the run and a duplicate STD1 and STD9 injected in descending 
order at the end of the run. Quality control samples were injected throughout the run and bracketed 
study sample injections. 
Overall precision for the quality control samples, as measured by % coefficient of variation, was 
≤4.00% for azathioprine and ≤4.60% for 6-mercaptopurine. The overall accuracy (% deviation from 
nominal) as measured by % relative error, for these quality control samples ranged from 96.1% to 
100% for azathioprine and 97.0% to 102% for 6-mercaptopurine. 
Repeat analysis 
The following tables show the number of samples re-assayed for azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine. 
The calculated concentrations and reasons for the repeat analysis were provided. 
Repeat Analysis Results for azathioprine in human plasma 
Repeat Analysis Results for 6-mercaptopurine in human plasma 
Incurred Sample Reanalysis (ISR) 
A total of 96 human plasma samples were identified for incurred sample reanalysis. ISR samples were 
selected according to the following approximate distribution: 
• 
• 
• 
4% of the samples near the Cmax of azathioprine 
3% near the Cmax of 6-mercaptopurine 
3% in the late phase of azathioprine 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 24/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For acceptance, the agreement between the original and the repeat value had to be within ±20% of 
the mean result for two-thirds of the repeated samples. The acceptance criterion was met for 
azathioprine since 96/96 (100%) ISR samples had results within 20% of their mean value. The 
acceptance criterion was met for 6-mercaptopurine since 95/96 (99.0%) ISR samples had results 
within 20% of their mean value. 
Validation of the test method 
The applicant has declared that the method was validated prior to sample analysis giving reference to 
validation results provided in Analytical Study Number 0030/001 (Section 12 Reference 1 - Validation 
of a Bioanalytical Method for the Determination of Azathioprine and 6-Mercaptopurine in Human 
Plasma with K2EDTA by LC-MS/MS. Study Number 0030/001).  
Pharmacokinetic variables  
Primary PK: Maximum observed concentration (Cmax), area under the concentration-time curve from 
time of dosing to last quantifiable concentration (AUC0-τ) and AUC extrapolated to infinity (AUC0-∞) 
Secondary PK: Time to Cmax (Tmax), terminal elimination rate constant (λz) and t½. 
Statistical methods  
Pharmacokinetic data of 29 subjects, who completed the study, were included for statistical analysis. 
The statistical analysis was based on a parametric ANOVA model of the pharmacokinetic parameters; 
the two-sided 90% confidence interval of the ratio of geometric means for the Cmax and AUC0-T was based 
on ln-transformed data. 
ANOVA model: fixed factors: sequence, subject nested within sequence, product and period effects after 
logarithmic transformation of the data. 
Criteria for Bioequivalence: Statistical inference of azathioprine was based on a bioequivalence approach 
using the following standards: 
The  ratio  of  geometric  LS  means  with  corresponding  90%  confidence  interval  calculated  from  the 
exponential of the difference between the Test and Reference product for the ln-transformed parameters 
Cmax and AUC0-T were all within the 80.00 to 125.00% bioequivalence range.  
All statistical analysis was performed using SAS® version 9.4. 
Results 
The applicant presented a full report on the results of the study, including azathioprine concentrations 
for each sampling time, phase and subjects. 
A single centre, randomised, single dose, 2-period crossover bioequivalence study was conducted under 
fasting  conditions  on  30  healthy  male  and  female  subjects.  The  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of 
azathioprine were measured and compared following a single dose of the Test (1 x 50 mg) and of the 
Reference formulation (1 x 5 mL). 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 25/38 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of plasma pharmacokinetic parameters (Study INV691) - azathioprine 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 26/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of plasma pharmacokinetic parameters (Study INV691) 6-mercaptopurine 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 27/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of variance of plasma PK parameters of azathioprine (Study INV691) 
Mean  plasma  concentration  time  curve  of  azathioprine  in  linear  scale  following  single  oral  dose  of 
Azathioprine (n=29) 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 28/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intra-subject variability of plasma pharmacokinetic parameters of azathioprine (Study INV691) 
Safety data 
In the bioequivalence study carried out (INV691) to establish comparative bioequivalence of Jayempi 
azathioprine suspension 10 mg/mL (Test: manufactured by Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited) and 
Imurek® azathioprine tablet 50 mg (MAH: Aspen Pharma Trading Limited, Dublin, Ireland sourced 
from Germany): 
There were no subjects with a serious treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) or TEAEs leading to 
withdrawal  from  study  or  discontinuation  from  the  investigational  medicinal  product.  There  were  no 
subjects with any severe TEAEs.  
Adverse events: Safety analysis set 
There were 3 subjects with a moderate severity TEAE. Subject 001/040 had 11 hours of moderate 
vomiting starting from 8 hours 14 minutes after azathioprine tablet, which was considered not IMP 
related and sufficiently long after administration not to affect PK or merit exclusion from the PK 
analysis set. Subject 001/021 had moderate labyrinthitis after azathioprine suspension, which was 
considered unlikely IMP related and Subject 001/037 had moderate gastroenteritis, which was 
considered not IMP related. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 29/38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment-emergent adverse events 
There  were  2  subjects  with  a  treatment-related  TEAE  (pooled  category).  Subject  001/011  had  mild 
chromaturia  after  azathioprine  tablet  and  suspension,  which  was  considered  possibly  IMP  related  and 
Subject 001/015 had mild nausea after azathioprine tablet, which was considered probably/likely IMP 
related.  
There were no clinically significant haematology or biochemistry changes for any subject. There were no 
clinically significant findings during assessments of vital signs, physical examinations or 12-lead ECGs.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
A general statement has been provided (INV691-16-1 section 4.1) from the principal investigator, 
signed and dated 17 January 2019 declaring that the study has been carried out in line with GCP, 
Ethics Approval and Quality Control. The applicant declared that no audits have been carried out, 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 30/38 
 
 
 
 
however compliance with the Quality Management System was confirmed. Site was also inspected by 
MHRA with a positive GCP compliance inspection report.  
On test and reference products used in the clinical study batch numbers, batch size and assay results 
have been provided by the applicant.  
The population studied is adequate and well characterised for the purpose of the study. The main 
inclusion and exclusion criteria are in line with the requirements of the Guideline on the investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 01).  
The sample size calculation was determined to be 30 subjects, to produce at least 28 evaluable 
subjects, allowing for those who withdraw or otherwise fail to complete the study. The sample size was 
selected without any formal statistical considerations. The applicant selected the sample size in line 
with other similar bioequivalence studies by referring to Public Assessment Reports. The applicant 
supported the sample size selection with literature references. The sample size (29 subjects) used for 
statistical analysis was enough to support the power of the study as 24 subjects were needed to have 
a power of more than 85%. One dropout is considered not to have an impact on the study. 
The analytical methods used are acceptable and appropriate. The chromatograms presented are 
acceptable. The calibration curves are appropriate. The applicant has provided the results were the 
concomitant medications have been accounted for in the bioanalytical method. No effect on the 
determination of the analyte and the internal standard was observed. 
Twenty percent (20%) of the chromatograms have been provided in line with the Guideline on 
bioanalytical method validation EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009 rev. 1 corr.2**. The incurred sample 
reanalysis was provided and is acceptable. 
The applicant provided the validation of the bioanalytical method document ‘Validation of a 
Bioanalytical Method for the Determination of Azathioprine and 6-Mercaptopurine in Human Plasma 
with K2EDTA by LC-MS/MS. Validation results are acceptable. The analytical methods were audited, 
and a signed statement dated 22 October 2019 was provided. The pharmacokinetic methods and 
variables are adequate for the purpose of this study. 
In line with the clinical pharmacology and pharmacodynamics included in the SmPC of the reference 
product, the bioequivalence study design and sampling periods are acceptable, with an adequate wash-
out period at greater than 5 times the t½ (3-5 hours). The SmPC states that azathioprine should be 
taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal or milk, hence in line with the Guideline for 
Bioequivalence a fasting study is appropriate. The sampling frequency enabled an adequate estimation 
of Cmax. 
The applicant explained that the population studied (healthy volunteers) was rigorously screened since 
there are individuals with an inherited deficiency of the enzyme TPMT who may be unusually sensitive 
to the myelosuppressive effect of azathioprine and prone to developing rapid bone marrow depression 
following the initiation of treatment with azathioprine. It has also been reported that decreased TPMT 
activity increases the risk of secondary leukaemias and myelodysplasia in individuals receiving 6-
mercaptopurine (the active metabolite of azathioprine) in combination with other cytotoxics. All 
subjects who gave consent to the study underwent TPMT phenotyping and those with a deficient, low 
or intermediate TPMT enzyme activity were excluded from taking part. 
With respect to the palatability testing questionnaire performed after the study, most subjects found 
the taste, smell and texture of the liquid to be fairly good or good, with median scores for subjects’ 
assessment being around 74 to 85 mm on the visual analogue scale. Most (69%) did not detect an 
aftertaste. The majority of subjects responded positively (median score 94 mm out of 100mm length) 
to being asked if they would find it easy to take it every day. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 31/38 
 
 
 
The statistical methods employed are in compliance with the Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98). 
Criteria were prospectively set for Cmax and AUC following the guidance on bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 rev.1) i.e. that the Cmax, AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ 90% confidence intervals 
should be contained within the range 80% - 125%. The 90% confidence intervals for AUC0-T falls 
within the 80.00%-125.00% range. On the other hand, the upper limit of the 90% confidence interval 
for Cmax was 135% exceeding the acceptance interval of 80.00%-125.00%. These results show that 
the test product is not bioequivalent for Cmax according to the set parameters of bioequivalence in the 
protocol. This was discussed in the Clinical Overview where the applicant concluded that this deviation 
from the protocol is due to substantial intra-subject variability (CV is 43.64%).  
Results also show that the average Cmax was approximately 12% higher with the oral suspension 
compared to the tablet. The applicant discussed this in the Clinical Overview where it was stated that 
there was virtually no difference between the two formulations in the maximum Cmax value observed, 
reflecting the high inter-subject variability in Cmax. Thus, data from the current bioequivalence study 
suggests that in practice that there is unlikely to be a significant difference between the two 
formulations with respect to the highest individual Cmax values achieved within a population. Further 
to the above, the applicant discussed the implications of the different pharmacokinetic characteristics 
of the oral suspension as compared to the tablet on the safety and efficacy of the oral suspension. 
Scientific literature was provided to support that there is no clinically relevant difference expected 
between the two formulations of azathioprine, as a result of the higher Cmax, based on azathioprine 
pharmacology, including pharmacokinetics of the intravenous formulation.  
Overall, the drugs tested were generally safe and well tolerated by the subjects (male and female) 
included in this study and no new safety concerns were raised during the conduct of the study.  
The applicant is proposing two dosing syringes (a red syringe graduated to 3 ml and a white syringe 
graduated to 12 ml) which are provided for accurate measurement of the prescribed dose of the oral 
suspension. The use of two different colours for the syringes to make them distinguishable was not 
considered sufficient by the CHMP to minimise the risk of medication errors and on request of the 
committee the applicant added further instructions in 4.2 of the SPC on range of doses, age and 
weight, the dose (mg) to volume (ml) conversion using the two oral syringes to avoid dispensing errors 
the package leaflet was updated accordingly. The dosing schedule gives now clear instructions and 
covers dosing in mg and ml respectively, according to age and weight from 0-18 years, and which 
syringe is more appropriate. This is expected to reduce further to risk of medication errors. 
Furthermore, a follow-up questionnaire on cases of medication errors was included in the 
pharmacovigilance plan. To strengthen monitoring of medication errors specifically due to the 
conversion from tablets to liquid formulation and two syringes the applicant committed to submit 
annual reports with data lock points synchronised with the data of authorisation as outlined in the RMP 
as category 3 additional pharmacovigilance activity.  
Further to all the above amendments in relation to the conversion of patients from tablet to liquid 
formulation and provision of two dosing syringes, the additional measures to minimise the risk of 
medication errors are considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
The applicant took also the opportunity to update the Product Information in accordance with the PRAC 
outcome on Azathioprine - Erythema Nodosum - EPITT 19623 (PRAC April 2021) and included 
erythema nodosum in 4.8 of the SmPC under “immune system disorders” the Package leaflet was 
updated in accordance. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 32/38 
 
 
 
 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The applicant performed a comparative bioequivalence study (INV691) between Jayempi 10 mg/mL 
oral suspension and Imurek 50 mg tablets. Criteria were prospectively set for Cmax and AUC following 
the guidance on bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 rev.1) i.e. that the Cmax, AUC0-t and 
AUC0-∞ 90% confidence intervals should be contained within the range 80% - 125%. The 
pharmacokinetic statistical analysis showed that upper limit of the 90% confidence interval for Cmax 
was 135%, which exceeds the acceptance interval of 80.00%-125.00% set in the protocol. These 
results show that the test product is not bioequivalent for Cmax according to the set parameters of 
bioequivalence in the protocol, however considering that a different formulation than the reference 
product is submitted under the legal basis article 10(3) (hybrid application) no strict bioequivalence is 
required. Results showed that the average Cmax was approximately 12% higher with the oral 
suspension compared to the tablet. The applicant discussed the implications of the different 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of the oral suspension as compared to the tablet on the safety and 
efficacy of the oral suspension. Scientific literature was provided which support that there is no 
clinically relevant difference expected between the two formulations of azathioprine, as a result of the 
higher Cmax. This was considered acceptable to the CHMP. 
The applicant implemented adequate wordings in 4.2 of the SmPC and package leaflet in order to 
minimise the risk or medication errors. Annual reports on medication errors will be provided outside of 
PSURs as outlined in the RMP. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 33/38 
 
 
 
2.5.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety Concern 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Important Identified Risks: Not applicable. 
Important Potential Risks 
Potential Risk # 1 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Potential medication errors - 
conversion of patients from 
tablet to liquid formulation 
and two dosing syringes 
Please refer to the following 
Sections of the Jayempi 10 mg/mL 
oral suspension SmPC:  
Sections 4.2 (Posology and method 
of administration) and 
4.9 (Overdose). 
The Patient Information Leaflet 
emphasises colour coding of both 
the dosing syringes and different 
sizes of these syringes will have less 
chance of medication error due to 
use of two syringes.  
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
Not applicable. 
Potential Risk # 2  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Drug exposure during 
pregnancy and breastfeeding 
Please refer to the following 
Sections of the Jayempi 10 mg/mL 
oral suspension SmPC: Sections 4.3 
(contraindications), 4.6 (Fertility, 
pregnancy and lactation), and 5.3 
(preclinical safety data). 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures: 
Not applicable. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection:  
All reports of medication 
errors will be monitored 
closely and presented in the 
PSUR. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Medication error reports 
specifically due to 
“conversion of patients from 
tablet to liquid formulation 
and two dosing syringes” will 
be monitored annually and 
submitted as post 
authorisation measure (PAM) 
outside the context of 
azathioprine PSUR.  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
All the reports of drug 
exposure during pregnancy & 
its outcome and drug 
exposure during 
breastfeeding will be 
monitored closely and 
presented in PSUR. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Important Missing Information: Not applicable  
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 3.0 is acceptable.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 34/38 
 
 
 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The applicant submitted a full user testing report complemented by a Focus test report after 
implementing the package leaflet during the procedure with improved instructions on how to use the 
product. 
The results of the user consultation submitted by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the 
criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of 
medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a hybrid version of azathioprine oral suspension. The reference product 
Imurek is indicated for all indications claimed by the applicant. No new non-clinical studies have been 
provided for this application and reference is made to the non-clinical data obtained with the innovator 
product. A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been 
provided, which is based on up-to-date scientific literature. In the CHMP’s opinion, the non-clinical 
overview justifies why there is no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and toxicology data which is considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient by the CHMP. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a single centre, single dose, open-label, 
randomised, two period crossover study to assess the bioequivalence of an oral azathioprine 
suspension 10 mg/mL (Jayempi) versus oral azathioprine tablet 50 mg (Imurek) in at least 30 healthy 
adult subjects under fasting conditions. 
The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was 
in line with European requirements. The SmPC states that azathioprine should be taken at least 1 hour 
before or 2 hours after a meal or milk, hence in line with the Guideline for Bioequivalence a fasting 
study is appropriate. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period 
were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied 
were adequate. 
The test formulation of Jayempi did not meet the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the Imurek. The pharmacokinetic statistical analysis showed that upper limit of the 
90% confidence interval for Cmax was 135%, which exceeds the acceptance interval of 80.00%-
125.00% set in the protocol. These results show that the test product is not bioequivalent for Cmax 
according to the set parameters of bioequivalence in the protocol. Results showed that the average 
Cmax was approximately 12% higher with the oral suspension compared to the tablet.  
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 35/38 
 
 
 
The applicant discussed the implications of the different pharmacokinetic characteristics of the oral 
suspension as compared to the tablet on the safety and efficacy of the oral suspension. Scientific 
literature was provided and it is agreed with the applicant that in view of the high inter and intra-
subject variability and the result from the bioequivalence study showing no real difference in the 
observed metabolite 6-MP Cmax values with both formulations (geometric mean ratio = 1.05) there 
are no reasons to support the view that differences in minimally elevated mean Cmax with Jayempi will 
lead to a clinical relevant difference compared to the tablet formulation in clinical practice. Considering 
that a different formulation than the reference product is submitted under the legal basis article 10(3) 
(hybrid application) no strict bioequivalence is required and the justification that the difference in 
bioequivalence is not clinically relevant can be accepted by the CHMP. As outlined in 4.2 of the SmPC 
the therapy with Jayempi should be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration and 
monitoring of immunosuppressive medicinal products. Therefore, the CHMP agreed with the applied 
prescription status subject to restricted medical prescription. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information.  
From a Quality aspect, the applicant has adequately addressed all the major objections and concerns 
which were raised and is approvable. The applicant has committed to analyse the dissolution data from 
the first three commercial batches of Jayempi 10mg/ml oral suspension, and submit a variation to 
tighten the dissolution specification limit to NLT Q=85% at 15 minutes if the data indicates that it is 
feasible. 
A positive benefit/risk ratio can be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that Jayempi is not similar to Soliris within the meaning of 
Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200.  
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Jayempi is favourable in the following indications: 
Jayempi is indicated in combination with other immunosuppressive agents for the prophylaxis of 
transplant rejection in patients receiving allogenic kidney, liver, heart, lung or pancreas transplants.  
Azathioprine is indicated in immunosuppressive regimens as an adjunct to immunosuppressive agents 
that form the mainstay of treatment (basis immunosuppression). 
Jayempi is used as an immunosuppressant antimetabolite either alone or, more commonly, in 
combination with other agents (usually corticosteroids) and/ or procedures which influence the immune 
response.  
Jayempi is indicated in patients who are intolerant to glucocorticosteroids or if the therapeutic 
response is inadequate despite treatment with high doses of glucocorticosteroids, in the following 
diseases: 
- 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (chronic polyarthritis) that cannot be kept under control by 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 36/38 
 
 
 
less toxic agents (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs – DMARDs)   
auto-immune hepatitis 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
dermatomyositis 
polyarteritis nodosa 
pemphigus vulgaris and bullous pemphigoid 
Behçet’s disease 
refractory auto-immune haemolytic anaemia, caused by warm IgG antibodies 
chronic refractory idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Jayempi is used for the treatment of moderately severe to severe forms of chronic inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD) (Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis) in patients in whom glucocorticosteroid therapy is 
necessary, but where glucocorticosteroids are not tolerated, or in whom the disease is untreatable with 
other common means of first choice. 
It is also indicated in adult patients in relapsing multiple sclerosis, if an immunomodulatory therapy is 
indicated but beta interferon therapy is not possible, or a stable course has been achieved with 
previous treatment with azathioprine. 
Jayempi is indicated for the treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis. Depending on the severity of 
the disease, Jayempi should be given in combination with glucocorticoids because of slow onset of 
action at the beginning of treatment and the glucocorticoid dose should be gradually reduced after 
several months of treatment. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 37/38 
 
 
 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable 
Jayempi - Assessment report  
EMA/303143/2021  
Page 38/38 
 
 
 
