ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Jayempi 10 mg/ml oral suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of suspension contains 10 mg azathioprine. 
Excipients with known effect 
The suspension contains 1.5 mg sodium benzoate (E211) in each ml. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral suspension 
Yellow viscous suspension 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Jayempi is indicated in combination with other immunosuppressive agents for the prophylaxis of 
transplant rejection in patients receiving allogenic kidney, liver, heart, lung or pancreas transplants. 
Azathioprine is indicated in immunosuppressive regimens as an adjunct to immunosuppressive agents 
that form the mainstay of treatment (basis immunosuppression). 
Jayempi is used as an immunosuppressant antimetabolite either alone or, more commonly, in 
combination with other agents (usually corticosteroids) and/ or procedures which influence the 
immune response. 
Jayempi is indicated in patients who are intolerant to glucocorticosteroids or if the therapeutic 
response is inadequate despite treatment with high doses of glucocorticosteroids, in the following 
diseases: 
- 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (chronic polyarthritis) that cannot be kept under control by 
less toxic agents (disease-modifying anti-rheumatic -medicinal products – DMARDs) 
auto-immune hepatitis 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
dermatomyositis 
polyarteritis nodosa 
pemphigus vulgaris and bullous pemphigoid 
Behçet’s disease 
refractory auto-immune haemolytic anaemia, caused by warm IgG antibodies 
chronic refractory idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Jayempi is used for the treatment of moderately severe to severe forms of chronic inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD) (Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis) in patients in whom glucocorticosteroid therapy is 
necessary, but where glucocorticosteroids are not tolerated, or in whom the disease is untreatable with 
other common means of first choice. 
It is also indicated in adult patients in relapsing multiple sclerosis, if an immunomodulatory therapy is 
indicated but beta interferon therapy is not possible, or a stable course has been achieved with 
previous treatment with azathioprine. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jayempi is indicated for the treatment of generalised myasthenia gravis. Depending on the severity of 
the disease, Jayempi should be given in combination with glucocorticosteroids because of slow onset 
of action at the beginning of treatment and the glucocorticosteroid dose should be gradually reduced 
after several months of treatment. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy with Jayempi should be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration and 
monitoring of immunosuppressive medicinal products. 
Posology 
Transplantation 
Depending on the immunosuppressive regime selected, a dose of up to 5 mg/kg body weight/day may 
be given on the first day of therapy. 
The maintenance dose can range from 1-4 mg/kg body weight/day and must be adjusted according to 
the clinical requirements and haematological tolerance.  
Azathioprine therapy should be maintained indefinitely, even if only low doses are necessary, because 
of the risk of graft rejection. 
Multiple sclerosis (adults only) 
The usual dose for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis is between 2 and 3 mg/kg 
body weight/day. 
A treatment duration of more than 1 year may be required until manifestation of the effect, and at least 
2 years may be needed until the disease is actually under control. 
Myasthenia gravis 
The recommended dose for the treatment of myasthenia gravis is 2 mg/kg to 3 mg/kg body 
weight/day. 
Treatment success usually occurs 2 to 6 months after the start of treatment at the earliest. Depending 
on the severity of the disease, Jayempi should be given in combination with glucocorticosteroids at the 
start of treatment because of the slow onset of the effect. The dose of glucocorticosteroids can be 
gradually reduced over several months. 
Treatment with Jayempi should be continued for at least 2 to 3 years. 
Chronic active auto-immune hepatitis 
The initial dose is usually between 1.0 and 1.5 mg/kg body weight/day and the maintenance dose is up 
to 2 mg/kg body weight/day. 
Dose in other conditions 
In general, the starting dose is 1 to 3 mg/kg body weight/day and should be adjusted according to the 
clinical response (which may not be evident for weeks or months) and haematological tolerance. 
When therapeutic response is evident, consideration should be given to reducing the maintenance dose 
to the lowest level compatible with the maintenance of that response. If no improvement occurs in the 
patient's condition within 3 to 6 months, consideration should be given to withdrawing the medicinal 
product. 
The maintenance dose required may range from less than 1 mg/kg/body weight/day to 3 mg/kg/body 
weight/day depending on the clinical condition being treated and the individual patient response, 
including haematological tolerance. 
However, in patients with IBD, a treatment duration of at least 12 months should be considered, 
whereby a response to treatment may only be recognisable clinically after three to four months. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions with xanthine oxidase inhibitors 
With concomitant use of xanthine oxidase inhibitors such as allopurinol, oxipurinol and thiopurinol, 
the dose of azathioprine should be reduced to a quarter of the normal dose, because allopurinol, 
oxipurinol and thiopurinol reduce the metabolism of azathioprine (see section 4.5). 
The table below shows, for a range of age, weight and doses, the dose (mg) to volume (ml) conversion 
using the two oral syringes.  
Table 1: Dose (mg) to volume (ml) conversion using the two oral syringes 
Age 
(Years) 
Weight* 
(Kg) 
0 
1 month 
2 month 
3 month 
4 month 
5 month 
6 month 
1.0 
1.5 
2.0 
3.0 
4.0 
5.0 
6.0 
7.0 
8.0 
9.0 
10.0 
12.0 
15.0 
18.0 
3.3 
4.5 
5.6 
6.4 
7.0 
7.5 
7.9 
9.6 
10.9 
12.2 
14.3 
16.3 
18.3 
20.5 
22.9 
25.4 
28.1 
31.2 
38.2 
55.5 
67.0 
1mg/kg 
2mg/kg 
Dose† 
3mg/kg 
4mg/kg 
5mg/kg 
mg 
3.3 
4.5 
5.6 
6.4 
7.0 
7.5 
7.9 
9.6 
10.9 
12.2 
14.3 
16.3 
18.3 
20.5 
22.9 
25.4 
28.1 
31.2 
38.2 
55.5 
67.0 
mg 
13.2 
18.0 
22.4 
25.6 
28.0 
30.0 
31.6 
38.4 
43.6 
48.8 
57.2 
65.2 
73.2 
82.0 
91.6 
mg 
9.9 
13.5 
16.8 
19.2 
21.0 
22.5 
23.7 
28.8 
32.7 
36.6 
42.9 
48.9 
54.9 
61.5 
68.7 
76.2 
84.3 
93.6 
mg 
6.6 
9.0 
11.2 
12.8 
14.0 
15.0 
15.8 
19.2 
21.8 
24.4 
28.6 
32.6 
36.6 
41.0 
45.8 
50.8 
56.2 
62.4 
76.4 
ml 
mg 
ml 
ml 
ml 
ml 
1.7 
16.5 
1.3 
1.0 
0.7 
0.3 
2.3 
22.5 
1.8 
1.4 
0.9 
0.5 
2.8 
28.0 
2.2 
1.7 
1.1 
0.6 
3.25 
32.0 
2.6 
1.9 
1.3 
0.6 
3.50 
35.0 
2.8 
2.1 
1.4 
0.7 
3.75 
37.5 
3.0 
2.3 
1.5 
0.8 
4.00 
39.5 
3.25 
2.4 
1.6 
0.8 
4.75 
48.0 
3.75 
2.9 
1.9 
1.0 
5.50 
54.5 
4.25 
3.25 
2.2 
1.1 
6.00 
61.0 
5.00 
3.75 
2.4 
1.2 
7.25 
71.5 
5.75 
4.25 
2.9 
1.4 
8.25 
81.5 
6.50 
5.00 
3.25 
1.6 
7.25 
9.25 
91.5 
5.50 
3.75 
1.8 
8.25  102.5  10.25 
6.25 
4.00 
2.1 
7.00 
9.25  114.5  11.50 
4.50 
2.3 
7.50  101.6  10.25  127.0  12.75 
5.00 
2.5 
8.50  112.4  11.25  140.5  14.00 
5.50 
2.8 
6.25 
9.25  124.8  12.50  156.0  15.50 
3.0 
3.75 
7.75  114.6  11.50  152.8  15.25  191.0  19.00 
5.50  111.0  11.00  166.5  16.75  222.0  22.25  277.5  27.75 
6.75  134.0  13.50  201.0  20.00  268.0  26.75  335.0  33.50 
*50th percentile for boys extracted from WHO (0-10 years) and UK (11-18 years) growth charts 
†Doses less than or equal to 30 mg to be drawn up using the 3 ml oral syringe with 0.1 ml (1mg) 
graduations. Doses greater than 30 mg to be drawn up using the 10 ml oral syringe with 0.25 ml 
(2.5mg) graduations (shaded cells). 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
Transplantation 
The posology in paediatric population is the same as in adults. 
Myasthenia gravis 
The posology in paediatric population is the same as in adults. 
Chronic active auto-immune hepatitis 
The posology in paediatric population is the same as in adults. 
Dose in other conditions 
The posology in paediatric population is the same as in adults. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Jayempi in children (0 to 16 years) have not yet been established. No data 
are available. 
Multiple sclerosis 
There is no relevant use of Jayempi in the paediatric population for the indication of multiple sclerosis. 
Overweight children 
Children considered to be overweight may require doses at the higher end of the dose range. 
Therefore, close monitoring of response to treatment is recommended (see section 5.2). 
Elderly 
It is recommended to monitor the kidney and liver function and reduce the dose in the case of impaired 
function (see section 4.2). The dose used should be at the lower end of the normal range. For controls 
of blood count, see section 4.4. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
In patients with hepatic and/or renal impairment the dose should be reduced to the lower end of the 
normal range (see section 4.4). 
Patients with TPMT deficiency 
Patients with inherited little or no thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) activity are at increased risk 
for severe azathioprine toxicity from conventional doses of azathioprine and generally require 
substantial dose reduction. The optimal starting dose for homozygous deficient patients has not been 
established (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Most patients with heterozygous TPMT deficiency can tolerate recommended azathioprine doses, but 
some may require dose reduction. Genotypic and phenotypic tests of TPMT are available (see sections 
4.4 and 5.2). 
Patients with the NUDT15 variant 
Patients with inherited mutated NUDT15 gene are at increased risk for severe azathioprine toxicity 
(see section 4.4). These patients generally require dose reduction; particularly those being NUDT15 
variant homozygotes. Genotypic testing of NUDT15 variants may be considered before initiating 
azathioprine therapy. In any case, close monitoring of blood counts is necessary (see section 4.4). 
Method of administration  
Jayempi is for oral use and requires redispersing by shaking prior to dosing. 
To measure the dose in ml in accordance with the prescribed posology, two oral syringes are included 
in the pack; 3 ml and 10 ml. The oral syringes are graduated in 0.1 ml (1 mg) and 0.25 ml (2.5 mg) 
steps respectively. 
The healthcare professional should advise the patient or carer which syringe to use to ensure that the 
correct volume is administered. 
In adults without swallowing difficulties, solid oral formulations may be more appropriate and 
convenient. 
Jayempi should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal or milk. 
Water should be taken after each dose in order to ensure accurate and consistent dose delivery to the 
stomach. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine (metabolite of 
azathioprine) or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Any live vaccine, especially BCG, smallpox, yellow fever (see section 4.5) 
Lactation (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Monitoring 
Therapy with Jayempi in pre-existing, severe infections, in severe disorders of the liver and bone 
marrow function and in the presence of pancreatitis should only be initiated subject to a careful 
benefit/risk analysis and the precautions specified below. 
Special attention should be given to monitoring the blood count. If necessary, the maintenance dose 
should be reduced as much as possible, provided there is clinical response. 
Azathioprine should only be prescribed if the patient can be adequately monitored for haematological 
and hepatic effects throughout the duration of therapy. 
During the first 8 weeks of treatment, a complete blood count, including platelet count must be 
performed at least once weekly. It should be controlled more frequently: 
- 
- 
- 
if high doses are used 
in elderly patients 
if renal function is impaired. If haematological toxicity occurs, the dose must be reduced (see 
also sections 4.2 and 5.2) 
if hepatic function is impaired. In this case, liver function should be monitored regularly and if 
hepatic or haematological toxicity occur, the dose must be reduced (see also sections 4.2 and 
5.2). 
- 
In particular, patients with impaired liver function require special monitoring when using azathioprine, 
as life-threatening liver damages have been reported (see section 4.8). This is particularly important in 
patients with severe impaired liver function and azathioprine should only be used after a careful 
benefit/risk analysis. 
Azathioprine is hepatotoxic, thus regular liver function tests should be repeated during the treatment. 
More frequent tests are recommended in patients with liver disease and in those who may be 
undergoing therapy with a possible hepatotoxic adverse reaction. The patients should be advised to 
discontinue azathioprine immediately if jaundice occurs. 
The frequency of blood counts may be reduced after 8 weeks and be repeated monthly or at least at 
intervals of no longer than 3 months (maximum quarterly). 
At the first sign of an abnormal change in the blood count, treatment should be discontinued 
immediately because the number of leucocytes and platelets may continue to decrease after the end of 
treatment. 
Patients receiving azathioprine must be advised to inform their doctor immediately about any evidence 
of infection, unexpected bruising or bleeding or other signs of myelosuppression. 
Myelosuppression is reversible if azathioprine is discontinued promptly. 
Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) 
About 10% of patients have decreased activity of the enzyme thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) as 
a result of genetic polymorphism. Especially in homozygous individuals, the degradation of 
azathioprine is impaired, so there is a higher risk of myelotoxic effects. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This effect can be enhanced by co-administration with medicinal products which inhibit the enzyme 
TPMT, e.g. olsalazine, mesalazine and sulfasalazine (see section 4.5). Also a possible link between 
decreased TPMT activity and secondary leukaemia and myelodysplasia has been reported in 
individual patients receiving 6-mercaptopurine (the active metabolite of azathioprine) in combination 
with other cytotoxics (see section 4.8). 
Testing for TMPT deficiency is recommended before treatment, in particular for azathioprine therapy 
in high doses as well as with rapid deterioration of the blood count. 
Patients with the NUDT15 variant 
Patients with inherited mutated NUDT15 gene are at increased risk of severe azathioprine toxicity, 
such as early leucopenia and alopecia, with conventional doses of thiopurine therapy. They generally 
require dose reduction, particularly those being homozygous carriers of NUDT15 variants (see section 
4.2). The frequency of NUDT15 c.415C>T has an ethnic variability of approximately 10% in East 
Asians, 4% in Hispanics, 0.2% in Europeans and 0% in Africans. In any case, close monitoring of 
blood counts is necessary. 
Lesch-Nyhan syndrome 
Limited data indicate that azathioprine is not effective in patients with hereditary hypoxanthine- 
guanine-phosphoribosyl transferase deficiency (Lesch-Nyhan syndrome). Therefore, azathioprine 
should not be used in these patients. 
Varicella zoster virus infection 
Infection with varicella zoster virus (VZV; chickenpox and herpes zoster) may become severe during 
the administration of immunosuppressants (see section 4.8). 
Before starting the administration of immunosuppressants, the prescriber should check to see if the 
patient has a history of VZV. Serologic testing may be useful in determining previous exposure. 
Patients who have no history of exposure should avoid contact with individuals with chickenpox or 
herpes zoster. If the patient is exposed to VZV, special care must be taken to prevent patients from 
developing chickenpox or herpes zoster, and passive immunisation with varicella-zoster 
immunoglobulin (VZIG) may be considered. 
If the patient is infected with VZV, appropriate measures should be taken, which may include antiviral 
therapy, discontinuation of treatment with azathioprine and supportive care. 
Progressive Multifocal Leucoencephalopathy (PML) 
PML, an opportunistic infection caused by the JC virus, has been reported in patients receiving 
azathioprine with other immunosuppressive agents (see section 4.8). Immunosuppressive therapy 
should be withheld at the first signs or symptoms indicating PML and appropriate evaluation should 
be undertaken to establish a diagnosis. 
Mutagenicity 
Chromosomal abnormalities have been demonstrated in both male and female patients treated with 
azathioprine. It is difficult to assess the role of azathioprine in the development of these abnormalities. 
Chromosomal abnormalities, which disappear with time, have been demonstrated in lymphocytes from 
the offspring of patients treated with azathioprine. Except in extremely rare cases, no overt physical 
evidence of abnormality has been observed in the offspring of patients treated with azathioprine. 
Azathioprine and long-wave ultraviolet (UV) light have been shown to have a synergistic clastogenic 
effect in patients treated with azathioprine for a range of disorders. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity 
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy, including azathioprine, are at increased risk of 
developing lymphoproliferative disorders and other malignancies, notably skin cancers (melanoma 
and non-melanoma), sarcomas (Kaposi’s and non-Kaposi’s) and uterine cervical cancers in situ (see 
section 4.8). The increased risk appears to be related to the degree and duration of 
immunosuppression. It has been reported that discontinuation of immunosuppression may provide 
partial regression of the lymphoproliferative disorder. 
A treatment regimen containing multiple immunosuppressants (including thiopurines) should therefore 
be used with caution as this could lead to lymphoproliferative disorders, some with reported fatalities. 
A combination of multiple immunosuppressants given concomitantly increases the risk of Epstein- 
Barr virus (EBV)-associated lymphoproliferative disorders. 
There are reports of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in IBD patients who use azathioprine 
concomitantly with anti-TNF medicinal products. 
Patients receiving multiple immunosuppressive agents may be at risk of over-immunosuppression. 
Therefore, such therapy should be maintained at the lowest effective dose level. 
The same as for patients with a high risk of developing skin cancers, exposure to sunlight and UV 
light should be limited and patients should wear protective clothing and use a sunscreen with a high 
protection factor to minimise the risk of skin cancer and photosensitivity (see also section 4.8). 
Macrophage activation syndrome 
Macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) is a known, life-threatening disorder that may develop in 
patients with autoimmune conditions, in particular with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and there 
is potentially increased susceptibility for developing the condition with the use of azathioprine. If 
MAS occurs, or is suspected, evaluation and treatment should be started as early as possible, and 
treatment with azathioprine should be discontinued. Physicians should be attentive to symptoms of 
infection such as EBV and cytomegalovirus (CMV), as these are known triggers for MAS. 
Teratogenicity/ contraceptive measures 
In preclinical studies azathioprine was mutagenic and teratogenic (see section 5.3). Since there are 
conflicting findings on the teratogenic potential of azathioprine in humans, contraceptive measures 
must be taken by both male and female patients of reproductive age during azathioprine therapy for at 
least six months after the end of azathioprine therapy. This applies also to patients with impaired 
fertility due to chronic uraemia, since fertility usually returns to normal after transplantation. 
Azathioprine has been reported to interfere with the effectiveness of intrauterine contraceptive devices 
(coil or T-shaped ‘copper coil’). Therefore, it is recommended to use other or additional contraceptive 
measures (see also section 4.6). 
Neuromuscular blocking agents 
Special caution is required when azathioprine is given concomitantly with neuromuscular blocking 
agents such as atracurium, rocuronium, cisatracurium or suxamethonium (also known as 
succinylcholine) (see section 4.5). Anaesthesiologists should check whether their patients are 
administered azathioprine prior to surgery. 
Vaccination 
Vaccination with live vaccines can cause infections in immunocompromised patients. Therefore, it is 
recommended that patients are not administered with any live vaccine until at least 3 months after the 
end of treatment with azathioprine (see section 4.5). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ribavirin 
Concomitant use of ribavirin and azathioprine is not recommended. Ribavirin can reduce the efficacy 
of azathioprine and increase the toxicity levels of azathioprine (see section 4.5). 
Myelosuppressive agents 
The dose should be reduced with concomitant use of azathioprine and myelosuppressive agents.  
Excipients 
Sodium benzoate 
This medicinal product contains 1.5 mg sodium benzoate in each 1 ml which is equivalent to 300 mg/ 
200 ml. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol (23mg) sodium per dose, that is to say essentially 
'sodium-free'. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Vaccines 
The immunosuppressive activity of azathioprine can lead to an atypical and possibly harmful response 
to live vaccines. Therefore, it is recommended that patients do not receive live vaccines until at least 3 
months after the end of treatment with azathioprine (see section 4.4). 
Immunosuppressed patients must not be vaccinated with live vaccines, since they are at risk of 
infection from the live vaccine (see section 4.4). 
A decreased immune response to inactivated or toxoid vaccines is likely. This has been observed with 
hepatitis B vaccine among patients treated with a combination of azathioprine and corticosteroids. 
Therefore, the vaccination success should always be checked with a titre determination. 
A small clinical study has indicated that standard therapeutic doses of azathioprine do not 
deleteriously affect the immune response to a polyvalent pneumococcal vaccine (as assessed on the 
basis of mean anti-capsular specific antibody concentration). 
Effects of concomitantly administered medicinal products on azathioprine 
Ribavirin 
Ribavirin inhibits the enzyme inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH), leading to lower 
production of active 6-thioguanine nucleotides. Severe myelosuppression has been reported following 
concomitant administration of azathioprine and ribavirin; therefore, co-administration is not advised 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Cytostatic/ myelosuppressive agents 
Where possible, concomitant administration of cytostatic medicinal products, or medicinal products 
which may have a myelosuppressive effect, such as penicillamine, should be avoided (see section 4.4). 
There are conflicting clinical reports of interactions, resulting in serious haematological abnormalities, 
between azathioprine and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. 
There have been case reports suggesting that haematological abnormalities may develop due to the 
concomitant administration of azathioprine and ACE Inhibitors. 
It has been suggested that cimetidine and indomethacin may have myelosuppressive effects which 
may be enhanced by concomitant administration of azathioprine. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allopurinol/ oxipurinol/ thiopurinol and other xanthine oxidase inhibitors 
Xanthine oxidase activity is inhibited by allopurinol, oxipurinol and thiopurinol which results in 
reduced conversion of biologically active 6-thioinosinic acid to biologically inactive 6-thiouric acid. 
When allopurinol, oxipurinol and/or thiopurinol are given concomitantly with 6-mercaptopurine or 
azathioprine, the dose of 6-mercaptopurine and azathioprine should be reduced to one quarter of the 
original dose (see section 4.2). 
Based on non-clinical data, other xanthine oxidase inhibitors, such as febuxostat, may prolong the 
activity of azathioprine possibly resulting in enhanced bone marrow suppression. Concomitant 
administration is not recommended as data are insufficient to determine an adequate dose reduction of 
azathioprine. 
Aminosalicylate derivatives 
There is in vitro and in vivo evidence that aminosalicylate derivatives (e.g. olsalazine, mesalazine and 
sulfasalazine) inhibit the TPMT enzyme. Therefore, lower doses of azathioprine should be considered 
when administered concomitantly with aminosalicylate derivatives (see also section 4.4). 
Methotrexate 
20 mg/m2 oral methotrexate increased the AUC of 6-mercaptopurine by approximately 31% and 2 or 5 
g/m2 intravenous methotrexate increased the AUC of 6-mercaptopurine by 69% and 93% respectively. 
Therefore, when azathioprine is administered concomitantly with high-dose methotrexate, the dose 
should be adjusted to maintain a suitable white blood cell count. 
Effects of azathioprine on concomitantly administered medicinal products 
Anticoagulants 
A reduction of the anticoagulant effect of warfarin was described following the simultaneous use of 
azathioprine. 
Neuromuscular blocking agents 
There is clinical evidence that azathioprine antagonises the effect of non-depolarising muscle 
relaxants. Experimental data confirm that azathioprine reverses the neuromuscular blockade produced 
by non-depolarising agents, and show that azathioprine potentiates the neuromuscular blockade 
produced by depolarising agents (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Malformations occurred in animal experiments due to azathioprine. In animal studies azathioprine was 
teratogenic and embryotoxic (see section 5.3). There are conflicting findings on the teratogenic 
potential of azathioprine in humans. Azathioprine must only be used during pregnancy after a careful 
benefit/risk analysis. 
Both male and female patients of reproductive age should use contraceptive methods while using 
azathioprine. Men should not father children during and up to 6 months after the end of treatment. 
This also applies to patients with reduced fertility due to chronic uraemia, as fertility generally returns 
to normal after a transplant. 
Case reports indicate that intrauterine devices (IUD) (coil or T-shaped ‘copper coil’) can fail under 
azathioprine therapy. Therefore, other or additional contraceptive methods should be recommended. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is known that considerable amounts of azathioprine and its metabolites pass through the placenta 
and amniotic sac, and are thereby transferred from the mother to the foetus. 
Blood count changes (leucopenia and/or thrombocytopenia) have been reported in a number of 
neonates whose mothers received azathioprine during pregnancy. Extra care in haematological 
monitoring of the mother is advised during pregnancy. 
Temporary impairment of the immune response was detected in neonates from intrauterine exposure 
to a combination of azathioprine with prednisone. There have been reports of intrauterine growth 
retardation, premature births and low birth weights vis-à-vis azathioprine, in particular in combination 
with corticosteroids. Moreover, data is available on spontaneous abortions after both maternal and 
paternal exposure. 
Chromosomal abnormalities, which disappear with time, have been demonstrated in lymphocytes of 
the offspring of patients treated with azathioprine. Except in extremely rare cases, no overt physical 
evidence of abnormality has been observed in the offspring of patients treated with azathioprine. 
Breast-feeding 
6-Mercaptopurine, the active metabolite of azathioprine, has been identified in the colostrum and 
breast milk of women receiving azathioprine treatment. Breast-feeding and concomitant use of 
azathioprine are contra-indicated (see section 4.3). If treatment with azathioprine is unavoidable, 
breast-feeding should be discontinued. 
Fertility 
No preclinical or clinical data is available on the possible influence of azathioprine on male and 
female fertility (see section 4.4). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Jayempi has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most important adverse reactions include bone marrow depression, most frequently expressed as 
leukopenia and thrombocytopenia; viral, fungal and bacterial infections; life-threatening liver injury; 
hypersensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions are listed below according to system organ class and frequency. The frequencies 
are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) (including isolated cases), not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Very common 
Uncommon 
11 
Adverse reactions 
Viral, fungal and bacterial infections (in 
transplant recipients who are treated 
with azathioprine in combination with 
other immune-suppressants) 
Viral, fungal and bacterial infections (in 
other patients) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (incl. cysts and 
polyps) 
Rare 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Very rare 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Very rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Rare 
Not known 
Investigations 
Uncommon 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cases of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) caused by 
the JC virus have been reported after 
using azathioprine in combination with 
other immunosuppressants (see section 
4.4) 
Neoplasms including 
lymphoproliferative disorders, skin 
cancers (malignant melanomas and non- 
melanomas), sarcomas (Kaposi’s and 
non-Kaposi’s), uterine cancer, cervix 
carcinoma, acute myeloid leukaemia and 
myelodysplastic syndrome (see also 
section 4.4) 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (in IBD 
patients using other anti- TNF drugs 
concomitantly) 
Leukopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Anaemia 
Agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, aplastic 
anaemia, anaemia megaloblastic and 
bone marrow failure 
Haemolytic anaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic 
epidermal necrolysis 
Pneumonitis (reversible) 
Nausea, vomiting 
Pancreatitis 
Colitis, diverticulitis and intestinal 
perforation in transplant recipients, 
diarrhoea (severe) in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease 
Cholestasis 
Liver injury 
Alopecia 
Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis 
(Sweet’s syndrome), photosensitivity 
reaction 
Liver function test abnormal 
Infections and infestations 
Patients receiving azathioprine alone or in combination with other immunosuppressants, particularly 
corticosteroids, have shown increased susceptibility to viral, fungal and bacterial infections, including 
severe or atypical infections with varicella, herpes zoster and other infectious pathogens (see section 
4.4). 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
The risk of developing non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and other malignancies, notably skin cancers 
(melanoma and non-melanoma), sarcomas (Kaposi’s and non-Kaposi’s) and uterine cervical cancer in 
situ, is increased in patients who receive immunosuppressants, particularly in transplant patients 
receiving aggressive treatment, and such therapy should be maintained at the lowest effective levels 
12 
 
 
 
(see section 4.4). The increased risk of developing non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas in immunosuppressed 
rheumatoid arthritis patients compared with the general population appears to be related at least in part 
to the disease itself. 
There have been rare reports of acute myeloid leucaemia and myelodysplasia (some in association 
with chromosomal abnormalities). 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
The most common adverse reaction of azathioprine is a dose-related, generally reversible, depression 
of bone marrow function, most frequently expressed as leucopenia, but also sometimes as 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia, and rarely as agranulocytosis, pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia. 
These occur particularly in patients predisposed to myelosuppression, such as those with TPMT 
deficiency and renal or hepatic impairment and in patients failing to reduce the dose of azathioprine 
when receiving concurrent allopurinol therapy. 
Reversible, dose-related macrocytosis and increase in red cell haemoglobin content have occurred in 
association with azathioprine therapy. Megaloblastic bone marrow changes have also been observed 
but severe megaloblastic anaemia and erythroid hypoplasia are rare. 
Immune system disorders 
Several different clinical syndromes, which appear to be idiosyncratic manifestations of 
hypersensitivity, have been described occasionally following administration of azathioprine. Clinical 
features include general malaise, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, fever, rigors, exanthema, 
erythema nodosum, vasculitis, myalgia, arthralgia, hypotension, renal dysfunction, hepatic dysfunction 
and cholestasis. In many cases, re-challenge has confirmed an association with azathioprine. 
Hypersensitivity reactions and other marked underlying pathology may have contributed to the very 
rare deaths reported. 
Immediate withdrawal of azathioprine and institution of circulatory support where appropriate have 
led to recovery in the majority of cases. Following a hypersensitivity reaction to azathioprine, the 
necessity for continued administration of azathioprine should be carefully considered on an individual 
basis. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders occur primarily in the form of nausea after taking oral azathioprine. 
A small number of patients experience nausea when first given azathioprine. To reduce nausea, the 
dose should be taken after a meal. 
Pancreatitis has been reported in patients on azathioprine therapy, particularly in renal transplant 
patients and those diagnosed as having inflammatory bowel disease. It is difficult to attribute 
pancreatitis to the administration of one particular medicinal product, although re-challenge has 
confirmed an association with azathioprine in some instances. 
Serious complications, including colitis, diverticulitis and bowel perforation, have been reported in 
transplant patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy. However, the causal relationship is not 
clearly established and high-dose corticosteroids may be implicated. 
Severe diarrhoea, recurring on re-exposure, has been reported in patients with inflammatory bowel 
disease treated with azathioprine. If there is any exacerbation of symptoms in these patients, a possible 
causal relationship with the azathioprine treatment should be taken into consideration. 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Dose-dependent cholestasis and deterioration of liver function have occasionally been reported in 
association with azathioprine therapy and are usually reversible on discontinuation of therapy. This 
may be associated with features of a hypersensitivity reaction. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare, but life-threatening hepatic damage associated with chronic administration of azathioprine has 
been described primarily in transplant patients. Histological findings include sinusoidal dilatation, 
peliosis hepatis, veno-occlusive disease and nodular regenerative hyperplasia. In some cases, 
withdrawal of azathioprine has resulted in either temporary or permanent improvement in liver 
histology and the symptoms. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Alopecia has been described for both monotherapy and combined therapy with azathioprine. In many 
instances, the condition resolved spontaneously despite continuing therapy. The relationship between 
alopecia and azathioprine treatment is still unclear 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
The most common effect of overdose with azathioprine is myelosuppression with blood count 
disorders, which may be maximal after 9 to 14 days. The main symptoms of myelosuppression are 
mouth and throat ulceration, bruising, fever of unknown aetiology and unexplained infection. 
Furthermore, spontaneous bleeding and extreme fatigue may occur. These symptoms are more likely 
to present following prolonged mild overdose, rather than after a single acute overdose. 
A case of a patient who ingested a single dose of 7.5 g azathioprine has been reported. Acute 
symptoms included nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, followed by moderate leucopenia and mild 
impairment of the liver function. Recovery was without sequelae. 
Management 
Since there is no specific antidote, the blood count should be closely monitored, appropriate 
symptomatic treatment should be initiated, where necessary, and the appropriate blood transfusions be 
administered. 
In the case of overdose, active measures (such as use of activated charcoal) will probably only be 
effective if they are carried out within 60 minutes of ingestion. 
Azathioprine is partially dialysable. Nevertheless, the benefit of dialysis in patients who have taken an 
overdose is not known. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Other immunosuppressants, 
ATC code: L04AX01 
Mechanism of action 
Azathioprine is an inactive pro-drug of 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), which acts as a purine antagonist 
but requires cellular uptake and intracellular anabolism to thioguanine nucleotides (TGNs) for 
immunosuppression. TGNs and other metabolites (e.g. 6-methylmercaptopurine ribonucleotides) 
inhibit de novo purine synthesis and purine nucleotide interconversions. The TGNs are also 
incorporated into nucleic acids and this contributes to the immunosuppressive effects of the medicinal 
product. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other potential mechanisms of azathioprine include: 
- 
and activity of cells involved in the immune response (B and T lymphocytes). 
The inhibition of many pathways in nucleic acid biosynthesis, hence preventing proliferation 
Because of these mechanisms, the therapeutic effect of azathioprine may be evident only after several 
weeks or months of treatment (see section 4.2). 
Unlike 6-MP, the activity of the azathioprine metabolite 1-methyl-4-nitro-5-thioimidazole has not 
been clearly determined. However, compared with 6-MP it appears to modify the activity of 
azathioprine in several systems. 
In a controlled study in patients with myasthenia gravis, azathioprine (2.5 mg/kg body weight/day) in 
combination with prednisolone proved to be significantly better in comparison to prednisolone and 
placebo in terms of treatment failure. Furthermore, a glucocorticosteroid-sparing effect was seen after 
15 months. After 36 months, 63% in the azathioprine group required no further glucocorticosteroids, 
compared with only 20% in the placebo group. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Azathioprine is incompletely and variably absorbed. The mean absolute bioavailability of 6-MP after 
administration of azathioprine 50 mg is 47% (range: 27-80%). The extent of absorption of 
azathioprine is similar throughout the gastrointestinal tract, including the stomach, jejunum and 
caecum. The extent of 6-MP absorption after application of azathioprine however, varies depending on 
where the absorption occurs, with the highest level in the jejunum, followed by the stomach and 
caecum. 
In a comparative bioavailability study in healthy adult volunteers (n=29), 50 mg of azathioprine oral 
suspension was demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the reference 50 mg tablet for AUC, but not Cmax. 
The mean (90% CI) Cmax with the oral suspension was 12% (93% - 135%) higher than the tablet 
although the range of Cmax observations was more or less the same for the oral suspension and tablet; 
5.7 – 40.0 and 4.4 – 39.5 ng/ml, respectively. 
Although interactions with food were not studied, pharmacokinetic studies with 6-mercaptopurine 
have been conducted that are relevant to azathioprine. The mean relative bioavailability of 6- 
mercaptopurine was approximately 26% lower after administration with food and milk compared to 
after fasting. 
6-mercaptopurine is not stable in milk due to the presence of xanthine oxidase (30% degradation 
within 30 minutes) (see “Biotransformation”). Azathioprine should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 
hours after a meal or milk (see section 4.2). 
There is no correlation between the plasma concentrations of azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine and 
the therapeutic efficacy or toxicity of azathioprine. 
Distribution 
Azathioprine is rapidly distributed in the body. The steady-state volume of distribution (Vdss) of 
azathioprine is unknown. The mean (± SD) apparent Vdss of 6-MP is 0.9 (± 0.8) l/kg, although this 
value is probably too low, since 6-MP is metabolised throughout the body and not just in the liver. 
Approximately 30% of azathioprine is bound to plasma proteins. 
Azathioprine and its metabolites pass through the central nervous system. 6-MP concentration in the 
cerebrospinal fluid are low or negligible after intravenous or oral use. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Azathioprine is rapidly metabolised in vivo by glutathione S-transferase into the metabolites 6-MP and 
1-methyl-4-nitro-5-thioimidazole. 6-MP passes cell membranes rapidly and is extensively metabolised 
in numerous multistep metabolic processes into active and inactive metabolites without any enzyme 
being predominantly active. Due to the complex metabolism, all cases of non-efficacy and/or 
myelosuppression cannot be explained by the inhibition of a single enzyme. The enzymes mainly 
responsible for the metabolism of 6-MP and its metabolites are the polymorphic enzyme thiopurine 
methyltransferase (TPMT) (see sections 4.4 and 4.5), xanthine oxidase (see sections 4.5 and 5.2), 
inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) (see section 4.5) and hypoxanthine-guanine 
phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT). Other enzymes involved in the formation of active and inactive 
metabolites are guanosine monophosphate synthetase (GMPS, which forms TGNs) and inosine 
triphosphate pyrophosphatase (ITPase). 
Azathioprine is also metabolised by aldehyde oxidase to the probably active 8-hydroxy-azathioprine. 
Furthermore, various inactive metabolites are also formed in further metabolic processes. 
There are indications that polymorphisms in the genes which encode the various enzyme systems 
involved in the metabolism of azathioprine may predict adverse reactions in azathioprine therapy. 
Thiopurine methyl transferase (TPMT) 
TPMT activity is inversely related to red blood cell 6-mercaptopurine-derived thioguanine nucleotide 
concentration, with higher thioguanine nucleotide concentrations resulting in greater reductions in 
white blood cell and neutrophil counts. Individuals with TPMT deficiency develop very high cytotoxic 
TGN concentrations. 
Genotypic testing can determine a patient’s allelic pattern. Currently, 3 alleles – TPMT*2, TPMT*3A 
and TPMT*3C – account for 95% of individuals with reduced levels of TPMT activity. 
Approximately 0.3% (1:300) of patients have two non-functional alleles (homozygous-deficient) of 
the TPMT gene and have little or no detectable enzyme activity. Approximately 10% of patients have 
one TPMT non-functional allele (heterozygous) leading to low or intermediate TPMT activity, 
whereas 90% of individuals have normal TPMT activity with two functional alleles. For a group of 
about 2% it can also lead to very high TPMT activity. Phenotypic testing determines the level of 
thiopurine nucleotides or TPMT activity in red blood cells and can further provide other information 
(see section 4.4). 
Elimination 
The plasma half-life is 3 to 5 hours. After oral administration of 100 mg 35S-azathioprine, 50% of the 
radioactivity is excreted in the urine within 24 hours and 12% in the faeces within 48 hours. The main 
component in the urine was the inactive oxidized metabolite thiourea. Less than 2% was excreted in 
urine, in the form of azathioprine or 6-MP. In healthy subjects, azathioprine is eliminated rapidly with 
a total clearance greater than 3 L/min. There are no data available on the renal elimination or half-life 
of azathioprine. The renal clearance of 6-MP and half-life of 6-MP are 191 ml/min/m2 and 0.9 hours 
respectively. 
6-mercaptopurine has been detected in the colostrum and breast milk of women who were treated with 
azathioprine (6-mercaptopurine is excreted in breast milk at concentrations of 3.4 ng/ml to 18 ng/ml). 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
No specific studies have been carried out in the elderly (see section 4.2). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overweight children 
In a clinical trial in the United States, 18 children between the ages of 3 and 14 were evenly split into 
two groups; the crucial factor was whether the ratio of weight to height was greater or less than the 
75th percentile. Each child was undergoing maintenance treatment with 6-MP, whereby the body 
surface was the basis for the dose calculation. The mean AUC (0-∞) of 6-MP in the group greater than 
the 75th percentile was 2.4 times smaller than that in the group less than the 75th percentile. 
Therefore, under certain circumstances, overweight children need azathioprine doses in the upper 
range of the dose spectrum, and close monitoring of their response to treatment (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
Studies with azathioprine showed no difference in the pharmacokinetics of 6-MP in uraemic patients 
compared with patients with a kidney transplant. Since little is known about the active metabolites of 
azathioprine in renal dysfunction, a dose reduction in patients with impaired renal function should be 
considered (see section 4.2). 
Azathioprine and/or its metabolites are removed by haemodialysis, with approximately 45% of the 
radioactive metabolites being removed during an 8-hour dialysis session. 
Hepatic impairment 
In case of hepatic impairment, the metabolism of azathioprine is altered. Conversion into the active 
metabolites is restricted. However, the elimination of metabolites is reduced (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
An azathioprine study was carried out on a group of kidney transplant patients. They were split into 
three groups: patients with no liver disease, patients with hepatic dysfunction (but with no cirrhosis) 
and patients with hepatic dysfunction and cirrhosis. The study showed that the 6-mercaptopurine level 
was 1.6 times higher in patients with hepatic dysfunction (but with no cirrhosis) and 6 times higher in 
patients with hepatic dysfunction and cirrhosis, compared with patients with no liver disease. 
Therefore, a dose reduction should be considered in the case of patients with impaired liver function 
(see section 4.2). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Reproductive toxicity 
In embryotoxicity studies azathioprine showed teratogenicity or embryo lethality in various animal 
species. In rabbits, a dose of 5-15 mg/kg body weight/day produced skeletal abnormalities. In mice 
and rats, doses of 1-2 mg/kg body weight/day were lethal to embryos. 
Mutagenicity 
Azathioprine was mutagenic in a number of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity assays.  
Carcinogenicity 
In long-term carcinogenicity studies of azathioprine in mice and rats receiving doses that were up to 2- 
fold the human therapeutic dose and in lower doses administered in immuno-compromised mice, an 
increased incidence of lymphosarcomas (mice) and squamous cell tumours and carcinomas (rats) were 
observed. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium benzoate (E211) 
Sucralose (E955)  
Banana flavour 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium  
Xanthan gum 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
After first opening: 12 weeks 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed (see section 6.6). 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Amber type III glass bottle with tamper evident child-resistant closure (HDPE with expanded 
polyethylene liner) containing 200 ml of oral suspension. 
Each pack contains one bottle, an LDPE bottle adaptor, a 3 mL oral dosing syringe (0.1 mL dose 
graduations) and a 10 mL oral dosing syringe (0.25 mL dose graduations). 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Anyone handling Jayempi should wash their hands before and after administering a dose. To decrease 
the risk of exposure, parents and care givers should wear disposable gloves when handling Jayempi. 
Contact with skin or mucous membrane must be avoided. If Jayempi comes into contact with skin or 
mucosa, it should be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. Spillages must be 
wiped immediately. 
Women who are pregnant, planning to be or breast-feeding should not handle Jayempi. 
Parents / care givers and patients should be advised to keep Jayempi out of the sight and reach of 
children, preferably in a locked cupboard. Accidental ingestion can be lethal for children. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed to protect the integrity of the medicinal product and minimise the risk of 
accidental spillage. 
The bottle should be shaken to ensure the oral suspension is well mixed.  
Disposal 
Jayempi is cytotoxic. Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1557/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 21 June 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Pronav Clinical Ltd. 
Unit 5 
Dublin Road Business Park 
Carraroe, Sligo 
F91 D439 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Jayempi 10 mg/ml oral suspension 
azathioprine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of suspension contains 10 mg azathioprine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: sodium benzoate (E211). See package leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral suspension 
One bottle 
One bottle adaptor 
One 3 ml dosing syringe  
One 10 ml dosing syringe  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Take as directed by your doctor using the dosing syringes provided.  
Shake the bottle before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 12 weeks after first opening.  
Open date:    
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C.  
Keep the bottle tightly closed. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused medicinal product waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1557/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Jayempi 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NN  
26 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Jayempi 10 mg/ml oral suspension 
azathioprine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of suspension contains 10 mg azathioprine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: sodium benzoate (E211). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral suspension 
200 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Take as directed by your doctor using the dosing syringes provided.  
Shake the bottle before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: handle with caution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 12 weeks after first opening.  
Open date:    
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C.  
Keep the bottle tightly closed. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1557/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Jayempi 10 mg/ml oral suspension 
azathioprine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Jayempi is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Jayempi  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Jayempi  
Possible side effects  
How to store Jayempi  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Jayempi is and what it is used for 
Jayempi 10 mg/ml oral suspension contains the active substance azathioprine. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called immunosuppressants. 
These medicines reduce the activity of your immune system (the body’s defences). 
Jayempi is used to: 
• 
• 
Prevent your body from rejecting an organ transplant. Jayempi is usually used together with 
other immunosuppressants for this purpose 
Treat some long-term diseases where the immune system is reacting against your body. Jayempi 
is usually used in combination with steroids or other anti-inflammatory medicines. These 
diseases include: 
-  Severe rheumatoid arthritis or chronic polyarthritis (long term chronic inflammation of 
multiple joints) which cannot be controlled by other medicines 
-  Chronic inflammatory bowel diseases (diseases of the gut such as Crohn’s disease and 
ulcerative colitis) 
-  Chronic hepatitis (autoimmune hepatitis), a liver disease 
-  Systemic lupus erythematosus (a disease in which the immune system attacks different 
organs) 
-  Dermatomyositis (worsening muscle inflammation together with skin rash) 
-  Polyarteritis nodosa (inflammation of blood vessels) 
-  Pemphigus vulgaris and bullous pemphigoid (diseases of blistering of the skin) 
-  Behçet’s disease (recurrent inflammation, especially of the eyes and the oral and genital 
mucous membranes). 
-  Refractory autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (a blood disease in which the red blood cells are 
destroyed) 
-  Chronic refractory idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (bleeding under the skin due to 
damage to the platelets and reduction of their numbers) 
• 
• 
Treat relapsing multiple sclerosis. 
Treat generalised myasthenia gravis (a disease that affects nerves and causes muscle weakness). 
In some cases Jayempi is given in with a steroid at the start of treatment 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Jayempi  
Do not take Jayempi 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to azathioprine, another medicine called mercaptopurine or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are breastfeeding. 
if you have recently had a vaccination with a live vaccine such as tuberculosis (BCG), 
chickenpox, MMR or yellow fever. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Jayempi: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have a serious infection. 
if you have a serious liver disease. 
if you have a disease of the bone marrow or the pancreas. 
if you suffer from a condition known as Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (hereditary deficiency of the 
enzyme Hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase). 
if you have a condition where your body produces too little of an enzyme called thiopurine 
methyltransferase (TPMT). 
if you take medicines like mesalazine, olsalazine or sulfasalazine (for the treatment of 
inflammatory bowel disease). 
if you take medicines which affect bone marrow function (for producing blood cells), such as 
penicillamine and cytotoxic medicines. 
- 
- 
- 
If you notice any unexplained bruising or bleeding during treatment or you have signs of 
infection, contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections 
Treatment with Jayempi increases the risk of infections and the infections may become more serious 
(see also section 4). 
Because chickenpox (caused by varicella-zoster virus VZV) can be serious when you are taking 
Jayempi, you should avoid any contact with people suffering from chickenpox (varicella) or shingles 
(herpes zoster). 
Tell your doctor if you come into contact with anyone who has chickenpox or shingles. 
Your doctor will decide if you need antiviral treatment and if you should stop treatment with Jayempi. 
Blood tests 
You will need a blood test to check your blood cell count at least once a week during the first 8 weeks 
of treatment. You may need blood tests more often if you: 
- 
- 
- 
are taking high doses of Jayempi 
are elderly 
have a kidney or liver disorder 
After 8 weeks, your blood count should be checked once a month or at least every 3 months. 
NUDT15-gene mutation 
If you have an inherited mutation in the NUDT15-gene (a gene which is involved in the break-down 
of azathioprine in the body), you have a higher risk of infections and hair loss and your doctor may in 
this case give you a lower dose. 
Your doctor may also ask you to have a test to check how well your body will be able to break-down 
this medicine. Your doctor may change your dose after these tests. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking Jayempi may increase your risk of: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
developing a serious condition called macrophage activation syndrome (excessive activation of 
white blood cells associated with inflammation), which usually occurs in people who have 
certain types of arthritis 
developing tumours, especially if you are receiving immunosuppressive therapy at high doses or 
for a long time 
developing cancers such as skin cancer caused by exposure to the sun. Therefore, you should 
avoid unnecessary exposure to the sunlight and UV light, wear protective clothing and use 
sunscreen (minimum of sun protection factor (SPF) 30) 
lymphoproliferative disorders (when the body produces white cells called lymphocytes in an 
uncontrolled way) 
With treatments that include several immunosuppressants (including thiopurines like 
azathioprine) the condition can lead to death 
viral infections of the lymphatic system (Epstein-Barr virus related lymphoproliferative 
disorders), especially if several immunosuppressants are given at the same time. 
Other medicines and Jayempi 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This is because Jayempi can affect the way some medicines work. Also some other 
medicines can affect the way Jayempi works: 
Ribavirin, used to treat viral infections 
- 
Allopurinol, oxipurinol or thiopurinol or other xanthine oxidase inhibitors, such as 
- 
febuxostat (mainly used to treat gout) 
Mesalazine, olsalazine, and sulfasalazine (treatments for chronic inflammatory bowel disease 
such as Crohn's disease) 
Anticoagulants such as warfarin 
ACE inhibitors (such as enalapril, lisinopril, perindopril and ramipril, treatments for high blood 
pressure or heart failure) 
Trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole (antibiotic) 
Cimetidine (treatment for ulcers of the digestive tract) 
Indometacin (treatment for rheumatoid arthritis) 
Penicillamine (mainly used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis) 
Cytotoxic medicines (to treat tumours, such as methotrexate) 
Vaccination with live vaccines during treatment with Jayempi can be harmful and must be 
avoided. 
Atracurium or suxamethonium chloride used as muscle relaxants in surgery. 
Infliximab (used for the treatment of inflammatory conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis. 
ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease and psoriasis) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Before an operation tell your doctor that you are taking azathioprine because muscle relaxants 
used during anaesthesia may interact with azathioprine. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Women taking Jayempi or the female partners of men taking Jayempi must not become pregnant 
during treatment and for 6 months afterwards. Both men and women taking Jayempi must use 
effective contraception during treatment with and for 6 months afterwards. Intrauterine devices are not 
suitable for contraception in women taking Jayempi (or in women whose male partners are taking 
Jayempi). 
If you are planning to have a baby, talk to your doctor. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are pregnant, you should only take Jayempi if your doctor tells you to. In case you are or 
believe you might be pregnant you must inform your doctor immediately. 
Changes in blood counts can occur in newborn babies of mothers who received azathioprine during 
pregnancy. Regular checks of blood counts during pregnancy are recommended. 
Do not breast-feed during therapy with Jayempi. This is because small amounts may pass into the 
mother’s milk. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use machines if you are affected or if you feel dizzy while taking this medicine. 
Jayempi contains sodium benzoate (E211) 
This medicine contains 1.5 mg sodium benzoate (E211) in each ml. Sodium benzoate may increase 
jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn babies (up to 4 weeks old). 
Jayempi contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Jayempi  
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure  
Dose 
The dose of Jayempi depends on your weight, the condition being treated, how well it is being 
controlled and your overall health. Your doctor will work out the dose that is right for you and may 
adjust it during treatment. The doctor will tell you how long you should continue taking the medicine. 
For preventing organ rejection after transplantation, the usual starting dose is 5 mg per kg of your 
weight each day and the dose is then reduced after a few weeks or months to between 1 and 4 mg per 
kg of your weight each day. 
The dose for other conditions is usually between 1 and 3 mg per kg of your weight each day. 
Kidney/ liver disease 
Your dose may be reduced if you have kidney or liver disease. 
Use in children 
The dose for children and adolescents is the same as the adult dose. 
The safety and efficacy of azathioprine in children have not yet been established for the treatment of 
chronic joint inflammation (juvenile idiopathic arthritis) and multiple sclerosis. Therefore, the use of 
Jayempi for these conditions in children is not recommended. 
Use in elderly patients 
A reduced dose may be needed. 
Jayempi with food and drink 
Jayempi should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal or milk. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
You should drink some water after each dose of Jayempi. This helps to make sure that the full dose of 
the medicine enters your digestive system. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Handling 
Your pack contains a 200-ml bottle of medicine, cap, a bottle adaptor and two dosing syringes (a 3-ml 
syringe and a 10-ml syringe). Always use the syringes provided to take your medicine. 
• 
• 
The smaller 3 ml oral syringe is marked from 0.5 ml to 3 ml with minor 0.1 ml graduations. It 
is used for measuring doses of up to 30 mg, in 1 mg (0.1 ml) step ups. 
For example: 
- 
- 
if the prescribed dose is 14 mg, use the 3 ml syringe and draw up a volume of 1.4 ml. 
if the prescribed dose is 26 mg, use the 3 ml syringe and draw up a volume of 2.6 ml. 
The larger 10 ml oral syringe is marked from 1 ml to 10 ml with minor 0.25 ml graduations. It 
is used for measuring doses greater than 30 mg, in 2.5 mg (0.25 ml) step ups. 
For example: 
- 
- 
- 
if the prescribed dose is 32 mg, use the 10 ml syringe and draw up a volume of 3.25 ml. 
if the prescribed dose is 54 mg, use the 10 ml syringe and draw up a volume of 5.5 ml. 
if the prescribed dose is 140 mg, use the 10 ml syringe twice to draw up a dose of 10.0 ml 
followed by 4.0 ml (14 ml in total). 
It is important to use the correct dosing syringe for your medicine. Your doctor or pharmacist will tell 
you which syringe to use depending on the dose prescribed for you. 
If you are taking or giving the medicine to a child or somebody else, wash your hands before and after. 
Wipe up spillages immediately. To decrease the risk of coming into contact with the medicine, use 
disposable gloves when handling Jayempi. 
If Jayempi comes into contact with skin, eyes or nose, wash the area immediately and thoroughly with 
soap and water. 
When you use the medicine follow the instructions below: 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Figure 2 
Figure 3 
Figure 4 
Figure 5 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
Put on disposable hand gloves before handling Jayempi. 
Shake the bottle to mix the medicine well (figure 1). 
Remove the bottle cap (figure 2) and push the adaptor firmly into the top of the bottle and leave 
in place for future doses (figure 3). 
Push the tip of the dosing syringe into the hole in the adaptor (figure 4). Your doctor or 
pharmacist will tell you which is the correct syringe to use. 
Turn the bottle upside down (figure 5). 
Pull the plunger of the syringe back so that the medicine is drawn from the bottle into the 
syringe. Pull the plunger back to the point on the scale that corresponds to the dose prescribed 
(figure 5). If you are not sure about how much medicine to draw into the syringe, always ask 
your doctor or nurse for advice. 
Turn the bottle back the right way up and carefully remove the syringe from the adaptor, 
holding it by the barrel rather than the plunger. 
Gently put the tip of the syringe into your mouth and to the inside of your cheek. 
Slowly and gently push the plunger down to gently squirt the medicine into the inside of your 
cheek and swallow it. DO NOT forcefully push down the plunger, or squirt the medicine to the 
back of your mouth or throat, as you may choke. 
10.  Remove the syringe from your mouth. 
11.  Swallow the dose of oral suspension then drink some water, making sure no medicine is left in 
your mouth. 
12.  Put the cap back on the bottle with the adaptor left in place. Ensure that the cap is tightly closed. 
13.  Wash the syringe with cold or warm tap water and rinse well. Hold the syringe under water and 
move the plunger up and down several times to make sure the inside of the syringe is clean. Let 
the syringe dry completely before you use it again for the next dose. Store the syringe in a clean 
place, with the medicine. 
Repeat the above for each dose as instructed by your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you take more Jayempi than you should 
If you take more Jayempi than you should, talk to your doctor or go to a hospital immediately. Take 
the medicine pack with you. 
The most likely effect of an overdose is bone marrow suppression reaching its maximum 9-14 days 
after dosing. 
Bone marrow suppression reduces your blood counts and in severe cases lead to dangerous infections 
and other serious effects. Some symptoms of bone marrow suppression include feeling tired, ulcers in 
the mouth and throat, fever and infection, and unexplained bruising and bleeding. 
If you forget to take Jayempi 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Take the next dose as usual. If you have 
forgotten more than one dose, speak with your doctor. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop taking Jayempi 
Treatment with Jayempi should always be under close medical supervision. Talk to your doctor, if you 
wish to interrupt or stop the treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you get any of the following serious side effects, stop taking Jayempi and talk to your doctor 
or go to hospital immediately: 
- 
Allergic reaction, the signs may include: 
general tiredness, dizziness, feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) or diarrhoea, high 
temperature (fever), shivering or chills, redness of the skin, skin nodules, or a skin rash, pain in 
the muscles or joints, changes in the colour of your urine (kidney problems), confusion, feeling 
light headed or weak (caused by low blood pressure). 
If you get any of the following serious side effects, talk to your doctor or go to hospital 
immediately: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
fever or you notice any signs of infection, such as headache and body aches, coughing or 
difficulty breathing (similar to a chest infection) 
if you come into contact with anyone who is suffering from chickenpox or shingles 
you notice any of the following: black (tar) stool, blood in the stool, abdominal pain or 
yellowing of the skin and the white of the eye 
you bruise easily or notice any unusual bleeding 
you feel extremely tired 
you notice lumps anywhere on your body 
you notice any changes to your skin, for example blisters or peeling 
your health suddenly gets worse 
Other side effects include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
Reduction in your bone marrow function, which may make you feel unwell or show up in your 
blood tests 
Suppression of bone marrow function generally returns to normal when the dose is adjusted. 
Signs of abnormal bone marrow function may be: increased susceptibility to infections, ulcers 
in the mouth and throat, increased bleeding, fatigue and poor mental and physical performance 
Low white blood cell level in your blood tests (leucopenia), which may cause infection 
Infections in transplant recipients who take Jayempi in combination with other 
immunosuppressants 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
Low blood platelet level (thrombocytopenia), which may cause you to bruise or bleed easily 
Nausea, occasionally combined with vomiting 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
Low red blood cell level (anaemia), which may cause you to be tired, get headaches, be short of 
breath when exercising, feel dizzy and look pale 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammation of the pancreas, especially in transplant recipients and in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease 
Infections in patients who have not received other immunosuppressants in combination with 
their azathioprine 
Hypersensitivity reactions. In very rare cases, fatal hypersensitivity reactions have occurred 
Liver problems, which may cause pale stools, dark urine, itchiness and yellowing of your skin 
and eyes 
Bile congestion 
Worsening of liver function values 
Liver damage and bile congestion are dose-dependent and they are usually decreased after the 
discontinuation of treatment. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Various types of cancer, including blood, lymph and skin cancer (malignant blood system 
disorders such as acute myeloid leukaemias and myelodysplasias, which are typical of immune 
system suppression 
Bone marrow failure resulting in reduction of the number of certain white or red blood cells 
(agranulocytosis, aplastic anaemia), of all blood cells (pancytopenia), increased occurrence of 
abnormal, unusually large immature red blood cells (megaloblastic anaemia) and of small red 
blood cells in the blood 
Although changes in the blood count usually occur at the start of therapy, they can also occur 
later, during the therapy. Therefore, a regular check of blood cell count is advised even for 
patients who remain stable, during long-term treatment 
Severe liver damage which can be life threatening, especially in transplant patients who receive 
long treatment 
In some cases, discontinuing treatment with Jayempi, may improve the symptoms 
Hair loss. In many cases, it may get better even though you continue to take azathioprine. The 
relation between hair loss and the use of azathioprine is not clear 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Anaemia due to increased red blood cell break down (haemolytic anaemia) 
Severe skin reactions with blistering and detachment of the skin, especially on the extremities, 
in the mouth, eyes and genital area, associated with poor general condition and fever (Stevens- 
Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
A variety of reactions of possibly allergic origin have been reported. Signs of such 
hypersensitivity reactions can be feeling unwell, dizziness, drowsiness, nausea (feeling sick), 
vomiting, diarrhoea, fever, chills, skin rash, vascular inflammation, muscle and joint pain, drop 
in blood pressure, kidney and liver problems and blockage of the bile duct (biliary obstruction). 
In very rare cases, fatal hypersensitivity reactions have been reported 
Pneumonia gets better after stopping treatment with Jayempi 
Severe inflammatory diseases of the colon (colitis, diverticulitis) and bowel perforation in 
transplant recipients 
Severe diarrhoea in patients with inflammatory bowel disease 
Gastrointestinal disturbance leading to diarrhoea, abdominal (belly) pain, constipation, nausea 
and vomiting 
A certain type of lymphoma (hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma) 
A disease of the white matter of the brain (PML), caused by the JC virus 
If you suffer from nausea with occasional vomiting, your doctor may ask you to take Jayempi 
after a meal to reduce these symptoms. Tell your doctor if you have severe diarrhoea or nausea 
and vomiting’ 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not known (frequency cannot be derived from the available data) 
- 
- 
You may develop a rash (raised red, pink or purple lumps which are sore to touch), particularly 
on your arms, hands, fingers, face and neck, which may also be accompanied by fever (Sweet’s 
syndrome, also known as acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis). 
Sensitivity to sunlight which can cause skin discoloration or a rash. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Jayempi 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the bottle after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed to prevent spoilage of the medicine and reduce the risk of 
accidental spillage. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Jayempi contains  
The active substance is azathioprine. One ml of suspension contains 10 mg azathioprine. 
The other ingredients are sodium benzoate (E211), sucralose (E955), banana flavour, citric acid 
monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium, xanthan gum and purified water. See 
section 2 “Jayempi contains sodium benzoate” and “Jayempi contains sodium”. 
What Jayempi looks like and contents of the pack 
Jayempi is a yellow, viscous oral suspension. It comes in glass bottles of 200 ml capped with a child- 
resistant closure. Each pack contains one bottle, a bottle adaptor and two dosing syringes (a syringe 
graduated to 3 ml and a syringe graduated to 10 ml). 
Your doctor or pharmacist will advise which syringe to use depending on the dose that has been 
prescribed 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland  
Manufacturer 
Pronav Clinical Ltd. 
Unit 5 
Dublin Road Business Park 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carraroe, Sligo 
F91 D439 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
To measure the dose in ml in accordance with the prescribed posology, two oral syringes are included 
in the pack; 3 ml and 10 ml. The oral syringes are graduated in 0.1 ml (1 mg) and 0.25 ml (2.5 mg) 
steps respectively. 
The table below shows, for a range of age, weight and doses, the dose (mg) to volume (ml) conversion 
using the two oral syringes. 
Table 1: Dose (mg) to volume (ml) conversion using the two oral syringes 
Age 
(Years) 
Weight* 
(Kg) 
0 
1 month 
2 month 
3 month 
4 month 
5 month 
6 month 
1.0 
1.5 
2.0 
3.0 
4.0 
5.0 
6.0 
7.0 
8.0 
9.0 
10.0 
12.0 
15.0 
18.0 
3.3 
4.5 
5.6 
6.4 
7.0 
7.5 
7.9 
9.6 
10.9 
12.2 
14.3 
16.3 
18.3 
20.5 
22.9 
25.4 
28.1 
31.2 
38.2 
55.5 
67.0 
1mg/kg 
2mg/kg 
Dose† 
3mg/kg 
4mg/kg 
5mg/kg 
mg 
3.3 
4.5 
5.6 
6.4 
7.0 
7.5 
7.9 
9.6 
10.9 
12.2 
14.3 
16.3 
18.3 
20.5 
22.9 
25.4 
28.1 
31.2 
38.2 
55.5 
67.0 
mg 
13.2 
18.0 
22.4 
25.6 
28.0 
30.0 
31.6 
38.4 
43.6 
48.8 
57.2 
65.2 
73.2 
82.0 
91.6 
mg 
9.9 
13.5 
16.8 
19.2 
21.0 
22.5 
23.7 
28.8 
32.7 
36.6 
42.9 
48.9 
54.9 
61.5 
68.7 
76.2 
84.3 
93.6 
mg 
6.6 
9.0 
11.2 
12.8 
14.0 
15.0 
15.8 
19.2 
21.8 
24.4 
28.6 
32.6 
36.6 
41.0 
45.8 
50.8 
56.2 
62.4 
76.4 
ml 
ml 
mg 
ml 
ml 
ml 
0.7 
1.7 
16.5 
1.3 
1.0 
0.3 
0.9 
2.3 
22.5 
1.8 
1.4 
0.5 
1.1 
2.8 
28.0 
2.2 
1.7 
0.6 
1.3 
3.25 
32.0 
2.6 
1.9 
0.6 
1.4 
3.50 
35.0 
2.8 
2.1 
0.7 
1.5 
3.75 
37.5 
3.0 
2.3 
0.8 
1.6 
4.00 
39.5 
3.25 
2.4 
0.8 
1.9 
4.75 
48.0 
3.75 
2.9 
1.0 
2.2 
5.50 
54.5 
4.25 
3.25 
1.1 
2.4 
6.00 
61.0 
5.00 
3.75 
1.2 
2.9 
7.25 
71.5 
5.75 
4.25 
1.4 
3.25 
8.25 
81.5 
6.50 
5.00 
1.6 
3.75 
7.25 
9.25 
91.5 
5.50 
1.8 
4.00 
8.25  102.5  10.25 
6.25 
2.1 
4.50 
7.00 
9.25  114.5  11.50 
2.3 
5.00 
7.50  101.6  10.25  127.0  12.75 
2.5 
5.50 
8.50  112.4  11.25  140.5  14.00 
2.8 
9.25  124.8  12.50  156.0  15.50 
6.25 
3.0 
3.75 
7.75  114.6  11.50  152.8  15.25  191.0  19.00 
5.50  111.0  11.00  166.5  16.75  222.0  22.25  277.5  27.75 
6.75  134.0  13.50  201.0  20.00  268.0  26.75  335.0  33.50 
*50th percentile for boys extracted from WHO (0-10 years) and UK (11-18 years) growth charts 
†Doses less than or equal to 30 mg to be drawn up using the 3 ml oral syringe with 0.1 ml graduations. 
Doses greater than 30 mg to be drawn up using the 10 ml oral syringe with 0.25 ml graduations 
(shaded cells). 
The healthcare professional should advise the patient or carer which syringe to use to ensure that the 
correct volume is administered. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
