EMA/212725/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005863 
Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib) 
An overview of Jaypirca and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Jaypirca and what is it used for? 
Jaypirca is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with mantle cell lymphoma (a cancer of B cells, a 
type of white blood cell) whose cancer has come back (relapsed) or no longer responds to treatment 
(refractory), and who had previously received a type of cancer medicine called a Bruton’s tyrosine 
kinase (BTK) inhibitor. 
Mantle cell lymphoma is rare, and Jaypirca was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 21 June 2021. Further information on the orphan designation can be found on the 
EMA website.  
Jaypirca contains the active substance pirtobrutinib. 
How is Jaypirca used? 
Jaypirca can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines. 
The medicine is available as tablets to be taken by mouth once daily. Treatment should be continued 
until the disease gets worse or the patient gets unacceptable side effects. 
For more information about using Jaypirca, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Jaypirca work? 
The active substance in Jaypirca, pirtobrutinib, works by blocking an enzyme called BTK, which is 
important for the growth of B cells, including the abnormal B cells in patients with mantle cell 
lymphoma. By blocking the action of BTK, the medicine is expected to slow the progression of the 
disease.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Jaypirca have been shown in studies? 
In a main study, Jaypirca was found to reduce the amount of cancer in the body or remove all signs of 
cancer in patients with MCL whose cancer had come back or did not respond to previous treatments, 
including with a BTK inhibitor.  
The main study involved 164 patients with MCL and the main analysis involved 90 patients who had 
been treated with a BTK inhibitor before and whose disease could be assessed using a scan. Jaypirca 
was not compared with another treatment in this study. 
Around 57% of patients (51 out of 90) had either a complete or partial response to Jaypirca, which 
means there was either no sign of the cancer left or the amount of cancer in the body had decreased 
after treatment. Around 19% had a complete response (17 out of 90). The response to treatment 
lasted on average 18 months.  
What are the risks associated with Jaypirca? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Jaypirca, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Jaypirca (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
tiredness, neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), diarrhoea and bruising. 
The most common serious side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include pneumonia 
(infection of the lungs), neutropenia, anaemia (low levels of red blood cells) and urinary tract infection 
(infection of the structures that carry urine). 
Why is Jaypirca authorised in the EU? 
Patients with MCL whose cancer has come back after previous treatments, including treatment with a 
BTK inhibitor, have few treatment options and a poor prognosis. Although data on Jaypirca at the time 
of authorisation were limited due to the small number of patients involved in the main study and the 
absence of a comparator, EMA considered that the proportion of patients who had a response to 
treatment and the average duration of this response represent a meaningful health benefit for patients 
with this aggressive form of cancer. 
In addition, the side effects of Jaypirca were considered manageable and appeared to be similar to 
those of other authorised BTK inhibitors.  
Jaypirca has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that EMA decided that the benefits of 
Jaypirca are greater than its risks, but the company will have to provide additional evidence after 
authorisation.  
Conditional authorisation is granted on the basis of less comprehensive data than are normally 
required. It is granted for medicines that fulfil an unmet medical need to treat serious diseases and 
when the benefits of having them available earlier outweigh any risks associated with using the 
medicines while waiting for further evidence. Every year, the Agency will review any new information 
that becomes available until data become comprehensive and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
Since Jaypirca was given conditional authorisation, at the time of authorisation the company marketing 
Jaypirca was required to provide the results of an ongoing study comparing Jaypirca with another BTK 
inhibitor in patients with MCL who had not been treated with a BTK inhibitor before. 
Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib)  
EMA/212725/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Jaypirca? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Jaypirca have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Jaypirca are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Jaypirca are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Jaypirca 
Jaypirca received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 October 2023. 
Further information on Jaypirca can be found on the Agency’s website:  
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/jaypirca.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2023. 
Jaypirca (pirtobrutinib)  
EMA/212725/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
