JCOVDEN : Periodic safety update report assessment 
25th February 2022 to 24th August 2022  
This document consists of: 
1. The PRAC assessment report of the JCOVDEN periodic safety update report (PSUR) 
covering the period 25th February 2022 to 24th August 2022, and; 
2. The JCOVDEN PSUR itself.  
The PSUR is a pharmacovigilance document intended to provide an evaluation of the risk-
benefit balance of the medicinal product during the reference period mentioned above.  
The objective of the PSUR is to present a comprehensive and critical analysis of the risk-benefit 
balance of the product, taking into account new or emerging safety information in the context 
of cumulative information on risk and benefits. The marketing authorisation holder is legally 
required to submit PSURs at defined time points after the authorisation of a medicinal product. 
EMA’s safety committee, the PRAC, assesses information in the PSUR to determine if there are 
new risks identified for a medicine and/or if its risk-benefit balance has changed. The outcome 
of this assessment is summarised in the PRAC assessment report of the PSUR. 
The PSUR and the PRAC assessment report of the PSUR include information about suspected 
side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed following the use of the vaccine, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine itself. Information on suspected 
side effects should not be interpreted as meaning that the vaccine or the active substance 
causes the observed event or is unsafe to use.  
Only a detailed evaluation and scientific assessment of all available data, as 
described in the PRAC assessment report of the PSUR, can determine the impact of 
new data on the benefits and risks of a medicine. 
Further information on the safety of COVID-19 vaccines and on PSUR submission and 
assessment is available on the EMA website. 
This document may contain redactions for commercially confidential information (CCI) and 
protected personal data (PPD) in accordance with applicable legislation and guidance. 
 
