ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
JEMPERLI 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial of 10 mL concentrate for solution for infusion contains 500 mg of dostarlimab. 
Each mL of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 50 mg of dostarlimab. 
Dostarlimab is an anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) 
humanised monoclonal antibody (mAb), produced by recombinant DNA technology in mammalian 
Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear to slightly opalescent colourless to yellow solution, essentially free from visible particles. 
The concentrate for solution for infusion has a pH of approximately 6.0 and an osmolality of 
approximately 300 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
JEMPERLI is indicated in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for the treatment of adult 
patients with mismatch repair deficient (dMMR)/ microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) primary 
advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer (EC) and who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
JEMPERLI is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with dMMR/MSI-H 
recurrent or advanced EC that has progressed on or following prior treatment with a 
platinum-containing regimen. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Therapy must be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the treatment of 
cancer. 
The identification of dMMR/MSI-H tumour status should be determined using a validated testing 
method such as IHC, PCR or NGS* (see section 5.1 for information on assays used in the studies). 
*IHC=immunohistochemistry; PCR=polymerase chain reaction; NGS=next-generation sequencing. 
Posology 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JEMPERLI in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel 
When JEMPERLI is administered in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, refer to the full 
Prescribing Information for the combination products (see also section 5.1). 
The recommended dose is 500 mg dostarlimab every 3 weeks in combination with carboplatin and 
paclitaxel every 3 weeks for 6 cycles followed by 1000 mg dostarlimab as monotherapy every 6 weeks 
for all cycles thereafter. 
The dosage regimen in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel is presented in Table 1. 
Table 1. Dosage regimen for JEMPERLI in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel 
500 mg once every 3 weeks 
in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxela  
(1 Cycle = 3 weeks) 
1000 mg once every 6 weeks as 
monotherapy until disease progression or 
unacceptable toxicity (1 Cycle = 6 weeks) 
Cycle 
Cycle 1 
Cycle 2  Cycle 3  Cycle 4  Cycle 5  Cycle 6 
Cycle 7  Cycle 8  Cycle 9 
Week 
1 
4 
7 
10 
13 
16 
19 
25 
31 
Continue 
dosing 
Q6W 
a Administer dostarlimab prior to carboplatin and paclitaxel on the same day. 
3 weeks between Cycle 6 and Cycle 7 
Administration of dostarlimab should continue according to the recommended schedule until disease 
progression or unacceptable toxicity, or for a duration of up to 3 years (see section 5.1). 
JEMPERLI monotherapy 
The recommended dose as monotherapy is 500 mg dostarlimab every 3 weeks for 4 cycles followed 
by 1000 mg every 6 weeks for all cycles thereafter. 
The dosage regimen as monotherapy is presented in Table 2. 
Table 2. Dosage regimen for JEMPERLI as monotherapy 
3 weeks between cycle 4 and cycle 5 
Administration of dostarlimab should continue according to the recommended schedule until disease 
progression or unacceptable toxicity (see section 5.1). 
Dose modifications 
Dose reduction is not recommended. Dosing delay or discontinuation may be required based on 
individual safety and tolerability. Recommended modifications to manage adverse reactions are 
provided in Table 3. 
Detailed guidelines for the management of immune-related adverse reactions and infusion-related 
reactions are described in section 4.4. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Recommended dose modifications for JEMPERLI 
Immune-related adverse 
reactions 
Severity gradea 
Dose modification 
Colitis 
Hepatitis 
2 or 3 
4 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Permanently discontinue. 
Grade 2 with ASTb or 
ALTc > 3 and  
up to 5 × ULNd  
or  
total bilirubin > 1.5 and 
up to 3 × ULN 
Grade ≥ 3 with AST or 
ALT > 5 × ULN  
or 
 total bilirubin > 3 × ULN 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Permanently discontinue (see 
exception below)e. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
(T1DM) 
3 or 4 (hyperglycaemia) 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing in 
appropriately managed, clinically 
and metabolically stable patients. 
Hypophysitis or adrenal 
insufficiency 
2, 3 or 4 
Hypothyroidism or 
hyperthyroidism 
Pneumonitis 
Nephritis 
Exfoliative dermatologic 
conditions (e.g. SJS, TEN, 
DRESS) 
3 or 4 
2 
3 or 4 
2 
3 or 4 
Suspected 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Permanently discontinue for 
recurrence or worsening while on 
adequate hormonal therapy. 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. If 
grade 2 recurs, permanently 
discontinue. 
Permanently discontinue. 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Permanently discontinue. 
Withhold dose for any grade. Restart 
dosing if not confirmed and when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Confirmed 
Permanently discontinue. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Recommended dose modifications for JEMPERLI 
Immune-related adverse 
reactions 
Severity gradea 
Dose modification 
Myocarditis 
2, 3 or 4 
Permanently discontinue. 
Severe neurological toxicities  
(myasthenic 
syndrome/myasthenia gravis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome, 
encephalitis, transverse 
myelitis) 
Other immune-related adverse 
reactions (including but not 
limited to myositis, 
sarcoidosis, autoimmune 
haemolytic anaemia, 
pancreatitis, iridocyclitis, 
uveitis, diabetic ketoacidosis, 
arthralgia, solid organ 
transplant rejection, graft-
versus-host disease) 
Recurrence of immune-related 
adverse reactions after 
resolution to ≤ grade 1 (except 
for pneumonitis, see above) 
2, 3 or 4 
Permanently discontinue. 
3 
4 
Withhold dose. Restart dosing when 
toxicity resolves to grade 0 or 1. 
Permanently discontinue. 
3 or 4 
Permanently discontinue. 
Other adverse reactions 
Severity gradea 
Dose modification 
Withhold dose. If resolved within 1 
hour of stopping, may be restarted at 
50 % of the original infusion rate, or 
restart when symptoms resolve with 
pre-medication. If grade 2 recurs 
with adequate premedication, 
permanently discontinue. 
Permanently discontinue. 
Infusion-related reactions 
2 
3 or 4 
a Toxicity graded per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
(CTCAE) version 5.0. 
b AST = aspartate aminotransferase 
c ALT = alanine aminotransferase 
d ULN = upper limit of normal 
e For patients with liver metastases who begin treatment with grade 2 increase of AST or ALT, if AST 
or ALT increases by ≥ 50 % relative to baseline and lasts for at least 1 week, then treatment should be 
discontinued. 
Patient Card 
All prescribers of JEMPERLI should inform patients about the Patient Card, explaining what to do 
should they experience any symptom of immune-related adverse reactions. The physician will provide 
the Patient Card to each patient. 
Special populations 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients who are aged 65 years or over. 
There are limited clinical data with dostarlimab in patients aged 75 years or over (see section 5.1). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. There are 
limited data in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease undergoing dialysis 
(see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment. There are limited data 
in patients with moderate hepatic impairment and no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of JEMPERLI in children and adolescents aged under 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
JEMPERLI is for intravenous infusion only. JEMPERLI should be administered by intravenous 
infusion using an intravenous infusion pump over 30 minutes. 
JEMPERLI must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the tradename and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Immune-related adverse reactions 
Immune-related adverse reactions, which may be severe or fatal, can occur in patients treated with 
antibodies blocking the programmed cell death protein-1 / programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) 
pathway, including dostarlimab. While immune-related adverse reactions usually occur during 
treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 blocking antibodies, symptoms can also manifest after discontinuation of 
treatment. Immune-related adverse reactions may occur in any organ or tissue and may affect more 
than one body system simultaneously. Important immune-related adverse reactions listed in this 
section are not inclusive of all possible severe and fatal immune-related reactions. 
Early identification and management of immune-related adverse reactions are essential to ensure safe 
use of PD-1/PD-L1 blocking antibodies. Patients should be monitored for symptoms and signs of 
immune-related adverse reactions. Haematological and clinical chemistries, including liver, kidney 
and thyroid function tests, should be evaluated at baseline and periodically during treatment. For 
suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation including specialty consultation 
should be ensured. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, treatment with dostarlimab should be withheld or 
permanently discontinued and corticosteroids (1 to 2 mg/kg/day prednisone or equivalent) or other 
appropriate therapy administered (see below and section 4.2). Upon improvement to Grade ≤1, 
corticosteroid taper should be initiated and continued for 1 month or longer. Based on limited data 
from clinical studies in patients whose immune-related adverse reactions could not be controlled with 
corticosteroid use, administration of other systemic immunosuppressants can be considered. Hormone 
replacement therapy for endocrinopathies should be instituted as warranted. 
Treatment with dostarlimab should be permanently discontinued for any Grade 3 immune-related 
adverse reaction that recurs and for any Grade 4 immune-related adverse reaction toxicity, except for 
endocrinopathies that are controlled with replacement hormones and unless otherwise specified in 
Table 3. 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
Pneumonitis has been reported in patients receiving dostarlimab (see section 4.8). Patients should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms of pneumonitis. Suspected pneumonitis should be confirmed with 
radiographic imaging and other causes excluded. Patients should be managed with dostarlimab 
treatment modifications and corticosteroids (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related colitis 
Dostarlimab can cause immune-related colitis (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs 
and symptoms of colitis and managed with dostarlimab treatment modifications, anti-diarrhoeal agents 
and corticosteroids (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related hepatitis 
Dostarlimab can cause immune-related hepatitis (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for 
changes in liver function periodically as indicated, based on clinical evaluation and managed with 
dostarlimab treatment modifications and corticosteroids (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related endocrinopathies 
Immune-related endocrinopathies, including hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyroiditis, 
hypophysitis, type 1 diabetes mellitus, diabetic ketoacidosis and adrenal insufficiency, have been 
reported in patients receiving dostarlimab (see section 4.8). 
Hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism 
Immune-related hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism (including thyroiditis) occurred in patients 
receiving dostarlimab, and hypothyroidism may follow hyperthyroidism. Patients should be monitored 
for abnormal thyroid function tests prior to and periodically during treatment and as indicated based 
on clinical evaluation. Immune-related hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism (including thyroiditis) 
should be managed as recommended in section 4.2. 
Adrenal insufficiency 
Immune-related adrenal insufficiency occurred in patients receiving dostarlimab. Patients should be 
monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. For symptomatic adrenal 
insufficiency, patients should be managed as recommended in section 4.2. 
Immune-related nephritis 
Dostarlimab can cause immune-related nephritis (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for 
changes in renal function and manage with dostarlimab treatment modifications and corticosteroids 
(see section 4.2). 
Immune-related rash 
Immune-related rash has been reported in patients receiving dostarlimab, including pemphigoid (see 
section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of rash. Exfoliative dermatologic 
conditions should be managed as recommended in section 4.2. Events of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome 
or toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported in patients treated with PD-1 inhibitors. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caution should be used when considering the use of dostarlimab in a patient who has previously 
experienced a severe or life-threatening skin adverse reaction on prior treatment with other 
immune-stimulatory anticancer agents. 
Immune-related arthralgia 
Immune-related arthralgia has been reported in patients receiving dostarlimab (see section 4.8). 
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of arthralgia. Suspected immune-related 
arthralgia should be confirmed and other causes excluded. Patients should be managed with 
dostarlimab treatment modifications and corticosteroids (see section 4.2). 
Other immune-related adverse reactions 
Given the mechanism of action of dostarlimab other potential immune-related adverse reactions may 
occur, including potentially serious events [e.g. myositis, myocarditis, encephalitis, demyelinating 
neuropathy (including Guillain Barré syndrome), sarcoidosis]. Clinically significant immune-related 
adverse reactions reported in less than 1 % of patients treated with dostarlimab as monotherapy in 
clinical studies include encephalitis, autoimmune haemolytic anaemia, pancreatitis, iridocyclitis and 
uveitis. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of immune-related adverse reactions and 
managed as described in section 4.2. Solid organ transplant rejection has been reported in the post-
marketing setting in patients treated with PD-1 inhibitors. Treatment with dostarlimab may increase 
the risk of rejection in solid organ transplant recipients. The benefit of treatment with dostarlimab 
versus the risk of possible organ rejection should be considered in these patients. 
Fatal and other serious complications can occur in patients who receive allogeneic haematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation (HSCT) before or after being treated with a PD-1/PD-L1–blocking antibody. 
Transplant-related complications include hyperacute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), acute GvHD, 
chronic GvHD, hepatic veno-occlusive disease after reduced intensity conditioning, and steroid-
requiring febrile syndrome (without an identified infectious cause). These complications may occur 
despite intervening therapy between PD-1/PD-L1 blockade and allogeneic HSCT. Follow patients 
closely for evidence of transplant-related complications and intervene promptly. Consider the benefit 
versus risks of treatment with a PD-1/PD-L1–blocking antibody prior to or after an allogeneic HSCT. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Dostarlimab can cause infusion-related reactions, which can be severe (see section 4.8). For severe 
(grade 3) or life-threatening (grade 4) infusion-related reactions, the infusion should be stopped and 
treatment should be permanently discontinued (see section 4.2).  
Patients excluded from clinical studies  
Patients with the following status were excluded from the GARNET study: Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) baseline performance score (PS) ≥ 2; uncontrolled central nervous system 
metastases or carcinomatous meningitis; other malignancies within the last 2 years; immunodeficiency 
or receiving immunosuppressive therapy within 7 days; active HIV, hepatitis B or hepatitis C 
infection; active autoimmune disease requiring systemic treatment in the past 2 years excluding 
replacement therapy; history of interstitial lung disease; or receiving live vaccine within 14 days.  
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 500 mg dose, i.e. essentially 
'sodium-free'.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No interaction studies have been performed. Monoclonal antibodies (mAb) such as dostarlimab are not 
substrates for cytochrome P450 or active substance transporters. Dostarlimab is not a cytokine and is 
unlikely to be a cytokine modulator. Additionally, pharmacokinetic (PK) interaction of dostarlimab 
with small molecule active substances is not expected. There is no evidence of interaction mediated by 
non-specific clearance of lysosome degradation for antibodies. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception 
There is a risk associated with the administration of dostarlimab to women of childbearing potential. 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment with dostarlimab 
and until 4 months after the last dose of dostarlimab. 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data on the use of dostarlimab in pregnant women. Based on its 
mechanism of action, dostarlimab can cause foetal harmful pharmacological effects when 
administered during pregnancy. 
Animal reproduction and development studies have not been conducted with dostarlimab; however, 
inhibition of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway can lead to increased risk of immune-mediated rejection of the 
developing foetus resulting in foetal death (see section 5.3). Human immunoglobulins (IgG4) are 
known to cross the placental barrier, and therefore, being an IgG4, dostarlimab has the potential to be 
transmitted from the mother to the developing foetus. 
JEMPERLI is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
effective contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether dostarlimab/metabolites are excreted in human milk. 
A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. 
JEMPERLI should not be used during breast-feeding and breast-feeding should be avoided for at least 
4 months after the last dose of dostarlimab. 
Fertility 
Fertility studies have not been conducted with dostarlimab (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
JEMPERLI has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
Dostarlimab is most commonly associated with immune-related adverse reactions. Most of these, 
including severe reactions, resolved following initiation of appropriate medical therapy or withdrawal 
of dostarlimab (see “Description of selected adverse reactions” below). 
Dostarlimab in monotherapy 
The safety of dostarlimab has been evaluated in 605 patients with EC or other advanced solid tumours 
who received dostarlimab monotherapy in the GARNET study, including 153 patients with advanced 
or recurrent dMMR/MSI-H EC. Patients received doses of 500 mg every 3 weeks for 4 cycles 
followed by 1000 mg every 6 weeks for all cycles thereafter. 
In patients with advanced or recurrent solid tumours (N = 605), the most common adverse reactions 
(> 10 %) were anaemia (28.6 %), diarrhoea (26.0 %), nausea (25.8 %), vomiting (19.0 %), arthralgia 
(17.0 %), pruritus (14.2 %), rash (13.2 %), pyrexia (12.4 %), aspartate aminotransferase increased 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(11.2 %) and hypothyroidism (11.2 %). JEMPERLI was permanently discontinued due to adverse 
reactions in 38 (6.3 %) patients; most of them were immune-related events. Adverse reactions were 
serious in 11.2 % of patients; most serious adverse reactions were immune-related adverse reactions 
(see section 4.4). 
The safety profile for patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC in the GARNET study (N=153) was not 
different from that of the overall monotherapy population presented in Table 4. 
Dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel 
The safety of dostarlimab has been evaluated in 241 patients with primary advanced or recurrent EC 
who received dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in the RUBY study. Patients 
received doses of 500 mg dostarlimab every 3 weeks for 6 cycles followed by 1000 mg every 6 weeks 
for all cycles thereafter. 
In patients with primary advanced or recurrent EC (N = 241), the most common adverse reactions 
(> 10 %) were rash (22.8 %), rash maculopapular (14.1%), hypothyroidism (14.1 %), alanine 
aminotransferase increased (12.9 %), aspartate aminotransferase increased (12.0 %), pyrexia (12.0 %) 
and dry skin (10.4 %). JEMPERLI was permanently discontinued due to adverse reactions in 12 
(5.0 %) patients; most were immune-related events. Adverse reactions were serious in 5.8 % of 
patients; most serious adverse reactions were immune-related adverse reactions (see section 4.4). 
In the RUBY study the safety profile for patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC (N=52) was not different 
from that of the overall population (N=241) presented in Table 4. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in clinical trials of dostarlimab as a monotherapy or in combination with 
chemotherapy are listed in Table 4 by system organ class and by frequency. The frequencies of 
adverse reactions listed in the dostarlimab monotherapy column are based on all-cause adverse event 
frequency identified in 605 patients with advanced or recurrent solid tumours from the GARNET 
study exposed to dostarlimab monotherapy for a median duration of treatment of 24 weeks (range: 
1 week to 229 weeks). Unless otherwise stated, the frequencies of adverse reactions listed in the 
dostarlimab in combination with chemotherapy column are based on all-cause adverse event frequency 
identified in 241 patients with primary advanced or recurrent EC from the RUBY study exposed to 
dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for a median duration of treatment of 
43 weeks (range: 3 to 151 weeks). For additional safety information when dostarlimab is administered 
in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, refer to the respective Prescribing Information for the 
combination products. 
Adverse reactions known to occur with dostarlimab as monotherapy, or with carboplatin or paclitaxel 
given alone, may occur during treatment with these medicinal products in combination, even if these 
reactions were not reported in clinical studies with dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and 
paclitaxel. These reactions are presented by system organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are 
defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10000 to < 1/1000); very rare (< 1/10000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). 
Table 4: Adverse reactions in patients treated with dostarlimab 
Dostarlimab monotherapy 
Dostarlimab in combination 
with chemotherapy 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very common 
Endocrine disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Anaemiaa 
Hypothyroidism*b 
Hyperthyroidism*, adrenal 
insufficiency* 
10 
Hypothyroidisme 
Hyperthyroidism, adrenal 
insufficiency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dostarlimab monotherapy 
Uncommon 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Uncommon 
Thyroiditis*c, hypophysitisd 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus, diabetic 
ketoacidosis 
Dostarlimab in combination 
with chemotherapy 
Thyroiditis 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Encephalitis, myasthenia gravis  Myasthenic syndromef 
Uveitisg 
Nervous system disorders 
Uncommon 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Pneumonitis*i 
Common 
Uncommon 
Diarrhoea, nausea,  
vomiting 
Colitis*j, pancreatitisk, gastritis 
Oesophagitis 
Hepatitis*m 
Rash*n, pruritus 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Arthralgia* 
Myalgia 
Immune-mediated arthritis, 
polymyalgia rheumatica, 
immune-mediated myositis 
Nephritis*q 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Pyrexia 
Very common 
Chills 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Very common 
Transaminases increasedr 
Uveitis 
Myocarditish 
Pneumonitis 
Colitisl 
Pancreatitis, 
immune mediated gastritisf, 
vasculitis gastrointestinalf 
Rasho, dry skin 
Immune-mediated arthritis, 
myositisp 
Pyrexia 
Systemic inflammatory response 
syndromep 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased,  
aspartate aminotransferase 
increased 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Infusion-related reaction*s 
Common 
* See section ‘Description of selected adverse reactions.’ 
a Includes anaemia and autoimmune haemolytic anaemia 
b Includes hypothyroidism and autoimmune hypothyroidism 
c Includes thyroiditis and autoimmune thyroiditis 
d Includes hypophysitis and lymphocytic hypophysitis 
e Includes hypothyroidism and immune-mediated hypothyroidism 
f Reported from ongoing blinded trial of dostarlimab in combination; estimated frequency category 
g Includes uveitis and iridocyclitis 
h Includes myocarditis (combination with chemotherapy) and immune-mediated myocarditis from ongoing 
blinded trial of dostarlimab in combination; estimated frequency category 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i Includes pneumonitis, interstitial lung disease and immune-mediated lung disease 
j Includes colitis, enterocolitis and immune-mediated enterocolitis  
k Includes pancreatitis and pancreatitis acute 
l Includes colitis (combination with chemotherapy) and enteritis reported from ongoing trial of dostarlimab in 
combination 
m Includes hepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis and hepatic cytolysis 
n Includes rash, rash maculo-papular, erythema, rash macular, rash pruritic, rash erythematous, rash papular, 
erythema multiforme, skin toxicity, drug eruption, toxic skin eruption, exfoliative rash and pemphigoid  
o Includes rash and rash maculo-papular  
p Reported in ongoing trial of dostarlimab in combination 
q Includes nephritis and tubulointerstitial nephritis 
r Includes transaminases increased, alanine aminotransferases increased, aspartate aminotransferases increased 
and hypertransaminasaemia 
s Includes infusion-related reaction and hypersensitivity. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
The selected adverse reactions described below are based on the safety of dostarlimab in a combined 
monotherapy safety database of 605 patients in the GARNET study in patients with EC or other 
advanced solid tumours. Immune-related adverse reactions were defined as events of grade 2 and 
above; the frequencies below exclude grade 1 events. The management guidelines for these adverse 
reactions are described in section 4.2. 
Immune-related adverse reactions (see section 4.4) 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
Immune-related pneumonitis occurred in 14 (2.3 %) patients, including grade 2 (1.3 %), grade 3 
(0.8 %) and grade 4 (0.2 %) pneumonitis. Pneumonitis led to discontinuation of dostarlimab in 8 
(1.3 %) patients. 
Systemic corticosteroids (prednisone ≥ 40 mg per day or equivalent) were required in 11 
(78.6 %) patients experiencing pneumonitis. Pneumonitis resolved in 11 (78.6 %) patients. 
Immune-related colitis 
Colitis occurred in 8 (1.3 %) patients, including grade 2 (0.7 %) and grade 3 (0.7 %) colitis. Colitis did 
not lead to discontinuation of dostarlimab in any patients. 
Systemic corticosteroids (prednisone ≥ 40 mg per day or equivalent) were required in 5 (62.5 %) 
patients. Colitis resolved in 5 (62.5 %) patients experiencing colitis. 
Immune-related hepatitis 
Hepatitis occurred in 3 (0.5 %) patients, all of which were grade 3. Systemic corticosteroids 
(prednisone ≥ 40 mg per day or equivalent) were required in 2 (66.7 %) patients. Hepatitis led to 
discontinuation of dostarlimab in 1 (0.2%) patient and resolved in 2 of the 3 patients. 
Immune-mediated endocrinopathies 
Hypothyroidism occurred in 46 (7.6 %) patients, all of which were grade 2. Hypothyroidism did not 
lead to discontinuation of dostarlimab and resolved in 17 (37.0 %) patients. 
Hyperthyroidism occurred in 14 (2.3 %) patients, including grade 2 (2.1 %) and grade 3 (0.2 %). 
Hyperthyroidism did not lead to discontinuation of dostarlimab and resolved in 10 (71.4 %) patients.  
Thyroiditis occurred in 3 (0.5 %) patients; all were grade 2. None of the events of thyroiditis resolved; 
there were no discontinuations of dostarlimab due to thyroiditis. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adrenal insufficiency occurred in 7 (1.2 %) patients, including grade 2 (0.5 %), and grade 3 (0.7 %). 
Adrenal insufficiency resulted in discontinuation of dostarlimab in 1 (0.2 %) patient and resolved in 4 
(57.1 %) patients. 
Immune-mediated nephritis 
Nephritis, including tubulointerstitial nephritis, occurred in 3 (0.5 %) patients; all were grade 2. 
Systemic corticosteroids (prednisone ≥ 40 mg per day or equivalent) were required in 2 (66.7 %) 
patients experiencing nephritis. Nephritis led to discontinuation of dostarlimab in 1 (0.2 %) patient and 
resolved in all 3 patients. 
Immune-related rash 
Immune-related rash (rash, rash maculo-papular, rash macular, rash pruritic, pemphigoid, drug 
eruption, skin toxicity, toxic skin eruption) occurred in 31 (5.1 %) patients, including Grade 3 in 9 
(1.5 %) patients receiving dostarlimab. The median time to onset of rash was 57 days (range 2 days to 
1485 days). Systemic corticosteroids (prednisone ≥ 40 mg per day or equivalent) were required in 9 
(29.0 %) patients experiencing rash. Rash led to discontinuation of dostarlimab in 1 (0.2 %) patient 
and resolved in 24 (77.4 %) patients. 
Immune-related arthralgia 
Immune-related arthralgia occurred in 34 (5.6 %) patients. Grade 3 immune-related arthralgia was 
reported in 5 (0.8 %) patients receiving dostarlimab. The median time to onset of arthralgia was 
94.5 days (range 1 day to 840 days). Systemic corticosteroids (prednisone ≥ 40 mg per day or 
equivalent) were required in 3 (8.8 %) patients experiencing arthralgia. Arthralgia led to 
discontinuation of dostarlimab in 1 (0.2 %) patient and resolved in 19 (55.9 %) patients experiencing 
arthralgia. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Infusion-related reactions including hypersensitivity occurred in 6 (1.0 %) patients, including grade 2 
(0.3 %) and grade 3 (0.2 %) infusion-related reactions. All patients recovered from the infusion-related 
reaction. 
Immunogenicity 
In the GARNET study, anti-drug antibodies (ADA) were tested in 315 patients who received 
dostarlimab and the incidence of dostarlimab treatment-emergent ADAs was 2.5 %. Neutralising 
antibodies were detected in 1.3 % of patients. Co-administration with carboplatin and paclitaxel did 
not affect dostarlimab immunogenicity. In the RUBY study, of the 225 patients who were treated with 
dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel and evaluable for the presence of ADAs, 
there was no incidence of dostarlimab treatment-emergent ADA or treatment‑emergent neutralising 
antibodies.  
In the patients who developed ADAs, there was no evidence of altered efficacy or safety of 
dostarlimab. 
Elderly population 
Of the 605 patients treated with dostarlimab monotherapy, 51.6 % were under 65 years, 36.9 % were 
65 to less than 75 years, and 11.5 % were 75 years or older. No overall differences in safety were 
reported between elderly (≥ 65 years) and younger patients (< 65 years). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose  
If overdose is suspected, the patient should be monitored for any signs or symptoms of adverse 
reactions or effects, and appropriate symptomatic treatment instituted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Anti-neoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug 
conjugates, ATC code: L01FF07  
Mechanism of action 
Dostarlimab is a humanised mAb of the IgG4 isotype that binds to PD-1 receptors and blocks the 
interactions of binding with its ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2. The inhibition of PD-1 pathway-mediated 
immune response results in inhibition of T-cell function such as proliferation, cytokine production, 
and cytotoxic activity. Dostarlimab potentiates T-cell responses, including anti-tumour immuno 
responses through blockade of PD-1 binding to PD-L1 and PD-L2. In syngeneic mouse tumour 
models, blocking PD-1 activity resulted in decreased tumour growth. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
RUBY: Randomised controlled study of dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel in 
treatment of adult patients with primary advanced or recurrent EC  
The efficacy and safety of dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin-paclitaxel were investigated in 
a multicentre, randomised, double blinded, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study conducted in patients 
with primary advanced or recurrent EC. 
Patients were randomised (1:1) to receive dostarlimab 500 mg plus carboplatin AUC 5 mg/mL/min 
and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 6 cycles followed by dostarlimab 1000 mg every 6 weeks 
(n = 245) or placebo plus carboplatin AUC 5 mg/mL/min and paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 
6 cycles followed by placebo every 6 weeks (n = 249). Randomisation was stratified by MMR/MSI 
status, prior external pelvic radiotherapy, and disease status (recurrent, primary Stage III, or primary 
Stage IV). Treatment continued for up to 3 years or until unacceptable toxicity, disease progression or 
investigator decision. Assessment of tumour status was performed every 6 weeks through week 25, 
every 9 weeks through week 52 and every 12 weeks thereafter. After a median follow-up of 
30 months, 6 out of 53 patients randomised to dostarlimab plus carboplatin-paclitaxel have received 
treatment for >3 years (cut-off date 01 Mar 2023). 
The key eligibility criteria for the study were International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics 
(FIGO) primary Stage III or Stage IV disease, including Stage IIIA to IIIC1 disease with presence of 
evaluable or measurable disease per RECIST v.1.1, Stage IIIC1 patients with carcinosarcoma, clear 
cell, serous, or mixed histology (containing ≥10% carcinosarcoma, clear cell, or serous histology) 
regardless of presence of evaluable or measurable disease on imaging, Stage IIIC2 or Stage IV disease 
regardless of presence of evaluable or measurable disease. The study also included patients with first 
recurrent EC with a low potential for cure by radiation therapy or surgery alone or in combination, 
including patients who had first recurrent disease and were naïve to systemic anticancer therapy or 
who had received prior neo-adjuvant/adjuvant systemic anticancer therapy and had a recurrence or 
progressive disease ≥6 months after completing treatment (first recurrence). Prior radiation was not 
permitted within 21 days of study treatment excluding palliative radiotherapy which was permitted 
within up to 1 week of study treatment.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy outcome measures were progression-free survival (PFS) assessed by the 
investigator according to RECIST v1.1 in subjects with dMMR/MSI-H primary advanced or recurrent 
EC and in all subjects (overall ITT population) with primary advanced or recurrent EC, and overall 
survival (OS) in all subjects (overall ITT population) with primary advanced or recurrent EC.   
A total of 118 patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC were evaluated for efficacy in the RUBY study. 
Baseline demographics and characteristics were: median age 64 years (34% aged 65 to 74 years and 
15% aged 75 years or older); 85% White, 9% Black, 2% Asian; ECOG PS 0 (57%) or 1 (43%); 
primary stage III 21%, primary stage IV 30%, recurrent EC 49%; endometrioid carcinoma 85%, 
mixed carcinoma 5%, carcinosarcoma 4%, serous carcinoma 2%, other 4%; and prior surgery 92%, 
prior radiotherapy (35%), prior anti-cancer therapy (14%). 
The identification of dMMR/MSI-H tumour status was prospectively determined based on local 
testing assays (IHC, PCR or NGS), or central testing (IHC) when no local result was available. 
Efficacy results are shown in Table 5 and Figure 1. All endpoints are presented at the primary analysis 
for PFS with median follow up of 25 months. OS results are based on the first OS interim analysis. 
The RUBY study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in PFS by investigator in 
patients randomised to dostarlimab plus carboplatin-paclitaxel versus placebo plus carboplatin-
paclitaxel. 
Table 5: Efficacy results in RUBY for patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC 
Endpoint 
Dostarlimab + 
carboplatin-paclitaxel 
(N=53)a 
Placebo + 
carboplatin-paclitaxel 
(N=65)a 
Progression free-survival (PFS) 
Median in months (95% CI)b 
Number (%) of patients with event 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)c 
p-valueb 
Overall survival (OS)d 
Median in months 
Number (%) of patients with event 
Hazard ratio (95%  CI)c 
Not reached 
19 (35.8) 
7.7 (5.6, 9.7) 
47 (72.3) 
0.28 (0.16, 0.50) 
<0.0001 
Not reached 
7 (13.2) 
Not reached 
24 (36.9) 
0.30 (0.13, 0.70) 
CI: Confidence interval 
a Efficacy data with a median follow-up of 25 months (cut-off date 28 Sept 2022). 
b One-sided p-value based on stratified log-rank test. 
c Based on stratified Cox regression model. 
d Not statistically significant since no hypothesis testing was performed for overall survival in the 
dMMR/MSI-H population. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curve of progression-free survival per investigator assessment in 
patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC (RUBY study) 
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
p
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
P
1.0 
0.8 
0.6 
0.4 
0.2 
0.0
Dostarlimab + 
Carboplatin-Paclitaxel 
Placebo+ 
Carboplatin-Paclitaxel 
Dostarlimab + Carboplatin-Paclitaxel
Dostarlimab + Carboplatin-Paclitaxel 
Placebo + Carboplatin-Paclitaxel 
Placebo + Carboplatin-Paclitaxel
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
34
Numbers at Risk (Number of events) 
53(0) 
39(10) 
44(6) 
48(3) 
34(15) 
Time from Randomisation (Months) 
31(17) 
30(18) 
29(19) 
28(19) 
27(19) 
25(19) 
19(19) 
13(19) 
9(19) 
9(19) 
4(19) 
1(19) 
0(19) 
65(0) 
57(4) 
54(7) 
34(24) 
26(32) 
14(41) 
12(43) 
12(43) 
11(44) 
8(46) 
8(46) 
7(47) 
4(47) 
3(47) 
3(47) 
2(47) 
1(47) 
0(47) 
GARNET: adult patients with recurrent or advanced dMMR/MSI-H EC who have progressed on or 
after treatment with a platinum-containing regimen 
The efficacy and safety of dostarlimab monotherapy were investigated in the GARNET study, a 
multicentre, uncontrolled, multiple parallel cohort, open-label study. The GARNET study included 
expansion cohorts in subjects with recurrent or advanced solid tumours who have limited available 
treatment options. Cohort A1 enrolled patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC who have progressed on or 
after a platinum-containing regimen. 
Patients received 500 mg dostarlimab every 3 weeks for 4 cycles followed by 1000 mg dostarlimab 
every 6 weeks. Treatment continued until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression for up to 
two years. 
The major efficacy outcome measures were objective response rate (ORR) and duration of response 
(DOR) as assessed by blinded independent central radiologists’ (BICR) review according to response 
evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST) v 1.1. The efficacy population was defined as patients 
who had measurable disease by BICR at baseline and had minimum of 24 weeks follow-up or had less 
than 24 weeks of follow-up and discontinued due to adverse events or disease progression. 
A total of 143 patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC were evaluated for efficacy in the GARNET study. 
Among these 143 patients, the baseline characteristics were: median age of 65 years (52 % aged 
65 years or older); 77 % white, 3.5 % Asian, 2.8 % black; and ECOG PS 0 (39 %) or 1 (61 %). At the 
time of diagnosis, 21 % of the patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC were FIGO Stage IV. At study entry 
(the most recent FIGO stage), 67 % of the patients were FIGO Stage IV. The median number of prior 
lines of therapy was one: 63 % of patients had one prior line, 37 % had two or more prior lines. Forty-
nine patients (34 %) received treatment only in the neoadjuvant or adjuvant setting before participating 
in the study. 
The identification of dMMR/MSI-H tumour status was prospectively determined based on local 
testing. Local diagnostic assays (IHC, PCR or NGS) available at the sites were used for the detection 
of the dMMR/MSI-H expression in tumour material. Most of the sites used IHC as it was the most 
common assay available. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 includes the efficacy data for the 143 patients. The overall median treatment duration in weeks 
was 34 (range 2 to 220). Twenty four percent of subjects who received any amount of dostarlimab 
received treatment >102 weeks (2 years). 
Table 6: Efficacy results in GARNET for patients with dMMR/MSI-H EC 
Endpoint 
Objective response rate (ORR) 
ORR n (%) 
(95 % CI) 
Complete response rate, n (%) 
Partial response rate, n (%) 
Duration of response (DOR)b 
Median in months  
Patients with duration ≥ 12 months, n (%) 
Patients with duration ≥ 24 months, n (%) 
Disease control rate (DCR)c 
Results 
(N=143)a 
65 (45.5) 
(37.1, 54.0) 
23 (16.1) 
42 (29.4) 
Not reached 
52 (80.0) 
29 (44.6) 
  DCR n (%) 
  (95 % CI) 
CI: Confidence interval 
a Efficacy data with a median follow-up of 27.6 months (cut-off date 01 Nov 2021) 
b For patients with a partial or complete response.  
c Includes patient with complete response, partial response and stable disease for at least 12 weeks. 
86 (60.1) 
(51.6, 68.2) 
Efficacy and PD-L1 status 
Clinical activity was observed regardless of tumour PD-L1 combined positive score (CPS) by IHC. 
The relationship between PD-L1 status and efficacy was analysed post-hoc in patients with available 
tissue samples (N = 81) among the efficacy population from Cohort A1 of the GARNET study using a 
data cut-off date of 01 March 2020. Among 23 patients with PD-L1 CPS < 1 %, ORR was 30.4 % 
(7/23, 95 % CI 13.2, 52.9) and among 58 patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 1 %, ORR was 55.2 % (32/58, 
95 % CI 41.5, 68.3). 
Elderly patients 
Of the 108 patients treated with dostarlimab in the GARNET study efficacy population, 50.0 % were 
older than 65 years. 
Consistent results were observed in the elderly population, where the ORR by BICR (95 % CI) was 
42.6 % (29.2 %, 56.8 %) in patients ≥ 65 years. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
dostarlimab in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of all conditions included in the 
category of malignant neoplasms, except haematopoietic and lymphoid tissue (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use).  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of dostarlimab were assessed as a monotherapy and when administered in 
combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel. 
Dostarlimab monotherapy or in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel was characterised using 
population PK analysis from 869 patients with various solid tumours, including 546 patients with EC. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When dosed at the recommended therapeutic dose for monotherapy (500 mg administered 
intravenously every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by 1000 mg every 6 weeks), or at the recommended 
therapeutic dose for combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel (500 mg administered intravenously 
every 3 weeks for 6 doses, followed by 1000 mg every 6 weeks), dostarlimab shows an approximate 
two-fold accumulation (Cmin), consistent with the terminal half-life (t1/2). The exposure of dostarlimab 
as monotherapy and/or in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel was similar. 
Absorption 
Dostarlimab is administered via the intravenous route and therefore estimates of absorption are not 
applicable. 
Distribution 
The mean volume of distribution of dostarlimab at steady state is approximately 5.8 L (CV % of 
14.9 %). 
Biotransformation 
Dostarlimab is a therapeutic mAb IgG4 that is expected to be catabolised into small peptides, amino 
acids, and small carbohydrates by lysosome through fluid-phase or receptor-mediated endocytosis. 
The degradation products are eliminated by renal excretion or returned to the nutrient pool without 
biological effects. 
Elimination 
The mean clearance is 0.007 L/h (CV % of 30.2 %) at steady state. The t1/2 at steady state is 23.2 days 
(CV % of 20.8 %). 
Dostarlimab clearance was estimated to be 7.8% lower when dostarlimab was given in combination 
with carboplatin and paclitaxel. There was no meaningful impact on dostarlimab exposure. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Exposure (both maximum concentration [Cmax] and the area under the concentration-time curve, 
[AUC0-tau] and [AUC0-inf]) was approximately dose proportional. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
Based on exposure efficacy and safety relationships, there are no clinically significant differences in 
efficacy and safety when doubling the exposure of dostarlimab. Full receptor occupancy as measured 
by both the direct PD-1 binding and interleukin 2 (IL-2) production functional assay was maintained 
throughout the dosing interval at the recommended therapeutic dosing regimen. 
Special populations 
A population PK analysis of the patient data indicates that there are no clinically important effects of 
age (range: 24 to 86 years), gender or race, ethnicity, or tumour type on the clearance of dostarlimab. 
Renal impairment 
Renal impairment was evaluated based on the estimated creatinine clearance [CLCR mL/min] (normal: 
CLCR ≥ 90 mL/min, n = 305; mild: CLCR = 60-89 mL/min, n = 397; moderate: CLCR = 30-59 mL/min, 
n = 164; severe: CLCR = 15-29 mL/min, n = 3 and ESRD: CLCR < 15 mL/min, n = 1). The effect of 
renal impairment on the clearance of dostarlimab was evaluated by population pharmacokinetic 
analyses in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment compared to patients with normal renal 
function. No clinically important differences in the clearance of dostarlimab were found between 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with mild or moderate renal impairment and patients with normal renal function. There are 
limited data in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
Hepatic impairment was evaluated as defined using the US National Cancer Institute criteria of hepatic 
dysfunction by total bilirubin and AST (Normal: total bilirubin (TB) & AST < = upper limit of normal 
(ULN), n = 772; mild: TB > ULN to 1.5 ULN or AST > ULN, n = 92; and moderate: 
TB > 1.5-3 ULN, any AST, n = 5). The effect of hepatic impairment on the clearance of dostarlimab 
was evaluated by population pharmacokinetic analyses in patients with mild hepatic impairment 
compared to patients with normal hepatic function. No clinically important differences in the clearance 
of dostarlimab were found between patients with mild hepatic impairment and normal hepatic 
function. There are limited data in patients with moderate hepatic impairment and no data in patients 
with severe hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on repeat-dose toxicity studies of duration 
up to 3 months in the cynomolgus monkey. No studies have been performed to assess the potential of 
dostarlimab for carcinogenicity or genotoxicity. Animal reproduction and development toxicity studies 
have not been conducted with dostarlimab. Blockade of PD-L1 signaling has been shown in murine 
models of pregnancy to disrupt tolerance to the foetus and to result in an increase in foetal loss. These 
results indicate a potential risk that administration of dostarlimab during pregnancy could cause foetal 
harm, including increased rates of abortion or stillbirth.  
No notable effects on the male and female reproductive organs were observed in monkeys in the 
1-month and 3-month repeat-dose toxicology studies; however, these results may not be representative 
at all of the potential clinical risk because of the immaturity of the reproductive system of animals 
used in the studies. Therefore, fertility toxicity remains unknown. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Trisodium citrate dihydrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
L-arginine hydrochloride 
Sodium chloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injection 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
Unopened vial 
3 years. 
After dilution 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If not used immediately, chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 
2 °C – 8 °C and 6 hours at room temperature (up to 25 °C) from the time of preparation/dilution until 
the end of administration. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator 2 °C – 8 °C. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.  
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
10 mL type I borosilicate clear glass vial, with a grey chlorobutyl elastomer stopper laminated with 
fluoropolymer, sealed with an aluminium flip-off cap containing 500 mg dostarlimab. 
Each carton contains one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Preparation/dilution 
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration 
prior to administration. JEMPERLI is a slightly opalescent colourless to yellow solution. Discard the 
vial if visible particles are observed. 
JEMPERLI is compatible with an IV bag made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) with or without di(2-
ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), ethylene vinyl acetate, polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) or 
polyolefin blend (PP+PE), and a syringe made from PP. 
For the 500 mg dose, withdraw 10 mL of JEMPERLI from a vial and transfer into an intravenous bag 
containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection, or glucose 50 mg/mL (5 %) 
solution for injection. The final concentration of the diluted solution should be between 2 mg/mL and 
10 mg/mL. This may require withdrawing a volume of diluent from the intravenous bag prior to 
adding a volume of JEMPERLI into the IV bag. 
-  For example, if preparing a 500 mg dose in a 250 mL diluent intravenous bag, to achieve a 
2 mg/mL concentration would require withdrawing 10 mL of diluent from the 250 mL 
intravenous bag. Then, 10 mL of JEMPERLI would be withdrawn from the vial and 
transferred into the intravenous bag. 
For the 1000 mg dose, withdraw 10 mL of JEMPERLI from each of two vials (withdraw 20 mL total) 
and transfer into an intravenous bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for 
injection, or glucose 50 mg/mL (5 %) solution for injection. The final concentration of the diluted 
solution should be between 2 mg/mL and 10 mg/mL. This may require withdrawing a volume of 
diluent from the IV bag prior to adding a volume of JEMPERLI into the intravenous bag. 
-  For example, if preparing a 1000 mg dose in a 500 mL diluent intravenous bag, to achieve a 
2 mg/mL concentration would require withdrawing 20 mL of diluent from the 500 mL 
intravenous bag. Then, 10 mL of JEMPERLI would be withdrawn from each of two vials, 
totaling 20 mL, and transferred into the intravenous bag. 
Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion. Do not shake the final infusion bag. Discard any unused 
portion left in the vial. 
Storage 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original carton until time of preparation in order to protect from light. The prepared dose 
may be stored either: 
-  At room temperature up to 25 ºC for no more than 6 hours from the time of dilution until the end of 
infusion. 
-  Under refrigeration at 2 °C to 8 °C for no more than 24 hours from time of dilution until end of 
infusion. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to come to room temperature prior to 
administration. 
Administration 
JEMPERLI should be administered by intravenous infusion using an intravenous infusion pump over 
30 minutes by a health care practitioner. Tubing should be made of PVC, platinum cured silicon or PP; 
fittings made from PVC or polycarbonate and needles made from stainless steel. A 0.2 or 0.22 micron 
in-line polyethersulfone (PES) filter must be used during administration of JEMPERLI. 
JEMPERLI must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection.  
Do not co-administer other medicinal products through the same infusion line.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1538/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 21 April 2021 
Date of latest renewal: 15 February 2023 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
WuXi Biologics Co., Ltd.,  
108 Meiliang Road,  
Mashan, Binhu District, WuXi, 
Jiangsu, 214092,  
China 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Ltd. 
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus  
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in Article 9 of 
Regulation (EC) No 507/2006 and, accordingly, the marketing authorisation holder (MAH) 
shall submit PSURs every 6 months. 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to the launch of JEMPERLI (dostarlimab) in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation 
Holder (MAH) must agree about the content and format of the educational programme with the 
National Competent Authority. 
The educational programme is aimed at increasing the awareness of patients about the signs and 
symptoms of potential immune-related adverse reactions associated with dostarlimab treatment. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where JEMPERLI is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to prescribe JEMPERLI are provided with the following educational 
package: 
•  Patient Card. 
The Patient Card shall contain the following key messages: 
•  Description of the main signs and symptoms of immune-related adverse reactions. 
•  The importance of notifying their treating physician/nurse immediately if symptoms occur or 
worsen, and the importance of not attempting to treat themselves.  
•  The importance of carrying the Patient Card at all times and to show it at all medical visits to 
healthcare professionals other than the prescriber (e.g. emergency healthcare professionals). 
Includes contact details of their JEMPERLI prescriber and a warning message for healthcare 
professionals at any time, including in conditions of emergency, that the patient is using 
JEMPERLI. 
• 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
Post-authorisation efficacy study (PAES): in order to further characterise the 
efficacy of dostarlimab in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for the 
treatment of adult patients with mismatch repair deficient / microsatellite 
instability-high primary advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer and who are 
candidates for systemic therapy, the MAH should submit the results of the final 
OS analysis of RUBY part 1 – Final Study Report Submission: 
Due date 
30 June 2029 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
JEMPERLI 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion 
dostarlimab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
One vial of 10 mL sterile concentrate contains 500 mg of dostarlimab. 
Each mL of sterile concentrate contains 50 mg of dostarlimab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: trisodium citrate dihydrate; citric acid monohydrate; L-arginine hydrochloride; sodium 
chloride; polysorbate 80; water for injection. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial of 10 mL (500 mg) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
Read the leaflet for the shelf life of the reconstituted medicine. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Dublin 24 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1538/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
JEMPERLI 500 mg sterile concentrate 
dostarlimab 
IV 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER  
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
10 mL (500 mg) 
6. 
OTHER  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
JEMPERLI 500 mg concentrate for solution for infusion  
dostarlimab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
Your doctor will provide you with a Patient Card. Be sure to keep this Card with you while 
undergoing treatment with JEMPERLI. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What JEMPERLI is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given JEMPERLI  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How JEMPERLI is given 
Possible side effects  
How to store JEMPERLI  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What JEMPERLI is and what it is used for 
JEMPERLI contains the active substance dostarlimab, which is a monoclonal antibody, a type of 
protein designed to recognise and attach to a specific target substance in the body. 
JEMPERLI works by helping your immune system fight your cancer. 
JEMPERLI is used in adults to treat a kind of cancer called endometrial cancer (cancer of the lining of 
the womb). It is given when cancer has spread, or cannot be taken out by surgery, and has progressed 
on or following prior treatment. 
JEMPERLI may be given in combination with other anticancer medicines. It is important that you also 
read the package leaflets for the other anticancer medicines you may be receiving. If you have any 
questions about these medicines, ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given JEMPERLI  
You should not be given JEMPERLI:  
• 
if you are allergic to dostarlimab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given JEMPERLI if you have: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
immune system problems; 
lung or breathing problems; 
liver or kidney problems; 
serious rash; 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
any other medical problems. 
Symptoms you need to look out for 
JEMPERLI can have serious side effects, which can sometimes become life-threatening and can lead 
to death. These side effects may happen at any time during treatment, or even after your treatment has 
ended. You may get more than one side effect at the same time. 
You need to be aware of possible symptoms, so your doctor can give you treatment for side effects if 
necessary. 
Read the information under ‘Symptoms of serious side effects’ in section 4. Talk to your doctor or 
nurse if you have any questions or worries. 
Children and adolescents 
JEMPERLI should not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and JEMPERLI 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Some medicines may interfere with the effect of JEMPERLI: 
• 
medicines that make your immune system weak — for example, corticosteroids, such as 
prednisone. 
  Tell your doctor if you are taking any of these. 
However, once you are treated with JEMPERLI, your doctor may give you corticosteroids to reduce 
any side effects that you may have. 
Pregnancy  
• 
You must not be given JEMPERLI if you are pregnant unless your doctor specifically 
recommends it.  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor 
for advice before you are given this medicine.  
JEMPERLI can cause harmful effects or death to your unborn baby.  
If you are a woman who could become pregnant, you must use effective contraception while 
you are being treated with JEMPERLI and for at least 4 months after your last dose.  
Breast-feeding  
• 
• 
If you are breast-feeding, ask your doctor for advice before you are given this medicine. 
You must not breast-feed during treatment and for at least 4 months after your last dose of 
JEMPERLI.  
It is not known if the active ingredient of JEMPERLI passes into your breast milk. 
Driving and using machines  
JEMPERLI is unlikely to affect your ability to drive and use machines. However, if you have side 
effects that affect your ability to concentrate and react, you should be careful when driving or 
operating machines. 
JEMPERLI contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free.’ However, before JEMPERLI is given to you, it is mixed with a solution that may 
contain sodium. Talk to your doctor if you are on a low salt diet. 
32 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How JEMPERLI is given 
JEMPERLI will be given to you in a hospital or clinic under the supervision of a doctor experienced in 
cancer treatment. 
When JEMPERLI is given on its own, the recommended dose of JEMPERLI is 500 mg every 3 weeks 
for 4 doses, followed by 1000 mg every 6 weeks for all doses thereafter. 
When JEMPERLI is given in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, the recommended dose of 
JEMPERLI is 500 mg every 3 weeks for 6 doses, followed by 1000 mg every 6 weeks for all doses 
thereafter. 
Your doctor will give you JEMPERLI as a drip into a vein (intravenous infusion) for about 
30 minutes. 
Your doctor will decide how many treatments you need. 
If you forget an appointment to receive JEMPERLI 
 Contact your doctor or hospital immediately to reschedule your appointment. 
It is very important that you do not miss a dose of this medicine. 
If you stop receiving JEMPERLI 
Stopping your treatment may stop the effect of the medicine. Do not stop treatment with JEMPERLI 
unless you have discussed this with your doctor. 
Patient Card 
Important information from this Package Leaflet can be found in the Patient Card you have been given 
by your doctor. It is important that you keep this Patient Card and show it to your partner or 
caregivers. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some of the side effects can be serious, and you need to know what symptoms to look out for.  
Symptoms of serious side effects 
JEMPERLI can cause serious side effects. If you develop symptoms you must tell your doctor or 
nurse as soon as possible. Your doctor may give you other medicines to prevent more serious 
complications and reduce your symptoms. Your doctor may decide that you should miss a dose of 
JEMPERLI, or stop your treatment altogether. 
Conditions 
Inflammation of lungs 
(pneumonitis) 
Inflammation of intestines 
(colitis, enteritis, vasculitis 
gastrointestinal) 
Possible symptoms 
shortness of breath 
chest pain 
• 
• 
•  new or worse cough 
•  diarrhoea, or more bowel movements than usual 
•  black, tarry, sticky stools; blood or mucus in stools 
• 
• 
severe stomach pain or tenderness 
feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions 
Inflammation of food pipe and 
stomach (oesophagitis, 
gastritis) 
Inflammation of liver 
(hepatitis) 
Inflammation of hormone 
glands (especially thyroid, 
pituitary, adrenal, pancreas) 
Type 1 diabetes, including 
diabetic ketoacidosis (acid in 
the blood produced from 
diabetes) 
Inflammation of kidneys 
(nephritis) 
Inflammation of skin 
Inflammation of heart muscle 
(myocarditis) 
Inflammation of brain and 
nervous system (myasthenic 
syndrome/myasthenia gravis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome, 
encephalitis) 
Possible symptoms 
rapid heartbeat 
increased sweating 
feeling more hungry or thirsty than usual 
feeling cold 
constipation 
abdominal pain 
chest or upper belly pain 
feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
loss of appetite 
• 
trouble swallowing 
•  decreased appetite 
•  burning in the chest (heartburn) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  pain on the right side of the abdomen (stomach) 
•  yellowing of the skin or the whites of the eyes 
•  dark-coloured urine 
•  bleeding or bruising more easily than normal 
• 
•  weight loss or weight gain 
• 
•  hair loss 
• 
• 
• 
•  deeper voice 
•  muscle aches 
•  dizziness or fainting 
•  headache that will not go away or unusual headache 
• 
•  needing to urinate more often including at night 
•  weight loss 
• 
feeling sick (nausea), being sick (vomiting) 
• 
stomach pain 
• 
feeling tired 
•  unusual sleepiness 
•  having difficulty thinking clearly 
•  breath that smells sweet or fruity 
•  deep or fast breathing 
• 
changes in amount or colour of urine 
• 
swelling of the ankles 
• 
loss of appetite 
•  blood in the urine 
• 
rash, itching, dry skin, peeling or skin sores 
•  ulcers in the mouth, nose, throat or genital area 
• 
trouble breathing 
•  dizziness or fainting 
• 
• 
• 
•  neck stiffness 
•  headache 
• 
•  vomiting 
• 
•  weakness of eye muscles, drooping eyelids 
•  dry eyes and blurred vision 
•  difficulty swallowing, dry mouth 
• 
fever 
chest pain and chest tightness 
flu like symptoms 
eye sensitivity to light 
impaired speech 
fever, chills 
34 
Conditions 
Possible symptoms 
confusion and sleepiness 
• 
•  dizziness 
•  pricking or pins and needles sensations in the hands and 
Inflammation of spinal cord 
(myelitis) 
Inflammation of eyes 
Inflammation of other organs 
feet 
aching muscles 
abnormal heart beat/rate or blood pressure 
• 
•  difficulty walking or lifting objects 
• 
•  pain 
•  numbness 
• 
•  bladder or bowel problems including needing to urinate 
tingling, or weakness in the arms or legs 
more frequently, urinary incontinence, difficulty urinating 
and constipation 
changes in eyesight 
severe or persistent muscle or joint pains 
severe muscle weakness 
swollen or cold hands or feet 
feeling tired 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Infusion-related reactions 
Some people may have allergic-like reactions when they receive an infusion. These usually develop 
within minutes or hours but may develop up to 24 hours after treatment. 
Symptoms include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
shortness of breath or wheezing; 
itching or rash; 
flushing; 
dizziness; 
chills or shaking; 
fever; 
drop in blood pressure (feeling like passing out). 
Solid organ transplant rejection and other complications, including graft-versus-host disease 
(GvHD), in people who have received a bone marrow (stem cell) transplant that uses donor stem 
cells (allogeneic). These complications can be serious and can lead to death. These complications may 
happen if you underwent transplantation either before or after being treated with JEMPERLI. Your 
healthcare provider will monitor you for these complications. 
 Seek medical attention immediately if you think you may be having a reaction. 
The following side effects have been reported with JEMPERLI alone. 
Very common side effects - (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 Check the table above for symptoms of possible serious side effects. 
decrease in the number of red blood cells (anaemia); 
reduced thyroid gland activity; 
diarrhoea; feeling sick (nausea); being sick (vomiting); 
skin redness or rash; blistering of the skin or mucous membranes; itchy skin; 
joint pain; 
high temperature; fever; 
increased liver enzyme levels in the blood. 
Common side effects - (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
overactive thyroid gland; 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decreased secretion of adrenal hormones (adrenal insufficiency); 
inflammation of the lung; 
inflammation of the lining of the bowel (colon); 
inflammation of the pancreas; 
inflammation of the stomach; 
inflammation of the liver; 
muscle pain; 
chills; 
reaction to the infusion; 
hypersensitivity reaction to the infusion. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 Check the table above for symptoms of possible serious side effects. 
Uncommon side effects - (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
inflammation of the brain; 
destruction of red blood cells (Autoimmune haemolytic anaemia); 
inflammation of the pituitary gland, in the base of the brain; 
inflammation of the thyroid gland; 
Type 1 diabetes or diabetic complications (diabetic ketoacidosis); 
inflammation of the food pipe; 
a condition in which the muscles become weak and there is a rapid fatigue of the muscles 
(myasthenia gravis); 
inflammation of the joints; 
inflammation of the muscles; 
inflammation of the eye — the iris (the coloured part of the eye) and the ciliary body (area 
around the iris); 
inflammation of the kidneys. 
• 
 Check the table above for symptoms of possible serious side effects. 
• 
• 
• 
The following side effects have been reported with JEMPERLI when given in combination with 
carboplatin and paclitaxel. 
Very common side effects - (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
•  underactive thyroid gland 
• 
skin rash 
•  dry skin 
•  high temperature; fever 
• 
 Check the table above for symptoms of possible serious side effects. 
increased liver enzyme levels in the blood. 
Common side effects - (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
•  overactive thyroid gland 
•  decreased secretion of adrenal hormones (adrenal insufficiency) 
• 
• 
 Check the table above for symptoms of possible serious side effects. 
inflammation of the lung 
inflammation of the lining of the bowel (colon). 
inflammation of the thyroid gland 
Uncommon side effects - (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
•  Type 1 diabetes 
• 
a condition in which the muscles become weak and there is a rapid fatigue of the muscles 
(myasthenic syndrome) 
inflammation of the heart muscle 
inflammation of the pancreas  
inflammation of the stomach 
• 
• 
• 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the food pipe, stomach or bowel 
inflammation of the eye 
inflammation of the joints  
inflammation of the muscles 
inflammation throughout the body. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 Check the table above for symptoms of possible serious side effects. 
 Contact your doctor or nurse as soon as possible if you develop any of these symptoms. 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store JEMPERLI 
JEMPERLI will be given to you in a hospital or clinic and the healthcare professionals will be 
responsible for its storage. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial label after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze. Store in the original package in order to protect 
from light. 
If not used immediately, the prepared infusion may be stored for up to 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C or 
6 hours at room temperature (up to 25 °C) from the time of preparation/dilution until the end of 
administration. 
Do not use if this medicine contains visible particles. 
Do not store any unused medicine for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste material should be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What JEMPERLI contains 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The active substance is dostarlimab. 
  One vial of 10 mL concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) contains 500 mg 
of dostarlimab. 
Each mL of concentrate for solution for infusion contains 50 mg of dostarlimab. 
The other ingredients are trisodium citrate dihydrate; citric acid monohydrate; L-arginine 
hydrochloride; sodium chloride; polysorbate 80; and water for injection (see section 2). 
What JEMPERLI looks like and contents of the pack 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
JEMPERLI is a clear to slightly opalescent colourless to yellow solution, essentially free from visible 
particles. 
It is available in cartons containing one glass vial. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Ltd. 
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v.  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Lietuva 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 370 80000334 
България 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Teл.: + 359 80018205 
Česká republika 
GlaxoSmithKline, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 001 111 
cz.info@gsk.com 
Danmark 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S 
Tlf: + 45 36 35 91 00 
dk-info@gsk.com 
Deutschland 
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel.: + 49 (0)89 36044 8701 
produkt.info@gsk.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals s.a./n.v. 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0) 10 85 52 00 
Magyarország 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel.: + 36 80088309 
Malta 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 356 80065004 
Nederland 
GlaxoSmithKline BV 
Tel: + 31 (0) 33 2081100 
Eesti 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 372 8002640 
Norge 
GlaxoSmithKline AS 
Tlf: + 47 22 70 20 00 
Ελλάδα 
GlaxoSmithKline Μονοπρόσωπη A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: + 30 210 68 82 100 
Österreich 
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 43 (0)1 97075 0 
at.info@gsk.com 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
GlaxoSmithKline, S.A. 
Tel: + 34 900 202 700 
es-ci@gsk.com 
France 
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline 
Tél: + 33 (0)1 39 17 84 44 
diam@gsk.com 
Polska 
GSK Services Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 576 9000 
Portugal 
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 21 412 95 00 
FI.PT@gsk.com  
Hrvatska 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +385 800787089 
România 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 40 800672524 
Ireland 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353 (0)1 4955000 
Slovenija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 386 80688869 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: + 354 535 7000 
Italia 
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 (0)45 7741111  
Κύπρος 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Τηλ: + 357 80070017 
Latvija 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 371 80205045 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Slovenská republika 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 421 800500589 
Suomi/Finland 
GlaxoSmithKline Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 (0)10 30 30 30 
Sverige 
GlaxoSmithKline AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 638 93 00 
info.produkt@gsk.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 44 (0)800 221441 
customercontactuk@gsk.com 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Preparation/dilution, storage and administration of the solution for infusion: 
• 
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and 
discolouration prior to administration. JEMPERLI is a slightly opalescent colourless to yellow 
solution. Discard the vial if visible particles are observed. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
JEMPERLI is compatible with an IV bag made of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) with or without 
di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), ethylene vinyl acetate, polyethylene (PE), polypropylene 
(PP) or polyolefin blend (PP+PE), and a syringe made from PP.  
For the 500 mg dose, withdraw 10 mL of JEMPERLI from a vial and transfer into an 
intravenous bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection or glucose 
50 mg/mL (5 %) solution for injection. The final concentration of the diluted solution should be 
between 2 mg/mL and 10 mg/mL. This may require withdrawing a volume of diluent from the 
IV bag prior to adding a volume of JEMPERLI into the IV bag. 
- 
For example, if preparing a 500 mg dose in a 250 mL diluent IV bag, to achieve a 
2 mg/mL concentration would require withdrawing 10 mL of diluent from the 250 mL IV 
bag. Then, 10 mL of JEMPERLI would be withdrawn from the vial and transferred into 
the IV bag. 
For the 1000 mg dose, withdraw 10 mL of JEMPERLI from each of two vials (withdraw 20 mL 
total) and transfer into an intravenous bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution 
for injection or glucose 50 mg/mL (5 %) solution for injection. The final concentration of the 
diluted solution should be between 2 mg/mL and 10 mg/mL. This may require withdrawing a 
volume of diluent from the IV bag prior to adding a volume of JEMPERLI into the IV bag. 
- 
For example, if preparing a 1000 mg dose in a 500 mL diluent IV bag, to achieve a 
2 mg/mL concentration would require withdrawing 20 mL of diluent from the 500 mL IV 
bag. Then, 10 mL of JEMPERLI would be withdrawn from each of two vials, totaling 
20 mL, and transferred into the IV bag. 
Mix diluted solution by gentle inversion. Do not shake the final infusion bag. Discard any 
unused portion left in the vial. 
Store in the original carton until time of preparation in order to protect from light. The prepared 
dose may be stored either: 
- 
At room temperature up to 25 ºC for no more than 6 hours from the time of dilution until 
the end of infusion. 
Under refrigeration at 2 °C – 8 °C for no more than 24 hours from time of dilution until 
end of infusion. If refrigerated, allow the diluted solution to come to room temperature 
prior to administration. 
- 
JEMPERLI should be administered by intravenous infusion using an intravenous infusion pump 
over 30 minutes by a health care practitioner. 
Tubing should be made of PVC, platinum cured silicon or PP; fittings made from PVC or 
polycarbonate and needles made from stainless steel. 
A 0.2 or 0.22 micron in-line polyethersulfone (PES) filter must be used during administration of 
JEMPERLI. 
JEMPERLI must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
Do not co-administer other medicinal products through the same infusion line. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
40 
 
ANNEX IV  
CONCLUSIONS ON THE REQUEST FOR ONE-YEAR MARKETING PROTECTION 
PRESENTED BY THE EUROPEAN MEDICINES AGENCY  
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions presented by the European Medicines Agency on:  
• 
one-year marketing protection 
The CHMP reviewed the data submitted by the Marketing Authorisation Holder, taking into account the 
provisions of Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, and considers that the new therapeutic 
indication brings significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies as further explained in 
the European Public Assessment Report.  
42 
 
 
 
