Summary of risk management plan for JEMPERLI (dostarlimab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for JEMPERLI. The RMP details 
important risks of JEMPERLI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about JEMPERLIs risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
JEMPERLI's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how JEMPERLI should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for JEMPERLI should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
JEMPERLI's RMP. 
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
JEMPERLI is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with mismatch repair 
deficient/microsatellite instability-high (dMMR/MSI-H) recurrent or advanced endometrial 
cancer (EC) who have progressed on or after treatment with a platinum-containing regimen 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains dostarlimab as the active substance and it is 
given by infusion. 
JEMPERLI is indicated in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel for the treatment of 
adult patients with mismatch repair deficient (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) 
primary advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer (EC) and who are candidates for systemic 
therapy. 
Further information about the evaluation of JEMPERLI’s benefits can be found in 
JEMPERLI’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/jemperli 
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of JEMPERLI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about JEMPERLI's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•
•
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of JEMPERLI is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of JEMPERLI are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of JEMPERLI. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 

Immune-related  adverse 
(including  pneumonitis,  colitis,
hepatitis,  endocrinopathies,  immune-related  skin  adverse  reactions,
nephritis and other irARs)
reactions 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 

Long-term safety
II.B
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Immune-related adverse reactions (including pneumonitis, colitis, hepatitis, 
endocrinopathies, immune-related skin adverse reactions, nephritis and other irARs) 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Non-clinical: Non-clinical observations in cynomolgus monkeys included 
increased incidence of liquid faeces, dermatitis, mild mixed cell inflammation 
in the liver, mild to moderate mononuclear infiltrates with or without minimal 
degeneration in the kidney and heart. 
Clinical: 
GARNET: Dostarlimab monotherapy study for 2L EC (dMMR/MSI-H EC 
patients N=153) 
In subjects with dMMR/MSI-H EC, 59 (38.6%) subjects experienced potential 
irARs and 42 (27.5%) subjects reported treatment-related irARs. Grade ≥3 
irARs were reported in 20 (13.1%) subjects, SAEs were reported in 16 
(10.5%) subjects, and irARs leading to permanent treatment discontinuation 
were reported in 14 (9.2%) subjects. 
RUBY: Dostarlimab combination therapy for 1L EC (Part 1; All EC 
patients N= 241 and dMMR/MSI-H EC patients N= 52) 
In all EC patients receiving dostarlimab plus carboplatin and paclitaxel, 137 
(56.8%) experienced irARs and 92 (38.2%) reported treatment-related irARs. 
Grade ≥3 irARs were reported in 40 (16.6%) patients, SAEs were reported in 
14 (5.8%) patients, and irARs leading to permanent treatment 
discontinuation were reported in 19 (7.9%) subjects. 
In dMMR/MSI-H EC patients receiving dostarlimab plus carboplatin and 
paclitaxel, 38 (73.1%) experienced potential irARs and 25 (48.1%) reported 
treatment-related irARs. Grade ≥3 irARs were reported in 10 (19.2%) 
patients, SAEs were reported in 2 (3.8%) patients, and irARs leading to 
permanent treatment discontinuation were reported in 2 (3.8%) subjects. 
Class effect: ‘IrARs’ is a risk for all drugs in the class: Keytruda 
(pembrolizumab), Opdivo (Nivolumab), Tecentriq (Atezolizumab), Bavencio 
(Avelumab), Imfinzi (Durvalumab), and Libtayo (cemiplimab). 
A retrospective medical record review showed that a higher BMI and multiple 
cycles of pembrolizumab were associated with higher risk of irARs. A derived 
neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio greater than 3 at baseline was correlated with 
low risk of irARs. 
Patients with pre-existing autoimmune disease may be at increased risk of 
exacerbation of their autoimmune condition and for de novo irARs, however, 
use in this population is not predicted to be associated with unexpected risks 
or risks of clinical significance that would not be manageable with 
appropriate intervention. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 
PL Sections: 2, 4 
Recommended treatment modifications are provided in SmPC section 4.2. 
Instruction regarding symptom evaluation, treatment modifications and 
interventions are provided in SmPC section 4.4. 
Prescription only medicine 
Use restricted to physicians experienced in the use of anticancer medicinal 
products 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Patient Card 
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorisation: 
RUBY, a randomized, double blind Phase III multicenter study of dostarlimab in combination 
with carboplatin and paclitaxel versus carboplatin and paclitaxel alone in subjects with recurrent 
or primary advanced endometrial cancer. 
Purpose of the study: The primary objective is to confirm the clinical benefit of dostarlimab with 
carboplatin and paclitaxel for patients with recurrent or primary advanced endometrial cancer. 
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for JEMPERLI. 
