EMA/353951/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002279 
EPAR summary for the public 
Jentadueto 
linagliptin / metformin hydrochloride 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Jentadueto. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Jentadueto. 
What is Jentadueto? 
Jentadueto is a medicine that contains the active substances linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride. 
It is available as tablets (2.5 mg/850 mg and 2.5 mg/1,000 mg). 
What is Jentadueto used for? 
Jentadueto is used in adults with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) 
levels. It is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
 
in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin (a diabetes medicine) used on its 
own; 
 
 
in patients who are already taking a combination of linagliptin and metformin as separate tablets; 
in combination with a sulphonylurea or insulin (other types of diabetes medicines) in patients who 
are not satisfactorily controlled on this medicine and metformin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Jentadueto used? 
Jentadueto is taken twice a day. The strength of tablet to use depends on the dose of the other 
diabetes medicines that the patient was taking before. If Jentadueto is taken with a sulphonylurea or 
insulin, the dose of these medicines may need to be lowered, to avoid hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar 
levels).  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The maximum dose is 5 mg of linagliptin and 2,000 mg of metformin per day. Jentadueto should be 
taken with food to reduce stomach problems caused by metformin.  
How does Jentadueto work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substances in 
Jentadueto, linagliptin and metformin hydrochloride, each working in a different way. 
Linagliptin is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP 4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of 
‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas 
to produce insulin. By prolonging the action of incretin hormones in the blood, linagliptin stimulates the 
pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Linagliptin does not work when 
the blood glucose is low. Linagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the liver, by 
increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, these processes 
reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. Linagliptin has been authorised in the 
European Union (EU) as Trajenta since 2011. 
Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production and reducing its absorption in the gut. 
Metformin has been available in the EU since the 1950s. 
As a result of the action of both active substances, blood glucose levels are reduced and this helps to 
control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Jentadueto been studied? 
The company presented the results of four studies with linagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes, 
which were used to support the approval of Trajenta in the EU, comparing linagliptin given at 5 mg 
once per day with placebo (a dummy treatment). The studies looked at the effectiveness of linagliptin 
used on its own (503 patients), in combination with metformin (701 patients), with metformin plus a 
sulphonylurea (1,058 patients) or with another diabetes medicine pioglitazone (389 patients).  
Another study was carried out involving 791 patients with type 2 diabetes, where the combination of 
linagliptin plus metformin given twice per day was compared with giving metformin alone, linagliptin 
alone or placebo. Linagliptin was given at 2.5 mg twice per day in the combination treatment and at 5 
mg once per day in the single treatment. Metformin was given at either 500 mg or 1,000 mg twice per 
day, for both the combination and the single treatment. 
A further study was carried out involving 491 patients with type 2 diabetes taking metformin twice per 
day, where placebo or linagliptin at either 2.5 mg twice per day or at 5 mg once per day was added to 
their treatment. The study compared the effects of adding linagliptin to metformin in these ways, since 
metformin needs to be taken at least twice per day.  
Another study carried out in 1040 patients with type 2 diabetes compared patients taking 5 mg 
linagliptin and insulin given with metformin, with patients taking placebo given with insulin and 
metformin. 
In all studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in blood levels of a substance called 
glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) after 24 weeks of treatment. This gives an indication of how well 
blood glucose is controlled. 
Jentadueto  
EMA/353951/2016 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
What benefit has Jentadueto shown during the studies? 
The studies with linagliptin showed that it was more effective than placebo at reducing HbA1c levels. 
When used on its own, linagliptin gave a reduction of 0.46 points compared with a rise of 0.22 points. 
When given in combination, linagliptin with metformin gave a reduction of 0.56 points compared with a 
rise of 0.10 points; linagliptin with metformin plus a sulphonylurea gave a reduction of 0.72 points 
compared with 0.10 points. 
The study with the combination of linagliptin and metformin showed that it was more effective than 
linagliptin or metformin alone, as well as placebo, at reducing HbA1c levels. The combination gave a 
reduction of 1.22 points when metformin was given at 500 mg and a reduction of 1.59 points when 
metformin was given at 1,000 mg. This compared with a reduction of 0.45 with linagliptin alone, 0.64 
with 500 mg metformin alone, 1.07 with 1,000 mg metformin alone, and 0.13 with placebo.  
The study looking at adding linagliptin 2.5 mg twice per day or 5 mg once per day to metformin 
showed a similar reduction in HbA1c levels compared with placebo (0.74 and 0.80 points more than 
placebo respectively).  
The study looking at linagliptin in combination with metformin and insulin showed that this combination 
was more effective than the combination of insulin and metformin at reducing HbA1c levels (reduction 
of 0.77 percentage points was seen with linagliptin compared with a reduction of 0.10 percentage 
points with placebo). 
What is the risk associated with Jentadueto? 
The most frequent side effect with the combination of linagliptin plus metformin was diarrhoea (seen in 
around 2% of patients, with a similar rate seen in patients taking metformin plus placebo). When 
linagliptin and metformin were given with a sulphonylurea or insulin, hypoglycaemia was the most 
frequent side effect (seen in more than 1 patient in 10). For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Jentadueto, see the package leaflet. 
Jentadueto must not be used in patients with: 
 
diabetic ketoacidosis or diabetic pre-coma (dangerous complications of diabetes); 
  moderately to severely reduced kidney function or with acute (sudden) conditions which can affect 
kidney function such as dehydration, severe infection or shock; 
 
a condition that could lead to reduced supply of oxygen to body tissues (such as in patients who 
are being treated for worsening heart failure, have recently had a heart attack, have difficulty 
breathing or a steep fall in blood pressure); 
 
liver impairment, or problems with alcoholism or alcohol intoxication.  
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Jentadueto been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that the combination of linagliptin and metformin has been shown to be effective 
at lowering HbA1c levels, and that linagliptin 2.5 mg twice per day was as effective as 5 mg once per 
day, which is approved in the EU for use on its own and in combination with metformin and with 
metformin plus a sulphonylurea or insulin. The CHMP noted that fixed dose combinations may increase 
the likelihood of patients taking their medicine correctly. With regard to side effects, the Committee 
considered that in general the risks seen were only slightly greater than those seen with placebo. 
Jentadueto  
EMA/353951/2016 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
Therefore the CHMP decided that Jentadueto’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended 
that it be given marketing authorisation.  
What extra measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use 
of Jentadueto? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Jentadueto is used as safely and 
effectively as possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of 
product characteristics and the package leaflet for Jentadueto, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Jentadueto 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Jentadueto on 20 July 2012.  
The full EPAR for Jentadueto can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Jentadueto, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2016 
Jentadueto  
EMA/353951/2016 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
