SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR TRAJENTA AND 
JENTADUETO (LINAGLIPTIN AND LINAGLIPTIN / METFORMIN)
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Trajenta and Jentadueto. The 
RMP details important risks of Trajenta and Jentadueto, how these risks can be minimised, 
and how more information will be obtained about Trajenta's and Jentadueto’s risks and 
uncertainties (missing information).
The Summaries of Product Characteristics (SmPCs) for Trajenta and Jentadueto and their
package leaflets give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Trajenta and Jentadueto should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Trajenta and Jentadueto should be read in the context of all the
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all of which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the 
Trajenta and Jentadueto RMP.
I.
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
Trajenta and Jentadueto are authorised for Type 2 diabetes mellitus (see SmPCs for the full 
indications). Both medicines contain linagliptin as the active substance and in addition, 
Jentadueto contains metformin.  Both Trajenta and Jentadueto are given orally.
Further information about the evaluation of benefits of these medicines can be found in the 
EPARs for Trajenta and Jentadueto, including plain-language summaries, available on the 
EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage.
II.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS
Important risks of Trajenta and Jentadueto, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about their risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
-
-
-
-
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In the case of Trajenta and Jentadueto, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Trajenta or Jentadueto is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Trajenta and Jentadueto are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Trajenta or Jentadueto. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Pancreatitis
Important potential risks
Pancreatic cancer
Missing information
Pregnancy/breast-feeding
II.B
Summary of important risks
Table 2
Important identified risks
Pancreatitis
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk groups
In clinical trials, pancreatitis occurred more frequently in 
patients treated with linagliptin than in those treated with 
either comparators (active substances used as a reference) or 
placebo (dummy with no active therapeutic effect).
Patients with T2DM have an increased risk for pancreatitis. 
Further, obesity, history of alcohol use, history of smoking, 
higher comorbidity index, hypertriglyceridaemia, and any 
history of gallbladder disease are important risk factors of 
acute pancreatitis (see also Section SVII.3.1.1.4).
Results of a retrospective cohort study using data from 2007 
to 2009 of a large US medical and pharmacy claims database 
also show a higher percentage of biliary stone disease and 
hypertriglyceridaemia among patients with diabetes 
compared to patients without diabetes. Biliary stone disease 
was diagnosed in 0.84% of the diabetics compared to 0.60% 
in the non-diabetics (p<0.0001). The respective numbers for 
hypertriglyceridaemia were 1.71% vs. 0.95% (p<0.0001).
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.4 and 4.8
PL Sections 2 and 4


 Available by prescription only
Additional risk minimisation measures:
None
Table 3
Important potential risk
Pancreatic cancer
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk groups
Pancreatic cancer was added as an important potential risk at 
the request of the CHMP in the EMA. Recently completed 
CV outcome trials for DPP-4 inhibitors have shown no 
increase in pancreatic cancer cases in patients treated with 
DPP-4 inhibitors as compared to those on placebo or active 
comparator.
Pancreatic cancer classically presents late in life, and has a 
poor prognosis and rapid clinical course. The risk factors are 
complex and work is still ongoing in identifying risk factors 
and their impact on the risk of developing pancreatic cancer. 
The current identified and potential risk factors are 
summarised below.
Identified risk factors for pancreatic cancer

Smoking (in which a dose response relationship has been 
observed)
 Obesity

Family history
 Genetic factors including mutations in breast cancer 2 
(BRCA2), CDKN2A gene (familial atypical multiple 
mole-melanoma [FAMMM] syndrome), STK11 (Peutz-
Jeghers Syndrome), PRSS1 (hereditary pancreatitis), 
MLH1 or MSH2 (hereditary non-polyposis colorectal 
cancer [HNPCC] or Lynch syndrome)
 Non-O blood groups (the significance of this is still 
unknown)



Chronic Infections, e.g. hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C 
virus, Helicobacter pylori
Surgery, e.g. cholecystectomy, partial gastrectomy
Pancreatitis and chronic pancreatitis (familial & tropical 
pancreatitis appears to show this more strongly)
Potential risk factors for pancreatic cancer (as some studies 
have shown a relationship and some have not, there is an 
unknown relationship)
 Alcohol consumption

Sunlight & vitamin D
 Diabetes
Table 3 (cont'd)
Important potential risk
Pancreatic cancer (cont’d)
Risk factors and risk groups (cont’d)

Consumption of red and processed meat 
 Other medical conditions that may increase risk include 
cystic fibrosis & periodontal disease (the cystic fibrosis
gene is also associated with pancreatitis; it is not clear if 
this association with pancreatic cancer is due to the 
pancreatitis being a risk for cancer or cystic fibrosis
being a risk in its own right)
Previous suspected associations, which now seem to be 
disregarded

Caffeine (found to not have an association in a recent 
meta-analysis)
Considering patients with pancreatic cancer, at diagnosis 
about 25% have diabetes mellitus, and roughly another 40% 
have pre-diabetes (higher than normal blood glucose levels). 
Compared with non-diabetic individuals, patients with long-
term (≥5 years) T2DM have a 50% increased risk of 
pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer can cause diabetes, and 
sometimes diabetes is an early sign of the tumour so the 
observed data can be difficult to interpret: Do patients with 
diabetes have a higher risk of cancer or is this confounded by 
the proportion of the diabetic patients who develop pancreatic 
cancer whose diabetes is caused by pancreatic failure 
associated with the clinically undetected cancer? Elevated 
pancreatic cancer risk has also been reported among 
individuals with type-I diabetes. Recent reports also suggest 
that hyperglycaemia, abnormal glucose metabolism and 
insulin resistance are associated with increased risk of 
pancreatic cancer.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 Available by prescription only
Additional risk minimisation measures:
None
Table 4
Missing information
Pregnancy/breast-feeding
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.6
PL Section 2


 Available by prescription only
Additional risk minimisation measures:
None
II.C
Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligations of Trajenta or Jentadueto.
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
None
ABBREVIATIONS
CV
DPP-4
EMA
EPAR
PL
PSUR
RMP
SmPC
T2DM
Cardiovascular
Dipeptidyl peptidase-4
European Medicines Agency
European Public Assessment Report
Package leaflet
Periodic Safety Update Report
Risk Management Plan
Summary of Product Characteristics
Type 2 diabetes mellitus
