EMA/765736/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002381 
EPAR summary for the public 
Jetrea 
ocriplasmin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Jetrea. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Jetrea. 
For practical information about using Jetrea, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Jetrea and what is it used for? 
Jetrea is a medicine used to treat adults with vitreomacular traction, an eye disease that can cause 
severe visual disturbance.  
It contains the active substance ocriplasmin. 
How is Jetrea used? 
Jetrea is a solution for injection into the eye. It can only be obtained with a prescription and must be 
given by a qualified ophthalmologist (eye specialist) experienced in intravitreal injections (injections 
into the vitreous humour, the jelly-like material at the back of the eye). The procedure should be 
carried out under sterile conditions. 
The recommended dose is 0.125 mg given as a single injection into the affected eye which should not 
be repeated. The other eye should not be treated with Jetrea for at least 7 days.  
The ophthalmologist may prescribe antibiotic eye drops before and after treatment with Jetrea to 
prevent eye infections.  
How does Jetrea work? 
Vitreomacular traction is caused by vitreomacular adhesion in which the vitreous humour has an 
abnormally strong attachment to the central part of the retina (the light sensitive membrane at the 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
back of the eye). When the vitreous humour shrinks with aging, this strong attachment results in a 
pulling force on the retina, which causes retinal swelling and leads to blurred or distorted vision. 
The active substance in Jetrea, ocriplasmin, is similar to human plasmin, a naturally occurring enzyme 
in the eye which is capable of breaking down proteins between the vitreous humour and the retina 
which are responsible for the adhesion, thereby reducing retinal swelling and improving vision. 
What benefits of Jetrea have been shown in studies? 
Jetrea has been shown in studies to be effective in resolving the adhesion between the vitreous 
humour and the retina, reducing the need for surgery. 
In two main studies involving 652 adults with vitreomacular adhesion and decreased vision, patients 
were given a single intravitreal injection of 0.125 mg Jetrea or a placebo injection (a dummy 
treatment). After 28 days, the results were that adhesions had cleared in 25% and 28% of patients 
who were given Jetrea injection (61 out of 219 and 62 out of 245), compared with 13% and 6% of 
those who received placebo (14 out of 107 and 5 out of 81). Successful treatment of vitreomacular 
adhesion can help reverse disturbances of the vision caused by vitreomacular traction, and prevent 
further loss of vision from untreated and progressive traction at the retina. 
What are the risks associated with Jetrea? 
The side effects seen with Jetrea affect the eye. The most common side effects are vitreous floaters 
(small, often irregular, dark shapes in the field of vision), eye pain, photopsia (flashes of light in the 
field of vision) and chromatopsia (changes in colour perception), as well as conjunctival haemorrhage 
(bleeding of the membrane that lies over the white part of the eye). For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Jetrea, see the package leaflet. 
Jetrea must not be used in patients who have or are thought to have infections in or around the eyes. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Jetrea approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that the benefits of 
Jetrea outweigh its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Studies have shown 
that Jetrea was effective in treating vitreomacular adhesion and it is therefore expected to be effective 
in preventing worsening of vision which may occur with untreated and progressive vitreomacular 
traction. Although the effects shown were modest (resolution of vitreomacular adhesion in a quarter of 
patients), they were considered to be significant as treatment may improve vision and prevent the 
need for surgery. Regarding its safety, the most common side effects were short-lived and considered 
manageable, and often occurred as a response to the injection procedure or were linked to the 
resolution of the disease itself. The risk of more serious side effects such as decreased vision that is 
non-reversible, other changes to the retinal function or supporting structures of the lens appear to be 
small.  
Jetrea  
EMA/765736/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Jetrea? 
The company that markets Jetrea must ensure that all healthcare professionals who are expected to 
use Jetrea receive the summary of product characteristics for the medicine as well as an information 
pack to be given to patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Jetrea have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Jetrea 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Jetrea on 13 March 2013.  
The full EPAR for Jetrea can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Jetrea, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2016.  
Jetrea  
EMA/765736/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
