17 January 2013 
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment Report 
JETREA 
International non-proprietary name: Ocriplasmin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002381/0000 
Note 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1.  Background information on the procedure ............................................ 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 5 
2.  Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 5 
2.1. Introduction ......................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 7 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 10 
2.2.4. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects....................... 12 
2.2.5. Introduction .................................................................................................... 12 
2.2.6. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 13 
2.2.7. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................. 16 
2.2.8. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 17 
2.2.9. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 22 
2.2.10. Discussion on non-clinical aspects .................................................................... 22 
2.2.11. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 24 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 24 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 24 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................. 26 
2.3.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 29 
2.3.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................... 29 
2.3.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 30 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 30 
2.4.1. Dose response study(ies) ................................................................................. 30 
2.4.2. Main studies.................................................................................................... 31 
2.4.3. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 56 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 57 
2.5.1. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................... 73 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 73 
2.7. User consultation ............................................................................................... 84 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 85 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 90 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 2/91 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
API 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
BSS-plus 
Balanced Salt Solution plus  
CE 
CEP 
CEX 
European Community 
Certificate of Suitability to the European Pharmacopeia 
Cation Exchange Chromatography 
CEX-HPLC 
Cation Exchange Chromatography - High-Performance Liquid Chromatography 
CIPC 
COP 
DNA 
DP 
Critical In-Process Controls  
Critical Operating Parameters  
Deoxyribonucleic Acid 
Drug Product 
EDQM   
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
ELISA   
Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay  
EU 
HPLC 
IPC 
European Union  
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography 
In-Process Controls  
Ph. Eur.  
European Pharmacopeia 
RP-HPLC 
Reversed phase High-Performance Liquid Chromatography 
SE-HPLC 
Size-Exclusion High-Performance Liquid Chromatography 
SmPC   
Summary of Product Characteristics 
USP 
UV 
VMA 
VMT 
WCB 
w/v 
US Pharmacopeia 
UltraViolet 
Vitreomacular Adhesion 
Vitreomacular Traction 
Working Cell Banks 
Weight/Volume 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 3/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant ThromboGenics NV submitted on 26 September 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for JETREA, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  treatment  of  symptomatic  vitreomacular 
adhesion (VMA) including macular holes. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC – complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, 
non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic 
literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA 
Decision(s) (P/267/2010) on the granting of a product-specific waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible 
similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan 
medicinal product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance ocriplasmin contained in the above medicinal 
product to be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not 
a constituent of a product previously authorised within the Union 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 21 January 2010. The Scientific 
Advice pertained to quality of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 4/91 
 
  
  
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
 Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur:   
Kristina Dunder 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 26 September 2011. 
•  The procedure started on 19 October 2011.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 6 January 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 
4 January 2012.  
•  During the meeting on 13-16 February 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to 
the applicant on 20 February 2012. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 3 
August 2012. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Questions to all CHMP members on 30 September 2012. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 15-18 October 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 10 
December 2012. 
•  During the meeting on 14-17 January 2013, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to JETREA.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
With aging, the vitreous undergoes liquefaction and weakening of the adhesion between the 
posterior vitreous cortex and the internal limiting membrane (ILM) of the retina. Liquefied 
vitreous exits the vitreous body with volume displacement and the observed collapse of the 
vitreous body, leading to PVD (posterior vitreous detachment). PVD is often initially incomplete 
or partial, resulting in maintenance of vitreous adhesions to the retina, typically at the retinal 
periphery and the optic nerve head, but sometimes also at the macula giving rise to a 
vitreomacular adhesion (VMA). Subsequent shrinkage of the vitreous cortex away from the 
macular area results in a tangential traction. This results in the vitreomacular traction syndrome 
(VMT), which may cause decreased vision, metamorphopsia (distortion of images), and 
micropsia (shrinkage of images), and is a risk factor for the development of macular holes 
[Maumenee 1967, Gass 1988]. In 1988 Gass described the staging of macular holes as ranging 
from 1 to 4. In stage 1, intraretinal splitting at the fovea causes a pseudocyst or a foveal 
detachment. Stage 2 macular holes are full thickness breaks in the retina of less than 400 µm in 
size. Stage 3 holes are larger than 400 µm but retain partial vitreomacular traction or adhesion; 
this is lost in stage 4 which is characterised by the presence of a complete PVD.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 5/91 
 
  
  
 
The prevalence of VMT is unknown, but macular holes occur in around 1 in 3300 people usually 
in the 6th and 7th decades of life, and are more common in women. The prognosis of VMT is 
difficult to define, since many patients may be asymptomatic and undiagnosed, but a significant 
proportion can be expected to recover spontaneously. Persistent traction on the macular may 
cause cystoid macular oedema or may induce the formation of an epiretinal membrane (ERM). 
Both of these conditions are likely to result in decreased or distorted vision. 30-50% of stage 1 
macular holes will arrest or resolve spontaneously, often with resolution of symptoms [Ezra 
2001]. The remainder of stage 1 holes progress to FTMH, and while 10% of stage 2 holes may 
close spontaneously, the majority progress to stage 3 or 4 holes, with a resultant persistent 
defect in central vision. 
Currently, there is no pharmacological treatment for symptomatic VMA. The only active 
treatment option available is surgery (vitrectomy), whereby the vitreous is removed and any 
adhesions are dissected from the macular surface. Vitrectomy, especially if it requires peeling of 
any pathological membranes, carries the risk of complications, including retinal tears (<5%), 
low intraocular pressure (0-25%), acute endophthalmitis (0.03-0.23%), progression of cataract 
(23-79%), retinal detachment (0-17%), recurrent macular oedema (10%), and recurrent 
vitreous haemorrhage (7-9%) [Recchia 2010]. Surgery is commonly performed under local 
anaesthesia. The post-vitrectomy patient may also have to undergo a period of 4-6 weeks 
without being able to work, out of which 7-14 days may be in a “head-down” position to enhance 
the success rate of the surgical procedure. This “head-down” posturing can be very inconvenient 
for the patient, and carries a significant burden of care to family or friends. Furthermore, the 
vision in the first days post-operatively is often reduced to hand movements only, due to the 
retina trauma and associated inflammatory changes. Therefore, surgery is only used as an 
intervention when patients have or are at risk of severe visual disturbance and/or central 
blindness. 
Jetrea  0.5 mg/0.2 ml concentrate for solution for injection contains the active substance 
ocriplasmin and is formulated for intravitreal (IVT) use. Other names are microplasmin or 
recombinant truncated human plasmin. The term microplasmin has been used in literature and 
study reports. The target indication is the treatment of vitreomacular traction (VMT), including 
when associated with macular hole of diameter less than or equal to 400 microns. Ocriplasmin 
is supplied as an unpreserved solution in single use glass vials, and is to be diluted with sodium 
chloride solution before use. The recommended dose is 125μg (corresponding to 0.1mL of the 
diluted solution) administered by intravitreal injection to the affected eye once as a single dose. 
Ocriplasmin (molecular weight 27.2kDa), a recombinant human protein derived from the yeast 
Pichia pastoris, is a truncated form of the human plasmin with retained protease activity. It 
demonstrates activity against substrates important in the vitreous structure and vitreoretinal 
interface, including collagen, fibronectin and laminin. Plasmin occurs naturally in the vitreous, 
and increases with age. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Jetrea drug product is a sterile, clear, colourless preservative-free concentrate for solution for 
intravitreal injection, containing 200 µl of ocriplasmin active pharmaceutical ingredient at a 
concentration of 0.5 mg / 0.2 mL. Jetrea is presented in a 2 mL single use Type I glass vials to 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 6/91 
 
  
  
 
be stored at -20 °C. A carton secondary pack has been specifically developed for ocriplasmin 
drug product to ensure the vial is secured and kept upright. Due to the inherent auto-proteolytic 
activity of Ocriplasmin, Jetrea must be stored and transported frozen. The supply chain for 
ocriplasmin drug product consists of  shipment on dry ice and storage at the distributions sites 
at -20 °C ± 5 °C. Immediately prior to use, the frozen drug product (200µl) is thawed at room 
temperature and is to be diluted with an equal volume of 0.9 % (w/v) sodium chloride to adjust 
tonicity. The recommended dose is 0.125 mg (125 μg) corresponding to 0.1mL of the diluted 
solution. Ocriplasmin belongs to the pharmacotherapeutic group of ophthalmologicals. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Ocriplasmin, the active substance of Jetrea, is a truncated form of human plasmin (a protein 
naturally occurring in the eye) with retained protease activity. Other names are microplasmin or 
recombinant truncated human plasmin.  
Ocriplasmin is a protein of 249 amino acid residues and consists of two peptide chains. The first 
peptide is 19 amino acid residues long and the second is 230 amino acid residues long (the 
peptide bond between the 19th and 20th amino acid has been cleaved during the activation step 
in the downstream process). The peptides are linked together by two disulfide bonds. 
Ocriplasmin does not contain O- or N-glycosylation or other post-translational modifications and 
has a molecular weight of 27 kDa. 
Ocriplasmin is a serine protease that selectively cleaves peptide bonds located after a lysine or 
an arginine residue. Ocriplasmin is capable of cleaving many proteins, for example fibronectin, 
fibrinogen, collagen, laminin and gelatin. The ocriplasmin activity measured with physiological 
substrates like fibronectin, fibrinogen, collagen, laminin and gelatin showed comparable results 
with the proteolytic activity of human plasmin. 
Manufacture 
The recombinant protein ocriplasmin is produced in a methylotrophic yeast (Pichia pastoris) 
production system in the form of the inactive zymogen precursor microplasminogen. The 
protein is recovered and purified by chromatography steps using orthogonal separation modes. 
Microplasminogen is then activated to an active protease (ocriplasmin). The purified ocriplasmin 
is formulated in the drug substance buffer, filtered, aliquoted in bottles and stored frozen. 
The manufacturing process comprises several stages: The upstream process involves inoculum 
preparation , seed fermentation, production fermentation and dilution. The downstream process 
involves purification of microplasminogen by chromatography. These steps serve to reduce the 
levels of process and product related impurities, including host cell proteins and DNA, prior to 
the activation step. Following activation ocriplasmin is further purified before concentration The 
purified ocriplasmin is formulated, diluted and then filtered before final filtration ) to ensure 
microbiological quality, aliquoted in bottles and stored frozen MCB and WCB 
Establishment of the production cell line has been described in detail, including plasmid 
construction, transformation of the yeast strain and selection of the producer clone. The best 
producer was selected to produce a pre- Master Seed which is stored at ≤ -65°C and used to 
generate the Master Cell Bank.  
A description of the preparation of the cell bank used and the results of its testing was provided. 
The concept of a 2-tiered cell bank system was developed, in which 1 Master Cell Bank is used 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 7/91 
 
  
  
to generate Working Cell Banks (WCBs). The MCB and WCB characterization testing has 
confirmed identity, purity and suitability of the cell banks. The DNA sequence codes for the 
correct amino acid sequence were confirmed by DNA sequencing. No rearrangements, 
deletions, or insertions within the protein-coding DNA sequence were detected in the MCB, 
WCBs or in an extended in-vitro cell age from MCB thaw. A comprehensive characterization of 
the research cell, MCB and WCB is presented, and the procedure for qualification of future WCBs 
is defined. The genetic stability in the production of microplasminogen has been confirmed in 
the extended generation study and subsequent genetic consistency testing. 
Manufacturing Process Controls  
Process performance is controlled and evaluated by use of in-process controls (IPCs), critical 
in-process controls (CIPCs) and critical operating parameters (COPs). Data of critical and 
non-critical operational parameters and IPC monitoring has been shown for full scale 
conformance batches.  
Process validation and/or Evaluation 
Process validation and evaluation studies were conducted to determine optimized process 
parameters followed by the validation of the final intended ocriplasmin drug substance 
manufacture process. Initially, operational ranges for the ocriplasmin manufacturing process 
were claimed qualified according to design space principles. However, the process 
characterisation data, risk assessment approach and full scale process validation data were 
considered insufficient for such a claim. Moreover, the IPCs were, with a few exceptions, made 
on technical performance attributes only. Major objections were therefore raised against the 
design space claim and the control strategy. The applicant clarified that the use of the word 
design space in their dossier was misleading and that it had pursued a traditional approach to 
process control. Furthermore, a tighter control of quality attributes throughout the process has 
been implemented which resolved the major objection. Critical quality attributes have been 
appropriately appointed and outstanding concerns regarding the continued process verification 
protocol and IPCs have been addressed. 
The Applicant has satisfactorily addressed concerns regarding microbiological control 
throughout the downstream process. 
Characterisation 
Biochemical characterization was made using batches of the various process versions of the 
drug substance manufacture. A series of biophysical and analytical characterization assays were 
performed to provide details of the structural and chemical properties of the protein. 
Parameters including protein sequence and disulphide bond formation, secondary structure and 
higher order conformation were characterised. Size properties, including the presence of 
cleaved or truncated variants and aggregates were determined. The extent of 
post-translationally modified forms including deamidated and oxidised species were determined 
and Ocriplasmin was shown to be non-glycosylated. In addition, the presence of process-related 
impurities has been determined. 
Primary structure, Disulphide Bridge Sites, Secondary Structure, Higher-order Structure, 
Physicochemical Properties and Biological Activity were characterized by use of analytical 
methods that are considered state of the art. 
Mass spectrometry and N-terminal sequencing were used for the structural determination. The 
expected primary structure could be confirmed for the main peak of the various analytical 
chromatography methods, however the data also revealed a great heterogeneity and 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 8/91 
 
  
  
polydispersity of the substance. In general, the biochemical characterization, including 
elucidation of product related impurities is considered acceptable. 
Biological activity 
Ocriplasmin belongs to the serine protease family and its intended physiological action is to 
cleave proteins present in vitreous and vitreoretinal interfaces. Ocriplasmin cleaves the peptide 
bonds of proteins at the C-terminal side of lysine or an arginine residues. The proteolytic activity 
measurement is representative of the in vivo potency of the molecule. Proteolysis of the chosen 
substrate has been shown to correlate well with proteolysis measured with natural substrates. 
The biological activity of Ocriplasmin towards physiologically relevant and synthetic substrates 
(representing the in vivo potency) has been shown to be comparable with human plasmin. 
Specification 
The proposed release and stability specifications for Ocriplasmin drug substance comprise test 
attributes for: 
•  General Properties: appearance (by visual inspection), pH (Ph. Eur.) and osmolality 
• 
Identity: Size and Epitope and Isoelectric Point;  
Purity and Impurities: Molecular Size Variants ( by  SDS-PAGE), Hydrophobic Molecular 
• 
Variants (by RP-HPLC), Molecular Charge Variants (by CEX-HPLC) and Molecular Size Variants 
(by SE-HPLC); 
• 
Process related impurities: Residual Host Cell Proteins, Residual Host Cell DNA  
; 
•  Quantity: Protein Concentration (by UV 280 nm); 
• 
Potency: Enzyme Kinetic properties; 
•  Other quality characteristics: Endotoxin (Ph. Eur.) and Microbiological quality / bioburden 
(Ph. Eur.). 
Product related Purity and Impurities is assessed by quantitative limits for peaks of SDS-PAGE, 
SE-HPLC, RP-HPLC and CEX-HPLC. Thus, the heterogeneity is controlled by a variety of 
orthogonal analytical methods. The proposed commercial specifications are based on data from 
ocriplasmin batches utilising the mean±3 standard deviation approach. The proposed 
specifications have been tightened were appropriate  
The analytical methods are described in sufficient detail adequately validated when necessary. 
In response to concerns raised regarding the validation of the potency assay at D120, the 
Applicant has changed the potency assay A major objection that was raised in relation to the 
new potency specifications (see drug product section) was resolved. Several other concerns 
regarding the potency assay validation have also been resolved. 
Stability 
Primary Stability results were obtained with the 3 Conformance batches of ocriplasmin drug 
substance using the commercial manufacturing process. The primary stability data is available 
up to 24 months storage at frozen storage conditions (-20°C±5°C) in addition to primary 
stability data  at accelerated conditions In addition, the results of a photosensitivity study are 
available. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 9/91 
 
  
  
 
Ocriplasmin drug substance was shown to be quite stable at the proposed storage temperature 
of -20°C, up to 24 months. 
Based on the primary stability data an expiry date of 24 months is supported for the drug 
substance when stored at -20°C±5°C.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Two standard approaches were considered in the development of the sterile injectable 
formulation i.e. a lyophilised sterile powder for reconstitution before injection and a sterile 
injectable solution for dilution immediate prior to injection. Either a lyophilized formulation or a 
solution for injection was used during the non-clinical and clinical development program. The 
lyophilized and liquid formulations both contain the same ingredients. In addition, the 
reconstituted lyophilized and the liquid formulations have the same quantitative composition. 
Therefore, all clinical and non-clinical studies were performed using the same qualitative and 
quantitative formulation. All Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies were performed using the 
sterile solution for injection. The sterile solution for injection was also used for the primary 
stability batches. 
The acceptability of the container closure system was supported by: 
•  Demonstration of the ocriplasmin drug product stability / compatibility with the primary 
packaging components 
•  Demonstration of the safety of the materials in direct contact with ocriplasmin drug product 
(compliance with USP and Ph. Eur. monograph requirements) 
•  Extractable study on rubber stoppers 
•  Demonstration of the suitability of the container closure system to guarantee container 
closure integrity. 
Adventitious agents 
TSE Compliance 
A TSE declaration from the ocriplasmin drug substance manufacturer stating that no products of 
animal origin are directly used in the manufacturing of ocriplasmin drug substance is provided.  
Viral Safety  
Ocriplasmin drug substance is produced by a genetically modified yeast expression system, 
Pichia pastoris followed by separation of the active substance and purification through various 
chromatographic steps. Yeast fermentation does not support the propagation of viruses and 
therefore it is considered that there is no risk of contamination with viral adventitious agents as 
a result of the manufacturing process. Furthermore, there is no need to test the cell banks or the 
drug substance for contamination with mycoplasma species.  
No raw materials of animal or human origin are used in the manufacture of ocriplasmin drug 
substance or drug product therefore it is considered that any risk of contamination with viral 
adventitious agents introduced by the raw materials or excipients can be excluded.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 10/91 
 
  
  
 
Manufacture of the product 
The aseptic manufacturing process for Jetrea is a standard process consisting of compounding, 
in-line bioburden reduction and sterile filtration steps, aseptic vial filling, stoppering and 
capping.. All product contact materials in the ocriplasmin drug product manufacturing process 
are sterile and disposable. The process and equipment are well described. Critical steps are 
defined as those which have a direct impact on product quality attributes. Adequate in-process 
controls have been set and the process is appropriately controlled.  
Process Validation and/or Evaluation  
The data presented support the overall conclusion that product manufacturing process is robust 
and consistent. The process is acceptably validated. 
Product specification 
The proposed release and stability specifications for Jetrea comprise test attributes for: 
•  General Properties: appearance (by visual inspection), pH (Ph. Eur.), osmolality and 
Sub-Visible Particles (by particle count); 
Identity: Size and Epitope  and Isoelectric Point;  
Purity and Impurities: Molecular Size Variants (by SDS-PAGE), Hydrophobic Molecular 
Variants (by RP-HPLC), Molecular Charge Variants (by CEX-HPLC) and Molecular Size 
• 
• 
Variants (by SE-HPLC); 
•  Quantity: Protein Concentration (by UV 280 nm); 
• 
Potency: Enzyme Kinetic properties; 
•  Other quality characteristics: Uniformity of dosage unit (Ph. Eur.), Endotoxin (Ph. Eur.) and 
Sterility (Ph. Eur.). 
The proposed drug product release and stability specifications are based on a statistical 
evaluation of the release and stability data for the drug product batches manufactured at the 
commercial manufacturing site using the mean±3 standard deviation approach. The analytical 
methods are described in sufficient detail and adequately validated when necessary. 
The proposed specifications of product related Purity/Impurities are the same as for the drug 
substance, which reflects that ocriplasmin is stable Major objections were raised regarding the 
drug product specifications, which were set wider than the clinical batches. Specifications have 
now been narrowed as requested. A major objection was raised at Day 120, since the Applicant 
changed the potency assay. This major objection was cleared. Potency assay data from the 
clinical batches generated with the old method has been linked to the new method by 
side-by-side analyses. Specifications limits for the new potency assay have been set and 
justified by clinical qualification as well as on batch data, as requested. 
 The limits for sub-visible particles are set in accordance with the Ph. Eur. requirements for 
parenterals. However, considering that this product is intended for intra-vitreal administration, 
the applicant has, as requested, proposed new acceptance criteria for sub-visible particles  
Extractable volume testing is not included in the drug product specification. This is acceptable, 
considering that the drug product will be diluted before use. The fill volume accuracy, which is 
of great importance to ensure accurate dosing, has been acceptably validated. Following 
dilution, the vials will contain 400µl for an IVT injection of 100µl. The potential risk for multiple 
dosing from one vial has been addressed in the SmPC, label and PIL. Moreover, trained user 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 11/91 
 
  
  
testing has shown that it is not always possible to withdraw two 100µl doses. In conclusion, this 
potential problem has been acceptably addressed. 
The reference standard used during routine control of ocriplasmin drug product is the same as 
that used for the routine control of ocriplasmin drug substance and is considered acceptable. 
Stability of the product 
The stability / compatibility of ocriplasmin drug product with the primary packaging components 
has been demonstrated through the stability program. 
The applicant has supplied 18 months primary stability data. Primary stability data have been 
obtained for the three process validation batches of 2R ocriplasmin drug product manufactured 
using the commercial manufacturing process.  
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life and storage conditions as stated in the 
SmPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished 
product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead 
to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the 
clinic.  
2.2.4.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
The quality of this medicinal product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance 
with the conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the 
uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a 
satisfactory way.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues which could have an 
impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the medicinal product. 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.5.  Introduction  
Ocriplasmin, a recombinant human protein derived from the yeast Pichia pastoris, is a truncated 
form or fragment of human plasmin with retained protease activity.  
Ocriplasmin is intended to release the VMA to attempt to restore normal anatomy with eventual 
recovery of visual function and relief of symptoms, using a minimally invasive and a less 
traumatic procedure compared to vitrectomy. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 12/91 
 
  
  
2.2.6.  Pharmacology 
There is no appropriate disease model for VMA which would allow investigating the non-clinical 
efficacy of ocriplasmin. The applicant has therefore presented a number of in vitro, in vivo and 
ex vivo publications and studies to support the use of ocriplasmin.  The biochemical properties 
of ocriplasmin were investigated in vitro and the pharmacodynamic profile of ocriplasmin was 
evaluated in vivo and ex vivo in rat, guinea pig, rabbit, cat, porcine and human eyes.   
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
An appropriate disease model for VMA to investigate the non-clinical efficacy of ocriplasmin 
towards symptomatic VMA is not available.  The applicant has therefore presented a number of 
in vitro, in vivo and ex vivo publications and studies. The biochemical properties of ocriplasmin 
were investigated in vitro and the pharmacodynamic profile of ocriplasmin was evaluated in vivo 
and ex vivo in rat, guinea pig, rabbit, cat, porcine and human eyes.  A summary of the 
pharmacodynamics studies used to support the use of intravitreal ocriplasmin is provided in the 
Table below. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 13/91 
 
  
  
Overview on the Primary Pharmacodynamic Studies Conducted with Ocriplasmin 
Ocriplasmin was able to reduce particles in the vitreous; this has been demonstrated following 
application of ocriplasmin to the vitreous of the porcine eye.  This led to a breakdown of vitreous 
macromolecules and to partial liquefaction and appears to be a dose-dependent vitreolytic 
effect (at a dose range of 12.5 to 800 μg/eye).  The enzymatic effect of ocriplasmin on the 
vitreous was similar to that of plasmin, however its effect appears to be present for a longer 
period of time compared to plasmin and it is agreed that this may be due to a more rapid 
penetration because of the smaller size of protein (27 kDa) compared to plasmin (83 kDa). 
The studies presented confirm that after an injection of microplasmin or ocriplasmin in rats, 
guinea pigs, rabbits, cats and post-mortem pig and post-mortem human eyes, that ocriplasmin 
can induce posterior vitreous detachment.  Signs of continuing mild inflammation such as 
presence of vitreous cells were observed in rabbit and monkey studies.  Considering the 
proposed mode of action (proteolytic activity against fibronectin, laminin, collagen) of 
ocriplasmin, the role of possible drug related inflammation in liquefaction was further discussed 
by the Applicant.  It is suggested that fibronectin degradation products could secondarily 
contribute to posterior vitreous detachment (PVD) and / or liquefaction of the vitreous through 
the stimulation of inflammatory mediators and monocyte chemoattraction.  Vitreous cells 
appear within days after administration of ocriplasmin, which is consistent with a possible 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 14/91 
 
  
  
 
 
contribution of fibronectin degradation products.  Although secondary effects of e.g. fibronectin 
degradation products cannot be ruled out the significance of these effects in clinical practice is 
difficult to conclude upon.  In vivo pharmacodynamics has been adequately described. 
The rationale of dose based on µg of protein was provided and summarised enzyme activity  
across various batches of ocriplasmin.  Considering the use of µg protein for dosing and 
demonstrating comparable protein activity across batches, it is considered that this has been 
adequately addressed in the Applicant’s response. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
The secondary pharmacology studies submitted in the application were performed to support 
the use of ocriplasmin for cardiovascular indications, and were considered by the CHMP as not 
relevant for this marketing authorisation application, due to the rapid degradation of 
ocriplasmin once intravitreally injected.  
Safety pharmacology programme 
A single GLP safety pharmacology study was performed with ocriplasmin that examined 
cardiovascular, respiratory and haematological endpoints.  This study was conducted in 
compliance to ICH S7a and used male Beagle dogs.  No changes were seen in the low dose 
group of animals (0.15 mg/kg).  Prothrombin time was increased and fibrinogen was decreased 
in animals treated with 1.5 mg/kg and this was more significant in the high dose group (15 
mg/kg).  The high dose exceeds the anticipated active systemic dose of 4 mg/kg by 3.5 times 
and several haematological (increases in red blood cell count, haemoglobin, and haematocrit), 
cardiovascular (increase in Q-T interval, Q-TcV interval, heart rate and diastolic and systolic 
blood pressure) and respiratory (decreased tidal volume) effects are seen that demonstrate 
exaggerated pharmacology and doses administered are well in excess of the anticipated clinical 
exposure.   
Intravenous administration of ocriplasmin at doses of 2, 6 or 10 mg/kg to male Sprague Dawley 
rats had no significant effects on the general behaviour of the male rat. 
In two studies to examine the effect of ocriplasmin on the vitreoretinal interface in cats and 
rabbits revealed that intravitreal administered ocriplasmin was well tolerated at doses up to 9 
µg/ml vitreous volume in feline eyes.  In rabbit eyes there were transient ERG changes at doses 
of 60 and 119 µg/ml, however these were reversed (at 60 µg/ml after 14 days) or reversing (at 
1189 µg/ml after 90 days). 
No specific concerns are raised in safety pharmacology for the intravitreal use of ocriplasmin. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Ocriplasmin pharmacodynamic drug interactions were studied in rabbits. There were no 
adverse effects, but an increase in initial retinal penetration of bevacizumab was observed by 
light microscopy. In addition, analyses of plasma from humans and animals revealed that 
ocriplasmin administrated intravenously at doses up to 4 mg/kg did not freely circulate in the 
blood due to the presence of serine protease inhibitors (as also discussed in the Clinical section). 
Consequently, any ocriplasmin in plasma is expected to be inactivated by serine protease 
inhibitor α2-antiplasmin at the clinical exposure dose, and systemic interactions are not 
anticipated. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 15/91 
 
  
  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions between ocriplasmin and topical anaesthetic and 
antimicrobial agents administered as eye drops were not specifically investigated, as interaction 
of ocriplasmin with topical drugs is expected to be very limited: ocriplasmin is injected 
intravitreally, and it is expected that there would be minimal direct contact with topically 
administered drugs.  In general, only a small amount of topically administered drugs are 
absorbed into the vitreous humour.  It is also expected that  due to the selectivity of ocriplasmin 
and given the chemical nature of anaesthetic, antimicrobial and antifungal therapies, or 
commonly used preservatives in eye drops, the pharmacodynamics of these drugs, even if 
injected intravitreally, are not expected to be affected by the presence of ocriplasmin (Packer et 
al., 2011; Riddell et al., 2011). The CHMP considered this acceptable. 
2.2.7.  Pharmacokinetics 
The non-clinical pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ocriplasmin was determined following 
intraocular and intravenous administration to rabbit and porcine eyes as well as to porcine and 
human vitreous fluid.   
In vitro investigations of single administration of ocriplasmin in PBS and porcine and human 
homogenised vitreous fluid demonstrated that ocriplasmin undergoes rapid degradation i.e. 
auto-proteolytic degradation similar to that described for plasmin.  Due to the rapid 
degradation, in vivo pharmacokinetic/toxicokinetic investigations to support the safety and 
efficacy profiling of ocriplasmin for single-dose intraocular treatment of symptomatic 
vitreomacular adhesion were not conducted.  The applicant demonstrated a similar rate of 
ocriplasmin degradation in human and porcine vitreous fluid in a clinical study following 
intravitreal injection of 125 μg ocriplasmin in 40 patients undergoing vitrectomy (study 
TG-MV-010).   
The assessment of toxicokinetics after intravenous administration of ocriplasmin was conducted 
as part of the systemic repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs. 
The biological activity of ocriplasmin after intravitreal injection was determined using a 
bioassay.  Ocriplasmin and IgG antibodies to ocriplasmin were determined using ELISA assays.  
Methods of analysis were validated from samples obtained from rats and dogs.  The methods 
were considered to be suitably validated. 
There were no specific non-clinical in vivo studies conducted to examine absorption, 
distribution, metabolism or excretion of ocriplasmin.  There is negligible systemic exposure 
assumed following IVT administration of ocriplasmin and as it is expected to enter the 
endogenous protein catabolism pathway, ocriplasmin is expected to be rapidly inactivated via 
its interactions with protease inhibitor α2-antiplasmin or α2-macroglobulin.   
In vitro investigations of ocriplasmin in PBS, porcine and human vitreous fluid demonstrated 
that ocriplasmin was inactivated in 2 phases.  There is an initial rapid decline phase followed by 
a secondary phase.  Ocriplasmin undergoes a concentration dependent auto-proteolytic 
degradation similar to that described for plasmin.  A similar result was obtained when 
ocriplasmin was injected intravitreally ex vivo in post-mortem porcine eyes.   
There were no specific non-clinical studies conducted to examine potential pharmacokinetic 
drug interactions with ocriplasmin following IVT administration.  No systemic pharmacokinetic 
drug interactions are expected following intravitreal administration with ocriplasmin due to the 
rapid degradation following IVT injection.   
The pharmacokinetics of intravenous ocriplasmin have been briefly addressed in order to 
support interpretation of intravenous toxicity studies that were submitted as part of the 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 16/91 
 
  
  
non-pivotal toxicology documentation. An immunologically based method was used to 
determine ocriplasmin in plasma from rat and dog. The package was limited but acceptable, in 
view of the type of product, the route of administration and the rapid degradation of 
ocriplasmin. 
2.2.8.  Toxicology 
A comprehensive number of toxicology studies have been conducted to support the safety 
review of ocriplasmin.  In the single and repeat dose studies the toxicity of ocriplasmin 
administered IVT has been examined in Cynomolgus monkey.  Further single dose IVT studies 
have been conducted in Dutch belted rabbits and Gottingen Mini-Pigs.  Studies have also been 
undertaken to examine systemic effects of ocriplasmin using IV administration 
(Sprague-Dawley rats and Beagle dog).  A justification for the choice of the species in 
toxicological studies has been provided.   
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity was examined in Dutch belted rabbits in three GLP compliant studies.  Due 
to the size of the rabbit eye, the applicant has not performed their pivotal studies in this species.  
An earlier development batch of ocriplasmin was used.  Administered doses ranged from 2.5 to 
885 µg/eye (equivalent to 2.3 to 797 µg/ml vitreous volume); the anticipated human equivalent 
dose is 125 µg/eye or 29 µg/ml vitreous.   
Attenuation of retinal vessels was observed in all doses, including 2.5 µg/eye, though this 
resolved during the 8 week recovery period.  At higher doses this effect showed some evidence 
of reversibility in a number of animals though was persistent in more than 2 animals treated 
with >62.5 µg/eye ocriplasmin, even after 8 weeks recovery. 
ERG changes were observed in all treated eyes except for 2.5 µg and were persistent in animals 
treated with 125 and 200 µg/eye even following 8 week recovery. 
Lens subluxation occurred in 2 of 12 treated eyes of animals of the 50 μg group (45µg/ml), 1 of 
6 eyes treated with 62.5 μg and 3 of 6 eyes treated with 200 μg.  There was cupping of the optic 
nerve seen in one animal treated with 200 µg ocriplasmin that may be attributed to damage to 
lens zonules or due to increase IOP. 
Inflammation and infiltration of cells into the vitreous was observed in all treated eyes, though 
varied in extent, persistence and severity with increasing dose.  Effect was slight and transient 
at 2.5 µg early in study that was absent at end of 8 week recovery.   
Cyclitis was observed in the highest two doses, 200 and 885 µg/eye.   
Transient swelling of the eye was seen in eyes treated with 62.5 µg ocriplasmin, though this was 
also seen in control eyes. 
Histological changes: retinal atrophy was observed in all dosed animals >50 µg/eye, though 
severity increased with increased dosage.  From 50 µg/eye (45 µg/ml), accumulation of 
macrophages in the vitreous body of ocriplasmin treated eyes was observed.  This appeared to 
be dose-related.  Rabbit eyes treated with 2.5 µg/eye (2.37 µg/ml vitreous) were unaffected in 
each aspect, although eyes treated with 50 µg/eye there were signs of toxicity, most showed 
signs of reversibility during the recovery period except for inflammation.   
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 17/91 
 
  
  
Single dose toxicity was examined in Cynomolgus monkeys in three GLP studies.  The studies 
performed are considered pivotal due to their administration to a relevant animal species.  An 
earlier development batch of ocriplasmin was used in two of the studies.  The third study was 
conducted to bridge a change of the drug substance and drug product manufacturers.  
Administered doses ranged from 1.5 to 200 µg/eye (equivalent to 0.81 to 108 µg/ml vitreous 
volume). 
ERG changes were observed in all treated eyes except for eyes treated with 1.5 µg.  There was 
evidence of recovery at 20, 25 and 125 µg/eye, although this was only partial in the high dose 
200 µg/eye animals. 
Lens subluxation was seen in the batch comparability study (570256) in 2/6 treated eyes (125 
μg/eye), although no effect was seen in the second batch tested at the same dose. The issue of 
lens subluxation is discussed further down in this paragraph. 
Inflammation and cellular infiltration: 2/3 of the eyes that received 200 μg had a red/closed eye 
and a constricted pupil.  Constricted pupils were also seen in eyes treated with 25 and 125 μg 
ocriplasmin (14 and 68 μg/ml vitreous volume respectively.  Infiltration of cells into the vitreous 
was observed in all treated eyes, and this varied in extent, persistence and severity, 
independently to dose and resolved over time.  Anterior uveitis was observed at 125 µg/eye on 
Day 2 post-dosing but this resolved/was resolving by termination of study.  All eyes injected 
with 1.5, 25 or 125 μg of ocriplasmin (0.81, 14 or 68 μg/ml vitreous volume, respectively) 
showed a dose-related reduction in intraocular pressure as compared to pre-treatment values 
but normalised by end of study.  It is agreed that subconjunctive haemorrhage observed in eyes 
treated with ocriplasmin are assumed to be caused by the injection procedure as they are also 
present in control eyes. 
Histological changes: retinal lesions were not detected in any of the animals receiving a single 
administration of 1.5 µg to 200 µg ocriplasmin/eye.  Monkey eyes treated with 1.5 µg/eye (0.81 
µg/ml vitreous) were unaffected in each aspect, affects such as inflammatory cell in 
vitreous/ERG changes were seen in doses of 25/125 and 20 µg/eye respectively, although these 
showed sign of reversibility.  Lens subluxation was seen in doses greater than 75 µg/eye (41 
µg/ml vitreous).  Due to effects seen in each treatment group in monkeys, no accurate NOAEL 
can be established.   
Toxicity in Göttingen Mini-Pigs was examined in two GLP single dose studies.  An earlier 
development batch of ocriplasmin was used in one study, the other used GMP-grade 
ocriplasmin.  Administered doses ranged from 5 to 125 µg/eye (equivalent to 2.4 to 61 µg/ml 
vitreous volume).  There was no evidence of systemic toxicity after administration to male 
mini-pigs.  There were no treatment-related deaths or effects on body weight or food 
consumption and there were no significant gross observations at necropsy, ERG or 
histopathological changes in the eye.  There was an instance of slight lens subluxation in 1 eye 
at the highest dose, 125 µg/eye.  A NOAEL was determined to be 100 μg/eye ocriplasmin (49 
μg/ml vitreous volume). 
The applicant has provided a tabulated summary of the findings from the single-dose toxicity 
study in animals following intravitreal administration of ocriplasmin.  The figure for lens 
subluxation in monkeys also includes data from the repeat-dose intravitreal study (570221), 
following the first administration of ocriplasmin to the eye.  This dose is still above the 
anticipated clinical dose, however the highest dose at which lens subluxation is not observed is 
25 µg/eye (equivalent to 14 µg/ml) and therefore lower than the dose to be given in the clinic.  
The applicant discusses the presence of glycoproteins in fibres of the lens zonules and of 
collagen IV and fibronectin in the extracellular matrix around the zonules that may be targeting 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 18/91 
 
  
  
by ocriplasmin.  This may explain the presence of this effect.  Considering that in the animal 
studies, the highest dose at which lens subluxation is not observed is 25 µg/eye (equivalent to 
14 µg/ml), the applicant was asked to comment further on the potential risks of lens subluxation 
seen in the animal studies, and whether the lack of an adequate safety margin would have an 
impact on the clinical use of ocriplasmin. 
The CHMP considered  acceptable the explanation proposed by the applicant on the incidence of 
lens subluxation seen in the animal studies:   
1) The volume of vitreous humour, a collagen containing gel, might influence the time in which, 
as well as the quantities of, active ocriplasmin reaches the zonula.   
2) The physical size of eye and length of injection needle may also influence delivery location of 
ocriplasmin to the eye.  The correct injection site location for intravitreal injection is smaller in 
animal species with smaller eye size.  Injections which are too posterior risk retinal breaks while 
those that are too anterior may damage the lens. 
3) All intravitreal injections may not be the same: they may not diffuse evenly throughout the 
vitreous cavity because of its macromolecular gel structure. Injections are likely further affected 
by variations in individual vitreous composition, such as vitreous liquefaction and lacunae 
formation (Asami et al., 2012).  It was also shown that the most significant vitreolytic effect 
after intravitreal injection of ocriplasmin is in the immediate area of enzyme contact.  With 
increasing distance from the site of bolus delivery of enzyme, efficacy is reduced (Gad Elkareem 
et al., 2010). 
The above considerations may help to explain the incidence of subluxation observed in the 
different animal species; incidence in the smaller eyes of rabbit and monkey is higher than the 
incidence observed in the larger pig eye as well as the apparent non-dose related occurrence of 
lens subluxation in rabbits and monkeys.  The higher vitreous volume and size in humans may 
also have had an influence in the low incidence in human subjects (2 lens subluxations observed 
from 820 patients administered ocriplasmin). 
Systemic single dose toxicity was examined in rats dosed with ocriplasmin via IV infusion, at 
doses of 10, 25 and 40 mg/kg to both males and females.  There was clear evidence of toxicity 
at 40 mg/kg, with a number of deaths.  There was subdued behaviour and staggering for up to 
15min post dosing in animals treated with 25 mg/kg ocriplasmin.  No mortality or dose-limiting 
toxicities occurred after administration of single doses of 10 mg/kg. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
A single repeat dose study examining IVT administration of ocriplasmin was performed.  Two 
doses were selected, 75 µg and 125 µg/eye, corresponding to 41 and 68 µg/ml vitreous volume.  
These two dosages exceed the anticipated clinical vitreal exposure (125 µg/eye, 29 µg/ml).  
Following IVT administration with ocriplasmin the major ocular finding was that of lens 
subluxation.  This effect was seen in the single dose studies with rabbits and monkeys where the 
lowest dose in which this change was seen was 125 µg/eye in the Cynomolgus monkey (study 
570256) with a GMP-grade batch of ocriplasmin.  In this study changes were seen in both doses 
of ocriplasmin, at 125 µg this was seen 6 days after the first dose, increasing in number and 
severity on Days 27, 33/34, 41, 57, 70 and 83.  This effect was previously discussed in the 
single dose studies and the possible proteolytic activity of ocriplasmin on the lens zonules.  To 
further clarify the apparent increased risk of lens subluxation seen the GMP grade of 
ocriplasmin, compared to another GMP grade Batch (study 570256), the Applicant has provided 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 19/91 
 
  
  
a summary of the cross-species comparison of observations of lens subluxation.  Susceptibility 
of lens subluxation with an early development ocriplasmin batch showed that rabbit sensitivity 
was increased and that this was most likely due to reduced vitreal volume compared to pig and 
monkeys.  The largest vitreal volume is found in the mini-pig, which had a single case of lens 
subluxation at 61 μg/mL vitreous volume.   
Although the effect of subluxation was only slight in the lower dose group following the first 
injection, further increased effect was seen during the course of the study and following the 
second dose.  One animal with slight lens subluxation had marked retinal detachment with 
hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium and severe retinal vacuolation.  In clinical studies, 
subluxation of the lens or lens instability was reported in 3 patients.  One was thought to be 
caused by forward pressure from the vitreous tamponading agent post-vitrectomy and not 
related to posterior capsule / zonular integrity. The other two were observed at the time of 
vitrectomy.  One case of lens subluxation was reported in an at risk premature male infant with 
extremely low birth weight and significant medical and ophthalmic issues, although it is noted 
that a marked improvement in the anatomy of the retina with retinal reattachment was seen.  
The same patient was given a second dose of ocriplasmin in the other eye and suffered no 
reported lens subluxation.  The smaller eye volume of the premature infant, the larger 
ocriplasmin dose and the possible access of study drug to the zonules due to injection were 
considered to be possible cause of this finding.  In the last case a patient experienced an 
adverse event of ‘lens luxation’ that was non-serious, mild in intensity and due to intraocular 
lens displacement by pressure from tamponading agent and unrelated to zonule integrity.  
There was also a level of inflammatory response characterised as inflammatory cells in the 
anterior chamber, uveitis, miosis and hazy fundus view seen in most treated eyes.  Due to these 
findings a third dose of 75 µg was not administered.  A NOAEL could not be established for this 
study due to the presence of multiple findings following one or two administrations of 
ocriplasmin, and at both 75 and 125 µg doses.  It is also considered that due to the proteolytic 
activity of ocriplasmin, a risk of subluxation of the lens cannot be ruled out though this would be 
low in adults, but may present as a higher risk in premature infants.  This potential safety 
concern is raised in the RMP and is highlighted in sections 4.8 and 5.3 of the SmPC. 
A range of systemic toxicity studies were performed in rats and dogs to support the 
development of ocriplasmin for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke, and so administered 
doses of ocriplasmin are well in excess of the anticipated intravitreal exposure.  These studies 
are therefore considered as supportive in the safety assessment for ocriplasmin.  Ocriplasmin 
was well tolerated when administered every second day at of 2, 7 and 10 mg/kg (7 
administrations in total) via an initial IV loading dose of 1, 3.5 or 5 mg/kg followed by a 1h 
infusion of 1, 3.5 or 5 mg/kg to rats.  In Beagle dogs, the intravenous administration of 
ocriplasmin at doses of 2, 7 and 10 mg/kg/day every other day for 7 administrations were well 
tolerated.  Plasma ocriplasmin concentrations increased with the increasing dose and upon 
repeat dosing the systemic exposure to ocriplasmin also increased.  Fibrinogen and 
α2-antiplasmin levels increased with repeat dosing at all doses due to the pharmacodynamic 
effect of exposure to ocriplasmin. 
Genotoxicity 
The range and type of genotoxicity studies that are routinely conducted for pharmaceuticals are 
generally not applicable for biotechnology-derived products as it is unlikely that the 
administration of large levels of proteins would yield any useful results.  Ocriplasmin is also 
unlikely to interact with DNA or chromosomal material.   
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 20/91 
 
  
  
Carcinogenicity 
Standard carcinogenicity bioassays are generally inappropriate for biotechnology-derived 
pharmaceuticals.  This is in line with ICH S6 (R1) guideline for preclinical safety evaluation of 
biotechnology-derived pharmaceuticals.  There is a need for standard carcinogenicity studies for 
products expected to be used clinically for over 6 months, but ocriplasmin is intended for single 
administration only. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
The absence of reproductive and developmental toxicity studies is justified by ocriplasmin 
characteristics and intended use. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Maximum plasma levels and systemic exposure showed great variability in rat and dog studies. 
In dogs, recorded exposures were generally much higher in males than in females. At the 
tentative NOAELs identified in intravenous studies the margins of exposure to the maximum 
possible systemic dose after one intravitreal administration seem sufficiently high to conclude 
that no systemic effects are to be expected after intravitreal administration 
Ocriplasmin levels in 14 day intravenous rat study 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
2 
7 
10 
Cmax (ng/ml)   
(M, F) 
Day 1    645.1     724.0 
Day13   466.8     470.7 
Day 1    3766      4381 
Day13   5210      4720 
Day 1    5454      5152 
Day13   10214    10162 
AUC(0-τ) (ngxhr/ml) 
tmax (hr) 
Day 1    1817       1831 
Day13   978        945 
Day 1    7783      8470 
Day13   15647    9216 
Day 1    13063    14810  
Day13   24982    17316 
Day 1   3.25   1.75 
Day13  5.25    5.25 
Day 1   1.50    2.25 
Day13  1.50    1.75 
Day 1   1.50    1.50 
Day13  2.25   1.50 
Ocriplasmin levels in 14 day intravenous dog study 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
2 
7 
10 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
(M, F) 
Day 1    10.13     5.32 
Day13   12.03     5.13 
Day 1    61.78     25.01 
Day13   66.71     26.43 
Day 1    11.4       10.69 
Day13   20.52      41.57 
AUC(0-τ) (µgxhr/ml) 
tmax (hr) 
Day 1    15.36     10.23 
Day13   15.59     10.45 
Day 1    155.3     53.51 
Day13   178.7     54.03 
Day 1    37.53     37.61  
Day13   74.03     102.6 
Day 1    0.50    0.50 
Day13   0.50    0.75 
Day 1    1.38    0.50 
Day13   0.63    0.50 
Day 1    4.00    4.50 
Day13   0.63    0.75 
Local Tolerance  
Local tolerance was investigated in a dedicated study in New Zealand White rabbits, 
administered a single paravenous injection of ocriplasmin in vehicle at a dose of 0.9 mg.  Three 
animals were sacrificed 48 h after injection and another three on day 8.  There was no evidence 
of compound-related local reactions following injection with any of the treatments.  There were 
incidents of local irritation observed after injection although this can be attributed to the 
injection procedure and the low pH of the control item, rather than effects due to ocriplasmin.  
These effects were greatest 48 h after injection and were cleared 7 days after injection. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 21/91 
 
  
  
Other toxicity studies 
Immunogenicity 
Non-human product-related impurities related to P. pastoris host cell proteins and 
staphylokinase have the potential to cause immunogenicity.  A study was performed using 
batch of ocriplasmin not used in the pivotal non-clinical studies, or during clinical development 
to assess immunogenicity of  host cell protein content at the time.   
Immunogenicity has been evaluated as part of the systemic toxicity studies conducted in rats 
and dogs.  No antibodies were found in the rat study, this may be due to the short period 
between administration and sampling (7 days).  In the dog, one sample tested positive for 
anti-ocriplasmin antibodies, although no adverse effects have been attributed to the presence of 
antibodies to ocriplasmin.  During intravitreal administration to Cynomolgus monkeys, no 
immunogenicity measurements were taken and only a post-hoc analysis was undertaken.  An 
increased level of events associated with an increased immune response can be seen.  
Immunogenicity would be expected in the animal studies due to the difference in sequence 
homology, and so its relevance for a human product is limited.  Although no specific concerns for 
immunogenicity are raised for this single administration product, the applicant should also 
provide the data for immunogenicity measurements that appear to have been taken during 
study 662911 (rat). 
2.2.9.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant provided a suitable justification for not performing an Environmental Risk 
Assessment (ERA) in line with the guidance from the “Guideline on the Environmental Risk 
Assessment of the medicinal products for human use” (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00).  
Ocriplasmin is a recombinant protein and is unlikely to result in significant risk to the 
environment.  No further evaluation of ocriplasmin has been provided and this was considered 
acceptable. 
2.2.10.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The nonclinical documentation was designed to evaluate the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, 
and toxicology of ocriplasmin in support of clinical intravitreal (IVT) treatment of symptomatic 
vitreomacular adhesion (VMA) including macular holes.   
Studies and submitted publications were conducted in vitro (PD), in vivo and ex vivo.  The 
biochemical properties of ocriplasmin were investigated in vitro and the pharmacodynamic 
profile of ocriplasmin was evaluated in vivo and ex vivo in rat, guinea pig, rabbit, cat, porcine 
and human eyes, and the scope of the studies is considered to be extensive.  Signs of continuing 
mild inflammation such as presence of vitreous cells were observed in rabbit and monkey 
studies.  Considering the proposed mode of action (proteolytic activity against fibronectin, 
laminin, collagen) of ocriplasmin, the role of possible drug related inflammation in liquefaction 
has been adequately discussed also in view of temporal relationships of PVD and ocriplasmin 
activity.  As ocriplasmin is a proteolytic protein, dosing based on µg protein is sufficient to 
ensure a standardised biological activity and therapeutic effect.  In this respect further 
discussion was provided where proteolytic activity of ocriplasmin batches was seen to be 
comparable and thus this can be excluded as source for the noted differences in ocular toxicity 
in monkeys. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 22/91 
 
  
  
The potential concomitant effects of ocriplasmin have not been examined by the Applicant as 
intravitreal dose is expected to be rapidly neutralised in vivo, which would negate the need to 
examine this further.  Interaction of ocriplasmin with topical drugs is expected to be very limited 
as the ocriplasmin is injected intravitreally, and therefore it is expected that there would be 
minimal direct contact with topically administered drugs.  In general, only a small amount of 
topically administered drugs are absorbed into the vitreous humour.  It is also expected that  
due to the selectivity of ocriplasmin and given the chemical nature of anaesthetic, antimicrobial 
and antifungal therapies, or commonly used preservatives in eye drops, the pharmacodynamics 
of these drugs, even if injected intravitreally, are not expected to be affected by the presence of 
ocriplasmin. 
The non-clinical pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ocriplasmin was determined following 
intraocular and intravenous administration to rabbit and porcine eyes as well as to porcine and 
human vitreous fluid.  The change in active concentration profile over time of active ocriplasmin 
was investigated in vitro in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 (PBS), porcine and human vitreous 
fluid as well as ex vivo in post-mortem porcine eyes.  One of the porcine studies was conducted 
in accordance with the OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP).  There were no 
specific non-clinical studies conducted to examine absorption, distribution, metabolism or 
excretion of ocriplasmin.  There is negligible systemic exposure assumed following IVT 
administration of ocriplasmin and as it is expected to enter the endogenous protein catabolism 
pathway, ocriplasmin is expected to be rapidly inactivated via its interactions with protease 
inhibitor α2-antiplasmin or α2-macroglobulin.  In vitro investigations of ocriplasmin in PBS, 
porcine and human vitreous fluid demonstrated that ocriplasmin was inactivated in 2 phases.  
There is an initial rapid decline phase followed by a secondary phase.  Ocriplasmin undergoes a 
concentration dependent auto-proteolytic degradation similar to that described for plasmin.  A 
similar result was obtained when ocriplasmin was injected intravitreally ex vivo in post-mortem 
porcine eyes.  The degradation of ocriplasmin after addition to the supernatant of homogenised 
vitreous fluid appeared much slower than after injection ex vivo followed by homogenisation 
and determination of ocriplasmin.  Biochemical properties specific for post mortem eyes may 
indicate uncertainties as to extrapolation of the degradation profiles to clinical conditions.  There 
are no data on the natural substrates for ocriplasmin 2 to 24 hours post mortem. Potassium and 
phosphorous concentrations are known to increase with time postmorten.  Recovery of active 
enzyme was not significantly affected at least for 6 hours.  Overall, while no specific data on 
degradation profile dependence is available, at least for the 6 first hours no major differences 
would be expected.   
A comprehensive number of toxicology studies have been conducted to support the safety 
review of ocriplasmin.  In the single and repeat dose studies the toxicity of ocriplasmin 
administered IVT has been examined (Cynomolgus monkey).  Further single dose IVT studies 
has been conducted in Dutch belted rabbits and Gottingen Mini-Pigs.  Studies have also been 
undertaken to examine systemic effects of ocriplasmin using IV administration 
(Sprague-Dawley rats and Beagle dog).  Discussion for the exclusion of rabbits and the inclusion 
for pig eyes has been given, justification for using the Cynomolgus monkey as a relevant animal 
species has been provided.   
The Applicant has provided a summary of the cross-species comparison of observations of lens 
subluxation.  Issues were first raised in the batch comparability study in monkeys (Study 
570256) with GMP grade batches of ocriplasmin, where a variation in incidence of lens 
subluxation appeared linked to the batch of product administered.  Susceptibility of lens 
subluxation with an early development ocriplasmin batch showed that rabbit sensitivity was 
increased and that this was most likely due to reduced vitreal volume compared to pig and 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 23/91 
 
  
  
monkeys.  The largest vitreal volume is found in the mini-pig, which had a single case of lens 
subluxation at 61 μg/mL vitreous volume.  The Applicant reanalysed the activity data in the 
ocriplasmin batches.  Batch variability in terms of protein activity may not be a cause of the 
variability in the susceptibility of lens subluxation in the monkey although this has not been 
clearly demonstrated by the Applicant in their response.  However it is accepted that reduced 
vitreal volume may lead to increased incidence of lens subluxation, and that this would be 
greatly reduced in clinical practice with the higher human vitreal volume.   
2.2.11.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Although the package is limited in parts, the CHMP concluded that, due to the nature of the 
product, the route of administration, and the single use, the nonclinical profile is adequately 
characterised. 
The potential risk for lens subluxation is highlighted in sections 4.8 and 5.3 of the SmPC. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 24/91 
 
  
  
 
Study ID, 
Location 
Design 
Study Posology 
Status, total no. 
enrolled, 
population 
Primary Endpoint 
Pivotal Phase III studies 
TG-MV-00
6 
USA 
TG-MV-00
7 
Europe & 
USA 
Phase III 
Placebo-contr
olled, 
double-maske
d 
6-month study 
Phase III 
Placebo-contr
olled, 
double-maske
d 
6-month study 
125μg or placebo 
injection 
Completed 
(n=326) 
o  proportion of patients with 
nonsurgical resolution of focal 
VMA at Day 28 
Patients with 
symptomatic VMA 
125μg or placebo 
injection 
Completed 
(n=326) 
o  proportion of patients with 
nonsurgical resolution of focal 
VMA at Day 28 
Patients with 
symptomatic VMA 
Completed Phase II studies 
TG-MV-00
1 
Europe 
Phase II 
Uncontrolled, 
ascending 
dose/exposure 
time, 6-month 
Dose/time before 
vitrectomy:  
25μg/1h; 25μg/24h; 
25μg/7d; 50μg/24h; 
75μg/24h; or 
125μg/24h 
Completed 
(n=61) 
Patients with VMT 
maculopathy 
o  Grade of PVD preoperatively and 
release of vitreomacular traction 
o  Ease of induction of PVD 
o  Extent and speed of resolution of 
macular oedema 
o  Post-operative BCVA at 1, 2 and 4 
weeks and 3 and 6 months. 
o  Proportion of patients who achieved 
total PVD without creation of an 
anatomical defect (i.e. retinal hole, 
retinal detachment) 
25μg, 75μg or 
125μg or placebo in 
the study eye 
Completed 
(n=125) 
Patients 
undergoing 
vitrectomy for 
treatment of 
non-proliferative 
vitreoretinal 
disease 
75μg, 125μg or 
175μg or sham 
Completed 
(n=61) 
o  Proportion of patients with total  
PVD  
Patients with VMT 
maculopathy 
Completed 
(n=38) 
Patients scheduled 
for vitrectomy 
Dose/time before 
vitrectomy:  
125μg/5-30min; 
125μg/31-60min; 
125μg/2-4h; 
125μg/24h;  
125μg/7d; no 
ocriplasmin 
treatment 
o  Ocriplasmin activity level in 
vitreous samples obtained at the 
beginning of vitrectomy 
o  Time necessary to remove the 
vitreous from the eye 
TG-MV-00
3 
USA 
Phase II 
Placebo-contr
olled, 
dose-range 
finding, 
6-month 
TG-MV-00
4 
Europe 
TG-MV-01
0 
Belgium 
Phase II 
Sham-injectio
n 
controlled, 
dose-range 
finding, 
6-month 
Phase II (PK) 
Open label, 
ascending 
exposure time, 
7-week 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 25/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID, 
Location 
Design 
Study Posology 
Status, total no. 
enrolled, 
population 
Primary Endpoint 
Supportive Phase II studies (ongoing or in different patient population) 
25μg, 75μg or 
125μg or sham in 
the study eye 
Completed 
(n=51) 
o  Proportion of patients with total  
PVD  
TG-MV-00
2 
Europe 
TG-MV-00
5 
Phase II 
Sham-injectio
n 
controlled, 
dose-range 
finding, 
12-month 
Phase II 
Sham-injectio
n 
controlled, 
12-month 
125μg 
TG-MV-00
8 
Phase II 
Open label,  
6-month 
125μg 
TG-MV-00
9 
175μg 
Phase II 
Placebo-contr
olled, 6-month 
Patients with 
diabetic macular 
oedema 
Ongoing 
(planned n=100) 
Patients with wet 
AMD 
Ongoing 
(planned n=30) 
Patients with focal 
vitreomacular 
adhesion 
Ongoing 
(planned n=24) 
Infants and 
children scheduled 
for vitrectomy 
o  Proportion of subjects with release 
of focal vitreomacular adhesion by 
day 28 
o  Proportion of subjects with 
non-surgical resolution of focal 
vitreomacular adhesion at day 28 
o  Proportion of patients with total  
macular PVD at beginning of 
surgery 
o  Assessment of vitreous liquefaction 
o  Immediate post-operative 
retinal/macular reattachment 
o  Presence of proliferative 
vitreoretinopathy on follow-up 
o  ROP classification on follow-up 
In addition to the above studies, 4 studies with i.v. administration of ocriplasmin have been 
performed in indications like peripheral arterial occlusion, stroke and deep vein thrombosis. 
These are briefly addressed in the pharmacokinetic and safety section as they are not relevant 
for evaluation of efficacy in the current indication. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Jetrea is a product intended for single IVT injection. For a locally administered, locally acting 
product, with no or very low systemic exposure expected, intended for single use, the 
pharmacokinetic information is mainly used descriptively. Neither dose adjustments based on 
pharmacokinetic variability nor pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions are expected. 
Clinical pharmacology analyses on ocriplasmin were initially performed after intravenous (IV) 
administration, as ocriplasmin was originally developed as a thrombolytic agent for 
intravascular use. The development as a thrombolytic agent was terminated for commercial 
reasons (unrelated to safety) and intravitreal administration was tested for the induction of 
posterior vitreous detachment. 
Systemic PK studies were done in 2 clinical trials with intravenous administration (TG-M-001 
and TG-M-004). These were IV multiple dose studies that investigated the thrombolytic effect of 
ocriplasmin. PK and PD analyses were part of these systemic administration trials and were 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 26/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
included to obtain information on the systemic effect and safety. IV doses given in studies 
TG-M-001 and -004 were between 50 and 2000 times higher than the dose to be administered 
intravitreally. In these PK studies the ocriplasmin levels that were measured reflect both ‘free’ 
and ‘bound’ ocriplasmin (bound to α2-antiplasmin, and inactivated).  
Ocriplasmin vitreous PK data following intravitreal injection are available from one trial 
(TG-MV-010). A final PK study (SR 10/mPl16/ItP) investigated the inactivation profile of 
ocriplasmin in human vitreous fluid, obtained from random vitrectomy patients. 
TG-MV-010 was a Phase 2, open-label, ascending-exposure-time, single centre study to 
evaluate the PK properties of 125μg ocriplasmin administered as a single intravitreal dose at 
different time points prior to planned primary pars plana vitrectomy (PPV). A control group with 
no ocriplasmin injection prior to PPV was also included. The mean ocriplasmin activity levels 
decreased with time from injection. By 24 hours after injection, levels were below the lower limit 
of detection (<272 ng/ml) in 2 of 4 subjects, and by 7 days after injection levels were 
undetectable in all subjects. 
No human metabolism or excretion studies were conducted, as it is expected that ocriplasmin 
enters the endogenous protein catabolism pathway through which it is rapidly inactivated via its 
interactions with protease inhibitor α2-antiplasmin (in vitro study R04-TX-002) or 
α2-macroglobulin (Gyzander and Teger-Nilsson, 1980).  
Due to the very low likelihood of systemic availability of ocriplasmin after a single dose 
intravitreal administration, no systemic biodistribution studies after intravitreal injection were 
conducted. 
The pharmacokinetic package for ocriplasmin is limited, but this reflects the nature of the 
product and the route of administration. Plasmin is an endogenous substance within the eye, 
and levels have been shown to increase with age, to an approximate level of 1.2µg/eye in 
subjects over the age of 50 years (Vaughan-Thomas et al. 2000).  
Absorption and Distribution 
Ocriplasmin is injected intravitreally. The systemic bioavailability after intravitreal dosing has 
not been assessed, and is not known. Even if the systemic bioavailability of the intravitreal dose 
was 100%, a plasma concentration of 35ng/mL would be expected (based on data from 
TG-M-001); this was below the lower level of quantification in plasma (2.5μg/mL).  
Initial preclinical testing was performed with a lyophilised formulation; however, in all human 
trials a solution for injection was used. Adjustments to the manufacturing method were made 
during the development process. After completion of the Phase 3 studies, the process was 
scaled up to commercial levels. This is further discussed in the Quality Assessment Report. 
Metabolism and Elimination 
Metabolism and elimination of ocriplasmin have not specifically been investigated, but data has 
been presented showing that ocriplasmin is inactivated when it complexes with α2-antiplasmin 
or α2-macroglobulin. Levels of α2-antiplasmin in the plasma (1 nmol/mL) are more than 
sufficient to inactivate any ocriplasmin that reaches the systemic circulation.  
The results of TG-MV-010, a small human PK study, show that when a 125 µg dose of 
ocriplasmin is injected into the eye its activity is negligible at 24 hours and immeasurable at 7 
days. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 27/91 
 
  
  
Study SR 10/mPl16/ItP, an in vitro PK study conducted with human vitreous fluid samples, has 
several limitations that affect interpretation of the results for clinical practice. Firstly the 
vitreous samples were homogenised and centrifuged, with the supernatant being used for the 
experiment. Secondly samples from different donors were pooled together. However, the 
results do show a similar pattern of inactivation of ocriplasmin to that seen in study TG-MV-010, 
and demonstrate that its inactivation is described by a second-order reaction. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No information is available concerning dose proportionality of intravitreal administration of 
ocriplasmin, only the intended dose 125 µg has been studied. 
In study TG-M-001, ocriplasmin was given intravenously at different dose levels. In the five 
groups receiving a fast infusion (15 minutes), the lowest dose group (0.1 mg/kg) resulted in 
drug levels below the level of quantitation, data for the other four groups indicated a more than 
dose proportional increase in AUC of the sum of free acriplasmin and acriplasmin/ 
α2-antiplasmin complex. 
The tendency to more than dose-proportional increase in exposure to the sum of ocriplasmin 
and acriplasmin/ α2-antiplasmin complex was observed, however, it is not relevant to the 
intravitreal route, where the dose is far below the doses studied intravenously. 
The lack of dose-proportionality study of intravitreally administered ocriplasmin was considered 
acceptable since only one dose will be used for treatment.  
•  Time dependency 
Not applicable since the product is for single administration. 
Special populations 
There is minimal information on the pharmacokinetics of ocriplasmin in special populations (ie, 
hepatic/renal impairment, elderly, different races), However, since the systemic exposure to 
ocriplasmin is negligible, this was considered acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
There is no information on systemic drug interactions. As the systemic exposure to ocriplasmin 
is negligible, this is acceptable.  
The potential for local, ocular drug interactions is low, since only a single treatment is 
recommended, and ocriplasmin is likely to be active within the eye for little more than 24 hours. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 28/91 
 
  
  
  
2.3.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Plasmin is a serine protease that mediates the fibrinolytic process and modulates the 
extracellular matrix. It hydrolyses a variety of glycoproteins, including laminin and fibronectin, 
both of which are present at the vitreoretinal interface and are thought to play a key role in 
vitreoretinal attachment. Plasmin does not degrade collagen type IV, a major component of 
basement membranes and the ILM. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Proof of concept studies were primarily performed in vitro or in animals. This was considered 
acceptable given the absence of biomarkers for an effect and the concerns with performing 
unnecessary intravitreal procedures in healthy volunteers. In several non-clinical studies 
plasmin and recombinant ocriplasmin were shown to be effective in inducing posterior vitreous 
detachment, resulting in a bare inner limiting membrane with few remaining collagen fibrils. 
These effects appeared to be dose-proportional. 
No specific pharmacodynamic studies with ocriplasmin were performed. Three Phase II 
dose-ranging studies were performed; the results of these are discussed more fully in the 
efficacy section. Data regarding proof of concept from published studies in cadaveric human 
eyes were supplied by the applicant. 
2.3.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Clinical pharmacology data for intravitreal ocriplasmin are limited. In one study, intravitreal 
ocriplasmin was administered at various times prior to pre-planned vitrectomy. This study 
showed that the activity level of ocriplasmin in the vitreous decreased over time, becoming very 
low after 24 hours, and non measurable after 7 days. An in vitro study on human vitreous 
showed a comparable result. 
The systemic bioavailability of intravitreal ocriplasmin is not known, but since the administered 
dose is low, and the product is rapidly inactivated both within the eye and in the systemic 
circulation, this was not considered of concern. 
However, it cannot be excluded that ocriplasmin may target other intraocular structures 
containing fibronectin, laminin or collagen IV, e.g. the zonulae zinni of the lens as indicated in 
non-clinical studies as well as in patients with lens subluxation (see safety). It can also not be 
excluded that concomitant intraocular administration of other drugs may be affected by the 
enzymatic and proteolytic activity of ocriplasmin, and there could be a potential for direct 
interactions. However, the half-life of ocriplasmin is short and concerns would only be 
theoretical. Further, published data (see Non-Clinical section), indicated no direct effect on 
bevacizumab when administered IVT to rabbits one week after ocriplasmin-injections. On the 
other hand, an increased penetration of bevacizumab into the retina after intraocular injection 
of ocriplasmin, i.e. a potential for secondary interactions, was indicated from the preclinical 
studies. Since adhesion between the retina and vitreous often occurs in patients with 
age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the lack of data on concomitant use with 
VEGF-inhibitors is highlighted in section 4.4 of the SmPC. Vitreolysis may also lead to changes 
in the pharmacokinetic profile of other compounds given as IVT injections. However, neither 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 29/91 
 
  
  
dose adjustments based on pharmacokinetic variability nor pharmacokinetic drug-drug 
interactions are expected. 
The data in the dossier on the primary pharmacology of ocriplasmin are based mainly on 
published non-clinical studies, but do support the mechanism of action, hydrolisation of proteins 
at the vitreoretinal interface in a dose-dependent manner.  
2.3.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology package for ocriplasmin, though limited, is sufficient to support the 
proposed mechanism of action and to demonstrate the pharmacokinetic profile after 
administration into the eye. The limited pharmacodynamic data raise no concern and no 
systemic interactions are expected due to the negligible systemic exposure. However, a risk for 
secondary proteolytic effects on other intraocular targets and a potential for secondary 
pharmacodynamic interactions due to this cannot be excluded. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
Three dose-response studies were performed in patients scheduled for vitrectomy with 
vitreomacular traction maculopathy or non-proliferative vitreoretinal disease, with doses of 
ocriplasmin ranging from 25 to 175µg. 
TG-MV-001 was a small study which examined the effect of different doses of ocriplasmin given 
at different times prior to vitrectomy. Limited conclusions on the efficacy or dose-effect 
relationship of ocriplasmin could be drawn from this study, since the group sizes were small and 
the baseline characteristics of subjects varied widely. There was a suggestion of improved 
efficacy after longer exposure, with patients exposed to ocriplasmin for 7 days showing the 
highest response rate for induction of posterior vitreous detachment. Results for resolution of 
macular oedema and improvement in vision are difficult to interpret due to the differing baseline 
characteristics and the effects of surgery. 
TG-MV-003 was a larger study (with approximately 30 patients per group) in patients scheduled 
for vitrectomy for non-proliferative vitreoretinal disease. Unfortunately, the baseline diagnosis 
varied widely amongst groups, with only half of patients in the 25µg group having VMT as 
opposed to nearly all in the 75µg group. Likewise the spread of macular holes was significantly 
different across the groups. However, with regard to the primary endpoint, a trend was 
observed for induction of PVD with increasing doses of ocriplasmin, suggesting a dose-effect 
relationship. 
In study TG-MV-004 the effects of doses of ocriplasmin up to 175µg were assessed, with some 
patients in the 125µg group being exposed to two repeat doses.  
In their initial assessment, the CHMP considered that the dose-response studies did not clearly 
show that the 125µg dose is the optimum dose level, since only 11 patients in a single study 
(TG-MV-004) received the higher dose of 175µg. In their answer, the applicant acknowledged 
the limited number of patients treated; however, the plateau of a dose-response relationship 
was found at 125μg and no further benefit for any of the outcome measures was observed with 
175μg, with the potential of greater adverse events at this higher dose, as it was too close to the 
NOAEL in pigs. The CHMP therefore considered the choice of the 125 mg dose as acceptable. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 30/91 
 
  
  
2.4.2.  Main studies 
Two pivotal Phase III studies were conducted between December 2008 and June 2010. 
TG-MV-006 and -007 were multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, 6-month 
studies investigating the safety and efficacy of a single intravitreal injection of 125 µg 
ocriplasmin in patients with symptomatic VMA. 
The 2 trials were identical in design (except for allocation ratio of 2:1 in TG-MV-006 and 3:1 in 
TG-MV-007) and conduct (except for geography: TG-MV-006 conducted in the USA and 
TG-MV-007 conducted in the EU and USA). 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Main Inclusion Criteria 
•  Male or female subjects aged ≥ 18 years 
• 
Presence of symptomatic focal VMA (ie, central vitreal adhesion within 6 mm OCT field 
surrounded by elevation of the posterior vitreous cortex) that in the opinion of the 
Investigator was related to decreased visual function (such as metamorphopsia, decreased 
VA, or other visual complaint) 
•  BCVA of 20/25 or worse in study eye and 20/800 or better in the non-study eye 
Main Exclusion Criteria 
•  Any evidence of proliferative retinopathy (including proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) 
or other ischemic retinopathies involving vitreoretinal vascular proliferation) or exudative 
AMD or retinal vein occlusion in the study eye 
•  Subjects with any vitreous haemorrhage or any other vitreous opacification which precluded 
either of the following: visualisation of the posterior pole by visual inspection OR adequate 
assessment of the macula by either OCT and/or fluorescein angiogram in the study eye 
•  Subjects with MH diameter >400μm in the study eye 
•  Subjects with a history of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment in either eye 
•  Subjects who had laser photocoagulation to the macula, Aphakia , vitrectomy,  uncontrolled 
glaucoma, high myopia (more than 8D) in the study eye at any time 
•  Subjects who had ocular surgery, laser photocoagulation treatment, or intravitreal 
injection(s) in the study eye in the prior 3 months 
•  Subjects with pseudo-exfoliation, Marfan’s syndrome, phacodenesis or any other finding in 
the Investigator’s opinion suggesting lens/zonular instability 
Treatments 
On Day 0, eligible subjects received a single intravitreal injection of 125µg ocriplasmin in the 
study eye using either a 30G or 27G size needle. Study drug was diluted with 0.75mL normal 
saline, and 0.1mL was injected into the mid-vitreous. The same dilution process was undertaken 
for subjects randomised to placebo injection. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 31/91 
 
  
  
Study drug was provided in glass vials containing 0.75mL of study drug (1.875mg ocriplasmin) 
as a frozen liquid. The quantitative composition of the product (1 vial) is provided in the table 
below. The placebo had the same components and concentrations, except that no ocriplasmin 
was included. 
If at any point after 4 weeks from time of study drug injection, the underlying condition did not 
improve (ie, the adhesion was not relieved), the investigator could proceed to vitrectomy at 
his/her discretion. Additionally, if before this time, the BCVA in the study eye worsened by >2 
lines, or the underlying condition worsened, the Investigator could proceed to vitrectomy at 
his/her discretion. 
Although not ideal from an ethical view, from a methodological perspective, the CHMP 
considered that use of a placebo injection (rather than a sham injection) was acceptable, since 
it is possible that injection of a volume of 100µl fluid into the eye could cause detachment of the 
vitreous.  
Objectives 
The objective of these clinical studies was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a single 
intravitreal injection of ocriplasmin 125μg in subjects with symptomatic VMA (ie, focal VMA 
leading to symptoms). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of subjects with nonsurgical resolution of focal 
VMA at Day 28 post-injection, as determined by masked CRC OCT evaluation. The primary 
endpoint is also more simply referred to as VMA resolution at Day 28, since the CRC could not 
classify the response as a success unless VMA was completely absent. Any subjects who had a 
creation of an anatomical defect (ie, retinal hole, retinal detachment) that resulted in loss of 
vision or that required additional intervention were not counted as successes for the primary 
endpoint. 
The applicant justified the choice of this endpoint as the objective of treatment of symptomatic 
VMA is to relieve tractional effects at the macula that may lead to loss of visual function. VMA 
resolution may also save the patient from the treatment burden of a vitrectomy. Vision might be 
restored if treatment is administered early enough (ie, before permanent damage ensues). VMA 
resolution focuses on the central 3mm radius around the macula, the most important part of the 
retina for sharp distance vision and close work. Advice was not sought within the EU on the 
choice of primary endpoint. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were:  
• 
• 
• 
Proportion of subjects with total PVD at Day 28, as determined by masked Investigator 
assessment of B-scan ultrasound 
Proportion of subjects requiring vitrectomy 
Proportion of FTMHs that closed without vitrectomy as determined by CRC 
•  Achievement of ≥ 2 and ≥ 3 lines improvement in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) 
without need for vitrectomy 
• 
Improvement in BCVA 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 32/91 
 
  
  
• 
Improvement in the National Eye Institute (NEI) 25-Item Visual Function Questionnaire 
(VFQ-25) 
The effects of the following baseline characteristics were investigated in subgroup analyses: 
type of VMA (>1500µm versus ≤1500µm diameter), presence of ERM, presence of MH, width of 
MH (at level of retina and RPE), and vision. 
Methods of Assessment 
OCT 
OCT was conducted at baseline in both eyes, and thereafter only in the study eye. The Stratus 
OCT (Zeiss Meditec) was mandatory for these studies. Spectral domain OCT (SD-OCT) 
machines (Cirrus or Spectralis) were used at selected investigative sites, in addition to the 
Stratus OCT. CRC assessment of VMA was based on Stratus OCT. However, at sites where 
SD-OCT was done in addition to Stratus OCT, subjects could be enrolled if VMA was clearly seen 
on SD-OCT but not on Stratus OCT. In these cases, the follow-up assessment was also 
performed using SD-OCT and success/failure of the primary endpoint was based on this 
assessment. OCT measurements were made by a certified assessor on subjects after dilation of 
the pupil. All OCT scans were submitted by the sites to the CRC, where all scans were evaluated 
using a set of categories. Focal VMA was defined by a subset of these categories. Success was 
defined as progression from any one of the categories in this first subset to any of the categories 
in another subset at Day 28.  
OCT scans were also used to assess closure of FTMH. 
Fluorescein angiography 
Fluorescein angiography was conducted at baseline in both eyes, and at Month 6 in the study 
eye. 
B-scan Ultrasound and PVD assessment 
B-scan ultrasound was conducted at baseline in both eyes, and thereafter only in the study eye. 
B-scan ultrasounds were performed by a certified echographer after administration of 
anaesthetic drops in the subject’s eye. The examination was performed directly on the 
conjunctiva. Transverse  and longitudinal scans were taken to evaluate the fundus from the 
posterior pole to the limbus. Static images were obtained, and if appropriate equipment was 
available, video movies were also obtained for kinetic evaluation. Ultrasound images were 
assessed for the presence and grade of PVD. The assessments were documented on the 
following scale: 
•  Grade 0: No PVD 
•  Grade 1: Partial PVD with attachment at the optic disc and elsewhere in the posterior pole 
•  Grade 2: Partial PVD with attachment at either the optic disc or elsewhere in the posterior 
pole 
•  Grade 3: Total PVD without disc attachment 
Visual Acuity 
VA was evaluated at each study visit. VA was evaluated in both eyes at Baseline and in the study 
eye only at all other visits. Distance VA was measured using Precision Vision’s (or equivalent) 
backlit Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) charts set at 4 meters from the 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 33/91 
 
  
  
subject. BCVA was reported as the number of letters read correctly by the subject on the ETDRS 
chart. 
VFQ 
The subject completed the VFQ-25 at Baseline and Post-Injection Month 6.  
Sample size 
Assuming a primary endpoint event rate of 27.5% in the 125μg dose group and 10% in the 
placebo group, a sample size of 320 subjects was planned to achieve over 90% power with a 
2-sided alpha of 0.05.(according to the original randomisation ratio of 3:1).  
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomised centrally through a telephone-based IVRS to either ocriplasmin 
intravitreal injection or placebo. Study site personnel called the IVRS on the day of the subject’s 
randomisation and were informed which vial number to use for the subject’s injection. The 
original allocation ratio was 3:1 (ocriplasmin:placebo). This ratio was modified to 2:1 
(ocriplasmin:placebo) in TG-MV-006 through Protocol Amendment 1. 
Blinding (masking) 
The Investigator, the study site personnel, representatives of ThromboGenics and Chiltern 
(contract research organisation) were masked to the study treatment throughout the study. 
Ocriplasmin and placebo were identical in appearance. 
The randomised treatment for individual subjects was masked until after the final database lock. 
After all subjects completed or were withdrawn from the study, a masked medical review 
meeting was held to evaluate protocol violations and agree upon analysis populations. 
Subsequently, the database was locked, and unmasking was authorised. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis Sets 
The Safety Set was the primary population for all safety analyses. It consisted of all subjects 
who received treatment with study drug (ocriplasmin and placebo).  
The full analysis set (FAS) was the primary population for all analyses of Baseline/demographic 
and efficacy data. The FAS included all randomised subjects who received treatment with study 
drug (ocriplasmin and placebo). Data were analysed according to subject treatment group 
randomised, regardless of treatment actually received. 
The population with second priority for assessment of the primary endpoint (VMA resolution at 
Day 28) was the modified FAS population, defined as all randomised subjects who received 
treatment with study drug and had symptomatic focal VMA to begin with at Baseline (ie, the FAS 
with exclusion of subjects with either no or undetermined focal VMA status at Baseline). 
Subjects without focal VMA at Baseline, by definition, had no possibility to be a success on the 
primary endpoint of VMA resolution. Therefore, this primary population was of secondary 
importance and was utilised to determine the most accurate point estimate of event rates in 
both the active and placebo groups. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 34/91 
 
  
  
The Per-Protocol Set included the FAS excluding subjects where a deviation was of sufficient 
concern to warrant exclusion. Decisions regarding data exclusion from the Per-Protocol Set 
were taken prior to unmasking the randomisation code (masked review) and documented 
appropriately.  
Statistical Methodology 
The primary endpoint was primarily evaluated using the FAS. The proportion of subjects 
meeting the endpoint was tabulated by randomised treatment group and the treatment groups 
were compared using Fisher’s exact test. The two-sided 95% CIs for the difference between the 
2 groups and the exact odds ratio were also calculated. In the event that statistical significance 
with p<0.05 was achieved for the primary endpoint for the FAS, the second priority was to 
determine the resolution of focal VMA in all randomised subjects who received treatment with 
study drug and had focal VMA at Baseline. This population was to be evaluated separately and 
excluded subjects with either no focal VMA or undetermined focal VMA status at Baseline. 
The key secondary endpoint of this study was the proportion of subjects with total PVD at Day 
28. The treatment groups were compared using Fisher’s exact test. The two-sided 95% CI for 
the difference between the 2 groups and the exact odds ratio were also calculated. The analysis 
was performed with subjects with total PVD at Baseline included as failures (no total PVD) and 
repeated excluding subjects with total PVD at Baseline. 
The formal statistical testing of the key secondary efficacy endpoint was to be evaluated if 
statistical significance (p<0.05) was achieved in the analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint 
for the entire FAS and the subset of the FAS with VMA at Baseline. 
For each endpoint, the proportion of subjects meeting the endpoint was tabulated by 
randomised treatment group, and the treatment groups were compared using Fisher’s exact 
test. The two-sided 95% CI for the difference between the 2 groups and the exact odds ratio 
were also calculated. The proportion of subjects with VMA resolution at Day 28 was also 
evaluated counting all cases as successes (not excluding subjects with retinal defects as 
specified in the analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint). The analysis was performed as 
specified for the primary analysis above. 
The improvement from baseline in BCVA and VFQ-25 scores for treatment groups were 
compared using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. 
An interim analysis was not planned or performed. An independent DMC was used for evaluating 
potential safety issues regarding the study drug. The DMC reviewed masked data at 
pre-specified time points and as described in the DMC charter. There were no statistical 
analyses performed for the DMC. 
The pivotal Phase 3 studies were analysed both individually and as an integrated dataset 
Results 
Participant flow 
Participant flow TG-MV-006 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 35/91 
 
  
  
 
Participant flow TG-MV-007 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 36/91 
 
  
  
 
Reasons for discontinuation and screen failures, other than inclusion/exclusion criteria were 
provided within the clinical study report appendices, and did not raise any specific concerns.  
The total amount of missing data is in general small. For TG-MV-006, the proportion of patients 
who withdrew and the reasons for withdrawal are the same across arms.  For TG-MV-007 there 
were proportionally more withdrawals on placebo but as the numbers were small this was not a 
concern. 
Recruitment 
TG-MV-006: The first patient’s first visit was on 23 December 2008, and the last patient’s last 
visit was on 4 March 2010.   
TG-MV-007: The first patient’s first visit was on 22 December 2008, and the last patient’s last 
visit was on 15 June 2010.   
Conduct of the study 
TG-MV-006 
There was one protocol amendment applicable to all study sites (dated 29 Jan 2009):  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 37/91 
 
  
  
 
 
• 
• 
• 
adjustment of the randomisation ratio from 3:1 to 2:1following discussion with the FDA (as 
a consequence, 55 subjects were randomised at 3:1 and 271 subjects were randomised at 
2:1);  
requirement for reporting of all SAEs instead of just study drug-related SAEs to the DMC on 
an ongoing basis; 
amendment of fluorescein angiogram instructions to allow for alternate camera setting in 
cases where initially stated setting is not applicable. 
TG-MV-007 
There was one protocol amendment applicable to all study sites (dated 31 Jan 2009): 
•  Addition of exclusion criteria for women who were breast feeding 
• 
• 
• 
To add “progression of the disease” as a potential withdrawal criterion 
To adjust the fluorescein angiogram instructions to allow for alternate camera setting in 
cases where initially stated setting is not applicable 
To document a minor change in procedure for sending images of fundus photography and 
fluorescein angiography exams 
These changes to the protocols did not significantly affect the design or conduct of the studies.  
Baseline data 
Baseline Demographics and Disease Characteristics TG-MV-006 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 38/91 
 
  
  
 
Baseline Demographics and Disease Characteristics TG-MV-007 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 39/91 
 
  
  
 
 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 40/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The gender distribution of patients in both studies was consistent with the higher incidence of 
macular hole and PVD in women. The mean age of patients in both studies is 71-72 years. 
Literature data support an average age of late 60s, therefore the average age of subjects in the 
pivotal studies appears to be representative.  
Although the condition has no known racial predilection, the overwhelming majority of subjects 
in both trials were white, probably representing the racial demographics of subjects in the 
regions of assessment. Section 4.2 of the SmPC contains a warning that experience is limited in 
groups other than Caucasians, and the RMP lists safety and efficacy information in populations 
other than Caucasians as ‘Missing information’, to ensure that the benefit-risk balance in these 
groups is discussed future PSURs.  
The baseline mean visual acuity was similar between the studies and across the treatment 
groups, at around 65 letters (equating to 20/50 or 6/15). The expected need for vitrectomy 
differs by 9 percentage points between TG-MV-006 and -007, and notably in TG-MV-007 
placebo-treated subjects were disproportionately more likely not to be expected to require 
vitrectomy, suggesting that they may have had significantly less severe disease. Given the 
unequal randomisation of 3:1 in this study, this may affect the power of this study to 
demonstrate an effect of active treatment over placebo. In keeping with this observation is the 
proportion of full thickness macular holes at baseline which was notably higher in patients in 
TG-MV-006 (particularly those in the placebo group). These findings limited the reliability of 
integrating the analysis of the results across the studies. 
Numbers analysed 
Analysis population: randomised subjects TG-MV-006 
Analysis population: randomised subjects TG-MV-007 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 41/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: Proportion of Subjects with VMA Resolution in the Study Eye at Day 28 
Proportion of Subjects with VMA Resolution in the Study Eye at Day 28 without Creation of an 
Anatomical Defect (TG-MV-006) 
Proportion of Subjects with VMA Resolution in the Study Eye at Day 28 without Creation of an 
Anatomical Defect (TG-MV-007) 
Sensitivity analyses conducted using worst case and observed case approaches for handling 
missing data showed similar results. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 42/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Proportion of Patients with VMA Resolution in the Study Eye (TG-MV-006, TG-MV-007 and 
Integrated Studies 
A statistically significant difference was shown, in both studies, between ocriplasmin and 
placebo in the proportion of subjects achieving resolution of vitreomacular adhesion at Day 28.  
This represents a surrogate endpoint for the prevention of the deterioration of vision. Its clinical 
relevance is not certain, but in this development programme it has been supported by the 
results on BCVA (see further discussion). 
It is also noted that the placebo response rate was over twice as high in study TG-MV-006 than 
in study TG-MV-007. The explanation offered by the applicant for this is that subjects in 
TG-MV-006 had higher rates of macular hole, lower rates of ERM, and a higher proportion had 
VMA diameter ≤1500 µm at baseline (all factors which might enhance VMA resolution). Also, the 
response to treatment in TG-MV-007 was much slower than in TG-MV-006.  The applicant 
argumented that placebo-treated patients in TG-MV-007 had baseline characteristics that made 
them less likely to achieve VMA resolution at Day 28 (i.e. lower proportion of patients in each of 
the following categories: age < 65 years, presence of FTMH, phakic lens status, absence of ERM, 
type (diameter) of VMA ≤ 1500μm). This finding, coupled with the small absolute number of 
placebo-treated patients in TG-MV-007 who achieved VMA resolution at Day 28 (n=5), likely 
contributed to the observed delay in time to effect in this treatment group.  
These explanations were accepted by CHMP, but may imply that the characteristics of the 
patients in the two studies were different enough to limit the reliabilityof an integrated analysis 
of the results. 
Resolution of VMA could also be in part attributable to the intravitreal injection procedure itself 
as indicated by the shape of the placebo response curves, which being non-linear. This suggests 
that the injection of vehicle caused a higher rate of VMA resolution (an objective, anatomic 
measure that should by its nature be free from a ‘placebo effect’) than would be expected in an 
untreated population. This is biologically plausible too, since the manipulation during the 
injection of fluid into the vitreous could be expected to increase the likelihood of posterior 
vitreous detachment and resolution of VMA. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 43/91 
 
  
  
 
The CHMP noted that the number of subjects with VMA resolution in the active group of 
TG-MV-006 decreased from 61 at Day 28 to 58 at Day 90. A similar occurrence is observed in 
the placebo group between Days 90 and 180. The applicant’s response evidenced that the 
number of subjects initially classified as having VMA resolution and subsequently reclassified as 
a failure was larger than initially apparent. Resolution of VMA at Day 28 that is subsequently 
followed by a reclassification due to either technical error or vitrectomy for macular hole cannot 
be regarded as success. For ocriplasmin and placebo-treated subjects, the numbers reclassified 
in TG-MV-006 were 20 and 10, respectively. In TG-MV-007 the figures were 13 and 1, 
respectively. Most of these reclassifications were due to patients who initially had a resolution of 
their VMA, but subsequently underwent a vitrectomy for macular hole, and were therefore 
classified as failures. In the remaining cases (n=15), the reason for reclassification was due to 
technical limitations of the reading centre. A sensitivity analysis of those subjects who were not 
reclassified from success to failure during the study, resulted in a treatment difference of 14.5% 
at Day 28. This result is statistically significant, and of similar magnitude with regard to clinical 
relevance as compared with the result of the original analysis.  
The Applicant also presented a reanalysis of the baseline OCT scans showing that the vast 
majority of subjects had objective evidence of macular pathology, most notably ‘retinal 
deformity’ or intraretinal cysts. Nearly 40% of subjects had an epiretinal membrane. This 
provided reassurance that the subjects in the study did have a pathological condition which 
could be shown objectively to be causing a disruption of the macula. The indication initially 
applied for (“treatment of symptomatic vitreomacular adhesion (VMA)”) was therefore 
amended to:  “treatment of vitreomacular traction (VMT)”. This indication is more consistent 
with the results of the pivotal studies, which primarily demonstrated resolution of traction rather 
than resolution of symptoms. 
Secondary endpoints 
• 
Proportion of subjects with total PVD at Day 28 
The proportion of subjects achieving total PVD by Day 28 after ocriplasmin injection was around 
10 percentage points higher than the proportion receiving placebo. Although the p-value for this 
is low, demonstrating a statistically significant difference between ocriplasmin and placebo, the 
effect size is not particularly large, ranging between 8 and 11%. 
• 
Proportion of subjects receiving vitrectomy 
In both studies the proportion of subjects requiring vitrectomy was lower in the ocriplasmin 
group than in the placebo group. However in neither study was this difference statistically 
significant, and the difference itself was small at about 8 percentage points. 
The expected need for vitrectomy at baseline was higher in study TG-MV-007, particularly in the 
group assigned to ocriplasmin. However the proportion of subjects who ended up having a 
vitrectomy was, in fact, lower in this study. In particular, in the ocriplasmin-treated group 91% 
of subjects were expected to need a vitrectomy at baseline, but only 15% had undergone one by 
the end of the study.  
The results for proportion of subjects receiving vitrectomy are to be viewed with caution, 
however, since vitrectomy was performed at the discretion of the treating ophthalmologist with 
no pre-specified criteria, and there may have been occasions where investigators deferred 
surgery until after the study. This could have introduced a bias. 
• 
Proportion of Patients with FTMH at Baseline with Non-Surgical FTMHC by Study Visit 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 44/91 
 
  
  
The proportion of subjects achieving non-surgical closure of their FTMH by Month 6 ranged 
between 35 to 45% in the two studies. This compares to closure rates of around 90% after 
vitrectomy with inner limiting membrane peeling. A difference of 30 percentage points was 
observed in both studies between ocriplasmin and placebo in the proportion of subjects 
achieving closure by Day 28. In study TG-MV-007 the statistical significance of this result is not 
clear (since there was no accounting for multiplicity in the secondary endpoints) and the 
difference becomes less impressive at Month 6 in study TG-MV-007, mainly due to an increase 
in the placebo response rate, and smaller group sizes. In the per protocol set the difference is 
comparable.  
•  Achievement of ≥2 and ≥3 lines improvement in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) 
without need for vitrectomy 
The CHMP considered that the endpoint “proportion gaining ≥2 or 3 lines of vision” is to be 
treated with some caution, since the mean level of vision at baseline was fairly good in both 
studies and so the potential to gain 2 or 3 lines of vision was limited. The proportion of subjects 
gaining 1, 2, and 3 lines of vision in the two studies (irrespective of whether they underwent 
vitrectomy) were analysed. The differences were small, however at month 6 a higher proportion 
of ocriplasmin-treated subjects had gained vision than those receiving placebo.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 45/91 
 
  
  
 
Proportion of Patients With ≥ 3-Line Improvement in BCVA at Month 6 Irrespective of Vitrectomy 
by Baseline BCVA (integrated studies) 
The figure shows results for both studies together stratified by baseline vision; those with 
poorer baseline vision (<20/50, or <65 letters) appear to respond better to treatment with 
ocriplasmin, with a quarter gaining at least 3 lines of vision. The average visual acuity at 
baseline was around 65 letters. 
• 
Improvement in BCVA 
The results for the endpoint of mean change in vision from baseline are small, with subjects in 
both studies gaining only 2 to 3 letters after treatment, and no difference observed between 
active treatment and placebo. As mentioned above, however, this is not considered to be a 
particularly sensitive endpoint, since subjects generally had only a mild loss of vision at 
baseline. 
Concerning the change in vision from baseline in the subsets of patients who achieved 
resolution of focal VMA (ie, success in the primary endpoint), or underwent a vitrectomy, in the 
ocriplasmin group, mean improvement from baseline in BCVA at Month 6 among patients who 
achieved VMA resolution was 8.8 letters in TG-MV-006 and 6.7 letters in TG-MV-007, compared 
to 1.4 and 2.6 letters among those who failed the endpoint. Improvement in visual acuity did 
correlate well with resolution of VMA which provides support for the clinical relevance of success 
in the primary endpoint, and suggested that those patients achieving resolution of 
vitreomacular adhesion at 1 month go on to benefit from improved vision at 6 months. Other 
symptoms of vitreomacular adhesion, such as metamorphopsia and micropsia, were not, 
however, assessed during follow-up. 
In both studies the improvement in vision of subjects treated with ocriplasmin who did not 
undergo vitrectomy was in favour of ocriplasmin.  
•  VFQ-25 
Ocriplasmin-treated subjects in both studies generally achieved numerically larger changes 
from baseline in subscale and composite scores of the VFQ-25. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 46/91 
 
  
  
 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses of the primary and selected secondary outcome variables were conducted by 
various baseline factors. Results for the primary endpoint are shown below. 
Proportion of Subjects with VMA Resolution at Day 28 without Creation of an Anatomical Defect 
by Subgroup (TG-MV-006) 
Proportion of Subjects with VMA Resolution at Day 28 without Creation of an Anatomical Defect 
by Subgroup (TG-MV-007) 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 47/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Several subgroup analyses were performed, e.g. evaluations of treatment effect by baseline 
characteristics and by success of endpoints. These analyses confirmed a reasonable consistency 
in most subgroups and there was generally a consistency in favour of ocriplasmin. 
Subgroup analyses examining the effect of age on the primary and secondary outcome variables 
show that the efficacy in younger patients may be different, with much lower point estimates in 
both placebo and ocriplasmin arms in Study TV-MG-006 and higher rates in TG-MV-007. 
However there is still a clear separation from placebo for both age subgroups, and it is entirely 
plausible this was due to chance. CHMP concluded that the product is efficacious in both groups.  
The effectiveness of ocriplasmin in inducing resolution of VMA or total PVD was markedly 
reduced in cases in which an ERM was present or the diameter of the focal VMA was >1500µm. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 48/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
It was accepted that the group sizes were small, and that limited conclusions can be made on 
the statistical significance of these results. Given that the alternative for these patients is 
vitrectomy, which is also more complicated in these subgroups, that the risks of treating such 
patients with ocriplasmin do not appear greater than in the overall population, and that a single 
injection of ocriplasmin need not delay a subsequent vitrectomy if required, restricting use to 
patients without an ERM or with only small diameter adhesions did not appear warranted. 
Clinicians should, however, be adequately warned of this reduction in effect. A warning was 
added to Section 4.4, and a summary of efficacy data from subjects with an ERM or VMA 
diameter >1500µm was included in Section 5.1. 
In patients who were expected at baseline to require a vitrectomy the effects of ocriplasmin on 
resolution of VMA were both numerically and statistically superior to placebo in both studies. 
Likewise, in those patients with a FTMH at baseline the effect size was greater.  
It was demonstrated that success with regards to anatomical endpoints (VMA resolution, PVD 
and closure of macular holes) – independent of treatment arm - resulted in an increased VA, but 
differences between treatment arms were small.  
The analyses also suggest that patients who are likely to require a vitrectomy (but not for an 
ERM), who have a smaller diameter focal VMA, a FTMH, and poorer baseline vision may benefit 
the most from ocriplasmin. 
An analysis was conducted to compare the outcome of the main efficacy endpoints for the US 
and EU regions, and is tabulated below. In the studies, there were clear regional differences. 
With regards to non-surgical closures of FTMHs up to month 6, in the US centres, 44 and 15% 
of patients had macular hole closures in the active and placebo groups, respectively (difference 
29%, 95% CI: 14.0; 44.9, p=0.001). In the EU centres, 2/7 (28%) and 7/25 (29%) had the 
corresponding closures in the ocriplasmin and placebo treatment groups (95% CI: -38.4; 37.2, 
p=0.977). Thus, there was no difference between groups from the EU region. However, this was 
due to a spontaneous closure in two patients in the placebo group and the limitations due to the 
small number of patients concerned are recognised. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 49/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main efficacy outcomes by region. Studies TG-MV-006 (US) and TG-MV-007 (US and EU). 
FAS/LOCF 
US 
EU 
Placebo 
Ocriplasmin 
Placebo 
Ocriplasmin 
Primary endpoint - Non-Surgical resolution of VMA day 28 Table 2.1.1.7 
n/N (%) 
17/143 (11.9)  
92/330 (27.9) 
2/45 (4.4)  
31/134 (23.1) 
Difference (95% CI), p 
16.0 (8.8, 23.2), <0.001 
18.7 (9.4, 28.0), 0.005 
Proportion of subjects with total PVD at Day 28 Table 2.2.1.2 
n/N (%) 
7/143 (4.9)  
53/330 (16.1) 
0/45  
9/134 (6.7) 
Difference (95% CI), p 
11.2 (5.9, 16.5), <0.001 
6.7 (2.5, 11.0), 0.075 
Proportion of subjects requiring vitrectomy any time during study Table 2.3.7 
n/N (%)  
43/143 (30.1)  
61/330 (18.5) 
7 (15.6)  
21 (15.7) 
Difference (95% CI), p 
-11.6 (-20.2, -3.0), 0.007 
0.1 (-12.1, 12.4), 0.985 
Proportion of baseline FTMHs that closed without vitrectomy day 28 Table 2.4.1.7 
n/N (%)  
5/40 (12.5)  
35/81 (43.2) 
0/7  
8/25 ( 32.0) 
Difference (95% CI), p 
30.7 (15.8, 45.6), <0.001 
32.0 (13.7, 50.3), 0.089 
Improvement of ≥2 lines in BCVA during study irrespective of vitrectomy Table 2.6.9 
Day 28, n/N (%)  
13/143 (9.2)  
62/330 (18.8) 
3/45 (6.7)  
17/134 (12.7) 
Difference (95% CI), p 
9.6 (3.3, 16.0), 0.009 
6.0 (-3.2, 15.2), 0.269 
Month 6, n/N (%)  
26/143 (18.3)  
99/330 (30.0) 
6/45 (13.3)  
31/134 (23.1) 
Difference (95% CI), p 
11.7 (3.6, 19.7), 0.009 
9.8 (-2.4, 22.0), 0.161 
The Applicant explained the differences in response rates between the EU and US regions, in 
terms of regional differences in baseline characteristics, characteristics that should be 
predictors of the outcome. To identify the predictors, the Applicant performed a number of 
multivariate logistic regression analyses. Even though some of these analyses seemed to 
support the Applicant’s view, sufficiently firm conclusions could only be drawn if the predictors 
had been previously recognised to influence the outcome in the clinical setting( e.g. as macular 
holes leading to a higher risk of loss of vision), and not only on the basis of the study datasets 
(without much support from any external source).  
However, as other than for the endpoint of need for vitrectomy, a modest but consistent 
treatment effect was shown for ocriplasmin in both studies and both regions, the CHMP 
considered this point solved 
Summary of main studies 
The following table summarises the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the 
present application. It should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 50/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Efficacy for trials TG-MV-006 & TG-MV-007 
Title: Ocriplasmin: Investigation of Efficacy and Safety in Non Surgical Treatment Of Focal Vitreomacular 
Adhesion 
Study identifier 
TG-MV-006, TG-MV-007 
Design 
Randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled.  
TG-MV-006 USA; TG-MV-007 Europe & USA. 
Duration of main phase: 6 Months 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Placebo  
Ocriplasmin 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Placebo injection of vehicle, single dose, subjects randomised 
TG-MV-006 107, TG-MV-007 81 
Injection of 125 µg ocriplasmin, single dose, subjects 
randomised TG-MV-006 219, TG-MV-007 245 
Proportion of subjects with nonsurgical resolution of focal VMA 
at Day 28  
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Proportion of subjects with total PVD at Day 28 
Proportion of subjects not requiring vitrectomy  
Proportion of FTMHs that closed without vitrectomy 
Achievement of ≥2 and ≥3 lines improvement in best corrected 
visual acuity 
Improvement in BCVA 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
TG-MV-006: 13 April 2010 
TG-MV-007: 7 July 2010 
Improvement in VFQ-25 
Database lock 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat, Full analysis set 
Treatment group 
TG-MV-006 
TG-MV-007 
Placebo 
Ocriplasmin 
Placebo  Ocriplas
Number of subjects 
Proportion of subjects with 
nonsurgical resolution of 
focal VMA at Day 28  
107 
13.1%  
219 
27.9%  
min 
245 
81 
6.2% 
25.3% 
Difference (95% CI) 
p-value 
- 
14.8 (6.0, 23.5) 
p=0.003 
- 
Analysis 
description 
Secondary Analyses 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
19.1 
(11.6, 
26.7) 
p<0.001 
Page 51/91 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Intent to treat, Full analysis set 
Treatment group 
TG-MV-006 
TG-MV-007 
Placebo 
Ocriplasmin 
Placebo  Ocriplas
Number of subjects 
Proportion of subjects with 
total PVD at Day 28   
107 
6.5% 
219 
16.4% 
Difference (95% CI) 
- 
9.9 (3.1, 16.7) 
81 
0 
- 
Proportion of subjects who 
received a vitrectomy (by end 
of study) 
29.0% 
20.5% 
23.5% 
Difference (95% CI) 
- 
-8.4 (-18.5, 1.7) 
- 
Proportion of FTMHs that 
closed without vitrectomy (by 
end of study)  
15.6% 
45.6% 
20.0% 
Difference (95% CI) 
- 
30.0 (11.9, 48.0) 
- 
Achievement of ≥2 
improvement in best corrected 
visual acuity (by end of study)   
16.8% 
30.1% 
17.5% 
Difference (95% CI) 
- 
13.3 (4.0, 22.7) 
- 
Achievement of ≥3 
improvement in best corrected 
visual acuity (by end of study) 
8.4% 
12.8% 
3.8% 
Difference (95% CI) 
- 
4.4 (-2.5, 11.2) 
- 
Improvement in BCVA from 
baseline (by end of study) 
Improvement in VFQ-25 
composite score from baseline 
(by end of study) 
2.8 
1.2 
3.5 
3.5 
2.1 
-0.1 
3.3 
min 
245 
10.6% 
10.6 
(6.8, 
14.5) 
15.1% 
-8.4 
(-18.6, 
1.9) 
34.7% 
14.7 
(-9.5, 
38.9) 
26.1% 
8.6 
(-1.4, 
18.6) 
11.8% 
8.1 (2.3, 
13.9) 
3.6 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The applicant conducted an integrated analysis of pooled data from the pivotal studies. 
However, as discussed above, differences in the disease characteristics of subjects in the two 
studies at baseline suggest that an integrated analysis has some limitations. The conclusions of 
this assessment are based on the analysis of the two pivotal trials. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 52/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Primary and key secondary/supportive outcomes. Pooled Studies TG-MV-006 and TG-MV-007 (FAS) 
Placebo 
N=188 
Ocriplasmin 
N=464 
Difference (95% CI)a 
p-valueb 
Primary endpoint: Nonsurgical Resolution of Focal VMA at Day 28 
19 (10.1) 
123 (26.5) 
16.4 (10.5, 22.3) 
<0.001 
Key secondary endpoint: Proportion of subjects with total PVD at Day 28 
7 (3.7) 
62 (13.4) 
9.6 (5.5, 13.8) 
<0.001 
Proportion of Patients who received a Vitrectomy in the Study Eye by Month 6 
50 (26.6) 
82 (17.7) 
−8.9 (−16.1, −1.7) 
0.016 
Non-surgical improvement of ≥2 lines in BCVA during study Month 6c 
21 (11.2)  
110 (23.7) 
12.5 (6.6, 18.5) 
<0.001 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No specific studies were carried out in special populations. Subgroup analyses for the primary 
and secondary efficacy variables investigated the effects of age, and are discussed above. The 
effects of hepatic and renal impairment, and race were not investigated in the pivotal studies.  
Since the systemic exposure to ocriplasmin is negligible, the CHMP concluded that hepatic and 
renal impairment are not likely to affect its efficacy. The effects of race have not been 
considered, and further data collection is requested as part of the RMP. 
Supportive study 
The applicant has submitted the results of a dose-ranging study in patients with diabetic 
macular oedema (TG-MV-002). 
Methods 
This was a multicentre, randomised, sham-injection controlled, double-masked, dose-range 
finding study evaluating the safety and preliminary efficacy of single intravitreal injections of 
ocriplasmin 25μg, 75μg and 125μg over a 12-month period in patients with diabetic macular 
oedema.  
The study was conducted between December 2006 and January 2010 at 11 centres in Belgium, 
the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and the UK. 
•  Study Participants  
Participants were patients with diabetic macular oedema involving the centre of the macula with 
a macular thickness (in the central subfield on OCT) of greater than 275 microns in the study 
eye, no evidence of complete macular PVD, and BCVA of 20/32 or worse. Patients were excluded 
if there was evidence of macular fibrocellular proliferation or proliferative retinopathy. 
•  Treatments 
In three successive cohorts patients received either an injection of 25, 75 or 125 μg ocriplasmin 
or a sham injection. 
In total, 51 patients were treated; 8 patients were administered 25 µg, 15 patients were 
administered 75 µg, and 15 patients were administered 125 µg ocriplasmin; 13 patients 
received a sham injection.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 53/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy variables included the proportion of patients with total PVD, macular oedema 
resolution, change in BCVA, proportion gaining ≥2 or ≥3 lines of vision, and need for alternative 
therapy.  
Results  
•  Baseline data 
32 patients were male and 19 female. The average age was 64 years in the ocriplasmin groups 
and 70 years in the sham group. 78% of subjects had insulin dependent diabetes, and mean 
duration of diabetes was between 10 and 18 years. Regarding other baseline characteristics, 
subjects in the 125 µg group had notably better mean vision and lower macular thickness than 
those in the other groups.  
•  Outcomes and estimation 
This small supportive study in patients with diabetic macular oedema failed to show a benefit of 
ocriplasmin over sham-injection at inducing PVD, reducing macular thickness, or improving 
vision. The applicant noted that a limitation of this study was the inconsistency in the evaluation 
of the B-scan ultrasound results by the central reading centre for the rating of PVD, potentially 
due to the fact that dynamic imaging was available to the local echographers but not to the CRC, 
i.e. the CRC only reviewed still images of the ultrasound findings. 
This led to a different approach in TG-MV-006/ TG-MV-007. Since dynamic imaging of B-scan 
ultrasound is more reliable than still pictures read by a CRC, in the pivotal studies PVD 
assessment grading was determined by masked local echographers / Investigators using 
B-scan US machines, which allowed them to view the ultrasound images dynamically. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The clinical efficacy program for ocriplasmin included three small Phase II dose response studies 
in patients scheduled to undergo vitrectomy for vitreomacular traction or non-proliferative 
vitreoretinal disease. TG-MV-001 showed evidence of an exposure-response relationship for 
ocriplasmin, with patients exposed to ocriplasmin for 7 days showing the highest response rate 
for induction of posterior vitreous detachment. TG-MV-003 and TG-MV-004 demonstrated a 
dose-response relationship, but provide only limited support for the 125 µg dose taken forward 
to Phase III, since only 11 patients in a single study received a higher dose of 175 µg. 
Two pivotal Phase III studies with almost identical protocols have been presented to support the 
efficacy of ocriplasmin in the proposed indication of symptomatic vitreomacular adhesion 
including macular holes. The included population was fairly representative of the target 
population, however it would have been reasonable to include only subjects with an anticipated 
need for vitrectomy since a non-surgical resolution of the VMA is aimed for. In addition, it is not 
unlikely that VMA has a role in other retinal disease as in wet age related macular degeneration 
(AMD) and diabetic proliferative disease. These patients were excluded from the trial, however, 
a study in subjects with wet AMD is ongoing.  
Initial concerns with the methodology of these studies, which may have limited the conclusions 
of efficacy have been resolved. Data presented during review of the application demonstrate 
that the patients recruited to the studies had objective evidence of macular disruption on OCT, 
in the form of intraretinal cysts in over three-quarters and an epiretinal membrane in over a 
third. Analyses presented by the Applicant provide reassurance that anatomical resolution of 
vitreomacular traction relates to an improvement in visual acuity. However, the absolute 
response to treatment was modest, with only around a quarter of subjects achieving resolution 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 54/91 
 
  
  
 
 
of VMT. A range of secondary endpoints were assessed, including visual acuity, but no 
adjustments were made to control for multiplicity, so assessment of the statistical significance 
of these endpoints is limited. The statistical methodology is otherwise generally acceptable.  
An appreciable number of patients (6%, 36/652), who were enrolled and treated, did not have 
evidence of focal VMA on the assessment of the OCT by the CRC at baseline, despite being 
diagnosed with VMT by the Investigator. It is a concern that potential recipients of ocriplasmin 
could be treated unnecessarily with an invasive procedure, which is widely accepted to carry a 
1 in 1000 risk of site threatening complications. In order to minimise the potential for 
inappropriate treatment, section 4.2 of the SmPC advises clinicians on how to optimise 
diagnosis and avoid unnecessary treatment: ” The diagnosis of vitreomacular traction (VMT) 
should comprise of a complete clinical picture including patient history, clinical examination and 
investigation using currently accepted diagnostic tools, such as optical coherence tomography 
(OCT). “ 
In both trials 326 patients were randomised to treatment with ocriplasmin or placebo, in a 2:1 
ratio in TG-MV-006 and a 3:1 ratio in TG-MV-007. Subject retention was adequate. However, 
there were a large number of screen failures, the vast majority attributed to not meeting 
inclusion criteria. The average age of participants was in the early 70s and the vast majority of 
subjects were white, despite there being no known racial predilection in macular hole or 
vitreomacular traction syndrome. This probably reflects the racial mix of the trial centres. 
Participants in the two studies were broadly similar, though a higher proportion of patients in 
TG-MV-006 had a macular hole.  
Both trials were successful with regard to the primary endpoint. The difference to placebo in the 
proportion of ocriplasmin-treated subjects with VMA resolution at Day 28 was 15 percentage 
points in TG-MV-006 and 19 percentage points in TG-MV-007. The placebo response rate was 
over twice as high in study TG-MV-006 than in study TG-MV-007, suggesting that the 
characteristics of the patients in the two studies differed, limiting the reliability of an integrated 
analysis of the results. Furthermore the response rate was markedly different between the two 
studies at time-points prior to Day 28. These findings appear to be related to differences in 
baseline prognostic factors between participants in the two studies. 
A smaller difference between ocriplasmin and placebo was observed in the endpoints of 
proportion achieving total PVD by Day 28 (10 percentage points) and proportion receiving 
vitrectomy (-8 percentage points). Even though 80-90% of subjects had an expected need for 
vitrectomy at baseline, it is surprising that less than 30% of placebo-treated patients received 
vitrectomy during the study. The primary outcome appears to overestimate the clinical benefit 
of treatment when this is translated into a need for vitrectomy: 11 patients need to be treated 
to avoid a single vitrectomy. However, it does not appear that treatment with ocriplasmin prior 
to vitrectomy has a negative impact on the functional outcome of surgery, and since treatment 
with ocriplasmin does not seem to delay the time to vitrectomy, this modest effect can be 
regarded as acceptable. 
A larger effect of ocriplasmin over placebo was shown for the endpoint of nonsurgical closure of 
full thickness macular hole by Day 28: 31 percentage points (p=0.002) in TG-MV-006, and 30 
percentage points (p=0.028) in TG-MV-007. By the end of the study however, this difference 
had reduced to 15 percentage points in TG-MV-007 mainly due to an increase in the placebo 
response rate. This has been related to differences in baseline prognostic factors between the 
participants. Macular hole is an important reason for visual loss and a driver for vitrectomy in 
the targeted population and it is evident, even though few subjects were concerned, that more 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 55/91 
 
  
  
subjects had FTMH closures without vitrectomy and fewer such subjects required vitrectomy in 
the ocriplasmin-treatment groups. 
Visual acuity was measured both as a categorical change from baseline (proportion gaining ≥2 
and ≥3 lines) and a mean change from baseline. The categorical change from baseline should be 
treated with some caution, since the mean level of vision at baseline was fairly good in both 
studies and so the potential to gain 2 or 3 lines of vision was limited. Nonetheless, the 
proportion gaining vision in both studies was in favour of ocriplasmin, though the statistical 
significance of these results is unclear. With regard to mean change in vision from baseline, 
subjects in both studies gained only 2 to 3 letters after treatment, and no difference was 
observed between active treatment and placebo. However, this is unlikely to have been a 
particularly sensitive endpoint, since subjects generally had only a mild loss of vision at 
baseline. Improvement in visual acuity did correlate well with resolution of VMA however, which 
provides some support for the clinical relevance of success in the primary endpoint. Other 
symptoms of vitreomacular adhesion, such as metamorphopsia and micropsia, were not, 
however, assessed during follow-up.  
Ocriplasmin-treated subjects in both studies generally achieved numerically larger changes 
from baseline in subscale and composite scores of the VFQ-25, though once again, the statistical 
significance of these results is unclear. 
Subgroup analyses with various baseline characteristics suggest that the effects of ocriplasmin 
are only marginally better than placebo in patients with an epiretinal membrane, but that 
patients who have a smaller diameter focal VMA, a FTMH, and poorer baseline vision will benefit 
the most from ocriplasmin. In the evaluation of treatment effect by region, it was clear that 
there were regional differences. Although a comparable proportion of ocriplasmin-treated 
patients experienced non-surgical VMA in the EU and US regions (23 and 28%, respectively), in 
the placebo groups, the corresponding figures were 4 and 12%. In the US centres (pooled 
studies), 5 and 16% of patients had a total PVD in the placebo and active groups, respectively, 
while in the EU centres, a much lower proportion (0 and 7 % in the respective treatment groups) 
had a total PVD. In the US centres, 30 and 18% of patients underwent vitrectomy in the placebo 
and active groups, respectively (difference 12%, p=0.007). In the EU centres, 16% in each 
treatment group had surgery (p=0.985). Although a similar proportion of ocriplasmin-treated 
subjects had vitrectomy in the EU as in the US, few placebo-treated subjects required 
vitrectomy in EU. Thus, from the EU physician’s perspective, there was no effect of ocriplasmin 
in reducing the need for surgery. In both treatment groups, a lower proportion of subjects from 
the EU region had a ≥2 line gain in VA although all cases irrespective of vitrectomy were 
included. Given that treatment with ocriplasmin need not delay vitrectomy should surgery be 
considered appropriate, the modest effect (in the pooled studies) with regard to this endpoint is 
considered acceptable. 
Taken together, it appears that a difference in effect was observed in the EU region as compared 
to the US region. This has been attributed to differences in baseline prognostic factors; 
however, other than for the endpoint of need for vitrectomy, a modest but consistent treatment 
effect has been shown for ocriplasmin in both studies and both regions.  
2.4.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Both main studies demonstrate statistical success in the primary endpoint; resolution of 
vitreomacular traction has been shown to confer an improvement in visual acuity. Although the 
number of subjects with a full thickness macular hole at baseline was small, a convincing effect 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 56/91 
 
  
  
of treatment has also been shown with regard to closure rate. Results for the secondary 
endpoints of induction of PVD, and avoidance of vitrectomy were not fully convincing. However, 
in the context of a treatment that is administered only once, and that would be unlikely to 
significantly delay alternative treatment (ie, observation, followed by vitrectomy), this level of 
efficacy can be regarded as satisfactory.  
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Safety data in support of this application come from the pooled results of 7 completed clinical 
trials with intravitreal ocriplasmin. Three other studies sponsored by the applicant (and two 
investigator-sponsored studies) were ongoing at the data cut-off date (31 March 2011). In 
addition, 5 studies to evaluate intravascular ocriplasmin were either completed or terminated at 
the data cut-off date. 
In the animal studies with intravitreal ocriplasmin the following ocular signals were detected: 
o 
o 
inflammatory response and transient ERG changes in rabbits and Cynomolgus monkeys 
(but no such changes in minipigs, even at the highest doses) 
lens subluxation was observed in all species at ocriplasmin concentrations at or above 
41μg/mL vitreous (a concentration above the intended clinical concentration of 
29μg/mL)  
o  gross pathological changes related to intraocular haemorrhage in rabbits and 
Cynomolgus monkeys (however, it is unclear if this haemorrhage is related to the 
injection procedure itself or administration of ocriplasmin). 
No systemic toxicity was observed after intravitreal administration of ocriplasmin to 
Dutch-belted rabbits, Cynomolgus monkeys and mini-pigs. 
Patient exposure 
The exposure to ocriplasmin in completed studies is summarised in the table below. 
Table 1. Patient exposure intravitreal administration (cut off) 
Patients 
enrolled 
Patients 
exposed 
Patients exposed to the 
proposed dose range 
Placebo-controlled 
Active -controlled 
Open studies 
Post marketing 
Compassionate 
use 
Total 
777 
112 
99 
3 
991 
559 
88 
94 
3 
744 
497 
42 
43 
3 
585 
Follow up 
time 
6 months 
12 m (002) 
6 m(004) 
6 m (001) 
6 w (010) 
Duration of follow-up was 6 months, except for TG-MV-010 (6 weeks), and TG-MV-002 (12 
months). The total number of unique patients exposed to ocriplasmin in completed studies is 
738. Three patients each participated in 2 clinical studies as permitted by the respective 
protocols and in the process received ocriplasmin in separate eyes in different studies. An 
additional 9 patients received more than 1 dose of ocriplasmin at monthly intervals in the same 
eye in study TG-MV-004 as per protocol. Specifically, 7 patients in study TG-MV-004, Cohort 4 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 57/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
who received ocriplasmin 125μg and 2 patients who received sham injection in the controlled 
period of the study each subsequently received 2 injections of ocriplasmin 125μg in the open 
period of the study. In TG-MV-007, 1 patient  received an injection of undiluted investigational 
drug, a dose of ocriplasmin 250μg. This patient was counted in the ocriplasmin 125μg group. 
Since 3 patients received ocriplasmin in more than 1 study as described above, the total number 
of unique patients exposed to ocriplasmin in completed studies is 738. All but the 12 patients 
described above received a single injection of ocriplasmin. 
In addition, 97 subjects have been exposed to ocriplasmin (0.1-5 mg/kg) via intravascular 
administration in studies TG-M-001 - -005. These studies are of low relevance for this 
application and safety outcomes are only briefly addressed below. 
Patient Disposition (Safety Set) 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 58/91 
 
  
  
 
Baseline characteristics were well balanced between placebo-treated and ocriplasmin-treated 
patients in pivotal and all studies combined except for previous cataract surgery. In the 
ocriplasmin group of pivotal studies, 33.5% of patients had had a cataract operation compared 
to 24.6% of patients in the placebo group. 
Ocular medical history: Study eye conditions reported for ≥ 10% of patients treated with ocriplasmin in pivotal 
placebo-controlled studies (Safety Set) 
Adverse events 
Overview of adverse events 
In the pivotal placebo-controlled studies, the percentage of patients experiencing at least 1 
adverse event (AE) was higher in the ocriplasmin group than in the placebo group (76.6% vs 
69.0%), as was the percentage of patients with at least 1 drug-related AE (40.0% vs 21.4%). 
AEs of severe intensity were reported for 39 (8.4%) ocriplasmin-treated patients and 14 (7.5%) 
placebo-treated patients. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 59/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Ocular Adverse Events 
 Study Eye Adverse Events Reported for at Least 2% of Patients Treated with Ocriplasmin 125μg in the Pivotal 
Placebo-Controlled Studies (Safety Set) 
Adverse events were reported with a similar frequency in the pivotal studies compared to the 
entire safety set. In the pivotal studies the most frequently reported ocular treatment-emergent 
adverse events (TEAEs) were vitreous floaters, conjunctival haemorrhage, eye pain, photopsia 
(sensation of flashing lights) and blurred vision. All of these were more frequently reported in 
ocriplasmin-treated subjects than those receiving placebo. Photopsia occurred twice as 
frequently in ocriplasmin-treated subjects in TG-MV-006 than in TG-MV-007, perhaps due to the 
higher rate of PVD in this study. 14 of the 17 events of photophobia in the pivotal studies 
occurred in TG-MV-006. Three of these events were severe. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 60/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Non-Ocular Adverse Events 
Non-ocular Adverse Events Reported for ≥2% of Patients (Safety Set) 
Rates of non-ocular TEAEs were similar in subjects treated with ocriplasmin and placebo. 
Adverse Drug Reactions 
AEs considered suspected adverse drug reactions (ADRs, ie, there was a reasonable possibility 
that these events were treatment related) were selected by applying a series of criteria 
(detailed in the clinical assessment report). The ADRs listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC are 
based on suspected ADRs. None of the systemic AEs were considered suspected ADRs. 
Vitreous floaters were the only suspected ADR with a clear dose relationship. The 125 µg 
ocriplasmin dose was associated with a higher incidence of AEs related to visual function and 
sign of inflammation compared to lower doses of ocriplasmin. 
In ocriplasmin-treated patients, >50% of adverse events of vitreous floaters, conjunctival 
haemorrhage, eye pain, photopsia, vision blurred, visual acuity reduced, retinal oedema, visual 
impairment, anterior chamber cell, photophobia, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular discomfort, 
iritis, metamorphopsia and anterior chamber flare were reported within 7 days of ocriplasmin 
administration. 
The majority of adverse events of macular hole, cataract, maculopathy, retinal degeneration 
and retinal pigment epitheliopathy were reported from day 8 until end of study. 
Overall, the time to onset of vitreous floaters and photopsia and anterior chamber cell was about 
half as long in ocriplasmin-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. Also the time 
to onset of vision blurred and visual acuity reduced, retinal and macular oedema and time to 
occurrence of retinal detachment was shorter for ocriplasmin-treated patients. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 61/91 
 
  
  
 
Suspected adverse drug reactions in Study eye by time to onset : No/Pre-vitrectomy or During/Post-vitrectomy : Pivotal 
placebo-controlled studies (Safety Set) 
In the pivotal studies, 4.9% of ocriplasmin treated patients and 5.9% of placebo treated 
patients had a suspected ADR of severe intensity. For suspected ADRs, visual acuity reduced 
was the only preferred term reported as severe for both ocriplasmin 125μg (0.6%) and placebo 
(0.5%).  
In the ocriplasmin 125μg group, suspected ADRs of severe intensity also included photophobia 
(0.6%), visual impairment (0.2%), vitreous detachment (0.2%) and visual field defect (0.2%). 
All 3 events of photophobia of severe intensity recovered without sequelae within 6 days of 
onset. Visual field defect resolved 1 day after onset and visual impairment and vitreous 
detachment were ongoing at the last study visit. 
In the placebo group, suspected ADRs of severe intensity included macular oedema (0.5%) and 
macular degeneration (0.5%). At onset (Day 34), the Investigator considered macular oedema 
to be of moderate intensity. When the intensity increased to severe on Day 146, vitrectomy was 
performed with recovery 3 days later. Macular degeneration was ongoing at the last study visit. 
In the ocriplasmin 125μg group, the suspected ADRs most frequently considered by the 
Investigators to be drug-related were vitreous floaters (13.8%), photopsia (9.0%) and vision 
blurred (5.2%). In the placebo group, vitreous floaters (4.8%) was the suspected ADR most 
frequently considered by the Investigator to be drug-related. None of these reactions were 
severe. 
Taken together, analysis of adverse event reports demonstrated that adverse events mainly 
were confined to the study eye. The most frequently reported adverse events were vitreous 
floaters, eye pain and photopsia. Adverse events related to intraocular inflammation such as 
anterior chamber cell, iritis, photophobia and ocular discomfort were reported. Adverse event 
with relation to alteration of visual function were frequently reported. In the majority of cases, 
adverse events were mild to moderate and resolved without sequelae. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 62/91 
 
  
  
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Eight deaths were reported in completed or ongoing studies with ocriplasmin. Two occurred in 
subjects receiving sham injections. In the pivotal studies TG-MV-006 and TG-MV-007 there 
were five reports with fatal outcome. All of these occurred in ocriplasmin-treated patients. 
Following analysis, the Applicant concluded that each death was probably due to a pre-existing 
medical condition and none of these events appeared to be causally related to ocriplasmin or the 
injection procedure. The conclusion by the Applicant is endorsed, especially since systemic 
exposure to ocriplasmin is expected to be insignificant. 
Patients who died during or after study pariticipation (All patients) 
In all, there were 6 cases that were serious and/or severe vision-related adverse events. 
Additionally, one patient, which was inadvertently given an ocriplasmin dose of 250 µg due to a 
dilution error, had a decrease in BCVA of 21 letters from baseline but no vision-related AEs were 
reported. The BCVA returned to within 9 letters of baseline. 
The six patients mentioned experienced rapid decline in VA following ocriplasmin 
administration. In two patients in whom ERG was performed, abnormal findings were observed. 
ERG remained abnormal at up to 1 year. Two patients experienced macula-off retinal 
detachment which was treated with vitrectomy. One additional patient (TG-MV-006) 
experienced a dark spot in the vision with onset at day 2. At day 7, BCVA decreased by 6 letters 
and at day 14 BCVA increased 4 letters from baseline. At the day 28 visit, severe AE VMT 
progression from baseline was reported with BCVA decreased by 34 letters from baseline. The 
patient underwent vitrectomy on the same day. No subsequent assessments of study visits 
were performed as the patient withdrew consent from the study. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 63/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 Serious adverse events in the Study Eye (Safety Set) 
In ongoing studies there have been four reports of visual acuity reduced, two reports of retinal 
detachment, one report of lens subluxation and one report each of acute cholecystitis, 
metastatic prostate cancer, urinary tract infection, femur fracture, cystitis, angina pectoris and 
infected ventriculoperitoneal shunt.  
After i.v. administration of ocriplasmin in a Phase 1 healthy volunteer study (TG-M-001) of 
doses several orders of magnitude higher than the intended IVT dose, no adverse effects on 
vital sign assessments were observed. No specific evaluation of vital signs was made in the 
studies that evaluated ocriplasmin following IVT injection; however, no vital sign findings 
reported as AEs were considered suspected ADRs. 
Ocular adverse events of special interest 
AEs of special interest were selected based on their potential or actual clinical relevance, and 
include:  
o  visual function changes (vision alteration, colour vision alteration, ERG changes),  
o 
structural retinal findings (retinal oedema (MedDRA preferred term for subretinal fluid) 
and macular oedema, macular hole, retinal pigment epithelium changes),  
cataracts,  
retinal breaks (retinal tears / detachments),  
o 
o 
o  events known to be associated with the intravitreal injection procedure,  
o 
o 
immunogenicity potential 
subluxation of the lens,  
 
Functional and structural retinal findings 
During the clinical development program of ocriplasmin 6 patients (5 from company-sponsored 
studies and 1 additional patient from an investigator-initiated study) had temporary but 
significant (serious or severe) visual impairment within 24 hours of injection without an 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 64/91 
 
  
  
 
 
alternative explanation on full ophthalmologic examination. Visual acuity ranged from 20/200 to 
hand motion, and was associated with transient visual field constriction in 3 of the 6 patients.  
In total, 16 events of mild and 1 of severe dyschromatopsia have been reported; of these 9 
subjects had ERG changes. Of these, 12 resolved at end of study or during follow up. Of the 5 
remaining patients, 1 patient has died, 1 was lost to follow up and 2 reported resolution in 
post-study contact, 11 and 28 months after injection. The remaining patient is reported from 
Study TG-MV-014, an ongoing study. This patient had also ERG changes and as well as other 
SAEs. Chromatopsia is reported as a common AE in section 4.8 of the SmPC and is identified as 
a risk in the RMP. Initially, there was a concern that the event could be associated with retinal 
toxicity and further evaluation was needed.. 
In the Applicant’s Day 120 responses, data on events of ERG abnormalities were provided for 
the total number of subjects given ocriplasmin as per May 2012 (976 patients). The number of 
patients who had a post-injection ERG is estimated to be 141, and a total of 11 subjects (7.8%) 
have been reported with ERG-changes. Of the 11 cases, 9 also had dyschromatopsia. Also in 
older studies a number of ERG-changes difficult to interpret were reported, and the incidence 
may thus be higher. Overall, the chronology is compatible with an effect of ocriplasmin and the 
majority of events were detected one week after injection. 
Recovery was indicated in 6 cases with 2 ongoing events (including the subject in the ongoing 
TG-MV-014) and no follow up is available for 3 subjects. The time to recovery was reported as 
3-6 months, while one subject still has an abnormal ERG after 28 months. The latter patient had 
however confounding disease (vitelliform dystrophy) which is a probable cause for the 
persistent ERG-changes. 
The most recently reported event of ERG-changes from study TG-MV-014 (follow-up ongoing) 
was reported as serious and the patient was diagnosed with serious photoreceptor toxicity, 
worsening of the MH, vasculitis (at day of vitrectomy= day 19) and relative afferent pupillary 
defect (1 day post vitrectomy). ERG was reported as extremely reduced and visual field 
evaluation indicated a decreased retinal sensitivity day 7. While some events are resolved, ERG 
abnormalities and colour vision changes are ongoing but improved. The last report on VA was 
within 2 letters of the pre-injection baseline BCVA. Presently, there are two patients with 
ongoing ERG changes. 
The analysis of function of the different cell-types in the retina indicated that the primary 
abnormalities were on the photoreceptor levels (a-wave reduction followed by a secondary 
b-wave decrease). Also the isoelectric changes (flat ERG) were believed to be produced by a 
primary effect upon photoreceptors. 
Results of TG-MV-012 were submitted with the Day 180 responses. This study included 24 
patients taken from the two highest enrolling sites of the pivotal studies. ERGs were performed 
at the single visit in TG-MV-012, but no baseline ERGs were available. This makes it difficult to 
evaluate the ERG changes observed during the study. Furthermore, the time between 
treatment in the pivotal studies and the ERG in TG-MV-012 varied among patients, extending up 
to nearly 3 years in some patients. Confounding factors were present for patients with abnormal 
ERGs, and similar ERG abnormalities were observed in both study and non-study eyes, including 
in placebo patients, suggesting that ERG has low specificity in detecting retinal abnormalities. 
None of the patients with a severe ERG abnormality had clinically significant deterioration in 
visual acuity. The ERG results emphasise the need to perform the prospective study TG-MV-014 
in order to characterize the relevance of ERG abnormalities on visual function. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 65/91 
 
  
  
Review of these cases shows that all subjects with significant, early vision loss, and the majority 
of subjects with dychromatopsia and/or ERG changes also experienced resolution of their 
vitreomacular adhesion. This suggests a mechanical aetiology, ie, that rapid resolution of 
vitreomacular traction secondary to ocriplasmin’s mechanism of action that may temporarily 
disturb the photoreceptor layer, causing decreased vision, and changes to colour vision. A 
detrimental biochemical effect of the product on the RPE or photoreceptors cannot, however, be 
ruled out, though this is unlikely. There are also no reports of changes in placebo-treated 
patients of which a proportion also had resolution of the VMT. As pointed out in the expert 
review commissioned by the applicant, patients with large areas of ‘bare RPE’ (ie, separation of 
the inner retinal layers from the RPE at the macula), or severe retinal degenerative changes are 
at the highest risk of developing these changes. 
However, the events should be put into perspective as they seem to reverse, and importantly, 
on average, patients improved their VA with an average 9 letters and none of the subjects with 
ERG-changes lost > 5 letters in the long term. 
VMA resolution was strongly associated with a higher incidence of vision alteration. Consistent 
with this, the other subgroups with higher incidence of vision alteration were generally those 
that achieved higher rates of VMA resolution. Vision alteration AEs were reported more 
frequently in younger (< 65 years) patients treated with ocriplasmin than older (≥ 65 years) 
patients treated with ocriplasmin or placebo patients of each age group. Phakic patients who 
received ocriplasmin were more likely to report vision alteration AEs than pseudophakic 
patients. Vision alteration AEs were reported more frequently in patients with FTMH at baseline 
in both placebo and ocriplasmin groups. Ocriplasmin-treated patients without ERM at baseline 
were more likely to report vision alteration AEs compared with placebo. Patients from the USA 
generally reported more vision alteration AEs than European patients.  
Overall, there was a higher incidence of AEs retinal/macular oedema and RPE changes after 
vitrectomy. However, there are too few events to conclude on whether ocriplasmin followed by 
vitrectomy may increase the risk for retinal/macular oedema and RPE changes, or if these 
events mainly reflected complications after vitrectomy as such. Out of 19 reports of macular 
oedema in ocriplasmin-treated patients, 8 events were reported following vitrectomy (8/82, 
9.8%). In ocriplasmin-treated patients who did not have vitrectomy, 11/465 (2.4%) reported 
macular oedema. Similarly, out of 7 reports of retinal pigment epitheliopathy, 4 events were 
reported in ocriplasmin-treated patients following vitrectomy (4/82, 4.9%) compared to 3/465 
(0.6%) in patients who did not have vitrectomy. Similar findings were observed for retinal 
degeneration and macular degeneration. 
The percentage of patients without a FTMH at baseline who developed a FTMH post-injection 
was low and comparable between treatments at Day 7, Day 28 and the EOS visit. In the 
approximately 60% of FTMHs in the ocriplasmin group and the approximately 90% of FTMHs in 
the placebo group that did not achieve non-surgical FTMH closure by Day 28, the MH diameter 
(the maximum - minimum width and the maximum width at RPE) increased at post-treatment 
visits. This increase was larger in the ocriplasmin group compared with the placebo group, 
particularly for the diameter as measured at the RPE level. In the ocriplasmin group of pivotal 
studies, the MH diameter increased from 283 (SD 127) at baseline to 574 (SD 226) µm at month 
6. Corresponding data for placebo treated group was 247 (SD 102) and 416 (SD 159) µm, 
respectively. 
In 1/11 (9%) ocriplasmin treated subjects losing ≥20 letters ETDRS there was no AE which 
potentially might reduce visual acuity reported. Among subjects losing ≥15 - <20 letters ETDRS 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 66/91 
 
  
  
there was no AE potentially affecting VA reported in 2/9 (22%). Corresponding figure for 
subjects losing ≥10 - <15 letters ETDRS was 13/24 (54%). 
. Analysis of patients with acute change in BCBA of ≥10 letters ETDRS decrease from completed and ongoing studies 
Total no
AEs reported which potentially might reduce VA
Change in visual acuity
Loss ≥20 letters ETDRS
Loss ≥ 15 - <20 letters ETDRS
Loss ≥ 10 - <15 letters ETDRS
Placebo Ocriplasmin
11
9
24
44
1
0
2
3
12
9
26
47
Retinal 
detach-
ment
Subretinal 
fluid, 
macular 
oedema
Floaters
Macular 
hole
Total
2
0
0
2
2
4
4
10
4
3
6
13
2
0
1
3
10
7
11
28  
BCVA returned to within 1 line (5 letters ETDRS) of baseline values during the study except in 
6/820 (0.7%) ocriplasmin patients and 1/269 (0.4%) placebo patients. In 2 subjects losing >15 
letters ETDRS the event was ongoing. One subject reported recovery of visual function with 
sequelae. 
 Analysis by outcome. Patients with acute change in BCBA of ≥10 letters ETDRS decrease from completed and 
ongoing studies 
Total no
AE
Outcome ocriplasmintreated subjects 
Change in visual acuity
Loss ≥20 letters ETDRS
Loss ≥ 15 - <20 letters ETDRS
Loss ≥ 10 - <15 letters ETDRS
Placebo Ocriplasmin
11
9
24
44
1
0
2
3
12
9
26
47
Reduced 
vision 
reported 
8
3
5
16
Recovered 
with 
sequelae Ongoing
1
0
0
1
1
1
0
2
Recovered
6
1
5
12
No 
informati
on with 
regards 
to VA
0
1
0
1  
Ocriplasmin was favoured in both subjects with and without a history of macular dystrophies in 
terms of gain of VA. However, 7.9 and 5.4% of subjects with macular dystrophies in the 
ocriplasmin-treatment groups had lost ≥2 and 3 lines of VA, respectively, compared to 3.9 and 
1.6% in the placebo-group at month 6. Further information is required on the characteristics 
(including vitrectomy) of these patients to evaluate whether disease progression is the 
underlying factor of VA loss in this subgroup of patients. 
Taken together, alterations in visual function included rapid decrease in visual acuity. The visual 
impairment was most often transient and correlated with rapid resolution of VMA. However, 
there were a number of patients, more in the ocriplasmin-treatment groups, whose visual acuity 
is significantly reduced at 6 months compared to baseline. Plausible reasons for the persistent 
loss of visual acuity were enlargement or development of new macular holes (more frequently 
in ocriplasmin-treated subjects) interpreted as being due to increased tractions, secondary to 
ocriplasmin’s enzymatic action. In addition, in a number of these cases, the end of study visual 
acuity was evaluated shortly after vitrectomy (8/13 were evaluated within 3 months).  
  Retinal breaks 
This category included the preferred terms retinal tears and retinal detachments. In the pivotal 
placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of retinal tears was lower for the ocriplasmin 125μg 
group than for the placebo group. Most of the AEs occurred during the time interval of Day 8 to 
EOS and all but 1 event in each treatment group were of mild or moderate intensity. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 67/91 
 
  
  
  Cataracts 
This category included the preferred terms cataract, cataract cortical, cataract nuclear, 
lenticular opacities, posterior capsule opacification and cataract subcapsular. The incidence of 
cataract (any event) in phakic patients in the pivotal placebo studies was 8.2% in the 
ocriplasmin group compared with 11.9% in the placebo group. The overall benefit in the 
ocriplasmin group in terms of decreased incidence of cataract is consistent with the lower rate 
of vitrectomy in the ocriplasmin group, since vitrectomy is known to be a significant risk factor 
in the development of cataract.  
 
Events known to be associated with the intravitreal injection procedure 
Increased IOP, intraocular inflammation, intraocular haemorrhage and intraocular infection are 
risks known to be associated with the intravitreal injection procedure. No clinically meaningful 
differences between treatments were observed for the incidence of AEs in the intraocular 
haemorrhage or increased IOP categories. There was one report (Study TG-MV-005) of vision 
loss due to acute increase in intraocular pressure. Vitreous haemorrhage was reported as an 
SAE (verbatim: vitreous bleeding immediately after injection) for an additional patient (Study 
TG-MV-007). There was no report of endophthalmitis in any patient treated with ocriplasmin. 
In the pivotal placebo-controlled studies, the overall incidence of AEs in the intraocular 
inflammation category was higher in the ocriplasmin group than in the placebo group (7.1% vs. 
3.7%). Of the 90 cases that occurred in the development program, the majority could be 
classified as mild anterior uveitis. Half occurred in the first week after treatment. There were 
only 15 cases of vitritis or vitreous cells. There were no cases of intraocular infections including 
endophthalmitis reported in any patient treated with ocriplasmin. 
  Subluxation of the lens 
Lens subluxation was observed in 3 species of animals: rabbits, Cynomolgus monkeys and 
Göttingen mini-pigs, at ocriplasmin concentrations at or above 41μg/mL vitreous volume, a 
concentration above the intended clinical concentration of 29μg/mL. Furthermore subluxation 
was observed in all Cynomolgus monkeys receiving a repeat dose at Day 28. 
In clinical studies, subluxation of the lens or lens instability was reported in 3 patients. One 
occurred in a 4-month old premature male infant (Study TG-MV-009) who received a single 
dose of 175 µg ocriplasmin IVT one hour before vitrectomy. During the vitrectomy, it appeared 
to the investigator as if the lens was slightly displaced nasally and loss of zonules was 
suspected.  
The other two cases, in adults, are less-clearly related to the product. One patient from Study 
TG-MV-010 received ocriplasmin and had a combined procedure (phacoemulsification / 
intraocular lens [IOL] implant and vitrectomy) 3 hours after injection. One day later the patient 
had an AE of “lens luxation” (MedDRA PT: Lens dislocation) that was non-serious, mild in 
intensity, considered unrelated to ocriplasmin and resolved upon IOL repositioning. 
Subsequently, an AE of “superior lens dislocation” (MedDRA PT: Lens dislocation) was reported. 
The SAE of lens instability (Study TG-MV-007) occurred during vitrectomy 323 days after the 
patient was treated with ocriplasmin, with no clinical signs noted prior to the vitrectomy; 
however, there is at least a reasonable possibility of this being related to treatment. 
The reported cases include phakic patients only. Based on the proteolytic activity of ocriplasmin, 
and non-clinical and clinical findings, the potential for subluxation of the lens or phacodonesis 
cannot be ruled out. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 68/91 
 
  
  
 
Immunogenicity potential 
See below. 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory tests were only performed in one clinical study with intravitreal ocriplasmin, 
the Phase II study TG-MV-001. Samples were obtained at baseline and at Day 28 from the 30 
subjects who received ocriplasmin prior to vitrectomy. The amount of clinical laboratory data 
available for intravitreal ocriplasmin is therefore extremely limited. However, given the 
negligible amounts reaching the systemic circulation, and the availability of results from the IV 
dosing studies (summarised below) this is considered acceptable. 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup analyses were conducted on the following intrinsic variables: gender, age (<65 years 
vs. ≥65 years; <75 years vs. ≥75 years); BMI (<25 kg/m2 vs. ≥25 kg/m2); lens status at 
baseline; baseline DR status; baseline FTMH status; baseline ERM status; and whether the 
primary efficacy endpoint was achieved. Race was analysed as Caucasian and non-Caucasian 
because the number of patients in each of the other racial categories was too few to compare to 
Caucasians. Several minor differences were observed between the subgroups, but no particular 
pattern of clinical relevance is clear. 
VMT is a condition prevalent in the elderly and the overall adverse events profile where a 
relation to drug/injection procedure is suspected is presented by age in the below table. While 
the proportion of the very elderly is low and consequently impairs the precision of the detection 
of AEs, the overall data indicate no increased risks in the elderly population within the above 
predefined categories. This would also not be expected due to the local mode of action of 
ocriplasmin. 
Summary of Drug Related Adverse Events by Age Group: All Studies Combined: 
75-84 years  
(N = 219)  
n (%) 
Total  
0 ( 0.0%) 
Fatal  
9 ( 4.7%) 
Serious  
0 ( 0.0%) 
Withdrawal  
1 ( 0.5%) 
CNS  
0 ( 0.0%) 
AEs related to falling  
CV events  
0 ( 0.0%) 
Cerebrovascular events   0 ( 0.0%) 
1 ( 0.5%) 
Infections  
< 65 years  
(N = 190)  
n (%) 
65-74 years  
(N = 304)  
n (%) 
73 ( 38.4%)  118 ( 38.8%)  68 ( 31.1%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
4 ( 1.3%) 
1 ( 0.3%) 
4 ( 1.3%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
3 ( 1.4%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
≥ 85 years  
(N = 28)  
n (%) 
4 ( 14.3%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
0 ( 0.0%) 
Regarding extrinsic factors, geographic region and expected need for vitrectomy were analysed. 
A higher reporting rate of AEs in the US compared to Europe is suggested by the Company to be 
due to cultural differences concerning reporting. The outcome in the reporting of AEs mirrors to 
some extent the differences in effect observed between regions, i.e. an overall higher 
proportion of subjects achieved resolution of the anatomical defects in the US compared to the 
EU region, supporting that the reported events may be associated with a release of a VMA. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 69/91 
 
  
  
 
 
Immunological events 
The finished ocriplasmin drug product contains 3 substances that may be of potential 
immunogenic concern: the ocriplasmin protein itself, and the process-related impurities: Pichia 
pastoris-derived host cell protein (HCP. 
Ocriplasmin is known to share the exact amino acid sequence of its truncated human homologue 
and is considered to be highly similar at the level of the secondary and tertiary structure. The 
absence of post-translational modifications such as glycosylation decreases the immunogenic 
potential of ocriplasmin. 
Ocriplasmin is not known to share immunogenic motifs with other proteins. Antibodies against 
plasminogen and plasmin have been described in patients suffering from auto-immune 
disorders. 
During the vascular clinical program, 4 subjects treated with high vascular doses of ocriplasmin 
developed pseudo-allergic reactions during infusion. There is a suggestion that high i.v. doses of 
ocriplasmin drug product can cause a rise in staphylokinase antibodies. The clinical significance 
of this finding for the single intravitreal administration of ocriplasmin doses that are 1,000-fold 
lower is not clear. Furthermore, the antibody responses seen after the administration of high 
systemic doses of ocriplasmin was not different from that seen on placebo. 
No systemic antibody assays were done during the ophthalmic development of ocriplasmin. This 
was justified in view of the single localised administration of relatively low amounts of 
ocriplasmin and the low immunogenic potential of ocriplasmin as evidenced by the relatively low 
incidence / magnitude of treatment emergent anti-ocriplasmin antibodies detected. There were 
no differences among ocriplasmin-treated subjects and controls for systemic or ocular 
allergy-type reactions. 
Cases of anterior uveitis were reported, at a higher frequency than in placebo-treated subjects, 
though these were generally mild and short-lived. Few subjects have been exposed to repeat 
injections, but in those who have, there does not appear to be an increased incidence of 
immunogenicity. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No local or systemic drug interaction studies were considered relevant to support the intravitreal 
indication, and no intraocular pharmacodynamic drug interactions using co-administration with 
ocriplasmin were investigated. A published study has been referred to, involving injection of 
ocriplasmin in rabbit eyes followed by bevacizumab 11 days after (Goldenberg 2011). No 
adverse effects or increased initial retinal penetration of bevacizumab were observed.  
The potential for drug interactions is low, given the rapid inactivation of intravitreal ocriplasmin, 
and the single use of the product. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
The incidence of AEs leading to withdrawal from the pivotal placebo-controlled studies was 
comparable between the ocriplasmin (0.9%) and placebo (1.1%) groups. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 70/91 
 
  
  
Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety database for ocriplasmin comes from 7 completed clinical studies (most of which are 
of 6 months duration) together with preliminary data from several ongoing studies. From these 
completed studies, 738 subjects have been exposed to intravitreal ocriplasmin (582 to the 
proposed 125µg dose). In one study 38 subjects were exposed to ocriplasmin for up to 12 
months. The pivotal studies compared ocriplasmin with a placebo injection, in a 2:1 or a 3:1 
ratio. A further 116 subjects have been exposed to intravenous ocriplasmin, at doses ranging 
from 50 to 2000 times higher than that proposed for intravitreal use. 
Several signals were highlighted in the non-clinical development program: inflammatory 
response and transient ERG changes in two species, lens subluxation in all species, and 
intraocular haemorrhage in two species. 
In the pivotal studies the most frequently reported ocular TEAEs were vitreous floaters, 
conjunctival haemorrhage, eye pain, photopsia (sensation of flashing lights) and blurred vision. 
All of these were more frequently reported in ocriplasmin-treated subjects than those receiving 
placebo. Vitreous floaters, photopsia, and blurred vision are a (temporary) consequence of PVD 
and so may be expected from successful treatment. Other TEAEs of note that occurred more 
frequently in ocriplasmin-treated subjects included retinal/macular oedema, anterior chamber 
cells/iritis, and photophobia. It is not unlikely that injury by mechanical traction on the retina 
produced during the intended posterior vitreous detachment could cause functional visual 
symptoms as well as a temporary disruption of the blood-retina barrier causing retinal/macular 
oedema and subretinal fluid. It might also be that the proteolytic activity of ocriplasmin can 
affect not only the vitreoretinal interface but also the function of the Müller cells, which are the 
retinal cells in closest apposition of the vitreoretinal interface and which span the entire retina. 
Rates of non-ocular TEAEs were similar in subjects treated with ocriplasmin and placebo, and do 
not raise any specific concerns. 
Whilst ocriplasmin may cause an acute, and in most cases transient, reduction of VA, there are 
reports of persistent reduction of VA and there are a number of patients whose VA was 
significantly reduced at 6 months compared to baseline. At end of study (6 months), 25/465 
(5.4%) patients in the ocriplasmin group and 6/187 (3.2%) placebo patients had ≥ 3-line loss 
in BCVA. In the majority of these subjects, VMA was not resolved on Day 28. The Applicant has 
demonstrated that among subjects with the ≥3 lines VA loss at end of study, there were some 
baseline differences between treatment arms. At baseline, 5/6 placebo-treated and 7/25 
ocriplasmin-treated subjects had FTMHs while all placebo-treated and 9 ocriplasmin-treated 
subjects had ERM. However, the size of the MH does not appear to have influenced this outcome 
since despite the proportion with large (≥1000µm) MHs was higher in the ocriplasmin-group, at 
EOS, none of these subjects had either 2- or 3-line loss in BCVA. Although there were too few 
subjects to draw any firm conclusion, the larger MHs at baseline did not appear to increase the 
risk for long-term adverse effects on VA. 
Overall, important and plausible reasons for the VA loss were enlargement or development of 
new MHs. This happened more frequently in ocriplasmin-treated subjects. In approximately 
60% of the FTMHs in the ocriplasmin group and approximately 90% of the FTMHs in the placebo 
group that did not achieve non-surgical FTMH closure by Day 28, the macular hole diameter (the 
maximum - minimum width and the maximum width at RPE) increased at post-treatment visits. 
This increase was larger in the ocriplasmin group compared with the placebo group, particularly 
for the diameter as measured at the RPE level. It possible that there may be an increased risk 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 71/91 
 
  
  
for an incomplete enzymatic cleavage of the adhesion between the posterior vitreous cortex and 
the internal limiting membrane following treatment, which may result in additional traction. This 
may lead to enlargement or development of new macular holes, which is of concern. However, 
the Applicant put these figures into a clinical perspective since with active treatment, 
significantly more ocriplasmin-treated subjects achieved macular hole closure without 
vitrectomy by day 28 (40 vs. 10%). 
It is also possible that in a number of these cases, end of study VA was evaluated too shortly 
after vitrectomy (8/13 were evaluated within 3 months) and that more patients in the 
ocriplasmin group that underwent vitrectomy showed a ≥3 line improvement in VA compared to 
placebo. Of the events where causality cannot be excluded, 2 ocriplasmin-treated subjects had 
vitrectomy 2 and 3 months before end of study. Overall, there seems to be no evidence that 
ocriplasmin treatment followed by vitrectomy increased the risk for a persistent loss of visual 
function. However, all events of a significant long-term loss of VA are not fully clarified, and the 
risk of development of new macular holes should be addressed in the SmPC, section 4.4, as well 
as in the RMP as an identified risk. 
Additionally, there were reports of ongoing alteration in colour vision as well as reports of 
abnormal ERG up to 1 year after ocriplasmin administration. Review of these cases shows that 
all subjects with significant, early vision loss, and the majority of subjects with dychromatopsia 
and/or ERG changes also experienced resolution of their vitreomacular adhesion. This suggests 
a mechanical aetiology, ie, that rapid resolution of vitreomacular traction may temporarily 
disturb the photoreceptor layer, causing decreased vision, and changes to colour vision. A 
detrimental biochemical effect of the product on the RPE or photoreceptors cannot, however, be 
ruled out, though this is unlikely. A limited number of ERGs were available from the extension 
study TG-MV-012, but confounding factors were present for patients with abnormal ERGs, and 
similar ERG abnormalities were observed in both study and non-study eyes, including in placebo 
patients, suggesting that ERG has low specificity in detecting retinal abnormalities. The expert 
review commissioned by the applicant mentions that patients with large areas of ‘bare RPE’ (ie, 
separation of the inner retinal layers from the RPE at the macula), or severe retinal degenerative 
changes are at the highest risk of developing these changes. 
However, the events should be put into perspective as they seem to reverse, and importantly, 
on average, patients improved their VA with an average 9 letters and none of the subjects lost 
> 5 letters in the long term. 
Still, the concerns that ocriplasmin could induce retinal/photoreceptor toxicity, resulting in 
ERG-changes and dyschromatopsia, remain and are. included in the Protocol of the ongoing 
Study TG-MV-014. Similar to previous studies, ffERG is chosen to evaluate the whole retinal 
surface instead of mfERG which focuses on the topographical resolution of ERG-changes in the 
central retina. The OCT-measurements will give further information on anatomical disruptions 
at the photoreceptor level. Even though the concern regarding retinal toxicity has been 
alleviated, this study is considered to have the potential to give further reassurance and to gain 
further understanding of the consequences of the ERG-changes. For Study TG-MV-014 last 
patient estimated completion is November 2014 and the report is expected to be submitted Q3 
2015.   
The risks of retinal tears or detachments, cataracts, intraocular haemorrhage, and raised 
intraocular pressure do not appear to be any higher with ocriplasmin as compared with placebo 
injections. There were no cases of endophthalmitis reported in the clinical studies. However, this 
is a known risk associated with intravitreal injections that occurs in approximately 1 per 1000 
injections. The size of the safety database is sufficient only to detect events with an incidence of 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 72/91 
 
  
  
at least 0.4%. It is therefore not clear whether endophthalmitis occurs at an equivalent rate to 
other intravitreally administered drugs. 
Lens subluxation and retinal break/retinal detachment were infrequently reported. Lens 
subluxation was also observed in pre-clinical toxicology studies. Lens subluxation and retinal 
break/retinal detachment might be caused by the pharmacological action of vitreolysis. These 
adverse events are manageable but treatment requires additional surgery. The surgical 
procedure to treat subluxation is more complicated than conventional cataract surgery.  
There also appears to be a small risk of intraocular inflammation associated with intravitreal use 
of ocriplasmin. Of the 90 cases that occurred in the development program, the majority could be 
classified as mild anterior uveitis. Half occurred in the first week after treatment. There were 
only 15 cases of vitritis or vitreous cells. Several of the later cases of intraocular inflammation 
were attributable to vitrectomy. 
The immunogenicity potential of single dose intravitreal ocriplasmin appears to be low. Several 
cases of anterior uveitis were reported, at a higher frequency than in placebo-treated subjects, 
though these were generally mild and short-lived. Few subjects have been exposed to repeat 
injections, but in those who have, there does not appear to be an increased risk of 
immunogenicity. 
2.5.1.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
In summary, the majority of the adverse events seen following administration of intravitreal 
ocriplasmin appear to be attributable to either the injection procedure, or to successful 
resolution of vitreomacular traction. However, reports of severe and persistent reduction in 
visual function were received. These may be related to release of the mechanical traction of the 
underlying condition, but there is some evidence that successfully treated subjects are at risk of 
incomplete enzymatic cleavage of the vitreous base, resulting in additional traction that may 
predispose to enlargement of macular hole or development of new macular holes.  
There were also a number of cases of ongoing alteration in colour vision as well as reports of 
abnormal ERG up to 1 year after ocriplasmin administration. Again the risk of such events 
leading to sequelae appears small, and in most cases the abnormalities resolved on follow-up. 
The currently available data indicate that these events were related to the secondary traction 
induced by ocriplasmin or even influenced by the underlying condition, but are too scarce to 
exclude an involvement of the pharmacological effect of ocriplasmin. These issues should be 
further investigated in the post-marketing setting. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils 
the legislative requirements.    
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 73/91 
 
  
  
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
Visual impairment 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk characterisation 
• 
Intensive follow-up of cases 
of severe acute visual acuity 
reduction, dyschromatopsia 
or ERG abnormalities as 
events of special interest 
both from clinical trials and 
non-clinical trial sources.  
•  Further characterisation of 
all the retinal risks in 
ongoing and future clinical 
trials. 
•  Communication in DSURs 
and PSURs until otherwise 
agreed with Rapporteur. 
•  Communication in the IB, 
SmPC and RMP as new 
relevant information 
becomes available. 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.2 recommends a 
7-day delay between 
injections in case treatment 
of the fellow eye is needed, to 
monitor the post-injection 
course including the potential 
for decreased vision in the 
injected eye 
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ 
includes the risk for a 
significant, but transient loss 
of visual acuity during the 
first week after the injection, 
and recommends 
post-injection monitoring 
•  Section 4.7 ‘Effects on ability 
to drive and use machines’ 
includes wording warning of 
possible temporary vision 
alterations and 
recommendation not to drive 
or use machines until the 
vision impairment resolves 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ lists visual 
impairment and related 
terms as adverse reactions 
seen in clinical trials and 
provides additional 
information on observed 
cases of acute transient 
decreases in visual acuity 
•  Patient Leaflet to instruct 
patients to report visual or 
ocular symptoms without 
delay 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 74/91 
 
  
  
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
Dyschromatopsia 
Additional 
Patient education materials 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
When to seek urgent attention 
from the health care provider 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.7 ‘Effects on ability 
to drive and use machines’ 
includes wording warning of 
possible temporary vision 
alterations and 
recommendation not to drive 
or use machines until the 
alterations resolve 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ lists chromatopsia as 
an adverse reaction seen in 
clinical trials and provides 
additional information on 
observed cases 
•  Package Leaflet to instruct 
patients to report visual or 
ocular symptoms without 
delay 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
Risk characterisation  
•  Clinical trial TG-MV-014  
•  Targeted follow-up 
questionnaires for cases of 
acute loss of visual acuity, 
dyschromatopsia or ERG 
abnormalities for a duration 
of 2 to 3 years after the first 
launch in a EU country. 
•  Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate 
the success of the patient 
educational materials. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk characterisation 
• 
Intensive follow-up of cases 
of severe acute visual acuity 
reduction, dyschromatopsia 
or ERG abnormalities as 
events of special interest 
both from clinical trials and 
non-clinical trial sources  
•  Further characterisation of 
all the retinal risks in 
ongoing and future clinical 
trials 
•  Communication in DSURs 
and PSURs until otherwise 
agreed with Rapporteur 
•  Communication in the IB, 
SmPC and RMP as new 
relevant information 
becomes available 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
Risk characterisation  
•  Clinical trial TG-MV-014  
•  Targeted follow-up 
questionnaires for cases of 
acute loss of visual acuity, 
dyschromatopsia or ERG 
abnormalities for a duration 
of 2 to 3 years after the first 
launch in a EU country 
ERG abnormalities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk characterisation 
• 
Intensive follow-up of cases 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.7 ‘Effects on ability 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 75/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
to drive and use machines’ to 
include wording warning of 
possible temporary vision 
alterations and 
recommendation not to drive 
or use machines until the 
alterations resolve 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’lists ERG 
abnormalities (MedDRA PT 
‘retinogram abnormal’ as an 
adverse reaction seen in 
clinical trials and provides 
additional information on 
observed cases 
•  Package Leaflet to instruct 
patients to report visual or 
ocular symptoms without 
delay 
of severe acute visual acuity 
reduction, dyschromatopsia 
or ERG abnormalities as 
events of special interest 
both from clinical trials and 
non-clinical trial sources 
•  Further characterisation of 
all the retinal risks in 
ongoing and future clinical 
trials 
•  Communication in DSURs 
and PSURs until otherwise 
agreed with Rapporteur 
•  Communication in the IB, 
SmPC and RMP as new 
relevant information 
becomes available 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
Risk characterisation  
•  Clinical trial TG-MV-014  
•  Targeted follow-up 
questionnaires for cases of 
acute loss of visual acuity, 
dyschromatopsia or ERG 
abnormalities for a duration 
of 2 to 3 years after the first 
launch in a EU country 
Retinal Detachment 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.8 lists retinal 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
detachment as an adverse 
reaction seen in clinical trials 
and provides additional 
information on observed 
cases 
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ to 
include text on post-injection 
monitoring and for 
ophthalmologists to instruct 
patients to report any visual 
or ocular symptoms without 
delay 
•  Package Leaflet to instruct 
patients to report visual or 
ocular symptoms without 
delay 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 76/91 
 
  
  
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
Additional 
Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate the 
success of the patient 
educational materials. 
Intraocular pressure 
increased 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
Patient education materials 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
When to seek urgent attention 
from the health care provider 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC  
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ 
recommends post-injection 
monitoring with particular 
emphasis on increases in 
intraocular pressure 
•  Section 4.2 ‘Posology and 
method of administration’ 
recommends availability of 
sterile paracentesis, if 
required 
Intraocular 
haemorrhage 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC  
•  Section 4.2 ‘Posology and 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
method of administration’ to 
include wording on 
pre-treatment precautions, 
relevant aseptic techniques 
and injection location (mid 
vitreous)  
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ to 
include text on post-injection 
monitoring and for 
ophthalmologists to instruct 
patients to report any visual 
or ocular or symptoms 
without delay 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 77/91 
 
  
  
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
Additional 
Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate the 
success of the patient 
educational materials. 
Intraocular 
inflammation 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
Patient education materials 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
When to seek urgent attention 
from the health care provider 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC  
•  Section 4.2 ‘Posology and 
method of administration’ to 
include wording on 
pre-treatment precautions, 
relevant aseptic techniques 
and injection location (mid 
vitreous) 
•  Section 4.3 
‘Contraindications’: to 
include contraindications in 
active or suspected ocular or 
periocular infections 
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ to 
include text on post-injection 
monitoring and for 
ophthalmologists to instruct 
patients to report any visual 
or ocular or symptoms 
without delay 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk 
Increased 
vitreomacular 
traction 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ lists ‘vitreous 
adhesions’ (MedDRA term for 
‘vitreomacular traction’) as 
an adverse reaction seen in 
clinical trials and provides 
additional information on 
observed cases 
Additional 
Patient education materials 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 78/91 
 
  
  
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
•  Clinical trial TG-MV-014  
•  Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate 
the success of the patient 
educational materials. 
Development of new 
macular holes or 
progression of 
macular hole size 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
Pharmacovigilance 
•  Clinical trial TG-MV-014  
•  Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate 
the success of the patient 
educational materials. 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
•  When to seek urgent 
attention from the health 
care provider 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ 
mentions the risk for 
occurrence of new or 
enlarged macular holes as a 
result of increase in tractional 
forces 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ lists macular hole as 
an adverse reaction seen in 
clinical trials and provides 
additional information on 
observed cases  
Additional 
Patient education materials 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
When to seek urgent attention 
from the health care provider 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 79/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
Retinal / macular 
oedema 
Lens Subluxation 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Intensive follow-up will be 
performed for any case reports 
received. 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
•  Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate 
the success of the patient 
educational materials. 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ lists retinal and 
macular oedema as adverse 
reactions seen in clinical trials 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ 
warns about a potential for 
lens subluxation or 
phacodonesis and 
recommends avoiding 
treatment of patients with 
lens zonule instability 
•  Section 4.8 ‘Undesirable 
effects’ lists lens subluxation 
as an adverse reaction seen 
in clinical trials and provides 
additional information on 
observed cases 
Additional 
Patient education materials 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
When to seek urgent attention 
from the health care provider 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 80/91 
 
  
  
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Identified Risk  
Endophthalmitis 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Intensive follow-up will be 
performed for any relevant case 
reports received. 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC  
•  Section 4.2 ‘Posology and 
method of administration’ 
recommends pre-operative 
administration of antibiotic 
drops at the discretion of the 
treating ophthalmologist and 
recommends aseptic 
conditions for the intravitreal 
injection procedure. 
•  Section 4.3 
‘Contraindications’: includes 
contraindications in active or 
suspected ocular or 
periocular infections 
•  Section 4.4 ‘Special warnings 
and precautions for use’ 
includes text on aseptic 
injection technique and 
post-injection monitoring and 
for ophthalmologists to 
instruct patients to report 
any visual or ocular or 
symptoms without delay 
Additional 
•  Drug Utilisation Study will 
include a survey to evaluate 
the success of the patient 
educational materials. 
Additional 
Patient education materials 
containing the following key 
elements: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea 
treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment 
administered 
•  What are the steps following 
treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of 
serious adverse events 
•  When to seek urgent 
attention from the health 
care provider 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 81/91 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Potential Risks 
Immunogenicity 
(including 
hypersensitivity / 
allergic reactions) 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Off-label use 
Off-label Use 
Including Paediatric 
Use 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
•  Drug Utilisation Study 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 2 ‘Qualitative and 
Quantitative Composition’ 
indicates the proteinic nature 
of ocriplasmin 
•  Section 4.2 ‘Posology and 
method of administration’ 
indicates single use of 
ocriplasmin 
•  Section 4.3 
‘Contraindications’ list 
hypersensitivity to the active 
substance or to any of the 
excipients as 
contraindications 
•  There is insufficient evidence 
to include more specific 
wording on this risk in the 
SmPC at present 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
•  Section 4.1 ‘Therapeutic 
indications’ specifies the 
indication limiting its use in 
adults 
•  Section 4.2 ‘Posology and 
method of administration’ 
subsection ‘Paediatric 
population’. The safety and 
efficacy of JETREA in the 
paediatric population have 
not been established. No data 
are available 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 82/91 
 
  
  
Safety Concern 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Important Potential Risks 
Interactions with 
other intraocular 
medications 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
Section 4.5 ‘Interactions with 
other medicinal products and 
other forms of interaction’ 
includes the following 
statements: 
• 
‘No formal interaction studies 
have been performed’ 
• 
• 
‘JETREA is a proteolytic 
enzyme with serine protease 
activity which could be 
present in the eye for several 
days after intravitreal 
injection (see section 5.2 
‘Pharmacokinetic 
properties’)’ 
‘Co-administration with other 
medicinal products in the 
same eye may affect the 
activity of both medicinal 
products and is therefore not 
recommended’ 
Medication errors 
Traumatic cataract 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Additional 
•  Drug Utilisation Study 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Risk communication 
•  Communication in IB, DSUR 
and PSURs 
•  Update of RMP and SmPC as 
needed 
Routine 
Risk communication by SmPC 
The SmPC provides instructions 
for correct storage, handling and 
use in section 6.2 
‘Incompatibilities’, section 6.3 
‘Shelf life’, section 6.4 ‘Special 
precautions for storage’ and 
section 6.6 ‘Special precautions 
for disposal and other handling’. 
None. Traumatic cataract is a 
known complication of 
intravitreal injections. The risk is 
mitigated by the product’s 
exclusive use by specialized 
ophthalmologists familiar with 
the injection technique. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 83/91 
 
  
  
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below 
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Description 
Drug Utilisation Study - TG-MV-017 (planned) 
TG-MV-014 (on-going) 
Targeted follow-up questionnaire. 
Due date 
Protocol submission by end March 2013 
•  First patient in (FPI) approximately 6 to 
12 months after launch in first country  
•  Last patient in (LPI): approximately 
36 months after FPI; 
Final Study report submission: 12 months 
after last patient out (LPO). 
evaluate inter-relationship of VMA resolution 
and BCVA with microperimetry and full field 
ERG (ffERG) 
Clinical Study Report:  
Q3 2015 
Collect data on cases of ERG abnormalities, 
for a period of two to three years after EU 
launch. Findings will be presented at least 
annually in PSURs. Questionnaire submitted 
for review by April 17 2013 
The following additional risk minimisation activities were required: 
•  A patient information pack should be provided in printed and in audio format, and contain 
the following key elements: 
• 
Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment administered 
•  What are the steps following treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of serious adverse events 
•  When to seek urgent attention from the health care provider 
2.7.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted 
by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human 
use. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 84/91 
 
  
  
 
 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
Data from two Phase III studies with ocriplasmin in patients with symptomatic focal 
vitreomacular adhesion show a statistically significant improvement in the proportion of 
subjects achieving resolution of vitreomacular adhesion by Day 28 after a single injection of 
ocriplasmin. In the two studies 28 and 25% of patients achieved success in this endpoint, 
compared with 13 and 6% of patients who had received a placebo injection. Although success 
may in part be due to the injection procedure itself, a clear effect of the medicinal product has 
been shown. 
A range of both anatomical and functional secondary endpoints were also examined. The 
proportion of subjects achieving total posterior vitreous detachment at Day 28 was 
approximately 10 % higher following treatment with ocriplasmin as opposed to placebo. In both 
studies the proportion of subjects who required a vitrectomy during the study was lower in the 
ocriplasmin group than in the placebo group. However in neither study was this difference 
statistically significant, and the difference itself was small at 8 %. 
The proportion of subjects achieving non-surgical closure of their full thickness macular hole by 
Month 6 was 35 to 45% in the two studies. This compares to closure rates of around 90% after 
vitrectomy with inner limiting membrane peeling. A difference of 30 percentage points was 
observed in both studies between ocriplasmin and placebo in the proportion of subjects 
achieving closure by Day 28. This difference becomes less impressive at Month 6 in study 
TG-MV-007, mainly due to an increase in the placebo response rate, and smaller group sizes.  
Regarding the effect of ocriplasmin on vision, in general higher proportions of subjects treated 
with ocriplasmin gained vision during the studies than those treated with placebo. At Month 6 a 
higher proportion of ocriplasmin-treated subjects had gained vision (≥1, 2, or 3 lines) than 
those receiving placebo. Those with poorer baseline vision (<20/50, or <65 letters) appeared to 
respond better to treatment with ocriplasmin, with a quarter gaining at least 3 lines of vision. 
The average change in visual acuity for subjects treated with ocriplasmin, however, was not 
particularly impressive with subjects in both studies gaining only 2 to 3 letters after treatment, 
and no difference observed between active treatment and placebo. This may not be a 
particularly sensitive endpoint however, since subjects generally had only a mild loss of vision at 
baseline. However, in those subjects who achieved resolution of their focal vitreomacular 
adhesion, the average improvement in vision was between 7 and 9 letters, suggesting that 
success in the primary endpoint is associated with an improvement in vision, if not in other 
symptoms of vitreomacular adhesion.  
Finally, ocriplasmin-treated subjects in both studies generally achieved numerically larger 
changes from baseline in subscale and composite scores of the visual function questionnaire. 
Subgroup analyses suggest that patients who are likely to require a vitrectomy (but not for an 
ERM), who have a smaller diameter focal VMA, a FTMH, and poorer baseline vision may benefit 
the most from ocriplasmin. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 85/91 
 
  
  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The principal uncertainty with the efficacy data is whether the results observed in the clinical 
studies are representative of what might be seen in the general population within the EU, given 
apparent differences in efficacy between EU and US subjects, both between and within trials. 
These differences, however, appear largely due to variations in prognostic baseline 
characteristics between subjects recruited in different regions.  
Results for the secondary endpoints of induction of PVD, and avoidance of vitrectomy are not 
fully convincing. However, in the context of a treatment that is administered only once, and that 
would be unlikely to significantly delay alternative treatment (ie, observation, followed by 
vitrectomy), this level of efficacy can be regarded as acceptable. 
The primary endpoint (resolution of focal VMA) represents a surrogate for prevention of the 
deterioration of vision which may occur with untreated and progressive vitreomacular traction. 
There is little experience of the reliability of this as a surrogate endpoint, and there was no 
assessment of whether the initial symptoms had resolved after resolution of the VMA. However, 
success in this endpoint has been demonstrated to confer an average improvement in visual 
acuity, and may avoid surgery.  
There is only partial support for the primary endpoint from the secondary endpoints. The 
proportion achieving total PVD was only 10 percentage points higher after ocriplasmin than 
placebo. Likewise, the proportion requiring vitrectomy was only 8 points lower, and the acual 
vitrectomy rate was lower than expected from the inclusion criteria. The closure rate for full 
thickness macular holes was between 35 and 45% in ocriplasmin-treated subjects. This 
represents a 30 point difference to placebo at 1 and 6 months in study TG-MV-006. However in 
study TG-MV-007 the result at Month 1 was of uncertain statistical significance, by Month 6 this 
difference in the closure rate between active and placebo-treated subjects had halved, and the 
relatively few subjects had a macular hole at baseline. 
Subgroup analyses show that in subjects with an ERM or a diameter of VMA ≥1500 µm, 
ocriplasmin showed little advantage over placebo in several endpoints. It is accepted that the 
group sizes were small, and that limited conclusions can be made on the statistical significance 
of these results.  
However, there was a trend towards VMA resolution in subjects with ERM treated with 
ocriplasmin. Given that the alternative for these patients is vitrectomy, which is also more 
complicated in these subgroups, that the risks of treating such patients with ocriplasmin do not 
appear greater than in the overall population, and that a single injection of ocriplasmin need not 
delay a subsequent vitrectomy if required, restricting use to patients without an ERM or with 
only small diameter adhesions does not appear warranted. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
The most commonly occurring adverse reactions include vitreous floaters (13%), conjunctival 
haemorrhage (15%), eye pain (11%), photopsia (sensation of flashing lights; 10%) and blurred 
vision (7%). These are not of specific concern since they appear to be a consequence either of 
the injection procedure itself, or of successful resolution of the VMA, and are generally 
manageable and/or transient. Other less frequently occurring adverse events of note include 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 86/91 
 
  
  
retinal/macular oedema (4%), and photophobia (3%), both of which are also probably related 
to resolution of the VMA. 
Important ocular adverse events included vision alterations, structural findings of the retina and 
lens subluxations. In the pooled pivotal studies, vision alterations (e.g. vision blurred, reduced 
VA, visual impairment, metamorphopsia, scotoma, visual field defect, loss of contrast 
sensitivity, visual field loss, colour vision alterations, ERG abnormalities), the majority mild in 
severity, were observed in 20.2 and 7.5% of ocriplasmin and placebo-treated patients, 
respectively. More than half of the vision alteration AEs (any event) reported for patients in the 
ocriplasmin 125μg group from the pivotal placebo-controlled studies occurred during the first 7 
days after injection. VMA resolution was strongly associated with a higher incidence of vision 
alterations. Vision alteration AEs that occurred pre-vitrectomy or in patients with no vitrectomy 
were more frequent after ocriplasmin than placebo. In the pivotal placebo-controlled studies, 
the majority of vision alteration AEs resolved in both treatment groups, i.e. in 61 of 94 (64.9%) 
ocriplasmin patients and in 9 of 14 (64.3%) placebo patients. In all, there were 6 cases judged 
as severe by the Applicant, 5 ocriplasmin cases and 1 placebo case. 
Whilst ocriplasmin may cause an acute, and in most cases transient, reduction of VA, there are 
reports of persistent reduction of VA and there are a number of patients whose VA was 
significantly reduced at 6 months compared to baseline. At end of study (6 months), 25/465 
(5.4%) patients in the ocriplasmin group and 6/187 (3.2%) placebo patients had ≥ 3-line loss 
in BCVA. In the majority of these subjects, VMA was not resolved on Day 28. Overall, important 
and plausible reasons for the VA loss were enlargement or development of new MHs.. It is 
possible that there may be an increased risk for an incomplete enzymatic cleavage of the 
adhesion between the posterior vitreous cortex and the internal limiting membrane following 
treatment, which may result in additional traction. This may lead to enlargement or 
development of new macular holes. However, the Applicant put these figures into a clinical 
perspective since with active treatment, significantly more ocriplasmin-treated subjects 
achieved macular hole closure without vitrectomy by day 28 (40 vs. 10%). 
In total, 16 events of mild and 1 of severe dyschromatopsia have been reported; of these 9 
subjects had ERG changes. Of these, 12 resolved at end of study or during follow up. Of the 5 
remaining patients, 1 patient has died, 1 was lost to follow up and 2 reported resolution in 
post-study contact, 11 and 28 months after injection. The remaining patient is reported from 
Study TG-MV-014, an ongoing study. This patient had also ERG changes and as well as other 
SAEs. 
A total of 11 subjects (7.8%) have been reported with ERG-changes. Of the 11 cases, 9 also had 
dyschromatopsia. Also in older studies a number of ERG-changes difficult to interpret were 
reported, and the incidence may thus be higher. Overall, the chronology is compatible with an 
effect of ocriplasmin and the majority of events were detected one week after injection. 
Recovery is indicated in 6 cases with 2 ongoing events (including the subject in the ongoing 
TG-MV-014) and no follow up is available for 3 subjects. The time to recovery was reported as 
3-6 months, while one subject still has an abnormal ERG after 28 months. The latter patient had 
however confounding disease (vitelliform dystrophy) which is a probable cause for the 
persistent ERG-changes. 
The clinical package also highlights two other risks of treatment. Intravitreal administration of 
ocriplasmin is associated with a small risk of intraocular inflammation (7%), which generally 
occurs soon after treatment and is usually mild. There were also three reported cases of lens 
subluxation, at least one of which was clearly related to the drug.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 87/91 
 
  
  
There does not appear to be a significant risk of non-ocular events after intravitreal 
administration of ocriplasmin.  
These risks should be considered in relation to the complications of vitrectomy, which include 
retinal tears (<5%), low intraocular pressure (0-25%), acute endophthalmitis (0.03-0.23%), 
progression of cataract (23-79%), retinal detachment (0-17%), recurrent macular oedema 
(10%), and recurrent vitreous haemorrhage (7-9%).General anaesthesia, if used, may add an 
additional risk, and the post-vitrectomy patient may also have to undergo a period of 4-6 weeks 
without being able to work, out of which 7-14 days may be in a “head-down” position to enhance 
the success rate of the surgical procedure. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The safety database is fairly small; 741 subjects were exposed to any dose of ocriplasmin, of 
whom 582 received the proposed dose of 125µg. Whilst the length of follow-up is acceptable, 
the size of the safety database limits the safety conclusions that can be drawn.  
Concerns remain regarding the risk of persistent loss of vision following treatment with 
ocriplasmin. It seems plausible that in some patients at least, this may be caused by 
enlargement of macular hole or development of new macular holes due to increased traction 
following incomplete cleavage of the vitreous adhesion. In some patients who underwent 
vitrectomy, the end of study visual acuity may have been evaluated too shortly after surgery to 
allow for an accurate measurement. There seems to be no evidence that ocriplasmin treatment 
followed by vitrectomy increases the risk for a persistent loss of visual function. However, all 
events of a significant long-term loss of VA are not fully clarified, and the risk of development of 
new macular holes was addressed in the RMP as an identified risk.  
The ongoing events of dyschromatopsia and ERG changes are likely to  have been caused by a 
mechanical aetiology (rapid resolution of vitreomacular traction temporarily disturbing the 
photoreceptor layer). A detrimental biochemical effect of the product on the RPE or 
photoreceptors cannot, however, be ruled out, though this is unlikely. 
There is also a shortage of information on the effects of repeat dosing, since only 12 patients 
received more than one dose of ocriplasmin in either eye. It is fairly likely that patients who 
have had one eye treated will require treatment in their second eye, but it is not known whether 
this poses an additional risk, for example of intraocular inflammation. It  also cannot be 
excluded  that patients could receive multiple treatments in a single eye is they fail to respond 
to initial treatment, even though this would not be within the terms of the licence. Again, the 
risks of this are unknown. Animal studies revealed an increased risk of lens subluxation with 
repeat doses of ocriplasmin.  
Although no cases of endophthalmitis were reported, this is a known risk associated with 
intravitreal injections that occurs in approximately 1 per 1000 injections. The size of the safety 
database is sufficient only to detect events with an incidence of at least 0.4%. It is therefore not 
clear whether endophthalmitis occurs at an equivalent rate to other intravitreally administered 
drugs. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 88/91 
 
  
  
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The primary endpoint in the pivotal clinical trials is a surrogate marker for prevention of the 
deterioration of vision which may occur with untreated and progressive vitreomacular traction. 
The two Phase III studies do provide evidence for an effect of ocriplasmin on resolution of 
vitreomacular adhesion, and show that this may be associated with an improvement in visual 
acuity. However, other symptoms of the visual disturbance that vitreomacular traction may 
cause were not assessed during follow-up.  
Resolution of vitreomacular adhesion was achieved in 25 to 28% of treated patients, and 
posterior vitreous detachment in 11 to 16%. Between 35 and 45% of patients with a macular 
hole at the start of the study achieved closure without vitrectomy. This compares to a 
spontaneous closure rate for stage 2 holes of around 10%, and a surgical closure rate of around 
90%. 26 to 30% of patients gained at least 2 lines of vision, and the average change in vision at 
Month 6 was around 3.5 letters. As discussed above, these results do not offer clear advantages 
over placebo treatment in all cases. However, treatment with ocriplasmin need not delay 
vitrectomy, and the outcome of vitrectomy does not appear to be negatively affected by prior 
treatment. Therefore, the effects of treatment, though modest, do offer a clear benefit to 
patients with vitreomacular traction, and may negate the need for surgery. 
The more common adverse events that are associated with treatment are short-lived and 
manageable, and often occur as a response either to the injection procedure or to resolution of 
the disease condition. A small number of patients experienced more significant loss of vision 
after treatment, in some cases associated with disturbance of colour vision and 
electrophysiological changes. These cases appear to be related to resolution of vitreomacular 
traction, and are generally transient. However, there were a number of patients whose visual 
acuity remained significantly reduced at 6 months compared to baseline. This seems to be in 
part related to a small risk of incomplete cleavage of the vitreous adhesion by ocriplasmin, 
which can cause either an enlargement of an existing macular hole, or development of a new 
hole. The risk of this should, however, be viewed in the context of the number of subjects who 
achieved non-surgical resolution of their traction or macular hole.  
Two further risks associated with the drug have emerged. The risk of intraocular inflammation 
appears to be small, and cases were generally mild. There is also a small risk of lens subluxation 
or phacodonesis, probably due to the effect of the drug on the lens zonules. The limited size of 
the safety database makes it difficult to accurately quantify the magnitude of these risks, or 
indeed to detect any other risks that have an incidence of less than 0.4% (such as 
endophthalmitis). 
Benefit-risk balance 
Cases of vitreomacular traction, including in association with macular hole, occasionally resolve 
spontaneously. However, following a period of observation, many patients require vitrectomy in 
order to prevent significant, progressive damage to the macula. Intravitreal ocriplasmin has 
been shown to have a modest effect, resulting in relief of vitreomacular traction in around a 
quarter of those treated, and resolution of macular hole in at least a third of cases. Successful 
treatment results in an improvement in visual acuity, and avoidance of surgery.  
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 89/91 
 
  
  
The commonest adverse events associated with ocriplasmin are not a serious concern, being 
usually transient and minor. The risks of more serious events, such as persistent loss of vision, 
other changes in retinal function, or damage to the supporting structures of the lens, appear to 
be small.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance  
The benefits of treatment, though modest, should be taken in context: ocriplasmin is 
administered as a one-off injection, which if successful will usually result in an improvement in 
vision and may remove the need for the patient to undergo an operation which itself carries a 
high complication rate. Should treatment fail to be successful, the option of surgery remains 
open.  
Therefore, the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk balance for ocriplasmin in the treatment of 
‘vitreomacular traction (VMT), including when associated with macular hole of diameter less 
than or equal to 400 microns’ is positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Jetrea in the treatment of adults with vitreomacular 
traction (VMT), including when associated with macular hole of diameter less than or equal to 
400 microns is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
 The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation 
holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the 
requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 
107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 90/91 
 
  
  
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP shall be submitted annually until renewal. 
When the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they should be submitted at 
the same time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
 Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to launch in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall agree an 
educational programme with the National Competent Authority. 
The MAH shall ensure that, following discussions and agreement with the National Competent 
Authorities in each Member State where JETREA is marketed, at launch and after launch, all 
healthcare professionals who are expected to use JETREA are provided with the following items: 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC)  
• 
Information packs for the patients 
The patient information pack should be provided in printed and in audio format, and contain the 
following key elements: 
• 
Patient information leaflet 
•  How to prepare for Jetrea treatment 
•  How is Jetrea treatment administered 
•  What are the steps following treatment with Jetrea 
•  Key signs and symptoms of serious adverse events 
•  When to seek urgent attention from the health care provider 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that Ocriplasmin is qualified as a new active substance. 
Assessment Report  
EMA/CHMP/74766/2013 
Page 91/91 
 
  
  
 
