Summary of risk management plan for JEVTANA (Cabazitaxel) 
This is a summary of the RMP for JEVTANA. The RMP details important risks of JEVTANA 
how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about JEVTANA’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
JEVTANA’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how JEVTANA should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for JEVTANA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
JEVTANA’s RMP. 
1.  THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
JEVTANA in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with castration resistant metastatic prostate cancer previously treated with a docetaxel 
containing regimen (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains JEVTANA as the active 
substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of JEVTANA’s benefits can be found in JEVTANA’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines Agency 
(EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
Refer to EPAR ref. EMA/H/C/002018 dated 09 October 2019 available on the EMA website at 
the following link:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/jevtana 
2.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of JEVTANA, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about JEVTANA’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of JEVTANA is not yet available, it is listed 
under “missing information” outlined in the next section. 
2.1 List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of JEVTANA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of JEVTANA. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1   List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None 
None 
2.2 Summary of important risks  
Not applicable.  
2.3 Post-authorization development plan  
2.3.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of
JEVTANA. 
2.3.2 Other studies in post-authorization development plan 
There are no studies required for JEVTANA. 
