EMA/161960/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002018 
EPAR summary for the public 
Jevtana 
cabazitaxel 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Jevtana. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Jevtana. 
What is Jevtana and what is it used for? 
Jevtana is a cancer medicine used to treat men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. 
This is cancer that affects the prostate gland in men that produces the liquid in semen. Jevtana is used 
when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) despite treatments to prevent the 
production of testosterone or after surgical removal of the testes (castration). Jevtana is used in 
combination with prednisone or prednisolone (anti-inflammatory medicines) in patients who have 
previously been treated with docetaxel (another cancer medicine).  
Jevtana contains the active substance cabazitaxel. 
How is Jevtana used? 
Jevtana can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be used in units specialising in 
chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer) under the supervision of a doctor experienced in the use of 
chemotherapy.  
Jevtana is available as a concentrate and a solvent to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into 
a vein. It is given once every three weeks as an infusion lasting one hour, at a dose of 25 mg per 
square metre body surface area (calculated using the patient’s weight and height). It is given in 
combination with prednisone or prednisolone, taken daily throughout treatment. 
The dose of Jevtana should be reduced or treatment stopped if the patient has certain side effects. The 
doses should also be reduced in patients with mildly or moderately reduced liver function. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Before receiving Jevtana infusions, patients should first be given medicines to prevent allergic 
reactions and medicines to prevent vomiting. 
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Jevtana work? 
The active substance in Jevtana, cabazitaxel, belongs to the group of cancer medicines known as 
‘taxanes’. Cabazitaxel works by blocking the ability of cancer cells to break down their internal 
‘skeleton’ that allows them to divide and multiply. With their skeleton still in place, the cells cannot 
divide and they eventually die. Jevtana also affects non-cancer cells, such as blood and nerve cells, 
which can cause side effects. 
What benefits of Jevtana have been shown in studies? 
Jevtana prolonged overall survival (the average length of time the patients lived) in one main study 
involving 755 men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who had previously been 
treated with docetaxel. The effects of Jevtana were compared with another cancer medicine, 
mitoxantrone. Both medicines were given in combination with prednisone or prednisolone. The average 
overall survival for patients treated with Jevtana was 15.1 months compared with 12.7 months for 
patients given mitoxantrone. 
What are the risks associated with Jevtana? 
The most common side effects with Jevtana (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) include anaemia (low 
red blood cell counts), leucopenia (low white blood cell counts), neutropenia (low counts of neutrophils, 
a type of white blood cell), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts) and diarrhoea. Some of these 
effects were severe. For the full list of all side effects reported with Jevtana, see the package leaflet. 
Jevtana must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to cabazitaxel, to any other 
taxane, or to any of the other ingredients. It must not be given to patients whose blood neutrophil 
count is below 1,500/mm3, who have severely reduced liver function or who recently received or are 
about to receive a yellow fever vaccine. 
Why has Jevtana been approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) considered that the ability of 
Jevtana to prolong overall survival in castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer patients was 
clinically important. It decided that Jevtana’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that 
it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Jevtana? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Jevtana have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Jevtana  
EMA/161960/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Jevtana 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Jevtana on 17 March 2011.  
The full EPAR for Jevtana can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Jevtana, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2017. 
Jevtana  
EMA/161960/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
