EMA/661007/2018  
EMEA/H/C/004054 
Jivi (damoctocog alfa pegol) 
An overview of Jivi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Jivi and what is it used for? 
Jivi is a medicine used to treat and prevent bleeding in patients with haemophilia A, an inherited 
bleeding disorder caused by lack of a clotting protein called factor VIII. Jivi can be used in adults and 
children from 12 years of age who have been treated previously. 
Jivi contains the active substance damoctocog alfa pegol. 
How is Jivi used? 
Jivi is given by injection into a vein. The dose and frequency of treatment depend on whether it is used 
to treat or prevent bleeding, as well as on the severity of the haemophilia, the extent and location of 
the bleeding and the patient’s condition and weight. Patients or their carers may be able to inject Jivi 
themselves at home once they have been trained appropriately.  
Jivi can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be under the supervision of a doctor 
who has experience in the treatment of haemophilia. For more information about using Jivi, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Jivi work? 
Patients with haemophilia A lack factor VIII, a protein needed for blood to clot and, as a result, they 
bleed readily. The active substance in Jivi, damoctocog alfa pegol, works in the same way as the 
body’s factor VIII. It replaces the missing factor VIII, thereby helping the blood to clot and giving 
temporary control of the bleeding disorder.  
Part of the active substance is a substance called polyethylene glycol, ‘PEG’, which is included to help 
the medicine remain in the body for longer and thereby prolong its action. 
What benefits of Jivi have been shown in studies? 
Jivi has been shown to be effective at reducing the number of bleeding episodes in patients with severe 
haemophilia and stopping bleeding when it occurs. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In a study of 134 patients from 12 years of age, 114 patients given Jivi as a preventive treatment had 
around 2 bleeding episodes per year. The 20 patients who were given Jivi for treating bleeding when it 
occurred had around 23 bleeding episodes a year. In a second part of the study, 17 patients received 
Jivi to control bleeding during 20 major surgeries. Jivi was rated good or excellent at stopping bleeding 
in all surgeries. 
In a second study in 61 children aged below 12 years, Jivi given as preventive treatment reduced the 
number of bleeding episodes to around 3 episodes a year. 
What are the risks associated with Jivi? 
The most common side effect with Jivi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is headache. 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions are common with Jivi (affecting up to 1 in 10 people) and may 
include swelling, burning and stinging at the injection site, chills, flushing, tingling, itchy rash, 
headache, hives, low blood pressure, lethargy, nausea and vomiting, restlessness, a rapid heartbeat, 
tightness of the chest and wheezing. In some cases these reactions can become severe. 
Following treatment with factor VIII products, including Jivi, some patients may develop inhibitors 
(antibodies) against factor VIII, preventing the medicine from working effectively and resulting in a 
loss of bleeding control. In such cases, a specialised haemophilia centre should be contacted. 
Jivi must not be used in patients with allergy to mouse or hamster proteins. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Jivi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Jivi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
Studies show that Jivi is effective at preventing and treating bleeding episodes in patients with 
haemophilia A and its safety is comparable to that of other factor VIII products. However, laboratory 
studies show that PEG, which is part of the active substance in Jivi, may accumulate in the body, 
including in a structure in the brain called the choroid plexus, following long-term treatment. Since this 
could potentially cause problems especially in children below 12 years of age, Jivi is only approved for 
use in adults and children from 12 years of age. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of Jivi? 
The company that markets Jivi will conduct a study to investigate the potential effects of PEG 
accumulation in the choroid plexus of the brain and other organs. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Jivi have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Jivi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with Jivi 
are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Jivi 
Jivi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 November 2018. 
Further information on Jivi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Jivi.  
Jivi (damoctocog alfa pegol)  
EMA/661007/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 10-2018. 
Jivi (damoctocog alfa pegol)  
EMA/661007/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
