Part  VI:  Summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  for  Jorveza® 0.5mg/1mg 
orodispersible tablets  
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Jorveza® 0.5mg/1mg  orodispersible 
tablets. The RMP details important risks of Jorveza® 0.5mg/1mg orodispersible tablets, how these 
risks can be minimised and how more information will be obtained about risks and uncertainties 
(missing information) associated with the use of the product.  
Jorveza® 0.5mg/1mg  orodispersible  tablet’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its 
package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Jorveza® 
0.5mg/1mg orodispersible tablets should be used.  
The medicine and what it is used for  
I.  
Jorveza®  0.5mg/1mg  orodispersible  tablets  are  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  eosinophilic 
esophagitis (EoE) in adults (older than 18 years of age).  
It contains budesonide as the active substance and it is given by oral route of administration.  
II.   Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Jorveza® 0.5mg/1mg orodispersible tablets, together with measures to minimise 
such risks and the proposed study for learning more about Jorveza®’s risks, are outlined below.  
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
• Important advice on medicine’s packaging;  
•  The  authorised  pack  size  –  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly;  
• The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
None  
II.B Summary of important risks  
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Jorveza® 0.5mg/1mg orodispersible tablets.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
Not applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
