8 January 2018 
EMA/1001/2018  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Jorveza (budesonide) 
Treatment of eosinophilic oesophagitis 
EU/3/13/1181 (EMA/OD/078/13) 
Sponsor: Dr Falk Pharma GmbH  
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP position adopted on 7 December 2017 .......................................... 8 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 2/8 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Budesonide 
Budesonide 
Orphan indication 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
Sponsor’s details: 
Treatment of eosinophilic oesophagitis 
Orodispersible tablet 
Oral use 
A07EA06 
Dr Falk Pharma GmbH  
Leinenweberstrasse 5 
79108 Freiburg i.Br. 
Germany 
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Dr Falk Pharma GmbH 
11 July 2013 
5 August 2013 
EU/3/13/1181 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
H. Enzmann, T. Boran 
Dr Falk Pharma GmbH 
11 May 2017 
15 June 2017 
EMA/H/C/004655 
Jorveza 
Treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) in adults 
(older than 18 years of age). 
Further information on Jorveza can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. 
CHMP opinion date 
9 November 2017 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Co-ordinators 
Expert 
G. O’Dea, F. Naumann-Winter 
An expert was appointed by the COMP for this 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
application 
22 May 2017 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
30-31 October 2017  
questions  
Oral explanation  
COMP opinion date 
5 December 2017  
7 December 2017 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 3/8 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2013 was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing budesonide was 
considered justified based on clinical trials from the literature showing histologic response and 
reduction of symptoms in adult and paediatric patients treated with budesonide;  
the condition is chronically debilitating due to chronic oesophageal inflammation, with development 
of dysphagia that affects dietary intake, and with oesophageal stenosis that can be treated only 
with invasive procedures. The increased fragility of the oesophageal wall due to the chronic 
inflammation can lead to oesophageal perforation, particularly during the endoscopic procedures 
needed for treating the stenosis;  
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 5 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time the application was made. The prevalence was estimated by the sponsor based on 
literature search; 
the sponsor has also established that there exists no satisfactory method of treatment that has 
been authorised in the European Union for patients affected by the condition. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
The approved therapeutic indication “the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) in adults (older 
than 18 years of age)” falls within the scope of the designated orphan indication “treatment of 
eosinophilic esophagitis”.  
The recent ‘Guidelines on eosinophilic esophagitis: evidence-based statements and recommendations 
for diagnosis and management in children and adults’ (2017) from a Working Committee of the United 
European Gastroenterology (UEG), The European Society of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology 
and Nutrition (ESPGHAN), the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (EAACI), and the 
European Society of Eosinophilic Oesophagitis (EUREOS) have revised the definition of EoE to include 
proton-pump inhibitor responsive esophageal esophagitis (PPI-REE) that was previously considered a 
separate entity. 
Since 2011 there has been increasing evidence, mostly from adult patients, that PPI-REE and EoE are 
virtually indistinguishable from one another, even at the genetic level. Therefore, the new guidelines 
acknowledged the evidence that lack of response to PPI therapy is not a diagnostic criterion for EoE.  
Consequently, the 2017 guidelines consider that clinical and histological features suggestive of EoE 
may merit treatment with PPI therapy in addition to topical steroids or elimination diet. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 4/8 
 
 
 
While the proposed therapeutic indication still falls within the existing designation, the change of 
classification implies that now PPI-REE is included in the orphan condition, therefore the final estimate 
of the prevalence of the condition also took this population into account. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat, prevent or diagnose the condition has been 
justified, based on placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials. Please refer to the EPAR of Jorveza. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
There have been no changes in the chronically debilitating nature of the disease since the time of 
orphan designation. Eosinophilic oesophagitis is a severe, chronically debilitating disease due to chronic 
oesophageal inflammation with development of dysphagia that affects dietary intake. The inflammation 
also leads to the development of oesophageal stenosis and to fragility of the oesophageal wall, with 
increased risk of oesophageal perforation during the endoscopic procedures needed for treating the 
stenosis. The most common clinical manifestation, both in adults and children is food impaction. Other 
common symptoms in children include feeding difficulties (usually before 2 years of age), dysphagia, 
vomiting, and abdominal pain. In adults chest pain and heartburn also frequently occur.  
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor calculated the prevalence of EoE based on a literature search updated to November 2017, 
retrieving articles on the incidence and prevalence of EoE from single centre studies, 
national/population-based studies, and one meta-analysis (Arias 2016).  
In recent years several articles have highlighted a significant increase in the prevalence of EoE, also 
due to better knowledge of the disease and the increasing use of endoscopy. The recent change in 
classification, including also patients responsive to proton pump inhibitors (PPI-REE) adds uncertainty 
to the current prevalence estimates of EoE since many of the publications of the past years did not 
include the PPI-REE population.  
The meta-analysis from Arias et al (2016) presents prevalence estimates above 5 in 10,000 for the US 
(up to 5.5 in 10,000). In Europe, according to the studies identified in the meta-analysis the 
prevalence of EoE is in a range between 1.38 (Dellon et al, 2015) and 4.3 in 10,000 (Hruz et al. 2011). 
The prevalence conclusions from the meta-analysis appear quite heterogeneous, highlighting the 
limitations of the current meta-analysis methodology not only for EoE but rare diseases in general. The 
study from Hruz et al was based on data from a single Swiss canton (Olten). A more recent Swiss 
study (Giriens 2015) measured a prevalence of 2.4 in 10,000 in another part of the Swiss population.  
Among the studies presented by the sponsor and included in the meta-analysis from Aries et al (2016), 
the one conducted by Dellon et al (2015) in the Danish population appears particularly robust because 
the case definition was based on a nation-wide, population-based, medical registry, the pathology 
registry, and the prescription registry, and included also patients responding to PPI. This study 
concluded with prevalence values of 1.38 in 10,000 in Denmark.  
At present there are only three recent population-based studies that have been performed on the 
prevalence of EoE in Europe. Besides the Swiss study from Giriens et al, 2015 and the Danish study 
from Dellon et al, 2015, a recent population-based study from Warners et al. 2017 in the Netherlands 
calculated a 20-year prevalence of 1.3 in 10,000. Both the Danish and the Dutch study included also 
PPI-REE. It was also noted that no publications exist from the eastern European countries. The sponsor 
hypothesized that the incidence in Eastern Europe may be significantly lower than in Western Europe 
but since so far no data have been published there is also the possibility of underestimation due to low 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 5/8 
 
 
 
referral rates. A number of studies from single specialized reference centres, some of which propose 
higher prevalence rates, were considered as additional information particularly relevant to flag the 
increasing incidence and prevalence of EoE, but were not taken into account for the final estimate of 
prevalence in the EU as they do not represent the population-level prevalence of the condition and 
they may be influenced by referral bias. 
From the recent population-based studies, the COMP accepted that the Danish study from Dellon et al 
may be considered as the lower range of prevalence in the EU (1.38 in 10,000, approximated to 1.4), 
including also PPI-REE. The Swiss study from Giriens et al (2015), reporting the highest prevalence 
amongst all recent studies, i.e. 2.4 in 10,000 excluding PPI-REE, was used by the sponsor to calculate 
the worst-case scenario. This calculation assumed the same prevalence of PPI –REE as the reported 
prevalence of EoE reported in this study, therefore doubling the initial value of 2.4 in 10,000 and 
concluding with 4.8 in10,000. This was considered by the COMP as the current worst case scenario in 
Europe, and the upper limit of prevalence for EoE at this point in time. Due to the heterogeneity of the 
exact prevalence reported in the few population-based studies across Europe the COMP decided to 
adopt a range of prevalence between 1.4 and 4.8 in 10,000 persons in the EU for the grounds of this 
designation. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
As reported by the applicant, there are no medicinal products registered for the treatment of 
eosinophilic oesophagitis (EoE) in the European Union. 
There are three general approaches to the treatment of EoE: Avoidance of the allergen by dietary 
restriction, endoscopic oesophageal dilation, and off-label pharmacological treatment.  
Dilation must be performed gradually over multiple sessions and successfully address the luminal 
narrowing that can complicate EoE (Moawad 2013). However, dilatation is frequently accompanied by 
chest pain. Although oesophageal dilation is now considered a safe and effective measure to alleviate 
dysphagia, it does not affect the underlying inflammatory process and repeated and multiple dilations 
are required in many patients (Straumann 2016). 
In relation to off-label use, treatment with corticosteroids has shown to be effective.  
Initially, systemic corticosteroids were used, with good clinical results. Due to the known side effects, 
including increased risk of infections, hyperglycaemia, cataract, and osteoporosis, long term treatment 
with systemic corticosteroids is however not considered a practicable option.  
Treatment with locally acting corticosteroids licensed for the treatment of asthma, fluticasone and 
budesonide, was shown to be efficacious and safe in clinical trials, for induction of response (i.e. in the 
acute phases) and for the maintenance of clinical, endoscopic and histological responses or remission. 
However, since the formulations used were off-label liquid formulations generated for inhalation use, or 
hospital preparations from powder formulations, dose-responses were not established and the 
exposure of the oesophageal mucosa to corticosteroids was not optimal. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 6/8 
 
 
 
Significant benefit 
At the time of designation it was agreed that there was no need of demonstration of significant benefit 
as no medicinal products were authorized for the treatment of the condition. It is assumed that in 
some cases pharmaceutical compounding may be used for preparing corticosteroid formulations 
adapted to the disease and patient population. However since there is no certainty about the extent of 
compounding for this disease across Europe, and the current clinical use of swallowed topical steroids 
is considered off-label, the COMP did not see the need of a discussion on significant benefit. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 7 December 2017 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of eosinophilic oesophagitis (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be between 1.4 and 4.8 in 10,000 
persons in the European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to oesophageal inflammation with development of 
dysphagia that affects dietary intake, oesophageal stenosis and fragility of the oesophageal wall; 
there is, at present, no satisfactory treatment that has been authorised in the European Union for 
patients affected by the condition. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Jorveza, budesonide, 
EU/3/13/1181 for treatment of eosinophilic oesophagitis is not removed from the Community Register 
of Orphan Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/1001/2018  
Page 8/8 
 
 
 
 
 
