EMA/526859/2019  
EMEA/H/C/003756 
Jylamvo (methotrexate) 
An overview of Jylamvo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Jylamvo and what is it used for? 
Jylamvo is an anti-inflammatory and cancer medicine used to treat the following conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
active rheumatoid arthritis (a disease causing inflammation in joints) in adults; 
severe juvenile idiopathic arthritis (inflammation of joints in children) in patients from 3 years of 
age when NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) have not worked well enough; 
severe disabling psoriasis (an inflammatory disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin) in 
adults when other treatments have not worked well enough;  
severe psoriatic arthritis (inflammation of joints that occurs in patients with psoriasis) in adults; 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), a cancer of white blood cells, in adults and children over the 
age of 3 years. 
Jylamvo contains the active substance methotrexate. 
Jylamvo is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but Jylamvo is given in a different way. The reference medicine for Jylamvo is 
Methotrexat Lederle injection. 
How is Jylamvo used? 
Jylamvo is available as a liquid to be taken by mouth and it can only be obtained with a prescription. It 
should be prescribed only by doctors with expertise in the use of methotrexate and a full 
understanding of the risks of methotrexate treatment. 
For inflammatory conditions it is taken once a week, on the same day each week. The doctor may 
check with the patient or the patient’s carer that the medicine can reliably be taken once a week. The 
dose that the patient takes each week depends on which inflammatory condition it is being used for, 
how well the treatment is working and, in the case of children, on the child’s height and weight. In 
most cases, methotrexate medicines are used for long-term treatment. 
For acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, the dose of Jylamvo depends on the patient’s height and weight. 
How often methotrexate is given depends on the other medicines it is used with. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information about using Jylamvo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Jylamvo work? 
The active substance in Jylamvo, methotrexate, stops cells from growing by interfering with the 
production of DNA. This especially affects fast-growing cells such as cancer cells. The way 
methotrexate works in patients with arthritis and psoriasis is not completely understood, but the 
benefits of methotrexate are thought to be due to its ability to reduce inflammation and suppress an 
overactive immune system. 
What benefits of Jylamvo have been shown in studies? 
The company provided data from the published literature on the benefits and risks of methotrexate in 
the approved uses.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Jylamvo. The company also 
carried out studies that showed that it is bioequivalent to other methotrexate medicines used to treat 
inflammatory conditions and ALL (Methotrexat Lederle and Ebetrexat tablets). Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore 
expected to have the same effect. 
What are the risks associated with Jylamvo? 
The most common side effects with Jylamvo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are effects in 
the digestive system (such as inflammation of the lining of the mouth, indigestion, belly pain, feeling 
sick and loss of appetite) and blood tests showing changes in the liver. The most serious side effects 
include reduced production of blood cells, damage to the lung, liver, kidneys and nerves, 
thromboembolism (problems caused by clots in blood vessels), and severe allergic and skin reactions. 
Jylamo must not be used in patients who abuse alcohol or those with liver or severe kidney problems, 
blood disorders, weakened immune system (body defences), severe or long-term infections such as 
tuberculosis and HIV infection, mouth ulcers, inflammation in the mouth, and ulcers in the digestive 
system. It must not be used if the patient is breastfeeding or is receiving live vaccines.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Jylamvo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Jylamvo authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Jylamvo was of comparable quality and was 
bioequivalent to the methotrexate-containing medicines Methotrexat Lederle and Ebetrexat. The 
Agency therefore decided that Jylamvo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Jylamvo? 
The company that markets Jylamvo will supply a guide for healthcare professionals and a patient alert 
card, on how to use the medicine correctly and how to avoid medication errors. The company will also 
send out follow-up questionnaires for dosing errors that result in overdose. 
Jylamvo Jylamvo (methotrexate)  
EMA/526859/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Jylamvo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Jylamvo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Jylamvo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Jylamvo 
Jylamvo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 29 March 2017. 
Further information on Jylamvo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/jylamvo.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2019. 
Jylamvo Jylamvo (methotrexate)  
EMA/526859/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
