ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of solution contains 2 mg methotrexate. 
Excipients with known effect 
One ml of solution contains 2 mg methyl hydroxybenzoate (as the sodium salt), and 0.2 mg ethyl 
hydroxybenzoate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral solution. 
Clear yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Jylamvo is for use in the following indications: 
In rheumatological and dermatological diseases 
• 
• 
• 
Active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients. 
Polyarthritic forms of active, severe juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in adolescents and 
children aged 3 years and over when the response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs) has been inadequate. 
Severe, treatment-refractory, disabling psoriasis which does not respond sufficiently to other 
forms of treatment such as phototherapy, psoralen and ultraviolet A radiation (PUVA) therapy 
and retinoids, and severe psoriatic arthritis in adult patients. 
In oncology 
• 
Maintenance treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in adults, adolescents and 
children aged 3 years and over 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Methotrexate should only be prescribed by physicians with expertise in the use of methotrexate and a 
full understanding of the risks of methotrexate therapy. 
Posology 
Rheumatological and dermatological diseases 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important warning about the dosage of Jylamvo (methotrexate) 
In the treatment of rheumatological or dermatological diseases, Jylamvo (methotrexate) must only be 
taken once a week. Dosage errors in the use of Jylamvo (methotrexate) can result in serious adverse 
reactions, including death. Please read this section of the summary of product characteristics very 
carefully. 
The prescriber should ensure that patients or their carers will be able to comply with the once weekly 
regimen.  
The prescriber should specify the day of intake on the prescription. 
The dose and duration of treatment are determined individually on the basis of the patient’s clinical 
picture and the tolerability of methotrexate. Treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis, severe JIA, 
severe psoriasis and severe psoriatic arthritis represents a long-term treatment. 
A weekly dose of 25 mg (12.5 ml) should not be exceeded. Doses exceeding 20 mg (10 ml)/week can 
be associated with a substantial increase in toxicity, especially bone marrow depression. 
Concurrent folic acid supplementation of 5 mg twice weekly (except on the day of administration) is 
indicated additionally. 
Dosage in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended initial dose is 7.5 mg (3.75 ml) methotrexate once weekly. 
Depending on the individual activity of the disease and tolerability by the patient, the dose may be 
increased gradually by 2.5 mg (1.25 ml) per week. 
Response to treatment can be expected after approximately 4-8 weeks. 
After the desired treatment outcome is achieved, the dose should be reduced gradually to the lowest 
possible effective maintenance dose. 
Symptoms may return after treatment discontinuation.  
Dosage in children and adolescents with polyarthritic forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Patients with JIA should always be referred to a rheumatology unit specialising in the treatment of 
children/adolescents. 
The recommended dose is 10-15 mg (5-7.5 ml)/m² body surface area (BSA)/week. In 
therapy-refractory cases the weekly dosage may be increased to 20 mg (10 ml)/m² BSA/week. 
However, an increased monitoring frequency is indicated if the dosage is increased. 
Dosage in adults with severe forms of psoriasis and adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 
It is recommended that a test dose of 2.5-5 mg (1.25-2.5 ml) be administered one week prior to 
initiation of therapy, in order to detect early occurring adverse reactions. If, one week later, 
appropriate laboratory tests are normal, treatment may be initiated. The recommended initial dose is 
7.5 mg (3.75 ml) methotrexate once weekly. The dose should be increased gradually but should not, in 
general, exceed a weekly dose of 25 mg of methotrexate. The usual dose is 10 mg–25 mg (5 ml–
12.5 ml) taken once weekly. Doses exceeding 20 mg (10 ml) per week can be associated with 
significant increase in toxicity, especially bone marrow suppression.  
Response to treatment can generally be expected after approximately 4-8 weeks. After the desired 
treatment outcome is achieved, the dose should be reduced gradually to the lowest possible effective 
maintenance dose. 
Oncology 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia  
Low-dose methotrexate is used in the maintenance treatment of ALL in children aged 3 years and 
over, adolescents and adults within complex protocols in combination with other cytostatic medicinal 
products. Treatment should follow current therapy protocols. 
Common accepted single doses lie in the range of 20-40 mg (10-20 ml)/m² body surface area.  
If methotrexate is administered in combination with chemotherapy regimens, the dosage should take 
into consideration any overlapping toxicity of the other medicinal product components.  
Higher dosages should be given parenterally. 
Paediatric population  
Methotrexate should be used with caution in paediatric patients. Treatment should follow currently 
published therapy protocols for children (see section 4.4). 
Doses are usually based on the patient’s BSA and maintenance treatment represents a long-term 
treatment. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Methotrexate should be used with caution in patients with impaired renal function (see section 4.4).  
The dose should be adjusted as follows for patients with rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile arthritis, 
psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. For the oncology indication recommendations in published protocols 
should also apply. 
Creatinine clearance 
(ml/min) 
>60 
30- 59  
<30 
% of dose to be administered 
100 
50 
Jylamvo must not be administered. 
Hepatic impairment 
Methotrexate should be administered only with the greatest caution, if at all, in patients with 
significant existing or previous liver disease, especially if due to alcohol. If bilirubin levels are 
>5 mg/dl (85.5 µmol/l), methotrexate is contraindicated (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
Use in children under 3 years of age is not recommended as insufficient data on efficacy and safety are 
available for this patient group 
Elderly  
Dose reduction should be considered in elderly patients (65 years and over) due to reduced liver and 
kidney function as well as low folic acid reserves which occur with increased age. In addition, close 
monitoring of patients for possible early signs of toxicity is recommended (see sections 4.4, 4.5, 4.8 
and 5.2). 
Patients with pathological fluid accumulations (pleural effusion, ascites) 
As the half-life of methotrexate can be prolonged four-fold in patients with pathological fluid 
accumulations, it may be necessary to reduce the dose and in some cases even to discontinue 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
methotrexate (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). The amount of dose reduction should be decided on a case by 
case basis. 
Method of administration 
Jylamvo is for oral use only. 
The medicinal product can be taken with or without food.  
The solution is provided ready for use, and it must be swallowed with some water to remove any 
methotrexate residue from the oral cavity. 
A 10 ml oral dosing syringe is provided for accurate measurement of the prescribed dose (see Package 
Leaflet). 
If the oral route is ineffective, a change to a parenteral dosage form is indicated. This can be done with 
methotrexate as an intramuscular or subcutaneous administration and is recommended for patients 
who exhibit inadequate absorption of the oral form of methotrexate or who do not tolerate oral 
administration well. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Hepatic impairment (bilirubin levels are >5 mg/dl [85.5 µmol/l], see section 4.2) 
Alcohol abuse 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min, see section 4.2) 
Pre-existing blood disorders such as bone marrow hypoplasia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia or 
significant anaemia 
Immunodeficiency 
Severe, acute or chronic infections such as tuberculosis and HIV 
Stomatitis, ulcers of the oral cavity and known active gastrointestinal ulcers 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6) 
Concurrent vaccination with live vaccines 
Additionally for non-oncological indications 
• 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6) 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
The oral solution contains 2 mg of methotrexate in each ml of solution; the scaling of the dosing 
syringe is in ml and not mg; care should be taken that the correct dosing volume is prescribed. 
Patients with rheumatological or dermatological diseases must be informed unequivocally that 
treatment is to be taken just once a week and not daily. Incorrect use of methotrexate can result in 
severe and even fatal adverse reactions. Medical staff and patients must be clearly instructed. 
The prescriber should specify the day of intake on the prescription. 
The prescriber should make sure patients understand that Jylamvo (methotrexate) should only be taken 
once a week. 
Patients should be instructed on the importance of adhering to the once-weekly intakes. 
Patients must be appropriately monitored during treatment so that signs of possible toxic effects or 
adverse reactions can be detected and evaluated with minimal delay. 
Therefore, methotrexate should only be administered by, or under the supervision of, doctors whose 
knowledge and experience includes treatment with antimetabolites.  
Especially strict monitoring of the patient is indicated following prior radiotherapy (especially of the 
pelvis), functional impairment of the haematopoietic system (e.g., following prior radio- or 
chemotherapy), impaired general condition as well as advanced age and in very young children. 
Because of the possibility of severe or even fatal toxic reactions, patients should be extensively 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
informed by the treating doctor of the risks involved (including early signs and symptoms of toxicity) 
and the recommended safety measures. Patients should be informed that they must notify the doctor 
immediately if any symptoms of an overdose occur and that the symptoms of the overdose need to be 
monitored (including regular laboratory tests). 
Doses exceeding 20 mg (10 ml)/week can be associated with a substantial increase in toxicity, 
especially bone marrow depression. 
Because of the delayed excretion of methotrexate in patients with impaired kidney function, they 
should be treated with particular caution and only with low doses of methotrexate (see section 4.2). 
Methotrexate should be used only with great caution, if at all, in patients who have a significant liver 
disease, particularly if this is/was alcohol-related. 
Fertility  
Methotrexate has been reported to cause impairment of fertility, oligospermia, menstrual dysfunction 
and amenorrhoea in humans during and for a short period after the discontinuation of treatment, 
affecting spermatogenesis and oogenesis during the period of its administration - effects that appear to 
be reversible on discontinuing therapy. 
Teratogenicity – Reproductive risk  
Methotrexate causes embryotoxicity, abortion and foetal malformations in humans. Therefore, the 
possible effects on reproduction, pregnancy loss and congenital malformations should be discussed 
with female patients of childbearing age (see section 4.6).  
In non-oncologic indications, the absence of pregnancy must be confirmed before Jylamvo is used. If 
women of child bearing potential are treated, effective contraception must be used during treatment 
and for at least six months after. 
For contraception advice for men see section 4.6. 
Recommended examinations and safety measures 
Before beginning treatment or resuming treatment after a recovery period 
Complete blood count with differential blood count and platelets, liver enzymes, bilirubin, serum 
albumin, chest X-ray and renal function tests. If clinically indicated, tuberculosis and hepatitis B and C 
should be excluded. 
During treatment  
The tests below must be conducted weekly in the first two weeks, then every two weeks for a month; 
thereafter, depending on the leucocyte count and the stability of the patient, at least once a month 
during the next six months and then at least every three months.  
An increased monitoring frequency should be considered when the dose is increased. In particular, 
elderly patients should be monitored at short intervals for early signs of toxicity (see section 4.2). 
- 
- 
- 
Examination of the mouth and throat for mucosal changes. 
Complete blood count with differential blood count and platelets. Methotrexate-induced 
haematopoietic suppression may occur abruptly and with apparently safe dosages. Any serious 
decrease in leucocyte or platelet counts indicates the immediate discontinuation of treatment 
and appropriate supportive therapy. Patients should be encouraged to report all signs and 
symptoms suggestive of infection to their doctor. In patients simultaneously taking 
haematotoxic medicinal products (e.g. leflunomide), blood count and platelets should be closely 
monitored. 
Liver function tests  
Treatment should not be initiated or should be discontinued if there are persistent or significant 
abnormalities in liver function tests, other non-invasive investigations of hepatic fibrosis, or 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
liver biopsies. 
Temporary increases in transaminases to two or three times the upper limit of normal have been 
reported in patients at a frequency of 13-20 %. Persistent elevation of liver enzymes and/or 
decrease in serum albumin may be indicative for severe hepatotoxicity. In the event of a 
persistent increase in liver enzymes, consideration should be given to reducing the dose or 
discontinuing therapy. 
Histological changes, fibrosis and more rarely liver cirrhosis may not be preceded by abnormal 
liver function tests. There are instances in cirrhosis where transaminases are normal. Therefore, 
non-invasive diagnostic methods for monitoring of liver condition should be considered, in 
addition to liver function tests. Liver biopsy should be considered on an individual basis taking 
into account the patient’s comorbidities, medical history and the risks related to biopsy. Risk 
factors for hepatotoxicity include excessive prior alcohol consumption, persistent elevation of 
liver enzymes, history of liver disease, family history of hereditary liver disorders, diabetes 
mellitus, obesity and previous contact with hepatotoxic drugs or chemicals and prolonged 
methotrexate treatment. 
Additional hepatotoxic medicinal products should not be given during treatment with 
methotrexate unless clearly necessary. Alcohol consumption should be avoided (see sections 4.3 
and 4.5). Closer monitoring of liver enzymes should be undertaken in patients concomitantly 
taking other hepatotoxic medicinal products. 
Increased caution should be exercised in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, as 
during methotrexate therapy, liver cirrhosis developed in isolated cases without any elevation of 
transaminases. 
Renal function should be monitored by renal function tests and urinalyses. If serum creatinine 
levels are increased, the dose should be reduced. If creatinine clearance is less than 30 ml/min, 
treatment with methotrexate should not be given (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
Treatment with moderately high and high doses of methotrexate should not be initiated at 
urinary pH values of less than 7.0. Alkalinisation of the urine must be tested by repeated pH 
monitoring (value greater than or equal to 6.8) for at least the first 24 hours after the 
administration of methotrexate is started. 
Respiratory tract examination - patients must be monitored for symptoms of a lung function 
disorder and lung function tests performed if necessary. Lung-related symptoms (particularly a 
dry, non-productive cough) or non-specific pneumonitis that occurs during treatment with 
methotrexate can be a sign of potentially dangerous damage and require the discontinuation of 
treatment and careful monitoring. Although the clinical presentation is variable, patients with 
methotrexate-induced lung diseases typically suffer from fever, cough, dyspnoea or 
hypoxaemia. A chest X-ray must be taken in order to be able to exclude an infection. Acute or 
chronic interstitial pneumonia, often in association with blood eosinophilia, may occur and 
deaths have been reported. Patients should be informed of the risks of pneumonia and advised to 
contact their doctor immediately if they develop a persistent cough or persistent dyspnoea. 
In addition, pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage has been reported with methotrexate used in 
rheumatologic and related indications. This event may also be associated with vasculitis and 
other comorbidities. Prompt investigations should be considered when pulmonary alveolar 
haemorrhage is suspected to confirm the diagnosis. 
Methotrexate should be discontinued in patients with pulmonary symptoms and an immediate 
examination (including chest X-ray) should be performed to exclude infection and tumours. If 
methotrexate-induced lung disease is suspected, treatment with corticosteroids should be 
initiated and treatment with methotrexate should not be restarted. 
7 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pulmonary symptoms require a rapid diagnosis and discontinuation of methotrexate therapy. 
Methotrexate-induced lung diseases such as pneumonitis can occur acutely and at any time 
during treatment, are not always completely reversible and have already been observed at all 
doses (including low doses of 7.5 mg (3.75 ml)/week). 
Opportunistic infections can occur during treatment with methotrexate, including Pneumocystis 
jiroveci pneumonia, which can also have a fatal outcome. If a patient develops pulmonary 
symptoms, the possibility of Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia should be considered. 
Particular caution is required in patients with impaired pulmonary function.  
Particular caution is also required in the presence of inactive chronic infections (e.g. herpes 
zoster, tuberculosis, hepatitis B or C) as it is possible that activation of these infections may 
occur. 
Renal impairment and patients at risk of renal impairment 
As methotrexate is eliminated mainly via the kidneys, increased concentrations are to be expected in 
the presence of renal impairment, which may result in severe adverse reactions. 
If there is the possibility of renal impairment (e.g. in elderly subjects), monitoring should take place at 
shorter intervals. This applies in particular when medicinal products that affect the elimination of 
methotrexate, or that cause kidney damage (e.g. NSAIDs) or that can potentially lead to impairment of 
haematopoiesis, are administered concomitantly. 
If risk factors such as renal function disorders, including mild renal impairment, are present, combined 
administration with NSAIDs is not recommended. Dehydration may also intensify the toxicity of 
methotrexate. 
(See renal function monitoring) 
Immune system 
Due to its effect on the immune system, methotrexate may impair the response to vaccinations and 
affect the results of immunological tests. Concurrent vaccination using live vaccines should not be 
given. 
Malignant lymphomas  
Malignant lymphomas may occur in patients receiving low dose methotrexate, in which case therapy 
must be discontinued. If the lymphomas fail to regress spontaneously, cytotoxic treatment must be 
initiated. 
Pleural effusions or ascites 
Pleural effusions and ascites should be drained prior to initiation of methotrexate treatment (see 
section 4.2). 
Conditions that cause dehydration such as vomiting, diarrhoea or stomatitis 
Conditions that cause dehydration such as vomiting, diarrhoea or stomatitis can increase toxicity as a 
result of raised active substance levels. In this case, treatment with methotrexate must be discontinued 
until the symptoms have disappeared. 
It is important to determine any increase in active substance levels within 48 hours of therapy, 
otherwise irreversible methotrexate toxicity may occur. 
Diarrhoea and ulcerative stomatitis may be signs of toxic effects and require the discontinuation of 
treatment, otherwise haemorrhagic enteritis and death from intestinal perforation may occur. 
Following the occurrence of haematemesis, black-coloured stools or blood in the stools, treatment 
must be discontinued. 
Folic acid supplementation 
If acute methotrexate toxicity occurs, patients may require treatment with folinic acid. In patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis, folic acid or folinic acid supplementation may reduce methotrexate 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
toxicity, such as gastrointestinal symptoms, stomatitis, alopecia and elevated liver enzymes. 
It is recommended to check levels of vitamin B12 prior to initiating folic acid supplementation, 
particularly in adults aged over 50 years, as folic acid intake may mask a vitamin B12 deficiency. 
Vitamin products 
Vitamin preparations or other products containing folic acid, folinic acid or their derivatives may 
decrease the effectiveness of methotrexate (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Dermatitis and sunburn 
Radiation-induced dermatitis and sunburn can reappear during methotrexate therapy (recall reactions). 
Psoriatic lesions can worsen during UV radiation and co-administration of methotrexate. 
Skin toxicity 
Severe, occasionally fatal, dermatologic reactions, including toxic epidermal necrolysis (Lyell’s 
syndrome) or Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported after single or multiple doses of 
methotrexate. 
Encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy 
Since cases of encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy have occurred in cancer patients treated with 
methotrexate, this cannot be ruled out either for patients with non-cancer indications. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported in patients receiving 
methotrexate, mostly in combination with other immunosuppressive medication. PML can be fatal and 
should be considered in the differential diagnosis in immunosuppressed patients with new onset or 
worsening neurological symptoms. 
Excipient warnings 
This medicinal product contains sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219) and ethyl 
parahydroxybenzoate (E214). It may cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The risk of an interaction between NSAIDs and methotrexate should be considered in patients with a 
low methotrexate dose, particularly in the case of impaired kidney function. If combined treatment is 
required, the blood count and renal function should be monitored. Caution should be exercised if 
NSAIDs and methotrexate are administered within 24 hours, since in this case methotrexate plasma 
levels can rise and toxicity be increased as a result. Animal studies showed that the administration of 
NSAIDs including salicylic acid resulted in reduced tubular methotrexate secretion and accordingly 
potentiated its toxic effects. However, in clinical trials in which NSAIDs and salicylic acid were 
administered adjuvantly to patients with rheumatoid arthritis, no increase in adverse reactions was 
observed. Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with such medicinal products can be continued during 
therapy with low-dose methotrexate, but only under close medical supervision. 
Patients taking potentially hepatotoxic medicinal products during treatment with methotrexate (e.g. 
leflunomide, azathioprine, sulfasalazine and retinoids) should be monitored closely for increased 
hepatotoxicity. The consumption of alcohol should be avoided during treatment with methotrexate 
(see section 4.4). Regular alcohol consumption and administration of additional hepatotoxic medicinal 
products increase the likelihood of hepatotoxic adverse reactions to methotrexate. 
Administration of additional haematotoxic medicinal products (e.g. metamizole) increases the 
likelihood of severe haematotoxic adverse reactions to methotrexate. 
Pharmacokinetic interactions between methotrexate, anticonvulsants (reduced serum methotrexate 
levels) and 5-fluoruracil (increased half-life of 5-fluoruracil) must be borne in mind. 
Salicylates, phenylbutazone, diphenylhydantoin (= phenytoin), barbiturates, tranquillisers, oral 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
contraceptives, tetracyclines, amidopyrine derivatives, sulphonamides, thiazide diuretics, oral 
hypoglycaemics, doxorubicin and p-aminobenzoic acid displace methotrexate from serum albumin 
binding and thus increase bioavailability and hence toxicity (indirect dose increase). 
Probenecid and weak organic acids can also reduce the tubular secretion of methotrexate and thus 
likewise cause an indirect increase in dose. 
Antibiotics such as penicillins, glycopeptides, sulphonamides, ciprofloxacin and cefalotin can in 
individual cases reduce the renal clearance of methotrexate, so that increased serum methotrexate 
concentrations can occur, accompanied by haematological and gastrointestinal toxicity. 
Oral antibiotics such as tetracyclines, chloramphenicol and non-absorbable broad-spectrum antibiotics 
may reduce intestinal absorption of methotrexate or interfere with the enterohepatic circulation by 
inhibiting intestinal flora or suppressing bacterial metabolism. 
In the event of (prior) treatment with medicinal products that can have adverse reactions on bone 
marrow (e.g. sulphonamides, trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole, chloramphenicol, pyrimethamine), the 
possibility of haematopoietic disorders must be considered. 
Concomitant therapy with medicinal products that can cause folic acid deficiency (e.g. sulphonamides, 
trimethoprim/sulphamethoxazole) can result in increased methotrexate toxicity. Accordingly, 
particular caution should be exercised in patients with pre-existing folic acid deficiency. 
Conversely, co-administration of medicinal products containing folinic acid or vitamin preparations 
containing folic acid or derivatives may impair the efficacy of methotrexate. 
The combination of methotrexate and sulfasalazine can enhance the effect of methotrexate, as 
sulfasalazine causes inhibition of folic acid synthesis. This can result in an increased risk of adverse 
reactions, although in several studies this was only observed in individual patients. 
Ciclosporin may potentiate methotrexate efficacy and toxicity. There is a risk of excessive 
immunosuppression with risk of lymphoproliferation when the combination is used. 
The use of nitrous oxide potentiates the effect of methotrexate on folate metabolism, yielding 
increased toxicity such as severe, unpredictable myelosuppression and stomatitis and in case of 
intrathecal administration increased severe, unpredictable neurotoxicity. Whilst this effect can be 
reduced by administering calcium folinate, the concomitant use of nitrous oxide and methotrexate 
should be avoided. 
Co-administration of proton pump inhibitors such as omeprazole or pantoprazole can result in 
interactions: co-administration of methotrexate and omeprazole has resulted in delayed renal 
elimination of methotrexate. In one case in which methotrexate was combined with pantoprazole, 
renal elimination of the metabolite 7-hydroxymethotrexate was inhibited and myalgia and shivering 
occurred. 
The application of procarbazine during high-dose methotrexate therapy increases the risk of 
impairment or renal function 
Excessive consumption of caffeine- or theophylline-containing beverages (coffee, caffeinated 
beverages, black tea) should be avoided during methotrexate therapy as the effect of methotrexate may 
be reduced by the possible interaction between methotrexate and methylxanthines at the adenosine 
receptors. 
Combination therapy with methotrexate and leflunomide may increase the risk for pancytopenia.  
Particularly in the case of orthopaedic surgery where the risk of infection is high, combination therapy 
with methotrexate and immunomodulatory medicinal products must be used with caution. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cholestyramine can increase the non-renal elimination of methotrexate by interfering with the 
enterohepatic circulation. 
The possibility of delayed methotrexate clearance should be considered in combination with other 
cytostatic medicinal products. 
Radiotherapy during the use of methotrexate can increase the risk for soft tissue or bone necrosis. 
Methotrexate can reduce the clearance of theophylline. During concomitant therapy with 
methotrexate, therefore, serum theophylline levels should be monitored. 
Combined administration of mercaptopurine and methotrexate can increase the bioavailability of 
mercaptopurine, possibly as a result of inhibition of the metabolism of mercaptopurine. 
In view of its possible effects on the immune system, methotrexate can falsify vaccinal and test results 
(immunological procedures to assess the immune reaction). During methotrexate therapy, concurrent 
vaccination with live vaccines should be avoided (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females 
Women must not get pregnant during methotrexate therapy, and effective contraception must be used 
during treatment with methotrexate and at least 6 months thereafter (see section 4.4). Prior to initiating 
therapy, women of childbearing potential must be informed of the risk of malformations associated 
with methotrexate and any existing pregnancy must be excluded with certainty by taking appropriate 
measures, e.g. a pregnancy test. During treatment pregnancy tests should be repeated as clinically 
required (e.g. after any gap of contraception). Female patients of reproductive potential must be 
counselled regarding pregnancy prevention and planning. 
Contraception in males 
It is not known if methotrexate is present in semen. Methotrexate has been shown to be genotoxic in 
animal studies, such that the risk of genotoxic effects on sperm cells cannot completely be excluded. 
Limited clinical evidence does not indicate an increased risk of malformations or miscarriage 
following paternal exposure to low-dose methotrexate (less than 30 mg [15 ml]/week). For higher 
doses, there is insufficient data to estimate the risks of malformations or miscarriage following 
paternal exposure. 
As precautionary measures, sexually active male patients or their female partners are recommended to 
use reliable contraception during treatment of the male patient and for at least 3 months after cessation 
of methotrexate. Men should not donate semen during therapy or for 3 months following 
discontinuation of methotrexate. 
Pregnancy 
Methotrexate is contraindicated during pregnancy in non-oncological indications (see section 4.3). If 
pregnancy occurs during treatment with methotrexate and up to six months thereafter, medical advice 
should be given regarding the risk of harmful effects on the child associated with treatment and 
ultrasonography examinations should be performed to confirm normal foetal development. In animal 
studies, methotrexate has shown reproductive toxicity, especially during the first trimester (see section 
5.3). Methotrexate has been shown to be teratogenic to humans; it has been reported to cause foetal 
death, miscarriages and/or congenital abnormalities (e.g. craniofacial, cardiovascular, central nervous 
system and extremity-related).  
Methotrexate is a powerful human teratogen, with an increased risk of spontaneous abortions, 
intrauterine growth restriction and congenital malformations in case of exposure during pregnancy. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Spontaneous abortions have been reported in 42.5% of pregnant women exposed to low-dose 
methotrexate treatment (less than 30 mg [15 ml]/week), compared to a reported rate of 22.5% in 
disease-matched patients treated with drugs other than methotrexate. 
Major birth defects occurred in 6.6% of live births in women exposed to low-dose methotrexate 
treatment (less than 30 mg [15 ml]/week) during pregnancy, compared to approximately 4% of live 
births in disease-matched patients treated with drugs other than methotrexate. 
Insufficient data is available for methotrexate exposure during pregnancy higher than 
30 mg (15 ml)/week, but higher rates of spontaneous abortions and congenital malformations are 
expected, in particular at doses commonly used in oncologic indications  
When methotrexate was discontinued prior to conception, normal pregnancies have been reported.  
When used in oncological indications, methotrexate should not be administered during pregnancy in 
particular during the first trimester of pregnancy. In each individual case the benefit of treatment must 
be weighed up against the possible risk to the foetus. If the drug is used during pregnancy or if the 
patient becomes pregnant while taking methotrexate the patient should be informed of the potential 
risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
As methotrexate passes into breast milk and may cause toxicity in breast-fed children, treatment is 
contraindicated during the lactation period (see section 4.3). If use during the lactation period should 
become necessary, breast-feeding is to be stopped prior to treatment. 
Fertility 
Methotrexate affects spermatogenesis and oogenesis and may decrease fertility. In humans, 
methotrexate has been reported to cause oligospermia, menstrual dysfunction and amenorrhoea. These 
effects appear to be reversible after discontinuation of therapy in most cases. In oncologic indications, 
women who are planning to become pregnant are advised to consult a genetic counselling centre, if 
possible, prior to therapy and men should seek advice about the possibility of sperm preservation 
before starting therapy as methotrexate can be genotoxic at higher doses (see section 4.4). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Methotrexate has moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines, since central nervous 
system disorders such as tiredness, dizzy spells or drowsiness can occur during treatment.  
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In general, the incidence and severity of side effects are considered to be dose-related. 
In the antineoplastic treatment, myelosuppression and mucositis are the predominant dose-limiting 
toxic effects of methotrexate. The severity of these reactions depends on the dose, mode and duration 
of application of methotrexate. Mucositis generally appears about 3 to 7 days after methotrexate 
application, leucopenia and thrombocytopenia follow a few days later. In patients with unimpaired 
elimination mechanisms, myelosuppression and mucositis are generally reversible within 14 to 28 
days. 
Most serious adverse reactions of methotrexate include bone marrow suppression, pulmonary toxicity, 
hepatotoxicity, renal toxicity, neurotoxicity, thromboembolic events, anaphylactic shock and Stevens-
Johnson syndrome.  
Most frequently (very common) observed adverse reactions of methotrexate include gastrointestinal 
disorders (e.g. stomatitis, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, nausea, loss of appetite) and abnormal liver 
function tests (e.g. increased alanine aminotransferase (ALAT), aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT), 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase). Other frequently (common) occurring adverse reactions are 
leukopenia, anaemia, thrombopenia, headache, tiredness, drowsiness, pneumonia, interstitial 
alveolitis/pneumonitis often associated with eosinophilia, oral ulcers, diarrhoea, exanthema, erythema 
and pruritus. 
The occurrence and severity of adverse reactions depend on dosage level and frequency of 
administration of methotrexate. However, as severe adverse reactions may occur even at low doses, it 
is essential for the treating physician to monitor patients closely (see section 4.4). 
Most adverse reactions are reversible if they are detected early. If such adverse reactions occur, the 
dose should either be reduced or treatment discontinued and appropriate countermeasures taken (see 
section 4.9). Methotrexate therapy should only be resumed with particular caution, after careful 
consideration of the need for treatment and with increased vigilance for the possible recurrence of 
toxicity. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Frequencies in the table are defined according to the MedDRA convention: 
Very common (≥1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 to <1/10) 
Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to < 1/100) 
Rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) 
Very rare (<1/10,000) 
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
System organ 
class 
Very 
common 
Infections and 
infestations  
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps)  
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders  
Immune system 
disorders  
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders  
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
Nocardiosis, 
Histoplasma 
and 
cryptococcus 
mycosis, 
Disseminated 
herpes simplex 
Haemorrhages 
Infections 
Opportunistic 
infections 
(sometimes fatal)  
Herpes zoster 
Sepsis 
Cytomegalovirus- 
induced infections.  
Lymphoma1  
Leucocytopenia, 
Thrombo-
cytopenia, 
Anaemia  
Pancytopenia, 
Agranulocytosis, 
Haematopoietic 
disorders 
Megaloblastic 
anaemia 
Allergic reactions, 
Anaphylactic 
shock,  
Fever,  
Chills 
Diabetes mellitus    
13 
Bone marrow 
depression (severe 
courses),  
Aplastic anaemia, 
Lymphoproliferative 
disorder2,  
Eosinophilia, 
Neutropenia, 
Lymphadenopathy  
Immuno-
suppression,  
Allergic vasculitis 
(severe toxic 
symptom), 
Hypogamma-
globulinaemia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
Psychiatric 
disorders  
Nervous system 
disorders  
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Vascular 
disorders  
Depression  
Mood swings  
Insomnia 
Headache, 
Fatigue,  
Drowsiness  
Convulsions, 
Vertigo, 
Confusion  
Hemiparesis, 
Paresis 
Encephalop-
athy/ 
Leukoenceph-
alopathy 
Cerebral oedema, 
Acute aseptic 
meningitis with 
meningism 
(paralysis, vomiting), 
Lethargy,  
Transient subtle 
cognitive 
dysfunction, 
Psychoses, 
Aphasia, 
Pain,  
Muscular 
asthenia,Paraesthesia
/ 
hypoaesthesia, 
Taste changes 
(metallic taste),  
Irritation,  
Dysarthria,  
Unusual cranial 
sensations,  
Tinnitus 
Severe visual 
disturbances 
Retinopathy, 
Conjunctivitis 
Pericarditis, 
Pericardial 
effusion, 
Pericardial 
tamponade 
Thromboembolic 
reactions 
(including arterial 
and cerebral 
thrombosis, 
thrombophlebitis, 
deep leg vein 
thrombosis, 
retinal vein 
thrombosis, 
pulmonary 
embolism), 
Hypotension 
Respiratory 
paralysis,  
Bronchial 
asthma-like 
reactions such as 
cough, dyspnoea 
and pathological 
changes in lung 
function tests, 
Pharyngitis 
Pancreatitis, 
Enteritis, 
Malabsorption, 
Melaena,  
Gingivitis  
Pulmonary 
alveolar 
haemorrhage3 
Pneumocystis 
jiroveci pneumonia 
and other lung 
infections,  
Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease,  
Pleural effusion 
Toxic megacolon,  
Haematemesis  
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Interstitial 
alveolitis/ 
pneumonia (can 
be fatal)  
Pulmonary 
fibrosis 
Diarrhoea  
Ulceration and 
bleeding of 
gastrointestinal 
tract 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Loss of 
appetite, 
Nausea, 
Vomiting, 
Abdominal 
pain, 
Inflammation 
and 
ulceration of 
mucosa of 
mouth and 
throat, 
14 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Stomatitis, 
Dyspepsia 
Increase in 
liver-related 
enzymes 
(ALAT 
[GPT], 
ASAT 
[GOT], 
alkaline 
phosphatase 
and 
bilirubin) 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Erythema, 
Exanthema,  
Pruritus 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders  
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders  
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Hepatic steatosis, 
fibrosis and 
cirrhosis,  
Decrease in serum 
albumin 
Acute hepatitis 
and hepatotoxicity 
Acute liver 
degeneration,  
Liver failure, 
Reactivation of 
chronic hepatitis,  
Hepatitis and 
liver failure4  
Severe toxic 
manifestations: 
vasculitis, 
herpetiform skin 
eruptions, 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis (Lyell’s 
syndrome), 
Increased 
rheumatic 
nodules,  
Painful erosions 
of psoriatic 
plaque, 
Photosensitivity, 
Increased skin 
pigmentation, 
Hair loss,  
Impaired wound 
healing, 
Urticaria 
Osteoporosis, 
Arthralgia,  
Myalgia,  
Increased nail 
pigment changes, 
Onycholysis,  
Acne,  
Petechiae,  
Bruising,  
Erythema 
multiforme, 
Cutaneous 
erythematous 
eruptions, 
Lesions of 
psoriasis may 
worsen with 
concomitant UV 
therapy,  
Radiation 
dermatitis and 
sunburn may be 
“recalled” 
Stress fracture 
Renal failure, 
Oliguria,  
Anuria,  
Azotaemia 
Nephropathy 
Inflammation and 
ulceration of 
urinary bladder 
(possibly with 
haematuria), 
Dysuria  
Vaginal 
Inflammation and 
ulceration  
Oligospermia, 
Menstrual 
dysfunction 
Acute paronychia, 
Furunculosis, 
Telangiectasis,  
Hidradenitis 
 Skin 
exfoliation/ 
dermatitis 
exfoliative 
Osteonecrosis 
of jaw 
(secondary to 
lymphoprolifer
-ative 
disorders) 
Proteinuria 
Infertility,  
Loss of libido, 
Impotence,  
Vaginal discharge, 
Gynaecomastia 
Fever 
Oedema 
1 can be reversible - see 4.4 
2 Lymphoma/Lymphoproliferative disorders: there have been reports of individual cases of lymphoma and other 
lymphoproliferative disorders which subsided in a number of cases once treatment with methotrexate had been discontinued. 
3 has been reported for methotrexate used in rheumatologic and related indications  
4 see remarks on liver biopsy in section 4.4 
Paediatric population 
Frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in children and adolescents are expected to be the 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
same as in adults. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms of overdose 
The symptoms following oral overdose predominantly affect the haematopoietic and gastrointestinal 
systems. 
Symptoms include leucocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia, 
myelosuppression, mucositis, stomatitis, oral ulceration, nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal ulceration 
and bleeding. 
Cases of overdose have been reported, sometimes fatal, due to erroneous daily intake instead of 
weekly intake of oral methotrexate. In these cases, symptoms that have been commonly reported are 
hematological and gastrointestinal reactions. 
There are reports of deaths from sepsis, septic shock, renal failure and aplastic anaemia. 
Therapeutic management of overdose 
Calcium folinate is the specific antidote for neutralising the adverse toxic effects of methotrexate. In 
the event of accidental overdose, a dose of calcium folinate equal to or higher than the offending dose 
of methotrexate should be administered intravenously or intramuscularly within 1 hour, and dosing 
continued until serum level of methotrexate are below 10-7 mol/L. 
In the event of a massive overdose, hydration and alkalinisation of the urine may be required to 
prevent precipitation of methotrexate and/or its metabolites in the renal tubules. Neither haemodialysis 
nor peritoneal dialysis has been shown to improve the elimination of methotrexate. Effective clearance 
of methotrexate is reported to be achieved with acute intermittent haemodialysis using a high-flux 
dialyser. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic and immunomodulating agents, immunosuppressants, 
other immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AX03 
Mechanism of action 
Methotrexate is a folic acid antagonist that, as an antimetabolite, belongs to the class of cytotoxic 
active substances. It acts by competitive inhibition of the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase and thus 
inhibits DNA synthesis. 
It has not yet been possible to date to clarify whether the efficacy of methotrexate in the management 
of psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis and chronic polyarthritis is due either to an anti-inflammatory or 
immunosuppressive effect, or to what extent a methotrexate-induced increase in extracellular 
adenosine concentration at inflamed sites contributes to this effect. 
Highly proliferating tissue such as malignant cells, bone marrow, foetal cells, skin epithelium and 
mucosa is generally more sensitive to this effect of methotrexate. Cell proliferation is usually greater 
in malignant tumours than in normal tissue and methotrexate can therefore exert a sustained effect on 
malignant growth without causing irreversible damage to normal tissue. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In psoriasis, cell proliferation of the epithelium is markedly increased compared with normal skin. 
This difference in cell proliferation rate is the starting point for the use of methotrexate in particularly 
severe, generalised, treatment-resistant psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
After oral administration, methotrexate is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. When administered 
in low doses (7.5 mg/m2 to 80 mg/m2 body surface area), the mean bioavailability of methotrexate is 
approximately 70%, but considerable inter- and intra-individual variations are possible (25-100%). 
Peak serum concentrations are attained within 1-2 hours. 
Data from a randomised trial in patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (aged 2.8 to 15.1 years) 
indicated greater oral bioavailability of methotrexate in the fasting state. In children with JIA, the dose 
normalized area under the plasma concentration versus time-curve (AUC) of methotrexate increased 
with the age of the children and was lower than that found in adults. The dose normalized AUC of the 
metabolite 7-hydroxymethotrexate was not dependent on age. 
Distribution 
Methotrexate is approximately 50% bound to serum proteins. After distribution, it collects 
predominantly in the liver, kidneys and spleen in the form of polyglutamates, which can be retained 
for weeks or months. 
The mean terminal half-life is 6-7 hours and demonstrates considerable variations (3-17 hours). The 
half-life may be prolonged up to four-fold in patients with a third distribution compartment (pleural 
effusion, ascites). 
Biotransformation 
Approximately 10% of the administered methotrexate dose is metabolised in the liver. The main 
metabolite is 7-hydroxymethotrexate. 
Elimination 
Excretion occurs predominantly in the unchanged form by glomerular filtration and active secretion in 
the proximal tubule via the kidneys. 
Approximately 5-20% of methotrexate and 1-5% of 7-hydroxymethotrexate is eliminated in the bile. 
There is a pronounced enterohepatic circulation. 
Elimination in patients with impaired renal function is markedly delayed. Impaired elimination in 
patients with hepatic impairment is not known at present. 
Methotrexate crosses the placental barrier in rats and monkeys. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Chronic toxicity 
In chronic toxicity studies in mice, rats and dogs, toxic effects were seen in the form of gastrointestinal 
lesions, myelosuppression and hepatotoxicity. 
Mutagenic and carcinogenic potential 
Long-term studies in rats, mice and hamsters revealed no evidence of a tumorigenic potential of 
methotrexate. Methotrexate induces gene and chromosomal mutations in vitro and in vivo. There is a 
suspected mutagenic effect in humans. 
Reproductive toxicology 
Teratogenic effects have been observed in four species (rats, mice, rabbits, cats). In rhesus monkeys, 
no malformations comparable to those seen in humans occurred. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Macrogol 400 
Glycerol 
Orange flavour 
Sucralose 
Ethyl parahydroxybenzoate (E214) 
Sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219) 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Tri-sodium citrate 
Purified water  
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened bottle 
18 months. 
After first opening 
3 months. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25ºC. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed (see section 6.6). 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
75 ml amber type III glass bottle with tamper evident child-resistant closure (polypropylene with 
expanded polyethylene liner) containing 60 ml of oral solution. 
Each pack contains one bottle, an LDPE bottle adaptor and a 10 ml white polypropylene dosing 
syringe (with major graduations at every 1 ml and minor graduations at every 0.25 ml). 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Safe handling  
Anyone handling methotrexate should wash their hands before and after administering a dose. To 
decrease the risk of exposure, parents and care givers should wear disposable gloves when handling 
methotrexate. 
Contact with the skin or mucous membrane must be avoided. If methotrexate comes into contact with 
skin or mucosa, it should be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. 
Spillages must be wiped immediately. 
Women who are pregnant, planning to be or breast-feeding should not handle methotrexate. 
Parents, care givers and patients should be advised to keep methotrexate out of the reach of children, 
preferably in a locked cupboard.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accidental ingestion can be lethal for children. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed to protect the integrity of the product and minimise the risk of accidental 
spillage. 
The usual caution should be exercised in handling cytostatics. 
Instructions for use of the syringe provided in the pack  
1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
6.  
7. 
Put on disposable gloves before handling. 
Shake the bottle. 
Remove the bottle cap and push the adaptor firmly into the top of the bottle. 
Push the tip of the dosing syringe into the hole in the adaptor. 
Turn the bottle upside down. 
Pull the syringe plunger back SLOWLY so that the medicine is drawn from the bottle into the 
syringe until the WIDEST part of the white syringe plunger is lined up to the black syringe 
marking of the dose required.  DO NOT measure to the narrow tip of the plunger.  If there are 
air bubbles in the syringe, repeat until bubbles are eliminated. 
Turn the bottle back the right way up and carefully remove the syringe from the adaptor, 
holding the syringe by the barrel rather than the plunger. 
Confirm that the dose in the syringe is correct. 
Ensure that the patient is sitting up or standing before giving the medicine. 
8.  
9.  
10  Gently place the tip of the syringe into the patient’s mouth and direct it to the inside of the 
cheek. 
11.  Slowly and gently push the plunger down to gently squirt the medicine into the inside of the 
cheek. DO NOT push down the plunger too hard or squirt the medicine to the back of the mouth 
or throat as this may cause choking. The plunger should be pushed back gently to the seated 
position until it clicks into place. 
12.  Remove the syringe from the patient’s mouth. 
13.   Ask the patient to swallow the medicine and then to drink some water, making sure no medicine 
is left in the mouth. 
14.   Put the cap back on the bottle with the adaptor left in place. Ensure that the cap is tightly closed. 
15.  Wash the syringe immediately after use with fresh warm, soapy water and rinse well. The 
syringe should be held under water and the plunger drawn in and out several times until all 
traces of medicine are removed from inside the syringe including the tip. The plunger and barrel 
should then be separated and both washed thoroughly in the warm soapy water. They should 
then be rinsed thoroughly under COLD water and excess water shaken off before wiping dry 
with a clean paper towel. The plunger and barrel should be stored in a clean dry container with 
the medicine and reassembled before next use. All parts of the syringe should be completely dry 
before using it for the next dose. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements for cytotoxic products. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Therakind (Europe) Limited 
Paramount Court, 
Corrig Road, 
Sandyford Business Park, 
Dublin 18, 
D18 R9C7 
Ιreland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/17/1172/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 29 March 2017 
Date of latest renewal: 22 November 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines  
Agency (http://www.ema.europa.eu) 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Wasdell Europe Limited 
IDA Dundalk Science and Technology Park, 
Mullagharlin, Dundalk, Co. Louth 
A91 DETO,  
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Jylamvo in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational materials, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The MAH shall ensure that, in each Member State where Jylamvo is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to prescribe or dispense Jylamvo have access to the following 
educational package: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
The patient leaflet 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
Patient Card 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
• 
Remarks on the importance of reporting ADRs 
A statement about the responsibility of the prescribing physician to determine which patients 
may be suitable for home or self-administration of Jylamvo. With every prescription, healthcare 
professionals should advise the patient and/or caregiver on how to measure the prescribed dose. 
Detailed description regarding strength of the solution and the dose volumes to help clarify the 
appropriate dose of the oral solution. 
Information on treatment with Jylamvo, administration and posology.  
Information on the importance to fill in prescriptions with clear instructions about once weekly 
dosing, defined day of intake, and to not use abbreviations; in addition the dose should always 
be prescribed in mg with ml equivalence based on the correct age of the patient;  
The need to inform patients and relatives/carers about the once weekly dosing;  
The pharmacist should counsel the patient about the inadvertent daily instead of once-weekly 
dosing. 
The potential for fatal overdose due to medication errors (ME), including daily instead of once 
weekly use; 
Causes of ME, severity and outcomes. 
Recommendation to monitor patients for signs and symptoms of overdose (these predominantly 
affect the haematopoietic and gastrointestinal systems) 
Management of overdose (including the use of calcium folinate and dose interruption). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The patient card shall contain the following key elements: 
• 
Reminder that patients who use methotrexate for an indication requiring a weekly dosing 
schedule to take the product only once weekly and to write the day of the week for intake on the 
card 
Inform on serious adverse effects that may be fatal and on the symptoms of overdose and steps 
to be taken should symptoms arise to enable the patient to seek medical help in time  
Recommendation to always show the card to and alert new HCPs about the once weekly dosing 
of the patient’s methotrexate (e.g. on hospital admission, change of carer, etc.) 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
The MAH should implement the agreed targeted follow-up 
questionnaires for all medication errors resulting in overdose. 
Due date 
From the date of notification 
of the Commission Decision* 
*Referral EMEA/H/A-31/1463 
23 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of solution contains 2 mg methotrexate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains E214 and E219.  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution 
60 ml bottle 
Bottle adaptor 
10 ml dosing syringe 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use 
Take as prescribed by your doctor using the dosing syringe provided. 
Shake before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For arthritis and psoriasis take only once a week on …………. (include weekday of intake in full). 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: Handle with caution  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
Discard 3 months after first opening. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25º C. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Dispose of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Therakind (Europe) Limited 
Paramount Court, 
Corrig Road, 
Sandyford Business Park, 
Dublin 18, 
D18 R9C7 
Ιreland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1172/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot:  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN:  
28 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING  
BOTTLE LABEL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution 
methotrexate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of solution contains 2 mg methotrexate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains E214 and E219.  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution. 
60 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use 
Take as prescribed by your doctor using the dosing syringe provided. 
Shake before use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For arthritis and psoriasis take only once a week.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP:  
Discard 3 months after first opening. 
Open date: 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25ºC. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Dispose of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Therakind (Europe) Limited 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1172/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot:  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PATIENT CARD TEXT 
THIS PATIENT CARD IS ONLY INTENDED FOR PATIENTS WHO USE A 
METHOTREXATE-CONTAINING MEDICINE FOR ARTHRITIS AND PSORIASIS. 
IF YOU USE METHOTREXATE FOR ONE OF THE ABOVE MENTIONED INDICATIONS, 
YOU SHOULD ONLY TAKE METHOTREXATE ONCE A WEEK 
Write here in full the day of the week for intake: ______________ 
Do not take more than the prescribed dose.  
Overdose could lead to serious adverse effects and may be fatal. Symptoms of overdose are e.g. sore 
throat, fever, mouth ulcers, diarrhoea, vomiting, skin rashes, bleeding or unusual weakness. If you 
think you have taken more than the prescribed dose, consult a physician immediately.  
Always show this card to health care professionals not familiar with your methotrexate treatment to 
alert them about your once weekly use (e.g. on hospital admission, change of care).  
For more information, please read the patient leaflet inserted in the package. 
31 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution 
methotrexate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Jylamvo is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Jylamvo 
3.   How to take Jylamvo 
Possible side effects 
4. 
How to store Jylamvo 
5. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
6. 
1.  What Jylamvo is and what it is used for 
Jylamvo is a medicine that: 
- 
- 
suppresses the growth of certain cells in the body that multiply rapidly (an anticancer medicine) 
reduces unwanted reactions by the body's own defense mechanisms (an immunosuppressive 
agent) 
has an anti-inflammatory effect 
- 
Jylamvo is used in patients with: 
- 
the following rheumatic and skin diseases: 
o 
o 
o 
active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adults 
polyarthritic forms (when five or more joints are affected) of active, severe juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (JIA) in adolescents and children aged 3 years and over when the 
response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) has been inadequate 
severe, treatment-resistant, disabling psoriasis that does not respond sufficiently to 
other forms of treatment such as phototherapy, psoralen and ultraviolet A radiation 
(PUVA) therapy and retinoids, as well as in severe psoriasis that also affects the joints 
(psoriatic arthritis) in adult patients 
- 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in adults, adolescents and children aged 3 years and over  
You must talk to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse 
2.  What you need to know before you take Jylamvo 
Do not take Jylamvo 
- 
if you are allergic to methotrexate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you have a severe kidney impairment (or your doctor classes the impairment as severe) 
if you have a liver impairment  
if you have blood disorders such as bone marrow hypoplasia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia or 
significant anaemia  
if you drink alcohol excessively 
- 
- 
- 
- 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have a weakened immune system 
if you are suffering from a serious infection such as tuberculosis or HIV 
if you have ulcers in the stomach or in the intestines  
if you have an inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth or mouth ulcers 
if you are breast-feeding and additionally, for non-oncologic indications (for non-cancer 
treatment) if you are pregnant (see section “Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility”) 
if you have had a live vaccine recently or are about to have one 
Warnings and precautions 
Important warning about the dose of Jylamvo (methotrexate): 
This oral solution contains 2 mg methotrexate in 1 ml solution and the scaling of the dosing 
syringe is in ml and not mg. 
Take Jylamvo only once a week for the treatment of rheumatic or skin diseases (RA, JIA and 
psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis). 
Taking too much of Jylamvo (methotrexate) may be fatal.  
Please read section 3 of this leaflet very carefully. 
If you have any questions, please talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you take this medicine. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Jylamvo: 
- 
- 
if you have diabetes mellitus treated with insulin 
if you are suffering from inactive, chronic infections (e.g. tuberculosis, hepatitis B or C, 
shingles [herpes zoster]) as they may flare up 
if you have ever had any liver or kidney disease 
if you have problems with your lung function 
if you are particularly overweight 
if you have an abnormal build-up of fluid in the abdomen (ascites) or around the lungs (pleural 
effusions) 
if you are dried out (dehydrated) or suffer from conditions that result in dehydration (vomiting, 
diarrhoea, constipation, inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you had skin problems after radiotherapy (radiation dermatitis) or sunburn, these reactions can recur 
after methotrexate therapy (recall reaction). 
Enlarged lymph nodes (lymphoma) may occur in patients receiving low dose methotrexate and if this 
is the case, therapy must be stopped. 
Acute bleeding from the lungs in patients with underlying rheumatologic disease has been reported 
with methotrexate. If you experience symptoms of spitting or coughing up blood you should contact 
your doctor immediately. 
Diarrhoea can be a possible side effect of Jylamvo and requires an interruption of therapy. If you 
suffer from diarrhoea please speak to your doctor. 
Certain brain disorders (encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy) have been reported in cancer patients 
receiving methotrexate. Such side effects cannot be excluded when methotrexate is used to treat other 
diseases. 
If you, your partner or your caregiver notice new onset or worsening of neurological symptoms 
including general muscle weakness, disturbance of vision, changes in thinking, memory and 
orientation leading to confusion and personality changes contact your doctor immediately because 
these may be symptoms of a very rare, serious brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
Psoriasis skin changes can become worse during treatment with methotrexate if you are under UV 
light. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methotrexate temporarily affects sperm and egg production. Methotrexate can cause miscarriage and 
severe birth defects. You should avoid having a baby if you are being given methotrexate at the time 
and for at least 6 months after the end of your treatment with methotrexate if you are a woman. If you 
are a man you should avoid fathering a child if you are being given methotrexate at the time and for at 
least 3 months after the end of your treatment. See also section “Pregnancy, breast-feeding and 
fertility”. 
Recommended follow-up examinations and precautions 
Even if methotrexate is used in low doses, serious side effects can occur. In order to detect them in 
time, your doctor must perform monitoring examinations and laboratory tests. 
Prior to the start of therapy: 
Before you start treatment, your blood will be checked to see if you have enough blood cells. Your 
blood will also be tested to check your liver function and to find out if you have hepatitis. Furthermore, 
serum albumin (a protein in the blood), hepatitis (liver infection) status and kidney function will be 
checked. The doctor may also decide to run other liver tests, some of these may be images of your 
liver and others may need a small sample of tissue taken from the liver in order to examine it more 
closely. Your doctor may also check to see if you have tuberculosis and they may X-ray your chest or 
perform a lung function test. 
During the treatment: 
Your doctor may perform the following examinations: 
−  examination of the oral cavity and the pharynx for changes in the mucous membrane such as 
inflammation or ulceration 
−  blood tests/ blood count with number of blood cells and measurement of serum methotrexate 
levels 
Imaging tests to monitor liver condition 
small sample of tissue taken from the liver in order to examine it more closely 
−  blood test to monitor liver function 
− 
− 
−  blood test to monitor kidney function 
− 
respiratory tract monitoring and, if necessary, lung function test 
It is very important that you appear for these scheduled examinations. 
If the results of any of these tests are conspicuous, your doctor will adjust your treatment accordingly. 
Children, adolescents and elderly 
Children, adolescents and the elderly treated with methotrexate should have particularly careful 
medical monitoring in order to detect important side effects quickly. 
This medicine is not recommended in children under 3 years of age as there is insufficient experience 
in this age group 
Other medicines and Jylamvo 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal or natural medicinal 
products. 
Remember to inform your doctor about the treatment with Jylamvo if you are prescribed another 
medicine during treatment. 
It is particularly important to tell your doctor if you are using the following medicines: 
- 
other medicines for rheumatoid arthritis or psoriasis, such as leflunomide, azathioprine (also 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
used to prevent rejection after an organ transplant), sulfasalazine (also used for ulcerative 
colitis)  
ciclosporin (for supressing the immune system) 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or salicylates (medicines against pain and/or 
inflammation such as acetylsalicylic acid, diclofenac and ibuprofen or pyrazole) 
live vaccines 
diuretics, that reduce fluid retention  
medicines for lowering blood sugar levels such as metformin 
retinoids (for the treatment of psoriasis and other skin diseases) 
antiepileptic medicines (prevention of seizures) 
barbiturates (sleeping medicines) 
sedatives 
oral contraceptives 
probenecid (for gout) 
antibiotics 
pyrimethamine (for the prevention and treatment of malaria) 
vitamin preparations containing folic acid 
proton pump inhibitors (for the treatment of heartburn, ulcers and some other stomach 
complaints) 
theophylline (for breathing problems) 
mercaptopurine (for the treatment of certain types of leukaemia). 
cancer treatments ( such as doxorubicin and procarbazine during high-dose methotrexate 
therapy) 
- 
-  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Jylamvo with food, drink and alcohol 
This medicine can be taken with or without food. When you have taken your dose, drink some water 
and swallow it to ensure you have taken your full dose and there is no methotrexate left in your mouth. 
You should not drink alcohol during treatment with Jylamvo and should avoid drinking excessive 
amounts of coffee, caffeinated drinks and black leaf tea. Ensure that you drink a lot of fluids during 
treatment with Jylamvo because dehydration (the reduction of body water) can increase the side effects 
of methotrexate.  
Pregnancy 
Do not use Jylamvo during pregnancy except if your doctor has prescribed it for oncology treatment. 
Methotrexate can cause birth defects, harm the unborn child or cause miscarriage. It is associated with 
malformations of the skull, face, heart and blood vessels, brain, and limbs.  It is therefore very 
important that methotrexate is not given to pregnant women or to women who are planning to become 
pregnant unless used for oncology treatment.  
For non-oncological indications, in women of child-bearing age the possibility of a pregnancy must be 
ruled out, e.g. by pregnancy tests, before treatment is started. 
Do not use Jylamvo if you are trying to become pregnant. You must avoid becoming pregnant during 
treatment with methotrexate and for at least 6 months after the end of treatment. Therefore you must 
ensure that you are taking effective contraception for the whole of this period (see also section 
"Warnings and precautions"). 
If you become pregnant during treatment or suspect you might be pregnant, speak to your doctor as 
soon as possible. If you do become pregnant during treatment, you should be offered advice regarding 
the risk of harmful effects on the child through treatment. 
If you want to become pregnant, you should speak with your doctor, who may refer you for specialist 
advice before the planned start of treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed during treatment as methotrexate passes into the breast milk. If your doctor 
considers that continuing treatment with methotrexate is essential, you must stop breast-feeding. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Male Fertility 
The available evidence does not indicate an increased risk of malformations or miscarriage if the father 
takes methotrexate less than 30 mg (15 ml)/week. However, a risk cannot be completely excluded and 
there is no information regarding higher methotrexate doses.  Methotrexate can have a genotoxic 
effect. This means that the medicine can cause genetic mutations. Methotrexate can affect the 
production of sperm, which is associated with the possibility of birth defects. 
You should avoid fathering a child or to donate semen during treatment with methotrexate and for at 
least 3 months after the end of treatment. As treatment with methotrexate at higher doses commonly 
used in cancer treatment can cause infertility and genetic mutations, it may be advisable for male 
patients treated with methotrexate doses higher than 30 mg (15 ml)/week to consider sperm 
preservation before the beginning of treatment (see also section "Warnings and precautions"). 
Driving and using machines 
    !          Caution: This medicine can affect your capacity to react and your ability to drive. 
Side effects affecting the central nervous system such as tiredness or dizziness can occur during 
treatment with Jylamvo. In some cases the ability to drive or use machines may be affected. If you feel 
tired or dizzy, you should not drive a vehicle or use machines.   
Jylamvo contains ethyl parahydroxybenzoate and sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate 
Ethyl parahydroxybenzoate (E214) and sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219) may cause 
allergic reactions (possibly delayed). 
3.  How to take Jylamvo 
Jylamvo should be prescribed only by doctors who are familiar with the properties of the medicine and 
how it works. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
Taking Jylamvo incorrectly can result in severe side effects and even death. 
The duration of the treatment is determined by the treating physician. Treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis, severe juvenile idiopathic arthritis, severe psoriasis and severe psoriatic arthritis with Jylamvo 
is a long-term treatment. 
Recommended dose 
Your doctor will decide what dose of Jylamvo you should take according to the condition you are 
being treated for, how severe it is and your general health. Keep to the dose exactly and follow your 
doctor’s instructions exactly on when to take the medicine. 
Dose in rheumatic and skin diseases (RA, JIA and psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis) 
Take Jylamvo only once a week. Decide with your doctor the most suitable day of the week to take 
the medicine. 
Dosage in adult rheumatoid arthritis:  
The usual initial dose is 7.5 mg (3.75 ml), once a week. 
Dosage for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis:  
The usual initial dose is 7.5 mg (3.75 ml), once a week.  
The doctor may increase the dose if the used dose is not effective but tolerated well.  
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor may adjust the dose to suit you according to your response to treatment and side effects. 
Dose in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) 
Your doctor will tell you what dose you should take for your condition and when you should take the 
dose. Keep to this dose exactly. 
Use in children and adolescents  
The doctor will calculate the dose required from the child’s body surface area (m2), and the dose is  
expressed as mg/m2.  
Elderly 
Because of the reduced liver and kidney function and the lower folate reserves in elderly patients, a 
relatively low dosage should be chosen for them. 
How to take the medicine  
Your pack of Jylamvo contains a bottle of medicine with a cap, a bottle adaptor and a white dosing 
syringe. Always use the syringe provided to take your medicine. 
If you are a parent or caregiver giving the medicine, wash your hands before and after giving a dose. 
Wipe up spillages immediately. For protection, you should wear disposable gloves when handling 
Jylamvo. 
Women who are pregnant, planning to be or breast-feeding should not handle methotrexate. 
If Jylamvo comes into contact with skin, eyes or nose, you should wash the affected area with water 
and soap. 
Jylamvo is for oral use and provided ready for use.  
Please note that this oral solution contains 2 mg methotrexate in 1 ml solution and that the 
scaling of the dosing syringe is in ml and not mg. 
Methotrexate can be taken with or without food. When you have taken your dose, drink some water 
and swallow it to ensure you have taken your full dose and there is no methotrexate left in your mouth. 
When you use the medicine follow the instructions below: 
1.  
2.  
3.  
4.  
5.  
6.  
7. 
Put on disposable gloves before handling. 
Shake the bottle. 
Remove the bottle cap and push the adaptor firmly into the top of the bottle. 
Push the tip of the dosing syringe into the hole in the adaptor. 
Turn the bottle upside down. 
Pull the syringe plunger back SLOWLY so that the medicine is drawn from the bottle into the 
syringe until the WIDEST part of the white syringe plunger is lined up to the black syringe 
marking of the dose required.  DO NOT measure to the narrow tip of the plunger.  If there are 
air bubbles in the syringe, repeat until bubbles are eliminated. 
Turn the bottle back the right way up and carefully remove the syringe from the adaptor, 
holding the syringe by the barrel rather than the plunger. 
Confirm that the dose in the syringe is correct. 
Ensure that the patient is sitting up or standing before giving the medicine. 
8.  
9.  
10  Gently place the tip of the syringe into the patient’s mouth and direct it to the inside of the 
cheek. 
11.  Slowly and gently push the plunger down to gently squirt the medicine into the inside of the 
cheek. DO NOT push down the plunger too hard or squirt the medicine to the back of the mouth 
or throat as this may cause choking. The plunger should be pushed back gently to the seated 
position until it clicks into place. 
12.  Remove the syringe from the patient’s mouth. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.   Ask the patient to swallow the medicine and then to drink some water, making sure no medicine 
is left in the mouth. 
14.   Put the cap back on the bottle with the adaptor left in place. Ensure that the cap is tightly closed. 
15.  Wash the syringe immediately after use with fresh warm, ‘soapy’ water and rinse well. The 
syringe should be held under water and the plunger drawn in and out several times until all 
traces of medicine are removed from inside the syringe including the tip. The plunger and barrel 
should then be separated and both washed thoroughly in the warm soapy water. They should 
then be rinsed thoroughly under COLD water and excess water shaken off before wiping dry 
with a clean paper towel. The plunger and barrel should be stored in a clean dry container with 
the medicine and reassembled before next use. All parts of the syringe should be completely dry 
before using it for the next dose. 
Repeat the above instructions for each dose, as instructed by your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you take more Jylamvo than you should 
Follow your doctor's dose recommendations. Never change the dose on your own. 
If you suspect that you (or someone else) have (has) taken too much Jylamvo, tell your doctor 
immediately or contact the nearest hospital casualty department. The doctor will decide whether any 
treatment is needed. 
An overdose of methotrexate can cause serious reactions. The symptoms of an overdose can include 
bleeding, an unusual feeling of weakness, ulcers in the mouth, feeling sick, vomiting, black or bloody 
stools, coughing up blood or vomiting blood with a coffee grounds appearance and a reduced urine. 
See also section 4 “Possible side effects”. 
Take the medicine pack with you when you visit your doctor or the hospital. 
The antidote in the event of an overdose is calcium folinate. 
If you forget to take Jylamvo  
Never take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose but continue with the prescribed dose. Ask 
your doctor for advice. 
If you stop taking Jylamvo 
Do not interrupt or stop the treatment with Jylamvo without first discussing this with your doctor. If 
you suspect you have a severe side effect, talk to your doctor immediately. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you suddenly get wheeziness, difficulty in breathing, swelling of the 
eyelids, face or lips, rash or itching (especially affecting your whole body). 
Contact your doctor immediately if you develop any of the side effects listed below: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
breathing problems (these include a general feeling of illness, dry, irritating cough, shortness of 
breath, difficulty in breathing, chest pain or fever) 
spitting or coughing blood*  
serious peeling or blistering of the skin 
unusual bleeding (including vomiting blood), bruising or nose bleeds 
nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort or severe diarrhoea 
mouth ulcers 
black or tarry stools 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
blood in the urine or stool 
small red spots on the skin 
fever, sore throat, flu-like symptoms 
yellow colouring of the skin (jaundice) or dark urine 
pain or difficulties in passing urine 
thirst and/or frequent urination 
seizures (convulsions) 
unconsciousness 
blurred or restricted vision 
severe fatigue. 
*has been reported for methotrexate used in patients with underlying rheumatologic disease. 
The following side effects have also been reported: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
− 
loss of appetite, feeling sick (nausea), vomiting, abdominal pain, indigestion, inflammation and 
ulcers of the mouth and throat 
blood test showing raised liver enzymes. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
− 
− 
infections 
reduced blood cell formation with a decrease in white and/or red blood cells and/or platelets 
(leucocytopenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia) 
headache, tiredness, lightheadedness 
inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia) with dry cough, shortness of breath and fever 
diarrhoea 
skin rash, skin redness and itching. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
− 
lymphoma (lump in neck, groin or armpits with associated backache, weight loss or night 
sweats) 
severe allergic reactions 
diabetes 
depression 
dizziness, confusion, seizures 
lung damage 
ulcers and bleeding in the digestive tract 
liver diseases, reduced content of blood proteins 
nettle rash, skin reaction in strong light, brown discoloration of the skin, hair loss, increased 
number of rheumatic nodules, shingles, painful psoriasis, slow wound healing 
joint or muscle pain, osteoporosis (reduction in bone strength) 
kidney disease, inflammation or ulcers of the bladder (possibly also with blood in the urine), 
painful urination 
inflammation and ulcers of the vagina. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
− 
a blood disorder characterised by the appearance of very large red blood cells (megaloblastic 
anaemia) 
mood swings 
weakness in movements, also only limited to the left or right side of the body  
severe visual disorders 
inflammation of the heart sac, accumulation of fluid in the heart sac 
low blood pressure, blood clots 
tonsillitis, stopping breathing, asthma 
inflammation of the pancreas, inflammation of the digestive tract, bloody stools, inflamed gums, 
40 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
 
 
 
 
 
indigestion 
acute hepatitis (inflammation of the liver)  
discoloration of the nails,acne, red or purple spots due to bleeding from blood vessels 
worsening of psoriasis during treatment with UV therapy 
skin lesions resembling sunburn or dermatitis after radiotherapy 
bone fractures  
kidney failure, reduction or lack of urine production, abnormal levels of electrolytes in blood  
impaired sperm formation, menstrual disorders. 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
viral, fungal or bacterial systemic infections,  
serious disorder of bone marrow (anaemia), swollen glands 
lymphoproliferative disorders (excessive growth of white blood cells) 
insomnia  
pain, muscle weakness, changes in the sense of taste (metallic taste), inflammation of the 
membrane lining the brain resulting in paralysis or vomiting, sensation of numbness or 
tingling/having less sensitivity to stimulation than normal 
impaired movement of the muscles used for speech production, difficulty in speaking, 
impairment of language, feeling sleepy or tired, feeling confused, having unusual sensations in 
the head, brain swelling, ringing in ears 
red eyes, damage to the retina of the eye  
accumulation of fluid in the lung, lung infections  
vomiting blood, severe complications in the digestive tract 
liver failure  
fingernail infections, detachment of the nail from the nail bed, boils, widening of small blood 
vessels, damage to the blood vessels of the skin, allergic inflammation of blood vessels 
protein in the urine  
loss of sex drive, erection problems, vaginal discharge, infertility, enlargement of the breasts in 
men (gynaecomastia) 
fever. 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
pathological change of the white matter of the brain (leukoencephalopathy) 
haemorrhages 
bleeding from the lungs* 
redness and shedding of skin 
bone damage in the jaw (secondary to excessive growth of white blood cells) 
swelling. 
*has been reported for methotrexate used in patients with underlying rheumatologic disease.  
Methotrexate can reduce the number of white blood cells and therefore weaken your immune defences. 
If you notice any symptoms of an infection such as fever or a marked worsening in your general state of 
health or fever with local signs of an infection such as sore throat/inflammation of the throat or mouth or 
problems passing water, see your doctor immediately. A blood test will be done to check for reduction in 
the white blood cells (agranulocytosis). It is important to tell your doctor about all the medicines you take. 
Methotrexate can cause serious (sometimes life-threatening) side effects. Your doctor will therefore do tests 
to check for any changes in your blood (such as a low white blood cell count, a low blood platelet count, 
lymphomas), kidneys or liver. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Jylamvo 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children, preferably in a locked cupboard. Accidental 
ingestion can be lethal for children. 
Do not use the medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and label after ‘Exp’. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25° C. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed to prevent spoilage of the medicine and reduce the risk of accidental spillage. 
After first opening, throw away any unused medicine after 3  months. 
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements for 
cytotoxic products - check with your pharmacist. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Jylamvo contains 
The active substance is methotrexate. One ml of solution contains 2 mg of methotrexate. 
The other ingredients are: macrogol 400, glycerol, orange flavour, sucralose, ethyl 
parahydroxybenzoate (E214), sodium methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E219), citric acid, tri-sodium 
citrate, purified water. See section 2 “Jylamvo contains ethyl parahydroxybenzoate and sodium methyl 
parahydroxybenzoate”. 
What Jylamvo looks like and contents of the pack 
Jylamvo is a clear yellow solution. It is presented in a brown glass bottle containing 60 ml of solution 
and capped with a child-resistant closure. Each pack contains one bottle, a bottle adaptor and a white 
dosing syringe.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Therakind (Europe) Limited 
Paramount Court, 
Corrig Road, 
Sandyford Business Park, 
Dublin 18, 
D18 R9C7 
Ιreland 
Manufacturer 
Wasdell Europe Limited 
IDA Dundalk Science and Technology Park, 
Mullagharlin, Dundalk, Co. Louth 
A91 DETO,  
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
43 
