29 March 2017 
EMA/81869/2017 
Jylamvo (methotrexate oral solution): healthcare 
professionals to receive educational guide to ensure 
medicine is used correctly 
Healthcare professionals should carefully explain to patients when and how 
to take their dose 
Healthcare professionals expected to prescribe and dispense Jylamvo will be given an educational 
guide to ensure that the medicine is used correctly. Jylamvo, an oral solution containing methotrexate, 
is used to treat arthritis and the skin disease psoriasis, as well as a type of blood cancer called acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). 
The educational guide will advise healthcare professionals that for arthritis and psoriasis Jylamvo must 
be taken once a week. Only for ALL, the medicine can be taken more frequently. It is important that 
healthcare professionals carefully explain to patients when and how they should take their dose. If the 
medicine is used for psoriasis or arthritis and is inadvertently taken once a day instead of once a week, 
this could lead to serious harm. 
It is also important that patients are carefully instructed on how to withdraw a dose from the bottle 
using the syringe provided. Any mistakes in measuring the dose could lead to patients receiving too 
much or too little of the medicine potentially with serious consequences. 
Information for patients and carers 
• 
• 
• 
Jylamvo is available as an oral solution that contains 2 mg of methotrexate per ml. 
For arthritis and skin diseases, Jylamvo must be taken once a week only, on the same day each 
week. A typical dose will range from 7.5 mg (3.75 ml) to 25 mg (12.5 ml) once a week. 
Methotrexate is never taken every day for arthritis or skin diseases. 
Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will explain you how to withdraw the required dose using the 
syringe provided. Only use the syringe provided with Jylamvo to withdraw your dose. Guidance on 
the amount to withdraw for the different doses in mg is given in the table below:  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
•  Jylamvo (methotrexate 2mg/ml) 
Dose in mg 
5 mg 
7.5 mg 
10 mg 
15 
20 mg 
25 mg 
2.5 ml 
3.75 ml 
5 ml 
7.5 ml 
10 ml 
12.5 ml 
Amount in 
ml to be 
withdrawn 
• 
• 
• 
For acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), the dose is usually higher and you may need to take 
Jylamvo more frequently. You should follow your healthcare professional’s instructions. 
If you have any signs or symptoms of overdose contact your doctor immediately. These include: 
bleeding, unusual feeling of weakness, ulcers in the mouth, feeling sick, vomiting, black or bloody 
stools, coughing up blood or vomiting blood and a reduced urine production. 
If you have any questions about your treatment, speak to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
• 
• 
Jylamvo is available as an oral solution that contains 2 mg/ml of methotrexate. 
Patients should be counselled on taking the correct dose correctly: for arthritis and psoriasis, 
Jylamvo must be taken once a week only, on the same day each week. Methotrexate is never 
taken every day for arthritis or skin diseases. For acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), the dose is 
usually higher and given more frequently. 
•  An oral syringe is provided with Jylamvo and it is important that only this syringe is used to 
withdraw the dose. The syringe is graduated in ml while the dose is expressed in mg. When 
prescribing Jylamvo, doctors should always prescribe the dose in mg and ml.  
•  Healthcare professionals should assess each patient to determine whether they are able to 
measure the dose correctly. Only after such an assessment should patients start to self-administer 
Jylamvo at home.  
•  With every prescription patients should be reminded on how to measure the dose correctly. 
• 
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of overdose, such as bleeding, unusual 
feeling of weakness, ulcers in the mouth, feeling sick, vomiting, black or bloody stools, coughing 
up blood or vomiting blood and reduced urine output. 
More about the medicine 
Jylamvo is a medicine that is used for the treatment of the following inflammatory conditions: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
active rheumatoid arthritis, an inflammatory joint disease;  
severe juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), a joint disease in children;  
severe disabling psoriasis, a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin. 
severe psoriatic arthritis, an inflammatory joint disease that occurs in patients with psoriasis. 
Jylamvo (methotrexate oral solution): healthcare professionals to receive educational 
guide to ensure medicine is used correctly 
EMA/81869/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Jylamvo is also used to treat adults and children over the age of 3 years who have acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia (ALL), a cancer of white blood cells called lymphoblasts.  
More information about Jylamvo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/003756/human_
med_002083.jsp   
Jylamvo (methotrexate oral solution): healthcare professionals to receive educational 
guide to ensure medicine is used correctly 
EMA/81869/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
