Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Jylamvo 2 mg/ml 
oral solution (methotrexate) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution.  The  RMP 
details important risks of Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution's  risks  and  uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral 
solution should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Jylamvo 2 mg/ml 
oral solution's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution is authorised for use in the following indications: in rheumatological and 
dermatological  diseases  (active  rheumatoid  arthritis  in  adult  patients;  polyarthritic  forms  of  active, 
severe Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA) in adolescents and children aged 3 years and over when the 
response  to  NSAIDs  has  been  inadequate;  and  in  severe,  treatment-refractory,  disabling  psoriasis 
which  does  not  respond  sufficiently  to  other  forms  of  treatment  such  as  phototherapy,  Psoralen  and 
Ultraviolet A radiation therapy and retinoids, and severe psoriatic arthritis in adult patients). It is also 
indicated in oncology (maintenance treatment of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia in adults, adolescents 
and children aged 3 years and over) (see SmPC for the full indication).  
It contains methotrexate as the active substance and it is given by the oral route of administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml oral  solution’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/jylamvo 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution's  risks,  are  outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can  be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Jylamvo  2  mg/ml  oral  solution  is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution are risks that need special risk management activities 
to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution. Potential risks are concerns 
for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Increased risk of neoplasia 
•  Haematological toxicity  
•  Hepatotoxicity 
•  Pulmonary toxicity 
•  Renal toxicity 
•  Medication  errors  due  to  inadvertent  daily  instead  of  once  weekly 
dosing 
Important potential risks 
•  Bone growth defects in the paediatric population 
•  Medication  error  due  to  the  proposed  dosage  form  (medication 
errors due to incorrect use of the oral dosing syringe and confusion 
between mg and ml) 
•  Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy 
Missing information 
•  Use in children younger than 3 years 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Increased risk of neoplasia 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Immunosuppressive  therapy  (such  as  methotrexate)  for  patients 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
diagnosed with RA has long been implicated in the development of 
various  neoplastic  processes,  including  leukaemia,  lymphoma, 
melanoma  and  lung  cancer  [Barclay,  2008;  Naidu,  2014].  Among 
conditions, 
iatrogenic 
immunodeficiency-associated 
lymphoproliferative  disorders  due  to  methotrexate  are  particularly 
common [Inui, 2015]. 
Patients  with  systemic  rheumatic  diseases,  particularly  rheumatoid 
arthritis,  systemic  lupus  erythematosus,  systemic  sclerosis  and 
idiopathic  inflammatory  myopathies,  are  at  increased  risk  of 
developing malignancies. This risk is related to the pathobiology of 
the  underlying  rheumatic  diseases  including  the  inflammatory 
burden,  immunological  defects,  and  personal  and  environmental 
exposure  such  as  smoking  and  some  viral  infections  [Raheel, 
2016].  In  particular,  several  studies  have  reported  that  malignant 
lymphoma  is  2-5.5  times  more  prevalent  in  patients  with 
rheumatoid arthritis than in healthy individuals [Inui, 2015]. 
There is an increased risk for malignant neoplasms in patients older 
than 70 years who are treated with methotrexate compared to the 
general  population  and  an  increased  risk  for  those  who  had  ever 
used cyclophosphamide [Barclay, 2008]. 
Long-term methotrexate therapy is also a risk factor for developing 
lymphoma [Naidu, 2014]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  states  that  malignant  lymphomas  may 
occur  in  patients  receiving  low-dose  methotrexate,  in  which  case 
therapy  must  be  discontinued.  If  the  lymphomas  fail  to  regress 
spontaneously, cytotoxic treatment must be initiated. 
Section 2 of the PL states that enlarged lymph nodes (lymphoma) 
may occur in patients receiving low dose methotrexate and if this 
is the case, therapy must be stopped. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Haematological toxicity 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Exposure  to  methotrexate  concentrations  as  low  as  0.01  for  more 
the medicine 
than  24  hours  may  result  in  bone  marrow  toxicity  [Widemann, 
2006]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Haematologic toxicity is a serious complication commonly observed 
with  high-dose  methotrexate.  This  complication  consists  of  a 
thrombocytopenia  followed  by  a  rapidly  progressive  neutropenia. 
Leukopenia occurs from one to three weeks and marrow recovery is 
generally  observed  within  approximately  3  weeks.  Haematologic 
toxicity 
including 
thrombocytopenia,  megaloblastic  anaemia, 
leukopenia  and  pancytopenia  with  low-dose  methotrexate  are  rare 
[Gaies, 2012]. 
Pancytopenia due to methotrexate is attributed to the patients with 
renal  dysfunction,  presence  of  infection,  folic  acid  deficiency, 
hypoalbuminemia, concomitant use of drugs such as trimethoprim, 
high  doses  of  methotrexate  and  advanced  age  [Agarwal,  2008; 
Jariwala, 2014; Gonzalez-Ibarra, 2014; Knoll, 2016]. 
Serum  albumin  levels  and  folic  acid  supplementation  are  the 
important  factors  affecting  the  severity  of  methotrexate-related 
pancytopenia and neutropenia. Slow elimination of methotrexate in 
patients  with  renal  insufficiency  leads  to  prolonged  exposure  of 
bone  marrow  tissues  to  this  drug.  Renal  insufficiency  has  been 
incriminated  as  the  major  risk  factor  for  myelosuppression  [Mori, 
2016]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
According to section 4.3 of the SmPC, Jylamvo is contraindicated 
in patients with pre-existing blood disorders such as bone marrow 
hypoplasia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia or significant anaemia; 
in  patients  with  immunodeficiency  or  severe,  acute  or  chronic 
infections  such  as  tuberculosis  and  HIV.  Concurrent  vaccination 
with live vaccines is also contraindicated. 
There  is  a  warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  recommending 
performing  a  complete  blood  count  with  differential  blood  count 
and  platelets  before  beginning  treatment  with  methotrexate  or 
resuming treatment after a recovery period. In addition, this test 
is  to  be  conducted  weekly  in  the  first  2  weeks,  then  every  2 
weeks for a month. Thereafter, depending on the leucocyte count 
and  the  stability  of  the  patient,  it  should  be  conducted  at  least 
once a month during the next 6 months and then at least every 3 
months.  
Section 4.4 of the SmPC also warns on the methotrexate-induced 
haematopoietic  suppression  that  may  occur  abruptly  and  with 
apparently  safe  doses.  Any  serious  decrease  in  leucocyte  or 
platelet  counts 
indicates  the 
immediate  discontinuation  of 
 
 
Important identified risk: Haematological toxicity 
treatment and appropriate supportive therapy. Patients should be 
encouraged  to  report  all  signs  and  symptoms  suggestive  of 
infection  to  their  doctor.  According  to  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC, 
especially  strict  monitoring  of  the  patient  is  indicated  following 
functional 
impairment  of  the  haematopoietic  system  (e.g. 
following  prior  radio-  or  chemotherapy)  and 
in  patients 
simultaneously  taking  haematotoxic  medicinal  products  (e.g. 
leflunomide).  In  addition,  this  section  of  the  SmPC  includes  a 
warning stating that doses exceeding 20 mg (10 ml)/week can be 
associated with a substantial increase in toxicity, especially bone 
marrow depression.  
Furthermore,  there  is  a  warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC 
stating that concurrent vaccination using live vaccines should not 
be  given  since,  due  to  its  effect  on  the  immune  system, 
methotrexate may impair the response to vaccinations and affect 
the results of immunological tests. 
Section  4.5  of 
the  SmPC 
includes 
interactions  between 
methotrexate  and  several  medicinal  products  that  have  been 
associated with haematological toxicity. 
According to section 2 of the PL, Jylamvo should not be taken in 
patients  with  blood  disorders  such  as  bone  marrow  hypoplasia, 
leukopenia, thrombocytopenia or significant anaemia; in patients 
with  a  weakened  immune  system  or  suffering  from  a  serious 
infection such as tuberculosis or HIV. The product should also not 
be taken with concurrent vaccination with live vaccines. Section 2 
of the PL also warns that laboratory tests should be performed in 
order to detect side effects. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  includes  interactions  between  methotrexate 
and  several  medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with 
haematological toxicity. 
In  addition,  section  4  of  the  PL  encourages  patients  to  report  all 
signs and symptoms suggestive of infection to their doctor. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Long-term methotrexate use or its usage in  high doses may cause 
the medicine 
hepatic steatosis, cholestasis, fibrosis and cirrhosis [Aslaner, 2015]. 
Methotrexate liver dysfunction is mostly associated with its chronic 
use  in  inflammatory  disease,  although  acute  hepatitis  following 
high-dose  administration  has  been  described.  Liver  enzyme 
abnormalities  under  methotrexate  treatment  do  not  necessarily 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Risk factors and risk groups 
represent significant liver toxicity as they usually resolve with dose 
modification  or  drug  discontinuation  and  may  even  normalise 
during the course of therapy [Rabinowich, 2015]. 
Potential  risk  factors  suggested  for  hepatic  adverse  effects  in 
patients  with  rheumatoid  arthritis  are  increased  age,  female 
gender,  alcohol  intake,  smoking,  disease  duration,  diabetes  and 
obesity, hepatitis B or C infection cumulative dose of methotrexate, 
concomitant  medications  mainly  NSAIDs,  and  other  DMARDs. 
Genetic  factors  may  also  play  a  role  in  predicting  such  adverse 
effects  [Sotoudehmanesh,  2010;  Issabeagloo,  2011;  Weidmann, 
2014;  Dubey,  2016;  Tang,  2016].  One  major 
factor  of 
methotrexate-induced  hepatotoxicity,  aside 
from 
the  above-
mentioned  comorbidities, 
is  the 
frequency  of  administration 
[Herfarth, 2012]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
Section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  states  that  methotrexate  should  be 
administered  only  with  the  greatest  caution,  if  at  all,  in  patients 
with significant existing or previous liver disease, especially if due 
to alcohol. 
According to section 4.3 of the SmPC, Jylamvo is contraindicated 
in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  (bilirubin  levels  >5  mg/dl 
(85.5 µmol/l)) and in patients with alcohol abuse. 
Section 4.4 of the SmPC states that methotrexate should be used 
only with great caution, if at all, in patients who have a significant 
liver disease, particularly if this is/was alcohol related. 
There  is  a  warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  recommending 
performing  liver  function  tests  before  beginning  treatment  with 
methotrexate  or  resuming  treatment  after  a  recovery  period.  In 
addition,  such  tests  are  to  be  conducted  weekly  in  the  first  2 
weeks, then every 2 weeks for a month. Thereafter, depending on 
the  leucocyte  count  and  the  stability  of  the  patient,  it  should  be 
conducted  at  least  once  a  month  during  the  next  6  months  and 
then at least every 3 months. According to the section 4.4 of the 
SmPC,  the  treatment  should  not  be  started  or  should  be 
discontinued  if  there  are any  abnormalities  in  liver function  tests 
or  liver  biopsies,  or  if  these  develop  during  therapy.  If  liver 
enzymes are constantly increased, a dose reduction or treatment 
discontinuation  should  be  considered.  This  section  of  the  SmPC 
also  states  that  additional  hepatotoxic  medicinal  products  should 
not be taken during treatment with methotrexate unless urgently 
necessary,  due  to  methotrexate’s  potentially  toxic  effect  on  the 
liver.  Likewise,  alcohol  consumption  should  be  avoided  or 
reduced. 
 
 
Important identified risk: Hepatotoxicity 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  recommends  closer  monitoring  of  liver 
enzymes  in  patients  taking  other  hepatotoxic  medicinal  products 
concomitantly.  In  addition,  this  should  be  considered  during 
simultaneous  administration  of  haematotoxic  medicinal  products. 
Finally, it recommends increased caution in patients with insulin-
dependent diabetes mellitus as hepatic cirrhosis has developed in 
individual  cases  without  any  elevation  of  transaminases  during 
methotrexate treatment. 
Section  4.5  of 
the  SmPC 
includes 
interactions  between 
methotrexate  and  several  medicinal  products  that  have  been 
associated with hepatic toxicity. 
According to section 2 of the PL, Jylamvo should not be taken in 
patients  with  liver  impairment  or  in  case  of  alcohol  abuse.  A 
doctor or pharmacist should be consulted before treatment if the 
patient  has  ever  had  any  liver  disease.  Section  2  of  the  PL  also 
warns that blood tests should be performed before the beginning 
of  the  treatment  to  check  how  well  the  liver  is  working.  If  the 
results  of  any  test  are  abnormal,  the  treatment  will  not  be 
restarted until all the values have returned to normal. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  includes  interactions  between  methotrexate 
and  several  medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with 
hepatic toxicity. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important identified risk: Pulmonary toxicity 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Long-term  use  at  therapeutic  doses  or  overdose  of  methotrexate 
the medicine 
can  cause  significant  dose-dependent  pulmonary  side  effects,  such 
as  acute  and  subacute  respiratory  failure,  non-productive  cough, 
dyspnoea, 
fever,  pneumonitis, 
interstitial 
lung  disease  and 
pulmonary  fibrosis  [Kurt,  2015].  In  addition,  pulmonary  alveolar 
haemorrhage  has  been  reported 
for  methotrexate  used 
in 
rheumatologic  and  related  indications  [EMA/PRAC/8429/2018  Corr, 
2018]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Multicentre  case-control  studies  have  been  performed  which  may 
predict the possibility of methotrexate lung injury and the following 
risk  factors  have  been  identified:  diabetes,  rheumatoid  pulmonary 
involvement, previous use of DMARDs, older age (>60 years), pre-
existing  lung  disease  [Hlaing,  2007],  smoking,  acetylsalicylic  acid 
use and renal insufficiency [Liu, 2015]. 
The  factors  found  to  be  associated  with  the  higher  risk  for 
development of interstitial lung disease in rheumatoid arthritis were 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Pulmonary toxicity 
male  gender,  age,  presence  of  inflammatory  arthritis,  disease 
activity,  history  of  smoking,  high  titre  rheumatoid  factor  and  anti-
cyclic citrullinated protein antibodies [Anand, 2014]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
There  is  a  warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  recommending 
performing  a  chest  X-ray  before  beginning  treatment  with 
methotrexate  or  resuming  treatment  after  a  recovery  period.  In 
addition,  patients  must  be  monitored  for  symptoms  of  a  lung 
function  disorder  and  lung  function  tests  should  be  performed  if 
necessary.  Lung-related  symptoms  (particularly  a  dry,  non-
productive cough) or non-specific pneumonitis that occurs during 
treatment  with  methotrexate  can  be  a  sign  of  potentially 
dangerous  damage  and  require  the  discontinuation  of  treatment 
and  careful  monitoring.  In  these  cases,  a  chest  X-ray  must  be 
taken  in  order  to  be  able  to  exclude  an  infection  and  tumours. 
Patients should be informed of the risk of pneumonia and advising 
them  to  contact  their  doctor  immediately  if  they  develop  a 
persistent  cough  or  persistent  dyspnoea.  Pulmonary  symptoms 
require  a  rapid  diagnosis  and  discontinuation  of  methotrexate 
therapy. 
In addition, section 4.4 of the SmPC suggests considering prompt 
investigation when pulmonary alveolar haemorrhage is suspected 
to  confirm  the  diagnosis.  According  to  this  section,  opportunistic 
infections  can  occur  during  treatment  with  methotrexate, 
including Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia, which can also have a 
fatal  outcome.  If  a  patient  develops  pulmonary  symptoms,  the 
possibility  of  Pneumocystis 
jiroveci  pneumonia  should  be 
considered.  Particular  caution  is  also  required  in  patients  with 
impaired  pulmonary  function,  in  patients  with  inactive  chronic 
infections (e.g. herpes zoster, tuberculosis, hepatitis B or C) as it 
is possible that activation of these infections may occur. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  recommends  consulting  a  doctor  or 
pharmacist before beginning treatment with Jylamvo if the patient 
has  problems  with  the  lung  function  or  if  the  patient  has  an 
abnormal build-up of fluid in the abdomen (ascites) or around the 
lungs  (pleural  effusions).  Acute  bleeding  from  the  lungs  in 
patients with underlying rheumatologic disease has been reported 
with  methotrexate.  If  case  of  experiencing  symptoms  of  spitting 
or coughing up blood, a doctor should be consulted immediately. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  also  warns  that  an  X-ray  may  be  performed 
before  the  beginning  of  the  treatment.  If  the  results  are 
abnormal,  the  treatment  will  not  be  restarted  until  the  values 
have returned to normal. 
Pack size. 
 
 
Important identified risk: Pulmonary toxicity 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important identified risk: Renal toxicity 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
It  is  well  known  that  renal  clearance  is  the  principal  pathway  of 
the medicine 
methotrexate elimination, and its elimination appears to be related 
to  renal  function.  On  the  other  hand,  nephrotoxicity  is  one  of  the 
most  frequently  reported  side  effects  of  high-dose  methotrexate 
infusion,  especially 
in  patients  with  delayed  methotrexate 
elimination [Yang, 2015]. 
Methotrexate-induced  renal  dysfunction  results 
in  sustained, 
elevated  plasma  methotrexate  concentrations,  which  in  turn  may 
lead to ineffective rescue by leucovorin and a marked enhancement 
of  methotrexate’s  other  toxicities,  especially  myelosuppression, 
mucositis, hepatitis and dermatitis [Widemann, 2006]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk  factors  for  methotrexate-associated  toxicity  include  a  history 
of  renal  dysfunction,  volume  depletion,  acidic  urine  and  drug 
interactions [Howard, 2016]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC states that methotrexate should be used 
with caution in patients with impaired renal function and that the 
dose  should  be  adjusted  for  patients  with  rheumatoid  arthritis, 
juvenile  arthritis,  psoriasis  and  psoriatic  arthritis.  For  the 
oncology  indication  recommendations  in  published  protocols 
should also apply. 
According to section 4.3 of the SmPC, Methotrexate 2 mg/ml oral 
solution 
is  contraindicated 
in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance less than 30 ml/min). 
Section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  states  that  because  of  the  delayed 
excretion  of  methotrexate  in  patients  with  impaired  kidney 
function, they should be treated with particular caution and only 
with low doses of methotrexate. 
There  is  a  warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  recommending 
performing  renal  function  tests  before  beginning  treatment  with 
methotrexate  or  resuming  treatment  after  a  recovery  period.  In 
addition,  these  tests  are  to  be  conducted  weekly  in  the  first  2 
weeks,  then  every  2  weeks  for  a  month.  Thereafter,  depending 
on  the  leucocyte  count  and  the  stability  of  the  patient,  it  should 
be  conducted  at  least  once  a  month  during  the  next  6  months 
and  then  at  least  every  3  months.  Renal  function  should  be 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Renal toxicity 
monitored  by  renal  function  tests  and  urinalyses.  If  serum 
creatinine levels are increased, the dose should be reduced and if 
creatinine  clearance  is  less  than  30  ml/min,  treatment  with 
methotrexate  should  not  be  given.  Treatment  with  moderately 
high  and  high  doses  of  methotrexate  should  not  be  initiated  at 
urinary  pH  values  of  less  than  7.0.  Alkalinisation  of  the  urine 
must be tested by repeated pH monitoring (value greater than or 
equal  to  6.8)  for  at  least  the  first  24  hours  after  the 
administration of methotrexate is started. 
In  addition,  this  section  4.4  includes  a  warming  stating  that  as 
methotrexate  is  eliminated  mainly  via  the  kidneys,  increased 
concentrations  are  to  be  expected  in  the  presence  of  renal 
impairment,  which  may  result  in  severe  adverse  reactions.  If 
there  is  the  possibility  of  renal  impairment  (e.g.  in  elderly 
subjects), monitoring should take place at shorter intervals. This 
applies  in  particular  when  medicinal  products  that  affect  the 
elimination  of  methotrexate,  or  that  cause  kidney  damage  (e.g. 
NSAIDs)  or  that  can  potentially 
lead  to 
impairment  of 
haematopoiesis,  are  administered  concomitantly.  If  risk  factors 
such as renal function disorders, including mild renal impairment, 
are  present,  combined  administration  with  NSAIDs  is  not 
recommended.  Dehydration  may  also  intensify  the  toxicity  of 
methotrexate. 
Section  4.5  of 
the  SmPC 
includes 
interactions  between 
methotrexate  and  several  medicinal  products  that  have  been 
associated with renal toxicity. 
According to section 2 of the PL, Jylamvo should not be taken in 
patients with severe kidney impairment (or the doctor classes the 
impairment  as  severe).  A  doctor  or  pharmacist  should  be 
consulted before treatment if the patient has ever had any kidney 
disease. Section 2 of the PL also warns that blood tests should be 
performed  before  the  beginning  of  the  treatment  to  check  how 
well  the  kidney  is  working.  If  the  results  of  any  test  are 
abnormal, the treatment will not be restarted until all the values 
have returned to normal. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  includes  interactions  between  methotrexate 
and  several  medicinal  products  that  have  been  associated  with 
kidney toxicity. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
 
Important identified risk: Medication errors due to inadvertent daily instead of once weekly 
dosing 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Oral  methotrexate 
is 
indicated 
in  the  treatment  of  active 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
rheumatoid arthritis, adult psoriasis, severe JIA in adolescents and 
children  over  3  years  of  age,  and  in  a  number  of  oncological 
indications  such  as  ALL.  Compared  to  dosing  for  antineoplastic 
indications,  methotrexate  for  rheumatological  and  dermatological 
diseases is administered once weekly as low-dose therapy. Harmful 
or fatal errors with low-dose oral methotrexate have been reported; 
most  errors  involved  accidental  daily  dosing  of  oral  methotrexate 
that  was  intended  for  weekly  administration  [EMA/215649/2018, 
2018; Grissinger, 2018]. 
The risk of dosing errors with methotrexate has been recognised for 
many years and several measures are already in place in some EU 
countries  to  reduce  this  risk,  including  the  use  of  visual  reminders 
on the medicine packs. 
A  range  of  factors  contribute  to  these  adverse  events,  including 
patients not being given sufficient information on how often to take 
the drug (once weekly and not once daily), lack of clear packaging 
and variations in patient monitoring and treatment reviews [Mayor, 
2003]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC states that methotrexate should only be 
prescribed  by  physicians  with  expertise 
in 
the  use  of 
methotrexate  and  a 
full  understanding  of 
the  risks  of 
methotrexate  therapy.  In  addition,  section  4.2  of  the  SmPC 
includes  a  boxed  warning  stating  that  in  the  treatment  of 
rheumatological 
or 
dermatological 
diseases, 
Jylamvo 
(methotrexate) must only be taken once a week. Dosage errors in 
the  use  of  Jylamvo  (methotrexate)  can  result  in  serious  adverse 
reactions,  including  death.  It  advises  to  read  very  carefully  the 
section  regarding  posology  of  the  product.  Section  4.2  of  the 
SmPC  also  states  that  the  prescriber  should  specify  the  day  of 
intake  on  the  prescription  and  that  the  prescriber  should  ensure 
that patients or their carers will be able to comply with the once 
weekly regimen.  
There  is  a  warning  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  stating  that  the 
prescriber 
should  make 
sure  patients  understand 
that 
methotrexate  should  only  be  taken  once  a  week.  The  prescriber 
should  specify  the  day  of  intake  on  the  prescription  and  patients 
should  be  instructed  on  the  importance  of  adhering  to  the  once 
weekly intakes. In addition, this section includes a boxed warning 
regarding  patients  with  rheumatological  or  dermatological 
diseases,  who  must  be  informed  unequivocally  that  treatment  is 
to  be  taken  just  once  a  week  and  not  daily.  Incorrect  use  of 
methotrexate  can  result  in  severe  and  even  fatal  adverse 
reactions.  
 
 
Important identified risk: Medication errors due to inadvertent daily instead of once weekly 
dosing 
Section 4.9 of the SmPC states that cases of overdose have been 
reported,  sometimes  fatal,  due  to  erroneous  daily  intake  instead 
of weekly intake of oral methotrexate. 
Section 2 of the PL includes boxed information about the dosage 
of  methotrexate  when  used 
for 
rheumatological 
and 
dermatological  diseases  and  advises  to  read  very  carefully  the 
section  regarding  posology  of  the  product.  When  used  for  these 
indications, the product must only be taken once a week. Taking 
too much methotrexate may be fatal. 
Section 3 of the PL indicates that the doctor will decide what dose 
of  methotrexate  is  needed  according  to  the  condition  the  patient 
is being treated for, how severe it is and the general health of the 
patient.  This  dose  should  be  kept  to  exactly  and  the  doctor’s 
instructions  on  when  to  take  the  medicine  should  be  followed. 
This  section  also  includes  information  about  the  dosage  of 
methotrexate  when  used  for  rheumatological  and  dermatological 
diseases  and  indicates  that  when  used  for  these  indications,  the 
product must only be taken once a week. In addition, section 3 of 
the  PL  includes  a  warning  stating  that  if  the  patient  takes  more 
methotrexate than he should, the recommendations made by the 
doctor should be followed. The dose is never to be changed based 
on the decision of the patient. It also advises on the symptoms of 
an overdose and that the  doctor or hospital casualty department 
should  be  contacted  if  it  is  suspected  that  too  much  has  been 
taken. 
Labelling: warning on outer and inner packaging. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational  material  (including  a  guide 
for  health  care 
professionals and a patient card). 
DHPC. 
Important potential risk: Bone growth defects in the paediatric population 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Typically,  bone  metabolism  in  children  with  acute  lymphoblastic 
the medicine 
leukaemia  (the  predominant  childhood  cancer)  is  known  to  be 
disturbed  after  chemotherapy, 
resulting 
in 
reduced  bone 
lengthening and bone loss. Bone growth defects or bone loss during 
childhood  may  predispose  to  osteopenia  and  osteoporosis  in  later 
life.  While  many  studies  have  examined  effects  of  long-term  low-
dose  methotrexate  on  bone  metabolism  and  have  reported  no 
significant  adverse  effects  on  bone  mineral  density,  long-term 
intensive  chemotherapy  with  methotrexate  has  been  shown  to 
cause  serious  damage  to  bone  development  in  paediatric  patients 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Bone growth defects in the paediatric population 
[Fan, 2012]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Longitudinal  bone  growth  is  mainly  regulated  by  genetic  and 
hormonal  factors  such  as  growth  hormone,  insulin-like  growth 
factors, 
thyroid  hormone  and  glucocorticoids,  sex  steroids, 
fibroblast  growth  factors,  epidermal  growth  factor  and  related 
ligands  transforming  growth  factor  β  and  bone  morphogenic 
protein.  In  addition,  environmental  factors  such  as  nutrition  and 
medical  treatments  including  chemotherapy  have  also  been  shown 
to  be  important  determinants  for  bone  growth  in  children, 
influencing  the  final  height  and  bone  mass  of  an  individual  [Fan, 
2011]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Important  potential  risk:  Medication  error  due  to  the  proposed  dosage  form  (medication 
errors due to incorrect use of the oral dosing syringe and confusion between mg and ml) 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Overdose  of  methotrexate  may  cause  important  cutaneous,  oral 
the medicine 
mucosa  and  systemic  side  effects.  In  case  of  acute  intoxication  by 
methotrexate, skin signs and symptoms are a toxicity alert sign and 
may precede more serious hematologic alterations [Souza, 2016]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Patients  not  being  given  sufficient  information  on  how  to  take  the 
product are at higher risk. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  clearly  states  how  to  take  the  product 
and  the  recommended  dose  (both  in  mg  and  ml)  for  each 
indication and special populations.  
There is a boxed warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC stating that 
the  oral  solution  contains  2  mg  of  methotrexate  in  each  ml  of 
solution and informs that the scaling of the dosing syringe is in ml 
and  not  mg.  Incorrect  use  of  methotrexate  can  result  in  severe 
and even fatal adverse reactions. 
Section  6.6  of  the  SmPC  lists  detailed  instructions  on  the  use  of 
the syringe. 
Section 2 of the PL includes a boxed warning stating that the oral 
solution contains 2 mg of methotrexate in each ml of solution and 
informs that the scaling of the dosing syringe is in ml and not mg; 
and advises to read very carefully the section regarding posology 
of the product. 
Section  3  of  the  PL  also  includes  a  warning  stating  that  the  oral 
 
 
 
Important  potential  risk:  Medication  error  due  to  the  proposed  dosage  form  (medication 
errors due to incorrect use of the oral dosing syringe and confusion between mg and ml) 
solution contains 2 mg of methotrexate in each ml of solution and 
informs that the scaling of the dosing syringe is in ml and not mg. 
This  section  also  lists  detailed  instructions  on  the  use  of  the 
syringe. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational Material. 
Important potential risk: Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to 
Progressive  Multifocal  Leukoencephalopathy  (PML)  is  a  rare  and 
the medicine 
serious  infection  caused  by  the  John  Cunningham  (JC)  virus  and 
characterised by progressive inflammation and demyelination of the 
white  matter  of  the  brain  at  multiple  locations.  Following  initial 
infection,  the  virus  remains  latent  in  multiple  tissues  in  healthy 
individuals,  with  reactivation  and  clinical  disease  occurring  in 
severely immunosuppressed states [Bharat, 2012]. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Previous  history  of  other  cytotoxic  drugs,  other  biologics  or 
documented cancer [Bharat, 2012]. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.8. 
PL section 4. 
According  to  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC,  since  cases  of 
encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy  have  occurred  in  cancer 
patients  treated  with  methotrexate,  this  cannot  be  ruled  out 
either for patients with non-cancer indications. 
Section  2  of  the  PL  states  that  certain  brain  disorders 
(encephalopathy/leukoencephalopathy)  have  been  reported  in 
cancer  patients  receiving  methotrexate.  Such  side  effects  cannot 
be excluded when methotrexate is used to treat other diseases. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Missing information: Use in children younger than 3 years 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2 of the SmPC states that use in children under 3 years 
of  age  is  not  recommended  as  insufficient  data  on  efficacy  and 
safety are available for this patient group. 
 
 
 
 
Missing information: Use in children younger than 3 years 
Section 2 of the PL states that methotrexate is not recommended 
in children under 3 years of age as there is insufficient experience 
in this age group. 
Pack size. 
Restricted medical prescription. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Jylamvo 2 mg/ml oral solution. 
 
 
 
