EMA/192622/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002389 
EPAR summary for the public 
Kadcyla 
trastuzumab emtansine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Kadcyla. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Kadcyla. 
For practical information about using Kadcyla, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Kadcyla and what is it used for? 
Kadcyla is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance trastuzumab emtansine. It is used to 
treat advanced or metastatic breast cancer (cancer that has spread to other parts of the body) in 
adults who previously received trastuzumab and a taxane (type of cancer medicine).  
Kadcyla can only be used when the cancer has been shown to ‘overexpress HER2’: this means that the 
cancer cell produces on its surface large quantities of a protein which stimulates the growth of the 
cancer cell and is called HER2 (human epidermal growth factor).   
How is Kadcyla used? 
Kadcyla can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be prescribed by a doctor and 
given under the supervision of a healthcare professional who is experienced in the treatment of cancer 
patients. 
Kadcyla is available as a powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. The dose 
to be given depends on the patient’s bodyweight and the infusion is repeated every 3 weeks. Patients 
who tolerate the first 90-minute infusion can receive subsequent infusions over 30 minutes. Patients 
may remain on treatment unless the disease gets worse or unless they no longer tolerate treatment. 
Patients should be observed during and after the infusion for any infusion-related reactions such as 
flushing, shivering fits and fever. In patients who develop allergic reactions or side effects, the treating 
doctor may have to reduce the dose or stop treatment with Kadcyla.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Kadcyla work? 
The active substance in Kadcyla, trastuzumab emtansine, is made up of two active components which 
are linked together: 
• 
Trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to recognise and 
attach to the protein HER2, which is found in large quantities on the surface of some cancer cells. 
By attaching to HER2, trastuzumab activates cells of the immune system, which then kill the 
cancer cells. Trastuzumab also stops HER2 from stimulating the growth of the cancer cells. About a 
quarter of breast cancers overexpress HER2. 
•  DM1, a toxic substance that kills cells when they attempt to divide and grow. DM1 becomes active 
once Kadcyla enters the cancer cell. It attaches to a protein in cells called ‘tubulin’, which is 
important in the formation of the internal ‘skeleton’ that cells need to assemble when they divide. 
By attaching to tubulin in cancer cells, DM1 stops the formation of this skeleton, preventing the 
division and growth of the cancer cells. 
What benefits of Kadcyla have been shown in studies? 
Kadcyla has been shown to significantly delay disease getting worse and to prolong survival in patients 
with advanced and metastatic breast cancer that expressed HER2 and who were previously treated 
with trastuzumab and a taxane. In one main study, which involved 991 such patients, those treated 
with Kadcyla lived on average for 9.6 months without their disease getting worse compared with 6.4 
months for patients who were treated with two other anti-cancer medicines, capecitabine and 
lapatanib. Patients treated with Kadcyla also survived for 31 months compared with 25 months for 
patients treated with capecitabine and lapatinib. 
What are the risks associated with Kadcyla? 
The most common side effects with Kadcyla (which may affect more than 25% of patients) are nausea 
(feeling sick), fatigue (tiredness) and headache. The most common serious side effects are 
haemorrhage (bleeding), pyrexia (fever), dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), musculoskeletal pain (pain in 
muscles and bones), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts), abdominal pain (stomach ache), 
and vomiting.  
For the full list of all side effects reported with Kadcyla, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kadcyla approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Kadcyla’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The CHMP 
considered that in patients treated with Kadcyla, there was a significant improvement in survival 
compared with standard therapy. Regarding Kadcyla’s safety, overall side effects were considered to 
be manageable and the overall safety profile was considered favorable compared with other currently 
available medicines.  
Kadcyla  
EMA/192622/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kadcyla? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Kadcyla is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Kadcyla, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Because of a potential risk of confusion between Kadcyla and Herceptin due to their similar sounding 
active substances (trastuzumab emtansine and trastuzumab) the company will provide educational 
material to all healthcare professionals expected to use Kadcyla or Herceptin to alert them not to use 
these medicines interchangeably and to inform them of measures they should take to avoid medication 
errors.  
Other information about Kadcyla 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Kadcyla on 15.11.2013.  
The full EPAR for Kadcyla can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Kadcyla, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2016.  
Kadcyla  
EMA/192622/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
