EMA/473877/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005269 
Kaftrio (ivacaftor / tezacaftor / elexacaftor) 
An overview of Kaftrio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kaftrio and what is it used for? 
Kaftrio is a medicine used to treat patients aged 2 years and above who have cystic fibrosis, an 
inherited disease that has severe effects on the lungs, the digestive system and other organs.  
Cystic fibrosis can be caused by various mutations (changes) in the gene for a protein called ‘cystic 
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator’ (CFTR). People have two copies of this gene, one 
inherited from each parent and the disease only occurs when there is a mutation in both copies. 
Kaftrio is used in combination with ivacaftor in patients whose cystic fibrosis is due to at least one 
F508del mutation in the CFTR gene.  
Cystic fibrosis is rare, and Kaftrio was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 14 December 2018. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3182117  
Kaftrio contains the active substances ivacaftor, tezacaftor and elexacaftor.  
How is Kaftrio used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. Kaftrio should only be prescribed by a 
healthcare professional with experience in the treatment of cystic fibrosis.  
Kaftrio is available as tablets and granules in a sachet, both of which come in two different strengths. 
The dose and formulation depend on the patient’s age and body weight. Kaftrio should be taken in the 
morning with fat-containing food. It is used together with another medicine containing ivacaftor alone, 
which should be taken in the evening, about 12 hours after Kaftrio.  
The doses of Kaftrio and ivacaftor may need to be reduced if the patient is also taking a type of 
medicine called a ‘moderate or strong CYP3A inhibitor’, such as certain antibiotics or medicines for 
fungal infections, as they may affect the way Kaftrio and ivacaftor work in the body The doctor may 
need to adjust the dose in patients with reduced liver function. 
For more information about using Kaftrio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Kaftrio work? 
Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene. This gene leads to the production of the CFTR 
protein, which works on the surface of cells to regulate the production of mucus in the lungs and 
digestive juices in the gut. The mutations reduce the number of CFTR proteins on the cell surface or 
affect the way the protein works, resulting in mucus and digestive fluids being too thick, which leads to 
blockages, inflammation, increased risk of lung infections, and poor digestion and growth. 
Two of the active substances in Kaftrio, elexacaftor and tezacaftor, increase the number of CFTR 
proteins on the cell surface, while the other, ivacaftor, improves the activity of the defective CFTR 
protein. These actions combine to make lung mucus and digestive juices less thick, thereby helping to 
relieve symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Kaftrio have been shown in studies? 
Kaftrio taken together with ivacaftor was effective at improving lung function in three main studies in 
patients with cystic fibrosis aged 12 years and above. The main measure of effectiveness was ppFEV1, 
which is the maximum amount of air a person can breathe out in one second compared with values 
from an average person with similar characteristics (such as age, height and sex). In these studies, 
patients started off (baseline) with average ppFEV1 values that were only 60 to 68% of the values 
seen in an average healthy person.  
The first study involved 403 patients with an F508del mutation and another type of mutation known as 
a ‘minimal function’ mutation. After 24 weeks of treatment, patients who took Kaftrio and ivacaftor had 
an average increase in ppFEV1 of 13.9 percentage points compared with a reduction of 0.4 percentage 
points in patients who took placebo (a dummy treatment). 
In the second study involving 107 patients with an F508del mutation from both parents, patients who 
took Kaftrio with ivacaftor had an average increase in ppFEV1 of 10.4 percentage points compared with 
an increase of 0.4 percentage points in patients who took a combination of ivacaftor and tezacaftor 
alone. 
A third study involved 258 patients with an F508del mutation plus either a gating or residual CFTR 
activity mutation (two other types of mutations), who were already receiving ivacaftor (patients with a 
gating mutation) or ivacaftor and tezacaftor (patients with a residual activity mutation). Patients who 
took Kaftrio with ivacaftor had an average increase in ppFEV1 of 3.7 percentage points compared with 
an increase of 0.2 percentage points in patients who took ivacaftor alone or a combination of ivacaftor 
and tezacaftor. 
Treatment with Kaftrio for 24 weeks has also been shown to produce an average increase in ppFEV1 of 
10.2 percentage points in a fourth study involving 66 patients aged 6 to less than 12 years; these 
patients had an F508del mutation from both parents or an F508del mutation and a ‘minimal function’ 
mutation. The company also provided evidence to support the use of lower doses in this group, which 
showed that the medicine was distributed in the body to a similar extent as in older children and 
adults. 
Another study involved 75 children aged 2 to 5 years with an F508del mutation from both parents or 
an F508del mutation and a ‘minimal function’ mutation. In this study, patients received Kaftrio 
granules for 24 weeks and the medicine was not compared with other treatments. The results showed 
that treatment with Kaftrio granules reduced the level of chloride in patients’ sweat. Patients with 
cystic fibrosis have high levels of chloride in sweat due to the CFTR protein not working properly and a 
decrease in sweat chloride can indicate that the medicine is having an effect. The reduction in sweat 
chloride level was similar to that seen in older patients in previous studies.  
Kaftrio (ivacaftor / tezacaftor / elexacaftor)  
EMA/473877/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The effectiveness of Kaftrio in children aged 2 to 5 years was also supported by evidence showing that 
the medicine behaves in the same way in the body of younger children as in that of older children and 
adults.   
What are the risks associated with Kaftrio? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Kaftrio, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Kaftrio (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
headache, diarrhoea and upper respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infection). Rashes may 
occur and sometimes be serious. 
Why is Kaftrio authorised in the EU? 
Kaftrio is an effective treatment for patients with cystic fibrosis who have at least one F508del 
mutation in the CFTR gene. These patients have a high unmet medical need. In terms of safety, Kaftrio 
was well tolerated. Therefore, the European Medicines Agency decided that Kaftrio’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kaftrio? 
The company that markets Kaftrio will carry out a study on the long-term safety of Kaftrio including in 
pregnant women. It will also carry out a study based on a patient registry to provide data on the long-
term effectiveness of Kaftrio in children aged 2 to 5 years who have an F508del mutation from one 
parent. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kaftrio have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kaftrio are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Kaftrio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kaftrio 
Kaftrio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 August 2020. 
Further information on Kaftrio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kaftrio   
This overview was last updated in 10-2023. 
Kaftrio (ivacaftor / tezacaftor / elexacaftor)  
EMA/473877/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
