SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Kaletra. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 October 2004. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B 
1.   Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Soft capsules 
Lopinavir and ritonavir are dissolved  in a solvent mixture of oleic acid, propylene glycol and water.   
The  soft  capsules  are  contained  either  in  HDPE  bottles  capped  with  child  resistant,  tamper  evident, 
polypropylene  closure  or  in  clear  polychlorotrifluoroethylene/PVC  blisters  with  push  through 
aluminium  lid  sock.  Information  has  been  provided  in  the  dossier  demonstrating  that  the  oleic  acid 
used  in  the  medicinal  product  is  made  in  compliance  with  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on 
minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products. 
During  the  clinical  trials,  in  addition  to  the  formulation  intended  for  the  market,  two  different  soft 
capsule  formulations  containing  lopinavir  in  ethanol  or  propylene  glycol  have  been  used  in  co-
administration of the commercial ritonavir product. 
Oral solution 
Lopinavir and ritonavir are dissolved in a solvent mixture of ethanol, propylene glycol and water. The 
oral  solution  contains  42  %  w/w  alcohol.  There  was  some  concern  with  the  amount  of  ethanol  and 
propylene glycol especially since the oral solution is intended for use in children Adequate warnings 
has therefore be added in the SPC.  The solution is filled into amber polyethylene terephthalate bottles 
and  capped  with  child  resistant,  tamper  evident  polypropylene  closures.  A  calibrated  oral  dosing 
syringe of 5 ml is supplied in each pack. 
The formulation intended for marketing is the same as the one used in the paediatric clinical study. 
As  further  discussed  in  Part  IV  of  this  document,  the  soft  capsules  and  the  oral  solution  are 
bioequivalent under non-fasting conditions. 
Active substances 
Lopinavir  is  the  active  substance  within  the  product  since  ritonavir  is  added  as  the  pharmacokinetic 
enhancer.  Both  substances  are  structurally  related  with  respect  to  the  core  (i.e.  both  S,  S,  S,  S- 
configuration) although the differences exist in the other parts of the molecules (the “wings”). 
Lopinavir 
Lopinavir  is  hygroscopic,  practically  insoluble  in  water  but  freely  soluble  in  a  number  of  organic 
solvents. It is stable under normal storage conditions but degrades under UV light. The polymorphism 
aspect  of  lopinavir  has  been  well  studied.  Lopinavir  exists  in  an  amorphous  form  and  4  different 
crystalline forms. The commercial form is a mixture of amorphous form and type I crystals. Lopinavir 
possesses 4 chiral centres, but the synthetic route has been tailored to be stereoselective leading to the 
formation of the S, S, S, and S enantiomer. The purity of the active substance is controlled through the 
purity of the intermediates of the synthesis.  
The synthesis of lopinavir is a four steps convergent assembly of three starting materials. The potential 
impurities have been adequately studied. 
Batch analyses for 33 batches (3 from Abbott Chicago and 30 from Abbott Italy) manufactured using 
the commercial process meet the proposed specifications.  
A retest period of 18 months is supported by the stability data provided up to 18 months at 25°C/60 % 
RH and 6 months storage at 40°C/75 % RH. Long-term stability data will be provided when available. 
1/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ritonavir 
Ritonavir  is  a  chiral  molecule.  The  enantiomeric  purity  of  the  active  substance  is  ensured  by  the 
stereoselectivity  of  the  synthetic  route  and  by  an  adequate  control  of  the  starting  materials.  Two 
polymorphs  of  ritonavir  referred  to,  as  Forms  I  and  II  are  known.  Form  II  is  the  most 
thermodynamically  stable  but  is  much  less  soluble  than  Form  I.  To  prepare  the  formulation,  the 
physico-chemical characteristics of Form II have to be considered. 
Ritonavir used in the combination has the same origin, the same manufacturing process and the same 
impurity  profile  as  the  one  already  authorised  as  an  individual  compound  and  marketed  in  the 
European  Union.  Based  on  the  data  provided  on  the  specifications,  manufacturing  process  and 
impurities profile, the quality of ritonavir is considered acceptable. The storage of ritonavir is 2 years 
when stored under normal conditions.  
Other ingredients 
Most of the ingredients entering in the composition of the soft capsules and oral solution are described 
in the European Pharmacopoeia (e.g. oleic acid, propylene glycol, ethanol, castor oil polyoxyl 35) or 
USP standard (e.g: lecithin). The proposed acceptance criteria for the non-pharmacopeial ingredients 
were accepted (anhydrised liquid sorbitol-glycerol bend, colorants and flavours).  
The packaging materials are standard and therefore the information provided is considered sufficient.  
A calibrated 5 ml dosing syringe, CE marked is included in the packaging. 
Product development and finished product 
Soft capsules 
During  the  development  of the formulation, the following characteristics  had to be  considered: poor 
aqueous  solubility,  lack  of  bioavailability  of  lopinavir  and  ritonavir  and  existence  of  polymorphic 
Form II of ritonavir. The formulation has been developed on the commercial formulation of ritonavir. 
No formal compatibility studies were performed but compatibility between lopinavir and ritonavir was 
demonstrated based on stability data observed with the two dosage forms.  
Different co-formulated capsules using different ratios of the two substances dissolved in an alcohol 
solvent  system  were  manufactured.  The  co-formulated  capsule  (propylene  glycol  system)  was 
bioequivalent  to  the  individual  capsules  formulations  (ethanol)  under  non-fasting  conditions.  The 
choice  of the excipients, solvents and enhancers to  optimise  the co-formulation  has  been adequately 
justified based on bioavailability studies. Due to the loss of propylene glycol during storage, a worst-
case  scenario  has  been  simulating,  but  no  crystallisation  of  ritonavir  appeared  despite  of 
supersaturation.  Due  to  instability  of  ritonavir  in the  formulation,  capsules  must  however  be  kept  at 
5°C. 
The manufacturing process of the soft capsules is a standard one and consists of the preparation of the 
solution  of  lopinavir  and ritonavir in  the  co-solvent  system, filling  into capsules and  drying. All the 
steps  are  conducted  at  temperatures  ensuring  that  all  the  ingredients,  especially  ritonavir  potential 
Form  II,  are  adequately  dissolved.  The  in-process  controls  are  satisfactory  and  key  manufacturing 
parameters have been studied. The validation data on 4 semi production scale batches showed that the 
manufacturing  process  produces  a  uniform  and  homogenous  product  that  will  consistently  meet  the 
specifications proposed for the finished product.  
The proposed specifications and the proposed analytical validations are adequate. Results from batch 
analysis carried out on 15 batches confirmed satisfactory uniformity of the soft capsules at release, and 
indicate reliable and consistent performance of the product in clinical use.  
Oral solution 
The pharmaceutical development of the oral solution benefits from the one of the soft capsule. The pH 
for maximum ritonavir stability (~ 3) and the bitter taste of the two active substances had to be taken 
on  board.  As  for  the  capsules,  the  choice  of  the  excipients,  solvents  and  enhancers,  has  been  well 
justified  based  on  bioavailability  studies.  Considering  the  amount  of  ethanol  in  the  solution,  the 
solution is self preservative. This has been confirmed by an efficacy preservative test for which data 
2/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
has been submitted. The reproducibility of the dosing device and the compatibility between container 
and content were adequately demonstrated.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  oral  solution  is  also  a  standard  one  and  consists  of  dissolution, 
filtration and bottle filling. The in-process controls are satisfactory and key manufacturing parameters 
have been studied. The validation of the manufacturing process performed on 3 full-scale production 
batches has been adequately performed to ensure the reproducibility of the process.  
The proposed specifications and the proposed analytical validations are adequate. Results from batch 
analysis carried out on 12 batches of various size confirmed satisfactory uniformity of the oral solution 
at release, and indicate reliable and consistent performance of the product in clinical use.  
Stability of the product 
Soft capsules 
Data up to 12 months at 5°C and 6 months at 25°C/60 % RH on 4 batches stored in HDPE bottles and 
on 3 batches stored in blister packs were available. Supportive data are obtained from stability studies 
conducted on 3 lots stored in bulk containers at 5°C.  
The results are within the specifications and no crystallisation of ritonavir Form II was identified from 
capsules containing the current proposed amount of propylene glycol at expiry. Based on the provided 
data, 18 months shelf life has been granted for the soft capsules when stored within their container at 
5°C with the option for room temperature storage after dispensing to the  patients  for  up  to  42  days. 
The stability testing is ongoing and long-term stability data for the soft capsules will be provided when 
available.  
Oral solution 
Data  up  to  12  months  at  5°C  and  6  months  at  25°C  are  available.  Based  on  the  preliminary  data, 
18 months shelf life is acceptable when the oral solution is stored within its container at 5°C, with the 
option for room temperature storage after dispensing to the patients for up to 42 days. Stability testing 
is ongoing and long-term stability data for the oral solution will be provided when available. 
2.  
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Lopinavir is a new peptidomimetic inhibitor of HIV protease enzyme. It blocks the ability of the viral 
protease to cleave precursor polyproteins necessary for viral replication.  
Antiviral activity 
The affinity of lopinavir to the wild type HIV protease is 0.0010 nM and ranged from 0.0022 nM to 
0.0030 nM in mutant HIV protease associated with resistance to ritonavir. Lopinavir inhibits human’s 
aspartic proteases at concentrations greater than 200,000 fold.  
The  in  vitro  antiviral  activity  of  lopinavir  evaluated  in  acutely  infected  lymphoblastic  cell  lines 
showed that in the absence of human serum, the mean EC50 of lopinavir (50 % effective concentration) 
against  five  different  HIV-1  laboratory  strains  was  19  nM  whereas  in  the  presence  of  50  %  of  the 
human serum EC50 was 163 nM. In the absence and presence of 50 % human serum, the mean EC50 of 
lopinavir against HIV-1IIIB in MT4 cells was 17 nM and 102 nM, respectively (58 and 1044 nM for 
ritonavir).    In  the  absence  of  human  serum,  the  mean  EC50  of  lopinavir  was  6.5  nM  against  several 
wild type HIV-1 clinical isolates in PBMC. This compares well with currently available data for other 
protease inhibitors (ritonavir 22 nM; indinavir 14 nM and saquinavir 3.5 nM). 
Lopinavir demonstrated also antiviral activity against one laboratory strain HIV-2 with EC50 values of 
25 and 104 nM in the absence or presence of 50 % human serum respectively.  
The concentration of inhibitor which gave 50 % cytotoxic effect was about 22 µM for lopinavir in the 
absence of human serum and > 100 µM in the presence of human serum, giving a greater than 1,000 in 
vitro selectivity index.  
3/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  antiviral  activity  of  lopinavir  has  not  been  evaluated  in  vivo,  due  to  the  absence  of  adequate 
animal models. 
Ritonavir was found to be a very potent inhibitor of the metabolism of lopinavir (Ki equal to 0.013 µM 
(0.009 µg/ml)). Conversely, lopinavir was found to be a very weak inhibitor of CYP3A (Ki equal to 
130 µM (82 µg/ml)). 
Resistance profile 
Several in vitro studies were performed to elucidate the resistance profile of lopinavir. Also a limited 
number of clinical isolates was investigated. 
After  sequential  in  vitro  passages  in  presence  of  lopinavir  and  ritonavir,  mutations  were  mainly 
observed  at  positions  32  (V32I),  46  (M46I)  and  84  (I84V).  These  mutations  are  often  associated  to 
resistance  to  other  protease  inhibitors.    Mutations  at  positions  30,  48,  82  and  90  were  rare,  but 
mutation 91 (T91S) was also selected.  
In clinical isolates from patients who had failed therapy with ritonavir (n = 5), a reduced susceptibility 
to  lopinavir  was  demonstrated  in  presence  of  multiple  strains  with  in  vitro  resistance  to  ritonavir. 
However  EC50  values  for  lopinavir  were  always  inferior  to  EC50  values  of  ritonavir,  particularly  in 
presence of mutations at positions 20, 36, 54, 82 or 36, 54, 82 (EC50 values between 25 and 97 nM). 
Lopinavir  maintained  an  antiviral  activity  against  highly  resistant  strains  to  ritonavir  (mutations  at 
positions 46, 63, 71, 82, 84). 
Additional  in  vitro  selection  experiments  with  lopinavir  alone  or  with  low  dose  of  ritonavir 
demonstrated that the susceptibility to both inhibitors decreased with successive passages irrespective 
whether ritonavir was present or not. 
Constructed  mutants  with  more  than  5  mutations  with  either  I84V  or  I50V  (mutation  known  to  be 
associated with  reduced  susceptibility to  amprenavir) as a primary  mutation were highly resistant  to 
both  lopinavir  and  ritonavir  with  EC50  values  ranging  from  27-  to  49-fold  and  9-  to  72-fold, 
respectively.  These  viruses  were  also  highly  cross  resistant  to  amprenavir  (42-  to  65-fold),  and  of 
intermediate resistance to indinavir and nelfinavir (ranging from 2- to 18-fold). However, all mutant 
clones remained susceptible to saquinavir.  
The  in  vitro  characterisation  of  phenotypic  cross  resistance  between  lopinavir  and  other  protease 
inhibitors  was  analysed  in  approximately  150  clinical  isolates  from  protease  inhibitors  experienced 
patients (VIRCO + clinical studies M97-765 and M98-957). Data suggested that lopinavir manifests 
cross-resistance  with  ritonavir  and  indinavir  and  no  or  few  resistance  to  nelfinavir  and  saquinavir. 
According  to  the  analysis  of  correlation  with  several  genotypic  patterns  of  resistance  to  protease 
inhibitor [to indinavir (10, 46, 82 and 93), saquinavir (10, 71, 84 and 90) ritonavir (10, 54 and 82) and 
nelfinavir (30, 88 or 10, 71, 90 and 93)] and the susceptibility to lopinavir, mutations at positions 10, 
54, 71 and 82 appear to have a substantial influence in terms of decrease of susceptibility to lopinavir 
(x  4  IC50).  However,  considering  the  limited  number  of  viral  strains  analysed,  no  definitive 
conclusions could be drawn.  
General and safety pharmacology programme 
There  was  no  evidence  of  any  effects  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  on  the  central  nervous  system  and 
cardiovascular effects during the pharmacodynamic studies. The choice of the ratio lopinavir/ritonavir 
used  in  the  studies  was  however  further  discussed  since  it  differed  from  the  one  intended  to  be 
marketed (2:1 instead of 4:1). In addition, since cardiac events have been observed in dogs during the 
3-month  toxicity  study  (U  waves  associated  with  prolonged  PR  interval  and  bradycardia),  the 
applicant  agreed  to  perform  a  Purkinge  fibers  study  to  further  investigate  the  potential  effect  of 
lopinavir/ritonavir the cardiovascular system.  
No  specific  studies  were  performed  on  the  autonomous  nervous  system,  respiratory  and  gastro-
intestinal  systems,  endocrine  action,  immuno-pharmacological  action  and  metabolites  action.  At  the 
highest concentration tested (i.e 10 µM in the absence of serum proteins) lopinavir reduced receptor 
binding  and  ion  transport  (i.e  binding  to  L-type  calcium  channels  reduced  by  mean  50  %,  sodium 
channel site 2 reduced by 62 %) and chloride ionophore by 47 %). Lopinavir did not have any effect 
on the K+ channels.  
4/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  lopinavir  was  determined  using  validated  testing  methods  in  several 
species (rat, dog and monkey) after single and multiple dose administration. 
Absorption and distribution 
Lopinavir  was  poorly  bioavailable  in  rats  (23  %)  and  not  bioavailable  in  dogs  and  monkeys  when 
administered  alone.  In  combination  with  ritonavir,  substantial  increases  in  both  maximum  plasma 
concentration  (Cmax)  and  total  exposure  (AUCs)  of  both  ritonavir  and  lopinavir  were  observed  in 
mice,  rats  and  dogs  with  increasing  dose  of  the  combination.  For  instance,  after  single  oral  dose 
administration  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  (2:1)  in  rats  (10  mg/kg  lopinavir)  and  humans  (5.7  mg/kg), 
ritonavir resulted in a 2-fold increase in Cmax and a 6-fold increase in AUC for the rat and a 44-fold 
increase in Cmax and a 182-fold increase in AUC in humans. These parameters for lopinavir increased 
in  an  approximately  dose-proportional  manner  in  mice  and  a  less  than  dose-proportional  manner  in 
rats  and  dogs.  Ritonavir  concentration  increased  more  than  dose-proportionally  in  all  species.  The 
absolute  bioavailability  estimates  have  however  not  been  determined  due  to  the  lack  of  proper 
intravenous  formulation  with  the  lopinavir/ritonavir.  In  rats  plasma  levels  were  generally  higher  in 
females  than  in  males,  which  might  be  explained  by  the  higher  expression  of  CYP3A4  activity  in 
males as no  sex difference was observed in any other species. Tmax  of lopinavir in rat, dog, monkey 
and  human  ranged  between  1.5  and  4.6  hours  after  single  oral  dose  administration  of 
lopinavir/ritonavir (2:1).  
Orally administered lopinavir/ritonavir was widely distributed into tissues of normal and pregnant rats, 
with  highest  tissue  to  plasma  ratios  found  in  the  liver,  adrenals  and  thyroid.  The  distribution  into 
cellular fraction of blood was minimal and the combination did not cross extensively the brain barrier, 
indicating  a  low  efficacy  against  viruses  in  the  central  nervous  system.  Lopinavir/ritonavir  readily 
distributed in the placenta, uterus and milk of rats, a finding which has been adequately addressed in 
the relevant section of the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Mean  plasma  protein  binding  percentages  of  lopinavir  determined  in  in  vitro  studies  ranged  from 
98.90-97.56% in mice, 99.76-95.89% in rats, 99.45-96.29% in  dogs, 98.30-95.36% in monkeys, and 
99.72-97.37%  in  humans.  The  extend  of  protein  binding  generally  decreased  with  increasing 
concentrations  in  all  five  species.  Ritonavir  may  have  the  potential  to  decrease  the  plasma  protein 
binding of lopinavir in human plasma, but this occured only at toxicologically or clinically irrelevant 
levels.  
Metabolism and elimination 
Lopinavir  was  metabolised  in  rat,  dog  and  human  primarily  by  hepatic  CYP3A4  isoenzymes. 
Radioactivity  in  rat  and  dog  faeces  consisted  largely  of  unchanged  parent  compound  after  oral 
administration.  Although  there  were  similarities  in  metabolite  pattern  between  rat,  dog  and  human, 
qualitative and quantitative differences were observed. The  metabolism of lopinavir was sensitive to 
inhibition of ritonavir, which is in accordance with the inhibition of metabolic clearance of lopinavir 
by ritonavir observed in the rat.  
Ritonavir is known to inhibit CYP3A4, CYP2D6, and to a lesser extent CYP2C9/10 and CYP2C19.  
However,  due  to  the  lower  dose  in  the  combination  treatment,  a  less  potent  inhibition  of  CYP3A4, 
CYP2D6,  CYP2C9  and  CYP2C19  was  observed.  Lopinavir/ritonavir  was  eliminated  rapidly  mainly 
by  hepatobiliary  processes  and  excreted  via  faeces  (>  80  %  of  the  dose).  A  lower  clearance  of 
lopinavir was observed in human compared with animal models after single doses administration. 
The pharmacokinetic exposure of lopinavir/ritonavir following multiple administrations was assessed 
during the toxicity studies. The ratio lopinavir/ritonavir used in the toxicity studies deviated from the 
ratio  in  clinical  dosage  form  (4:1).  After  multiple  dosing,  the  AUC  ratios  of  lopinavir/ritonavir 
decreased  with  increasing  doses  in  all  species.  The  ratios  were  higher  in  mice,  rats  and  rabbits  as 
compared to the ratios in dogs. Ratios in rats were higher or comparable with the ratio at maximum 
human  therapeutic  dose,  but  in  dogs,  the  ratio  lopinavir/ritonavir  was  generally  lower  than  in  the 
human  therapeutic  situation.  The  consequences  of  these  differences  for  the  adequacy  of  the  animal 
toxicity studies will be further discussed. 
5/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
A  conventional  toxicity  programme  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  Good  Laboratory  Practices. 
The  oral  route  was  mostly  used  since  it  is  the  proposed  clinical  route  of  administration  and  three 
different formulations were used (liquid, semi-solid and soft capsules). 
Most of the toxicological studies were designed to assess the effect of both compounds in combination 
at a ratio that was not identical to human exposure: 2/1 or 3/1 in mice, rats and dogs compared to 4/1 
for the human. Very few studies were conducted with lopinavir alone due to its poor bioavailability.  
Single dose toxicity: Lethal oral dose of lopinavir when given alone was greater than 2500 mg/kg. The 
acute  NOEL  ranged  from  39/20  mg/kg  for  rats  to  20/10  mg/kg  for  mice  given  the  2:1  oral 
combination.  The  combination  of  the  two  substances  showed  a  low  acute  toxic  potential.  Clinical 
signs of toxicity included reduced activity, ataxia, dyspnea, salivation, and discoloration urine. 
Repeat  dose  toxicity:  Studies  were  performed  in  rodent  and  dogs  up  to  9  months  using  the 
combination  lopinavir/ritonavir.  Animals  were  exposed  to  the  combination  at  a  ratio  of  2/1  or  3/1. 
Mortality  and/or  severe  toxicity  were  observed  with  high  dosage  in  mice  (200/100  mg/kg),  rats 
(150/100 mg kg reduced to 100/50 mg/kg) and dogs (100/50 mg/kg reduced to 70/35 mg/kg). NOAEL 
obtained  corresponded  to  AUC  values  of  43/3  µg.h/ml  (20/10  mg/kg/d)  in  mice,  18.8/0.6  µg.h/ml 
(10/5  mg/kg/d)  in  rats  and  75/37  µg.h/ml  (50/25  mg/kg/d)  in  dogs.  Human  exposure  of  400-
mg/100 mg bid lopinavir/ritonavir resulted in AUC values at maximum human therapeutic dose levels 
of approximately 180 µg.h/ml and 20 µg.h/ml for lopinavir and ritonavir respectively (exposure ratio 
9:1).  The  safety  factor  was  less  than  one  for  all  species  studied  and  toxic  effects  were  observed  at 
human exposure levels.  
Overall,  the  target  organs  were  liver  (mice,  rats  and  dogs),  thyroid  (rats  only),  haematological 
parameters (rats) and spleen and kidney (mice only). In dogs, the most sensitive indication of toxicity 
was  gastro-intestinal  distress  (emesis,  diarrhoea  and/or  loose  stools),  which  occurred  generally  1-2 
hours after dosing at all dosages tested. 
In  rodents  hepatic  changes  included  hepatocytomegaly,  multinucleated  hepatocytes,  single  cell 
necrosis  and/or  cytoplasmic  vacuolation,  increases  in  ALT,  AST,  ALP  or  GGT  but  also  serum 
cholesterol (mice and rats) and sometimes triglycerides (only mice). Increased liver weight along with 
cytoplasmic  vacuolation,  single  cell  necrosis,  bile  accumulation  and  cell  swelling  were  observed  in 
dogs receiving high doses. The hepatocellular changes seen in dogs after 3 months appeared reversible 
after  one-month  recovery  period,  but  the  occurrence  of  multinucleated  hepatocytes  and  hepatocyte 
lysomal  inclusions  in  rats  persisted  despite  one-month  withdrawal  period.  Overall,  rats  were  more 
sensitive to the hepatotoxic effects than dogs. 
In the three month study in dogs, cardiac changes, characterised in particular by prominent U waves 
associated with prolonged PR interval and bradycardia, made in the context of electrolytic disturbance, 
were reported in high-dose animals (100/50 mg/kg/day reduced to 70/35 mg/k/day on day 30 due to 
mortality).  These  cardiac  effects  were  not  reported  in  the  6-month  study  in  which  dogs  were 
supplemented with electrolytes and exposure reached comparable levels of the combination. Cardiac 
effects were also not reported in the 9-month study for which the exposure was below that achieved in 
the  3-month  study.  In  order  to  assess  the  possible  impact  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  on  cardiovascular 
system,  the  applicant  performed  an  uncontrolled  Purkinje  fibers  study  in  dogs.  Lopinavir  did  not 
significantly delay repolarization at concentrations equal to (and exceeding 10-fold) the estimated free 
fraction plasma levels at Cmax values observed clinically. Concentrations of 0.15 µg/ml and 1.5 µg/ml 
for freely available lopinavir were used. Concentrations encompassing a 100-1000 fold range were not 
tested. Moreover the myocardial binding and concentration is unknown. The results of this study were 
considered  non  conclusive  because  of  the  low  concentrations  used  and  absence  of  positive  control 
(preferably  also  containing  one  other  protease  inhibitor  as  a  control).    As  a  post-marketing 
commitment, it was shown that cloned human cardiac potassium channels (HERG) were inhibited by 
30% at the highest concentrations of lopinavir/ritonavir tested, corresponding to a lopinavir exposure 
7-fold total and  15-fold  free peak plasma levels achieved in  humans at the  maximum  recommended 
therapeutic  dose.    In  contrast,  similar  concentrations  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  demonstrated  no 
repolarisation delay in the canine cardiac Purkinje fibres.  Lower concentrations of lopinavir/ritonavir 
did  not  produce  significant  potassium  (HERG)  current  blockade.    The  clinical  relevance  of  these 
6/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
preclinical  data  is  however  unknown  and  thus  potential  cardiac  effects  of  this  product  in  humans 
cannot be ruled out.In rats, effects on blood parameters were reported in the 50/25 and 150 mg/kg/day 
groups  however  anaemia  was  observed  only  in  the  two  high  dosages  males  in  the  6-month  study. 
Erythrocyte  morphological  changes  not  immune-mediated  were  also  reported.  These  were  not 
observed in mice or dogs.  
Increased  thyroid  weight  with  hypertrophy  of  follicular  cells  and  decreased  serum  thyroxine 
concentrations  were  reported  in  rats  receiving  50/25  mg/kg/day  or  greater  but  these  changes  were 
considered species specific and therefore of no clinical relevance.  
To support an indication in paediatrics, the toxicity of the combination was also evaluated in neonatal 
(3-4 days old at the start of treatment) or juvenile rats (16 days old at start of treatment) treated with 
oral  doses  up  to  40/20  mg/kg/d  and  100/50  mg/kg  respectively.  Results  indicated  a  similar  toxicity 
profile between neonatal, juvenile and adult rats but neo-natal rats seemed to be less susceptible to the 
combination lopinavir/ritonavir. 
Genotoxicity:  Lopinavir  alone  or  in  combination  with  ritonavir  did  not  reveal  any  mutagenic  or 
clastogenic potential effect when evaluated in the standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. 
Carcinogenicity: Two years oral carcinogenicity study of lopinavir/ritonavir combination in mice and 
rats  were    ongoing  at  time  of  Marketing  Authorisation.  Submission  of  the  carcinogenicity  data  was 
part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. Long-term carcinogenicity studies of 
lopinavir/ritonavir  in  mice  revealed  a  nongenotoxic,  mitogenic  induction  of  liver  tumours,  generally 
considered  to  have  little  relevance  to  human  risk.    Carcinogenicity  studies  in  rats  revealed  no 
tumourigenic findings 
Reproduction Toxicity: Combination of lopinavir/ritonavir did not alter fertility parameters. In rats the 
combination  was  slightly  embryotoxic  (pregnancy  loss,  decreased  foetal  viability,  decreased  foetal 
body  weights)  at  or  near  maternally  toxic  doses  (lopinavir/ritonavir  100/50  mg/kg/day).  No  foetal 
malformations  related  to  the  combination  were  found  at  any  dosage  but  an  increased  incidence  in 
skeletal variations and reductions in ossification were noted in foetuses.  
A  similar  study  in  rabbits  administered  at  dosages  up  to  80/40  mg/kg/day  did  not  show 
embryo/foetotoxicity or teratogenicity.  
In  the  peri-  and  post-natal  development  study,  the  combination  altered  pup  viability  at  day  4  
post-partum in rats at doses that were not toxic to the dams but not at weaning (80/40 mg/kg/day).  
Local  Tolerance:  No  local  tolerance  study  was  carried  out,  which  is  acceptable  considering  the 
administration route of lopinavir/ritonavir. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental  Risk  Assessment:  No  environmental  risk  assessment  was  conducted.  This 
was  considered  acceptable  since  lopinavir  degrades  under  UV-light  and  rapid  breakdown  is  to  be 
expected based on the molecular structure of lopinavir/ritonavir. 
Impurities/Metabolites: There was no alteration of the toxicological profile of lopinavir/ritonavir when 
using formulations containing high level of total impurities/degradants at levels generally 3 to 8 fold 
the level expected in humans.  
The  soft  capsules  and  more  importantly  the  oral  solution  contain  high  level  of  propylene  glycol. 
Although  it  is  generally  considered  to  be  of  low  toxicity  (GRAS  status),  high  doses  could  lead  to 
toxicity, particularly in patients at risk such as children and patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
Appropriate warnings have therefore been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
3.   Clinical aspects 
The  clinical  programme  consisted  of  23  pharmacokinetic  studies,  3  phase  I/II  studies  and  two 
confirmatory  clinical  to  support  the  indication  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  in  adults.  In  addition,  a  single 
phase  I/II  study  was  conducted  to  support  the  indication  in  children.  All  the  clinical  trials  were 
performed  according  to  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international  ethical  principles.  The  clinical 
programme  intended  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  both  in  antiretroviral 
naive and single protease inhibitor experienced patients.  
7/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The approved indication is the following:  
Kaletra is indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults and children above the age of 2 years, in 
combination with other antiretroviral agents. 
Most  experience  with  Kaletra  is  derived  from  the  use  of  the  product  in  antiretroviral  therapy  naïve 
patients.  Data  in  heavily  pretreated  protease  inhibitor  experienced  patients  are  limited.  There  are 
limited data on salvage therapy of patients who have failed therapy with Kaletra.  
The choice of Kaletra to treat protease inhibitor experienced HIV-1 infected patients should be based 
on individual viral resistance testing and treatment history of patients. 
Clinical Pharmacology 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Lopinavir is a protease inhibitor with a specific inhibitory activity of the viral protease of HIV-1 and 
HIV-2.      As  indicated  in  Part  III  of  this  document,  an  approximately  10-fold  decrease  of  antiviral 
activity of lopinavir was observed in the laboratory experiments in presence of 50% of human serum 
in comparison with absence of human serum. In PBMC, EC50 of lopinavir is 6.5 nM.  
For comparison EC50 for currently available data for other protease inhibitors are 20 nM for ritonavir, 
14 nM for indinavir and 3.5 nM for saquinavir.  
• 
Resistance profile 
As  already  mentioned  in  Part  III  of  this  document,  the  in  vitro  characterisation  of  resistance  profile 
revealed  that  the  selected  mutations  (V32I,  M46I  and  I84V)  are  different  to  those  associated  to 
ritonavir resistance (M36I, I54V and V82A). 
Genotypic correlates of reduced phenotypic susceptibility to lopinavir in viruses selected by other PIs: 
The in vitro antiviral activity of lopinavir was assessed against a panel of 112 clinical isolates obtained 
from patients failing protease inhibitors therapy (patients from studies M97-765 and M98-957).  The 
following eleven amino acid positions in HIV protease were found to be statistically correlated with 
reduced  in  vitro  susceptibility  to  lopinavir:  L10F/I/R/V,  K20M/R,  L24I,  M46I/L,  F53L,  I54L/T/V, 
L63P, A71I/L/T/V, V82A/F/T, I84V and L90M. The median EC50 of lopinavir against these isolates 
with  0-3,  4-5  6-7  and  8-10  mutations  at  the  above  amino  acid  positions  was  0.8,  2.7,  13.5  and  
44.0-fold  higher  than  the  EC50  against  the  wild  type,  respectively.  The  16  viruses  that  displayed  
> 20-fold change in susceptibility contained all mutations at positions 10, 54, 63 plus 82 and/or 84. In 
addition, they had a median of 3 mutations at amino acid positions 20, 24, 46, 53, 71 and 90. 
Antiviral activity of lopinavir/ritonavir in patients failing single PI therapy (M97-765): 
Rebound  isolates  from  single  PI-experienced  patients  who  began  lopinavir/ritonavir  therapy  with  at 
most 2 of the 11 mutations associated with reduced susceptibility to lopinavir showed no evidence of 
increased  genotypic  or  phenotypic  resistance  to  lopinavir  compared  to  baseline  isolates.  In  general 
Cmin was shown to be superior to ECI50 at baseline. 
Antiviral therapy in patients failing multiple PI therapy (M98-957): 
The  clinical  relevance  of  reduced  in  vitro  susceptibility  to  lopinavir  was  examined  by  assessing  the 
virologic  response  to  Kaletra  therapy,  with  respect  to  baseline  viral  genotype  and  phenotype,  in 
56 patients  previous failing therapy with  multiple  protease  inhibitors.   The EC50  of lopinavir  against 
the 56 baseline viral isolates ranged from 0.6 to 96-fold higher than the EC50 against wild type HIV. 
After  24  weeks  of  treatment  with  lopinavir/ritonavir  in  combination  with  efavirenz  +  NRTIs,  the 
response rate diminished in patients who had 10 to 20-fold and 20 to 40-fold reduced susceptibility to 
lopinavir at baseline (78 % and 67 % respectively in comparison to 93 % in patients with < 10-fold 
reduced susceptibility to lopinavir at baseline). A substantial response rate of 50 % was even observed 
among patients with baseline isolates > 40-fold reduced in vitro susceptibility to lopinavir. Virologic 
response was also related to baseline genotype. In particular a high response rate (24/25; 96 %) was 
observed in  patients whose baseline isolates contained  5  or less of the  11  mutations associated with 
reduced  in  vitro  susceptibility  to  lopinavir  compared  to  the  response  rate  (2/6;  33  %)  observed  in 
patients whose baseline isolates contained 8 or more mutations.  
8/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of rebound in viral load 
An analysis was performed on viral isolates from 4 naïve patients from study M97-720, 10 single PI 
experienced patients from study M97-765 and 9 multiple PI experienced patients from study M98-957 
in whom a rebound in plasma viral load occurred during lopinavir/ritonavir therapy. In antiretroviral 
naïve patients, no change in susceptibility to lopinavir was noted and no new mutations compared to 
baseline  isolates  were  observed.  In  single  PI  experienced  patients,  viruses  remained  susceptible  to 
lopinavir  but  at  reduced  level  and  new  mutations  associated  with  reduced  susceptibility  to  lopinavir 
and/or  resistance  to  other  PI  appeared.  In  one  of  these  multiple  PI  experienced  patients,  following 
rebound, EC50 of lopinavir increased 99-fold above the wild type and four new mutations in protease 
region were detected. In addition all the rebound isolates were resistant to efavirenz. 
To evaluate the emergence of resistance in case of failure to lopinavir/ritonavir, preliminary genotypic 
and  phenotypic  data  from  viral  isolates  obtained  from  antiretroviral  naive  patients  (M98-863) 
experiencing  viral  rebound  at  48  weeks  were  analysed.  The  absence  of  detection  of  any  mutation  is 
noteworthy  (0/31  (0%)  versus  21/64  (33%)  in  lopinavir/ritonavir  and  nelfinavir  arms  respectively. 
Furthermore, mutation M184V was detected in viral isolates from patients receiving lamivudine to a 
lesser  extent  in  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  than  nelfinavir  arms  (14/31  (45  %)  versus  55/64  (86  %) 
respectively).  These  data  are  supportive  of  the  use  of  the  concept  of  “high  genetic  barrier”  and 
consequently  of  relevance  to  the  use  of  the  combination  in  antiretroviral  naive  patients.  However, 
further  investigations  are  necessary,  particularly  to  define  optimal  therapeutic  strategies  in  case  of 
failure to lopinavir/ritonavir. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of lopinavir was determined in 5 pharmacokinetic studies, 9 interactions 
studies  and  9  bioequivalence/bioavailability  studies  after  single  and  multiple  doses  in  healthy 
volunteers, HIV-1 infected patients and paediatric patients using adequate analytical methods. Except 
for  the  single  dose  study,  lopinavir  has  always  been  administered  with  ritonavir.  Various  dosing 
schemes were used (lopinavir ranging from 100  mg to 800  mg and ritonavir ranging from 50  mg to 
300 mg) to investigate the effect of ritonavir on lopinavir and to optimise the dose. 
Absorption and distribution 
Although  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  lopinavir  is  unknown  due  to  the  lack  of  an  adequate 
intravenous formulation, concentrations after administration of doses of 200 mg to 800 mg led to very 
low plasma concentrations as consequence of large presystemic metabolism. Therefore lopinavir has 
been  developed  with  low  dose  of  ritonavir  since  the  co-administration  substantially  increased  the 
plasma concentrations of lopinavir, as a consequence of inhibition of CYP3A-mediated metabolism of 
lopinavir by ritonavir.  
After oral administration, lopinavir in combination with ritonavir was well absorbed and the relative 
bioavailability  of  lopinavir  was  increased  by  160-fold.  The  amount  of  14C  lopinavir  unchanged 
recovered  in  the  faeces  accounted  for  approximately  20  %,  indicating  extensive  absorption  of 
lopinavir. Rate of absorption was low with mean Tmax lying between 5 to 6 h. 
Lopinavir does not seem to be a substrate for the counter-transport protein P-glycoprotein (PgP), like 
other available protease inhibitors. 
When  administered  alone,  the  increase  of  lopinavir  plasma  concentrations  with  dose  was  more  than 
dose-proportional  (doses  of  200,  400  and  800  mg).  With  a  fixed  dose  of  ritonavir,  increasing  single 
doses  of  lopinavir  led  to  an  almost  proportional  increase  in  lopinavir  concentrations.  The 
pharmacokinetics of a fixed ritonavir dose was minimally affected by co-administration with different 
doses  of  lopinavir.  With  a  fixed  lopinavir  dose  (400  and  800  mg),  increasing  ritonavir  dose  (50  to 
200 mg) led to an increase in lopinavir concentrations, although saturation occurred at higher ritonavir 
dose.  
At therapeutic dosage (lopinavir 400 mg/ritonavir 100 mg), the following parameters were obtained: 
9/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
AUC (µg.h/ml 
Cmax (µg/ml) 
C12 (µg/ml) 
Lopinavir 
Ritonavir 
105+ 34 
4.7+ 1.7 
8.5 + 2.0 
0.6 + 0.2 
0.23 + 0.10 
0.19 + 0.09 
Food  increased  the  bioavailability  of  both  lopinavir  and  ritonavir.  Under  fasting  conditions,  mean 
lopinavir AUC and mean Cmax  values were respectively 28-46 % and 13-32 % lower compared to the  
ones obtained after a moderate fat breakfast. Similarly ritonavir AUC and Cmax were also decreased. 
Food intake had an even more pronounced effect on lopinavir when given as oral solution since mean 
AUC and Cmax values were respectively 46-53 % and 35-39 % lower under fasting conditions. A high 
fat meal enhanced lopinavir and ritonavir concentrations by 25 % compared to a moderate fat meal. 
Whereas early phase I/II studies were performed regardless of food intake, patients in phase III studies 
received doses with food as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Distribution 
As no intravenous formulation is available, the total volume of distribution is unknown. However the 
apparent distribution volume in man was estimated to be around 40 litres, which seemed rather low. 
Protein  binding  assessed  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  showed  that  lopinavir  is  highly  protein  bound 
(approximately  99  %)  to  both  human  serum  albumin  and  α1-acid  glycoprotein.  Distribution  into 
cerebrospinal fluid and semen of humans is under investigation.  
Metabolism and elimination 
Lopinavir is eliminated mainly through oxidative metabolism. After administration of a single dose of 
radiolabeled lopinavir, more than 90% of the dose was recovered in urine (10 %) and faeces (83 %). 
Unchanged lopinavir represented about 20 % of the eliminated dose. As demonstrated in vitro studies, 
the  metabolism  is  via  cytochrome  P450,  mainly  CYP3A4  and  CYP3A5.  The  major  metabolites 
present in human faeces after oral dosing were M-3/4 (10.1 % of mean total dose), M-9/10 (7.4 %) and 
M-11/12/13/14/15  (8.9  %).  The  in  vitro  antiviral  activity  for  the  metabolites  is  unknown  except  for  
M-1  and  M3/4,  which  have  potency  comparable  to  that  of  the  parent  drug.  Unknown  metabolites 
represented  9  %  of  the  administered  dose.  Low  concentrations  of  metabolites  were  measured  in 
plasma.  
After  single  dose  administration,  mean  elimination  half-life  (t1/2)  ranged  between  2  to  3  hours  and 
seemed to be increased after multiple dose administration (about 4-6 h). 
Renal clearance is a minor elimination process (Clr = 0.08 to 0.15 l/h-1.3 to 2.5 ml/min for lopinavir 
and  0.17  to  0.24  l/h  –2.8  to  4.0  ml/min  for  ritonavir).  Total  clearance  is  unknown;  assuming  good 
absorption,  Cl/F  should  be  close  to  Clt.  In  healthy  volunteers  after  single  dose  Cl/F  =  4.4  +  1.1  l/h  
(73  ml/min)  and  at  steady  state  Clt  was  slightly  increased  reflecting  auto-induction  process 
[~ 6.4 + 4.4  l/h  (108  ml/min)].  Such  low  clearance  was  in  agreement  with  the  important  decrease  in 
the rate of metabolism of lopinavir in the presence of ritonavir. Clearance was reported to be higher 
during the day. 
There was no evidence of different pharmacokinetic profile in healthy volunteers and HIV-1 infected 
patients.  Although  it  has  not  been  specifically  studied,  the  body  weight  seemed  to  influence 
pharmacokinetic of lopinavir (lower AUC and Cmax) whereas gender and race did not seem to have 
any impact.  
Multiple  dose  study  performed  in  healthy  volunteers  showed  that  lopinavir  pharmacokinetic  is  time 
dependant  with  an  equilibrium  of  lopinavir  concentrations  being  reached  after  2  weeks  and  that 
lopinavir concentrations are dependant on ritonavir dose. 
In  HIV-1  infected  patients,  multiple  dosing  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  (400/100  mg  twice  daily  for  3  to 
4 weeks, without meal restriction) produced a mean ± SD lopinavir peak plasma concentration (Cmax) 
of  9.6  ±  4.4  µg/ml,  occurring  approximately  4  hours  after  administration.    The  mean  steady-state 
trough concentration prior to the morning dose was 5.5 ± 4.0 µg/ml.  Lopinavir AUC over a 12 hour 
dosing interval averaged 82.8 ± 44.5  µg.h/ml. Lopinavir and ritonavir concentrations reached steady 
state by day 14. Pharmacokinetic parameters remained stable from weeks 3 to 24. Ctrough were well 
10/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
higher than the EC50 against wild type viral strains, measured in the presence of 50 % human serum  
(64  ng/ml).  However  unbound  concentrations  were  very  low.  The  consequences  on  the  inhibitory 
quotient (Ctrough/ EC50) will be further discussed by the applicant. 
Co  (pre-morning  dose)  was  higher  than  Cmin  (post  morning  dose)  as  a  consequence  of  a  higher 
clearance during the day. The clinical consequence of this finding is however unknown.  
Although ritonavir  decreases  variability  in lopinavir  concentrations by  inhibiting  its  metabolism,  the 
interindividual variability was high ranging between 30 and 60 % among the studies analysed.  
Special population 
At  time  of  Marketing  Authorisation,  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  had  not  been 
established  in  the  elderly  and  patients  with  renal  and/or  hepatic  dysfunction.  Since  lopinavir  and 
ritonavir are eliminated mainly through biotransformation by the liver, the impact of renal impairment 
should  be  minimal.  Appropriate  recommendations  have  however  been  included  in  the  Summary  of 
Product Characteristics to reflect the lack of data. In addition, the applicant undertook to provide the 
results of a pharmacokinetic study in hepatic impaired patients as part of post-authorisation follow-up 
measures (study M01-347).  
The pharmacokinetic profile of lopinavir/ritonavir in children was assessed in the subgroup of patients 
enrolled in Phase I/II study M98-840 (n = 53) that is described in the clinical section of this report. 
Patients  aged  3  months  to  12  years  received  the  adult  body  surface  area-equivalent  dose  of  
230/57.5 mg/m2 BID as well as the higher dose 300/75 mg/m2 BID. The latter dose corresponded to a  
30  %  increase  over  the  body  surface  area  based  adult  equivalent  dose.  This  increase  was  explained 
based  on  the  experience  in  adults  patients  treated  with  lopinavir/ritonavir  and  ritonavir  which 
suggested that paediatric patients may require 20 % to 30 % higher than the body surface area based 
equivalent adult dose in order to provide lopinavir exposure similar to the one in adults.  
Children  receiving  nevirapine  concomitantly  with  lopinavir/ritonavir  had  lower  exposure  assessed 
with  AUC0-12  and  Ctrough  (52  +  28  versus  73  +  31µg.h/ml  and  3.8  +  3.6  versus  4.7  +  2.9  µg/ml 
respectively  at  the  230/57.5  mg/m2  BID).  Lopinavir  concentrations  were  increased  with  increasing 
dose to 300/75 mg/m2 (Ctrough 5.6 + 3.2 and 7.9 + 4.5 µg/ml in children with or without nevirapine 
respectively).  In  the  absence  of  nevirapine,  the  dose  230/57.5  mg/m2  provided  an  adequate 
pharmacokinetic exposure similar to that obtained in  adult patients receiving  400-mg/100  mg twice-
daily  regimen  without  nevirapine.  The  higher  dose, without  concomitant  use  of  nevirapine  provided 
higher exposure than in adults (approximately 150 % in terms of AUC and Cmax). Both doses were 
well tolerated but the dose of 230/57.5 mg/m2 BID was selected in children, the higher dose being only 
recommended  when  lopinavir/ritonavir  is  associated  with  nevirapine.  There  was  no  analysis  to 
evaluate whether pharmacokinetic parameters were age-related however it appears that experience in 
children <2 years of age is too limited to allow definitive conclusions. 
Interaction studies  
The  pharmacokinetic  interaction  profile  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  mainly  depends  on  the  interaction 
potential  of  ritonavir,  which  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP  3A4,  but  its  use  at  a  lower  dose  in  the 
combination  could  have  consequences  for  the  magnitude  of  the  interactions.  Considering  that  HIV 
infected patients are frequently subject to multiple therapies, interaction studies have been conducted 
with  commonly  co-administered  medicinal  products.  .  In  addition,  although  lopinavir  is  not  a  
P-glycoprotein substrate, the inhibitory role of lopinavir/ritonavir and its clinical relevance is currently 
unknown. 
11/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Antiretroviral agents 
Co- 
Subjects 
administered 
substances 
I 
ose 
D
Cmax 
AUC 
Cmin 
Compar-
ator 
on 
nevirapine 
healthy  
Effect 
Lopinavir 
(LPV)/ 
ritonavir 
(RTV) 
pharmaco-
kinetics 
Effect 
of 
LPV/RTV  on 
co-
administered 
PI 
efavirenz 
healthy 
HIV 
infected  
ritonavir  
indinavir 
healthy 
no 
no 
no 
No 
no 
LPV 
decreased 
by 19.2 % 
LPV 
decrease 
38.9 % 
no 
no 
33 % 
64 % 
Historical 
data  with 
400/100 
mg 
400/100 
mg  
decrease  no 
200  mg 
during  14 
weeks 
followed 
by 
mg BID 
200 
600  mg 
QHS 
533/133 
LPV/RTV 
100  mg 
BID 
Indinavir 
600  mg 
BID 
increase  Historical 
data  with 
800  mg 
TID 
Similar 
or 
increase 
Historical 
data  750 
mg TID 
increase  Historical 
data  1200 
mg TID 
nelfinavir 
healthy 
750  mg 
BID 
Similar 
or 
increase 
Similar  or 
increase 
saquinavir 
healthy 
increase 
increase 
Soft 
capsules 
800  mg 
BID 
Although  in  healthy  volunteers,  nevirapine  was  not  found  to  impair  lopinavir  pharmacokinetics, 
lopinavir  concentrations  were 
treated  with 
lopinavir/ritonavir  concomitantly  with  nevirapine.  The  clinical  relevance  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
interaction  is  unknown  and  no  dosage  recommendation  can  be  made.  However,  based  on  clinical 
experience, Kaletra dose increase to 533/133 mg (4 capsules) twice daily may be considered when co-
administered  with  nevirapine,  particularly  for  patients  in  whom  reduced  lopinavir  susceptibility  is 
likely. 
infected  paediatric  patients 
in  HIV-1 
lower 
An interaction study with efavirenz showed that an increase in lopinavir/ritonavir dose to 533/133 mg 
BID led to increased Cmin and exposure. However, further investigations are needed because it was 
suggested  that  this  dose  regimen  might  not  be  optimal  for  all  patients,  considering  the  high 
interindividual variability (Cmin 5.9 + 5.5 mg/l). 
Considering  the  design  of  the  interaction  studies  with  protease  inhibitors  (parallel  group,  no  control 
arm), results are difficult to interpret and no formal dosage adjustment can be recommended.  
The  applicant  therefore  undertook  to  further  assess  the  potential  interactions  between  lopinavir/ritonavir  and 
currently  approved  protease  inhibitors.  Subsequently,  Kaletra  (400/100 mg  twice  daily)  has  been  studied  in 
combination  with  reduced  doses  of  amprenavir  (M01-299),  indinavir  (M01-340),  nelfinavir  (M01-341)  and 
12/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
saquinavir  (M01-340)  in  steady-state  controlled  healthy  volunteer  studies.  Main  results  of  these  studies  have 
been  adequately  reflected  in  section  4.5  of  the  SPC.    No  formal  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been 
performed  to  evaluate  the  potential  interaction  between  lopinavir/ritonavir  and  stavudine  or 
lamivudine.  However  based  on  the  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  study  M97-720,  no  change  in  the 
pharmacokinetic of lopinavir was observed when these substances were co-administered.  
Other medicinal products 
A  relatively  large  decrease 
in  ethinyl  estradiol  and  a  smaller  decrease  in  norethindrone 
pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  observed  after  14  days  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  co-administration  in 
healthy volunteers,  probably due to  enzyme induction.  Considering the extent  of  decrease  in ethinyl 
estradiol concentrations, estrogen-based oral contraceptives should not be used as a primary method of 
birth control in subjects receiving lopinavir/ritonavir.  
Co-administration  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  with  methadone  significantly  decreased  the  AUC  and  Cmax 
mean  values  of  methadone  by  about  50%,  probably  due  to  enzyme  induction.    Monitoring  plasma 
concentrations of methadone is therefore recommended to avoid withdrawal symptoms. 
significant  effect  on 
Administration  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  concurrently  with  ketoconazole,  pravastatin  or  atorvastatin  had 
no  clinically 
ritonavir  pharmacokinetics.  However 
lopinavir  and 
lopinavir/ritonavir increased  atorvastatin  Cmax and  AUC24  by 4.7-fold  and  5.9-fold, respectively. In 
addition  lopinavir/ritonavir  increased  (about 30%)  pravastatin  Cmax  and  AUC24.  Lopinavir/ritonavir 
increased ketoconazole AUC (3-fold), but had little effect on Cmax.  
Rifampicin co-administered with lopinavir/ritonavir significantly decreased lopinavir AUC12 by 75%. 
Cmax  decreased  by  55%  and  Cmin  by  99%  relative  to  lopinavir/ritonavir  alone.  Likewise,  ritonavir 
AUC12 was decreased by 67%, Cmax decreased by 58%. and Cmin decreased 92%. As a consequence, 
the co-administration is contra-indicated. 
Rifabutin  did  not  have  a  clinically  significant  effect  on  lopinavir  or  ritonavir  pharmacokinetics.  
Lopinavir  Cmax  and  AUC  values  were  increased  by  < 20  %  during  rifabutin  co-administration.  In 
contrast,  lopinavir/ritonavir  co-administration  had  a  profound  effect  on  rifabutin  and  25-O-
desacetylrifabutin  pharmacokinetics.  After  dose-normalisation,  concurrent  lopinavir/ritonavir  dosing 
increased the sum of rifabutin and its metabolite C max, Cmin and AUC values by an estimated 3.5-, 9.5- 
and  5.7-fold,  respectively.  If  co-administration  is  clearly  indicated  a  dose  reduction  of  75  %  for 
rifabutin (i.e. 150 mg every other day or 3 times per week) is recommended. Further reduction may be 
necessary. 
All  the  results  from  these  studies  have  been  adequately  reflected  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
Further to the publication, during the post-marketing phase, of results from a clinical study in healthy 
volunteers showing  a significant reduction  of indinavir plasma concentrations when  co-administered 
with  St  John’s  wort  (Hypericum  perforatum),  it  was  considered  that  this  interaction  was  also 
applicable to other protease inhibitors and non nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors considering 
the same metabolism pathway of these substances as indinavir. The interaction seems to involve two 
different  mechanisms:  an  induction  of  the  metabolism  by  the  cytochrome  P450  isoenzyme  3A4  and 
the P-glycoprotein transporter. Since it may result in the loss of therapeutic effect and development of 
resistance,  it  was  agreed  to  contraindicate  the  use  of  St  John’s  wort  in  patients  taking  protease 
inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors. 
Bioequivalence 
Several  formulations  were  used  during  the  clinical  development  of  lopinavir/ritonavir.  The  co-
formulation  intended  for  marketing  was  shown  to  be  bioequivalent  for  lopinavir  to  the  different 
formulations of soft capsules under both fasting and non-fasting conditions. The soft capsule and the 
oral solution are bioequivalent under non-fasting conditions.  
Clinical Efficacy  
The  antiviral  clinical  efficacy  was  evaluated  in  3  phase  I/II  and  III  clinical  studies  in  adults,  and  a 
single  phase  I/II  study  including  naive  to  single  PI  experienced  children.  A  total  of  712  adults  and 
13/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
paediatrics  patients  have  been  exposed  to  lopinavir/ritonavir.  Two  main  studies  were  conducted  in 
adults, one in antiretroviral naive and one in single PI experienced patients 
Dose-response studies and Main Clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
Three  dose  range  phase  I/II  studies  were  performed  to  explore  the  antiviral  response  to 
lopinavir/ritonavir at different dose levels in HIV-1 infected patients (see table below). 
M97-720 
M97-765 
M 98-957 
Antiretroviral naive patients 
Single  protease 
experienced patients 
inhibitor 
Multiple  protease  inhibitors 
experienced patients 
Group I (n = 32):  
Lopinavir/ritonavir 200/100 BID 
OR     
inhibitor 
The  protease 
in 
their  existing  regimen  was 
discontinued  on  Study  Day-
1. 
Lopinavir/ritonavir  400/100  mg 
BID 
Then  patients  (n  =  70)  were 
randomised to receive:  
= 
A 
Arm 
29): 
(n 
Lopinavir/ritonavir  400/100 mg 
BID,  efavirenz  (EFV)  600  mg 
QD 
be 
determined by the investigator. 
plus  NRTIs 
to 
 + 
at 
stavudine/lamivudine 
Day 
22 
From Day 1 to 14 : 
Day 1 to Day 13 :  
Arm B (n = 28):  
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 
BID, EFV 600 QD, plus NRTIs 
to  be  determined  by 
the 
investigator. 
Day 14 onward : 
Lopinavir/ritonavir  533/133  mg 
BID, EFV 600 QD, plus NRTIs 
to  be  determined  by 
the 
investigator. 
Group II (n = 68): enrolled after a 
review  of  4  weeks  of  dosing  by 
16 patients in 
 Group I :  
Lopinavir/ritonavir  400/100 
mg BID + preexisting NRTIs 
OR 
Lopinavir/ritonavir  400/200 
mg BID + preexisting NRTIs 
Lopinavir/ritonavir  400/100  mg 
BID + stavudine/lamivudine  
At Day 15 : 
Each 
NRTI 
patient’s 
regimen  was  changed  to  a 
new regimen that included at 
the 
least  one  NRTI 
subject  had  not  previously 
received. 
that 
Nevirapine  was  added 
each patient’s regimen. 
to 
OR  
Lopinavir/ritonavir  400/200  mg 
BID + stavudine/lamivudine  
In  group  I  and  II  doses  of 
ABT378/r were blinded. 
All patients who were ongoing at 
Week  48  were  converted  from 
randomised  double-blind 
their 
to 
lopinavir/ritonavir 
dose  of 
open 
label  Lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100  mg  BID  between  Week 
48 and Week 72 (beginning when 
amendment  n°5  dated  February 
10, 99 was approved) 
In  study  M97-720,  when  lopinavir/ritonavir  was  given  alone,  there  were  no  statistically  significant 
differences  between  the  dose  groups  (mean  change  of  plasma  HIV-RNA  from  baseline  was  
– 1.84 log10 copies/ml in 200/100 mg arm compared to – 1.86 log10 copies/ml in the 400 mg/100 mg 
arm)  at  week  3.  The  overall  virological  response,  in  terms  of  proportion  of  patients  with  viral  load 
below the limit  of detection (< 400 copies/ml) and the safety profile were similar between all doses 
14/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tested at week 24. The number of patients randomised was however low. At week 48, a statistically 
significant difference appeared in favour of 400/100 mg in the group II (on treatment analysis 100 % 
versus 80 %; p = 0.010), although it was unexpected according to pharmacokinetic considerations.   
A final study report was submitted in post-marketing phase.  Overall, 10 subjects demonstrated a loss 
of  virologic  response  through  week  48.  A  single  additional  subject  demonstrated  a  loss  of  virologic 
response through Week 72. A total of 16 subjects demonstrated a loss of virological response through 
the end of the week 204 windows.  Results of genotypic resistance testing were available from 11 of 
the 16 subjects who met the criteria for loss of virologic response at or prior to week 204 (in 5 subjects 
the  results  are  unavailable  due  to  a  low  number  of  viral  copies).    None  of  the  11  subjects  exhibited 
genotypic resistance to lopinavir (amino acids 8, 30, 32, 46, 47, 48, 50, 82, 84 or 90). The absence of 
resistance  to  lopinavir  was  confirmed  by  phenotypic  resistance  testing.  3  of  the  11  subjects 
demonstrated the M184V mutation I reverse transcriptase 
The long term data (204 weeks) of this dose finding phase II study performed in antiretroviral naïve 
patients should be interpreted with caution, due to the heterogeneity of the schedule regimens received 
by  the  patients.  However,  they  are  suggestive  of  a  durability  of  the  virological  response  consistent 
with  a  limited  rate  of  premature  discontinuation  at  this  stage  and  the  absence  of  emergence  of 
resistance.   
In study M97-765, based on week 2 results, when lopinavir/ritonavir represented the only change of 
the  patient  regimen,  the  antiviral  activity  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  was  significant  in  first  line  protease 
inhibitor experienced patients, as measured by the viral load change from baseline (approximately -1 
log copies/ml). After Day 15, the addition of nevirapine and the change of at least one NRTI rendered 
difficult the assessment of the impact of lopinavir/ritonavir on the overall antiviral response.  As for 
study M97-720, no difference could be demonstrated between doses tested.  
In  this  study,  the  durability  of  the  antiviral  response  was  sustained  up  to  144  weeks  in 
lopinavir/ritonavir containing regimens. 
In study M97-957, the dose increase of lopinavir/ritonavir from 400/100 mg to 533/133 mg in case of 
combination  with  efavirenz  allowed  to  maintain  a  satisfactory  pharmacokinetic  exposition,  hence  a 
virological  response.  The  lopinavir  Cmin  values  were  44  %  lower  in  the  400-mg/100  mg  arm 
compared to the values obtained in patients without co-administration of efavirenz. It is of interest to 
note that in this population (highly experienced protease inhibitors patients with significant reduction 
of phenotypic sensitivity to several protease inhibitors) the virological response to lopinavir/ritonavir 
was  quite  high.  When  considering  both  arms,  approximately  75  %  of  patients  had  viral  load  <  400 
copies/ml at week 24. 
Overall, the proportion of patients with HIV-RNA levels <400 copies/ml (ITT/LOCF) at week 24 and 
48 in the above mentioned dose-finding studies did not indicate a dose response effect. Because of the 
better safety profile of the 400/100 mg lopinavir/ritonavir BID dose level, this regimen was chosen for 
the Phase III clinical evaluations. The dose selection of 400 mg lopinavir in combination with 100 mg 
ritonavir  was  also  supported  from  the  pharmacokinetic  point  of  view.  However,  the  virological 
response  results  appeared  to  favour  the  533-mg/133  mg  BID  lopinavir/ritonavir  dose  level  in  the 
presence of efavirenz, as it lowers the plasma levels of lopinavir by approximately 40%.  
Relationship between pharmacokinetics-pharmacodynamics 
An  attempt  was  made  to  establish  a  relationship  between  concentrations  and  virological  effect.  The 
400 /100 mg dose was selected as it provided Ctrough concentration in excess of the EC50 corrected for 
the  presence  of  plasma  protein.  This  dosage,  which  provided  a  mean  inhibitory  quotient  above  75 
(IQ =  Cmin/EC50)  was  found  to  be  favourable  with  an  acceptable  tolerance.  No  dose  concentration-
efficacy relationships could be evidenced in protease inhibitor experienced patients (study M97-765) 
most  likely  due  to  this  high  inhibitory  quotient.  EC50  of  viral  isolates  were  highly  variable  ranging 
from < 0.1 µg/ml up to 1 µg/ml. On the other hand, in highly antiretroviral-experienced patients (study 
M98-957), with 100-fold differences in viral susceptibility, the IQ became a predictive variable.  
Main studies  
Results up to 24 weeks from two main studies in patients using the lopinavir/ritonavir at the dosage 
regimen 400/100 mg BID were provided in the submission of the application. The efficacy and safety 
15/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the combination has been evaluated in antiretroviral naïve and single protease inhibitor experienced 
but NNRTIs naïve patients.  
The overview of the main clinical studies in adults and children is displayed in the table below: 
Clinical studies in adults 
Clinical study in children  
M98-863 
M98-888 
Design 
Randomised, double 
blind, multicentre 
Randomised, open label, 
multicentre 
Antiretroviral experienced 
single PI experienced and 
NNRTI naive patients (> 12 
years) with viral load of at 
least 1000 copies/ml 
400 mg/100 mg BID versus 
ISPI*in combination with 
nevirapine and 2 NRTIs 
(one of which had to be 
new) 
Population  Antiretroviral naive 
patients (> 12 years) 
with viral load above 
400 copies/ml 
Dosage 
regimen 
400 mg/100 mg BID 
versus nelfinavir 750 
mg tid in combination 
(blinded treatment) 
with stavudine and 
lamivudine (open 
treatment) 
After week 24 patients 
received nelfinavir at 
the dose of 1250 mg 
bid or 750 mg tid. 
M98-940 (phase I/II) 
Randomised, open label 
HIV infected patients 
between 3 months and 12 
years (inclusive) with viral 
load above 400 copies/ml  
NNRTI naive 
230/57.5 mg/m2 bid 
lopinavir/ritonavir versus 
300/75 mg/m2 bid in 
combination to NRTIs in 
antiretroviral naive and 
nevirapine in antiretroviral 
experienced children. 
Study 
duration 
48 weeks (24 weeks 
results available)** 
48 weeks (16 weeks 
available and preliminary 
data at 24 weeks) 
48 weeks (24 weeks 
available)** 
N enrolled 
653  
118   
100 
* ISPI =investigator selected PI used as single agent or dual PI regimen 
** Preliminary data were presented to the CPMP in response to the concern raised on the long-term 
efficacy of lopinavir/ritonavir in antiretroviral naive patients. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The primary endpoints were the proportion of patients with plasma HIV RNA levels below the limit of 
quantification (< 400 copies/ml) at week 24 and time until loss of virologic response through week 48. 
Time until loss of virologic response was defined as the first occurrence of any of the following events 
provided the patient had achieved an HIV RNA level below 400 copies/ml at week 24: 2 consecutive 
viral load measurements above 400 copies/ml; addition of a new antiretroviral agent; treatment-related 
premature discontinuation from the study. 
Statistical analysis 
Study  M98-863  was  designed  as  an  equivalence  study  between  two  highly  active  antiretroviral 
therapies.  The  sample  size  of  approximately  330  patients  per  arm  was  calculated  to  provide  80  % 
power  to  determine  that  lopinavir/ritonavir  arm  was  equivalent  to  nelfinavir  arm  in  the  week  24 
analyses using a tolerance limit of 10 %. The sample size was calculated to detect a difference of at 
least 10 %. 
In  study  M98-888,  the  planned  sample  size  of  150  per  treatment  group  was  designed  to  provide 
sufficient  power  to  determine  equivalence  and  to  detect  a  difference  of  at  least  16%  between  the 
treatment groups at week 24.  
16/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For both studies, results are presented using the intent-to-treat analysis with missing data equal failure 
and  last-observation  carried  forward.  On  treatment  analysis,  which  includes  all  observed  data  while 
patients were on assigned treatment, has also been performed (missing values were excluded from the 
analysis, as were values obtained while treatment has been interrupted for at least 3 days). 
Results 
 The baseline characteristics of the studies are displayed in the table below: 
Clinical studies in adults 
M98-863 
M98-888 
study 
in 
Clinical 
children 
M98-940 
N  included  in  the 
efficacy levels 
326 in the treatment group 
and  327  in  comparative 
group 
118  (at  16  week)  and  50 
(24-26) at 24 weeks 
100 
Sex 
Male 80 %; Female 20 %  Male  (90  %)/Female  (10 
Female 57 % 
%) 
Mean age 
37.8 (19-84) 
40.7 (18-71) 
Mean 
CD4 
baseline 
257.5-260.2 cells/µl 
323 cells/ µl 
5.3  (range  6  months 
to ~ 12 years) 
2.78 log 10 cells/µl 
Mean 
viral load 
baseline 
Mean  time  with 
diagnosis  of  HIV 
(years) 
~ 4.9 log 10 copies/ml 
~ 4.0 log10 copies/ml 
4.68 log10 copies/ml 
2.3 (0.0-16.7 years) 
6.5 years (0.9 – 17.1) 
~ 3.1 (0.0 – 10.5) 
Patients were mainly Caucasians. No data was provided regarding CDC stage of patients at baseline. 
In  study  M98-888,  patients  were  mainly  experienced  with  nelfinavir  and  indinavir,  however  the 
duration of prior exposition to protease inhibitor is unknown. 
In  the  paediatric  study,  among  100  children  enrolled,  14  were  less  than  2  years  of  age  and  56  were 
antiretroviral experienced patients, of those 24 were protease inhibitor experienced children. 
Efficacy results  
Study M98-863 
This is a well designed, double blind study performed on a large sample size aiming to compare a tri-
therapy  including  the  fixed  combination  lopinavir/ritonavir  with  a  standard  tri-therapy  including 
nelfinavir in treatment naive patients. This study is still ongoing but 24 weeks data were presented. 
Overall there was 11 % of premature discontinuation at week 24 (36 in the treatment arm versus 38 in 
the  comparator).  There  were  mainly  due  to  lost  of  follow-up  and  adverse  events  related  to  HIV 
infection. 
Proportion of patients with undetectable viral load (< 400 copies/ml) at Week 24 
Treatment Arm 
ABT-378/r 
NFV 
value 
p 
treatment arms 
comparing 
On treatment 
254/277 (92%) 
232/285 (81%) 
ITT (NC=F) 
259/326 (79%) 
233/327 (71%) 
ITT (M=F) 
259/326 (79%) 
233/327 (71%) 
<0.001 
0.015 
0.015 
ITT: intent-to-treat; M=F: missing = failure; NC = F: non completer = failure; LOCF: last observation 
carried forward.  
17/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On  treatment:  includes  all  observed  data  while  subjects  were  on  assigned  treatment.  Missing  values 
were excluded from the analysis, as were values obtained while treatment has been interrupted for at 
least 3 days. 
Whatever  the  population  analysed,  the  results  were  more  favourable  in  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  arm 
compared  to  the  nelfinavir arm. According  to the  predefined criteria, both treatment arms should  be 
considered as equivalent if the lower limit of the confidence interval at 95 % was between –10 % and 
0.  In  the  ITT  (NC  =  F),  the  95  %  confidence  interval  of  the  difference  indicated  the  superiority  of 
combination  over  the  comparator  arm.  The  time  of  reaching  undetectable  levels  of  virus  was  not 
significantly different between both treatment arms.  
A subgroup analysis showed that effects of lopinavir/ritonavir were more favourable in patients with 
high viral load (> 100,000 copies/ml) and in patients with CD4 cell counts < 50 cells/mm3 at baseline.  
Proportion of patients with undetectable viral load (< 50 copies/ml) at Week 24 
Number of patients with HIV RNA levels < 50 copies/ml ; (n/N, %) 
Analysis 
LPV/RTV 
(N = 326) 
ITT (M=F) 
211/326 (65 %) 
ITT (LOCF) 
211/326 (65 %) 
On treatment 
207/275 (75 %) 
NFV 
(N = 327) 
197/327 (60 %) 
197/327 (60 %) 
196/278 (71%) 
P-valuea 
0.237 
0.237 
0.207 
ITT: intent-to-treat; M=F: missing = failure; LOCF: last observation carried forward.  
On  treatment:  includes  all  observed  data  while  subjects  were  on  assigned  treatment.  Missing  values 
were excluded from the analysis, as were values obtained while treatment has been interrupted for at 
least 3 days. 
As displayed in the table, the difference between both arms was not statistically different when using 
the ultrasensitive test. 
In  terms  of  viral  change  from  baseline,  the  mean  decrease  from  baseline  to  week  24  was  2.20-
log10 copies/ml for the lopinavir/ritonavir group and 2.11 log10 copies/ml for the nelfinavir group. 
There was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups with respect to mean change 
from baseline to week 24 for CD4 cell counts (mean SE values: + 154 in the lopinavir/ritonavir arm 
versus 150 in nelfinavir arm). 
Taking  into  account  the  time  to  loss  of  virologic  response,  89  %  of  the  patients  in  the 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm and 77 % in the nelfinavir arm were still responding at week 24 (p< 0.001). 
to  AIDS  defining  events, 
With  respect 
the 
lopinavir/ritonavir (respectively: 30 events versus 19), however, it is unknown whether patients were 
symptomatic or not. 
the  number  of  events  appeared  superior 
in 
The applicant provided further data up to 48 weeks to confirm the sustained virological response with 
lopinavir/ritonavir.  At 48 weeks, the proportion of patients with viral load below the limit of detection 
(<  400  copies/ml)  accounted  for  75  %  in  the  combination  arm  versus  63  %  in  nelfinavir  arm  (ITT, 
M=F,  p<0.001)  with  an  acceptable  rate  of  discontinuations  (17  %  versus  24  %  respectively).  The 
Kaplan-Meier estimates for the proportion of patients who were still responding at week 48 provided 
an  additional  demonstration  of  the  superior  antiviral  activity  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  (84  %  [95  %  CI: 
80 %;  88  %]  in  lopinavir/ritonavir  arm  versus  66  %  [95  %  CI:  61  %;  72  %]  in  nelfinavir  arm,  Cox 
proportional  hazards  model,  p<0.001).  It  was  clarified  that  the  amendment  made  to  the  protocol  in 
relation  to  the  dosage  recommendation  for  nelfinavir  (40  patients  changed  from  TID  to  BID  at  48 
weeks),  did  not  affect  the  overall  results.  The  final  report  of  this  study  was  provided  as  part  of  the 
specific obligations to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
18/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subsequently, it was observed that at week +60, a statistically significant greater proportion of patients 
had sustained viral suppression in the lopinavir/rtv arm in comparison with the nelfinavir arm.   
At  week  +60,  the  global  percentage  of  treatment  discontinuation  was  25%.(22  %  in  lopinavir  /rtv 
randomised group and 28 % in nelfinavir treated group.)  Only six patients were reported to undergo 
change from their failing drug treatment to a salvage regimen.  Another 31 subjects had reported NRTI 
substitution (12 lopinavir/ritonavir-treated and 19 nelfinavir-treated subjects) due to an adverse event 
primarily  suspected  as  related  to  the  study  NRTI.    This  change  was  allowed  by  the  protocol.  
However,  even  if  all  31  subjects  were  considered  virologic  failures,  the  lopinavir/ritonavir-based 
regimen  demonstrated  superior  antiviral  activity  compared  to  the  nelfinavir-based  regimen  (71% 
versus 51; p<0.001%) at week +96, indicating reassurance in the treatment durability.Study M98-888 
This  randomised,  open  label,  phase  III  study  aimed  to  compare  two  antiretroviral  strategies: 
lopinavir/ritonavir  or  a  protease  inhibitor  chosen  by  the  investigator  in  patients  in  failure  with  their 
current combination therapy including a protease inhibitor. In the reference arm, patients were mainly 
treated with dual protease inhibitors regimens. This study was ongoing and only 16 weeks data with 
preliminary 24 weeks data (on 50/118) were submitted. Total enrollment of 300 patients was planned. 
Out  of  the  118  patients  randomised  (59  per  arm)  ,  18  discontinued  treatment  (5  in  the  combination, 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm and 13 in the comparator). 
At  week  16,  according  to  the  ITT  (Non  Completer  =  Failure)  population  there  was  a  difference  in 
favour of the lopinavir/ritonavir group in terms of proportion of patients with undetectable viral load 
(73%  (43/59)  in  the  lopinavir/ritonavir  group  versus  54%  (32/59)  in  the  ISPI  group).  No  difference 
between  the  two  groups  in  this  subset  of  patients  could  be  demonstrated  when  considering  on 
treatment population  (80 % versus 76 %). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Children (study M98-940) 
Further to the evaluation of pharmacokinetic profile in the first phase of this study (between week 12 
and 20), all patients were switched to 300/75-mg/m2 doses.  
The  proportion  of  paediatric  patients  with  HIV  RNA  levels  <  400  copies/ml  at  week  12  by  are 
presented by dose randomisation group in the following table: 
Dose Group 
On-Treatment 
ITT (LOCF) 
ITT (NC=F) 
ITT (M=F) 
Antiretroviral naive patients (without nevirapine) 
230 mg/57.5 mg 
18/22 (81.8%) 
18/22 (81.8%) 
18/22 (81.8%) 
18/22 (81.8%) 
300 mg/75 mg  
18/21 (85.7%) 
18/22 (81.8%) 
18/22 (81.8%) 
18/22 (81.8%) 
p-value 
comparing  dose 
groups 
>0.999 
>0.999 
>0.999 
>0.999 
Antiretroviral experienced patients (with nevirapine) 
230 mg/57.5 mg 
17/26 (65.4%) 
17/27 (63.0%) 
17/27 (63.0%) 
17/27 (63.0%) 
300 mg/75 mg  
21/28 (75.0%) 
22/29 (75.9%) 
22/29 (75.9%) 
21/29 (72.4%) 
p-value 
comparing  dose 
groups 
0.554 
0.386 
0.386 
0.570 
Results  from  the  two  doses  groups  were  quite  similar,  although  the  small  sample  size  did  not  all  to 
draw  definite  conclusions.  The  efficacy  and  safety  profiles  of  the  oral  solution  appeared  similar  to 
19/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
what was  observed in adults. The proportion of patients with undetectable viral load (approximately 
70 %) was comparable to the virological response obtained in adults. At 24 weeks, results have been 
presented according to the two dose groups, which is not pertinent since after the switch at week 12, 
all patients were treated with 300/75 mg/m2. 
Supportive studies 
See dose-response studies, no further supportive studies have been submitted. 
Clinical Safety 
Patient exposure: 
More than 2,000 adult and paediatric subjects were exposed to lopinavir/ritonavir during the clinical 
programme.  These  included  612  adults  and  100  children  naïve  and  protease  inhibitor  experienced 
patients  and  561  healthy  adults.  Approximately  450  patients  from  the  different  phase  I/II  and  III 
clinical  studies  were  exposed  to  the  dose  intended  for  registration  (400  mg/  100  mg  BID).  In  these 
pooled  data  (M97-720,  M97-765,  M98-957  and  M98-863),  the  median  duration  of  exposure  was 
196 days, the same as for the 100 paediatric patients in study M98-940. Median duration of exposure 
to lopinavir/ritonavir in study M98-888 was 125 days. 
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths: 
Across  all  6  phase  I/II  and  III  studies  in  712  adults  and  children,  a  total  of  23  patients  experienced 
adverse  events  resulting  in  premature  study  discontinuation  (3  %).  Of  these,  13  were  considered 
lopinavir/ritonavir  related:  digestive  (8);  elevated  transaminases;  rash  (2:  1  with  nevirapine);  lactic 
acidosis; agitation insomnia (1: efavirenz).  
Likewise  11  patients  from  these  studies  contracted  serious  adverse  events  considered  related  to 
lopinavir/ritonavir.  These  were  heterogenous  and  included  enterocolitis,  diarrhoea,  pulmonary 
oedema,  cholecystitis,  vasculitis,  dizziness,  deep  vein  thrombosis,  ,  kidney  stone  fatty  liver, 
encephalopathy and drug interaction. Generally these serious adverse events were not associated with 
discontinuation of therapy. 
Of all the deaths reported (6), none were considered related to lopinavir/ritonavir.  In the pooled data, 
most of the patients reported at least one adverse event (95 %). The most frequent were related to the 
digestive system (73 %). Overall the most frequently reported adverse vents were diarrhoea (52 %), 
nausea (25 %), headache (18 %), asthenia (17 %), pharyngitis (17 %), rash (16 %), pain (15 %) and 
infection (15 %). The overall incidence was similar between naïve and experienced patients. 
Results from study M98-863 indicated that gastrointestinal tolerability seemed to be similar between 
lopinavir/ritonavir  and  nelfinavir  treated  patients.  Digestive  adverse  events  were  the  most  frequent 
reported  adverse  event,  occurred  generally  in  the  first  2  months  of  treatment  and  were  the  most 
frequent adverse event leading to discontinuation of the study drug. The median duration of diarrhoea 
was longer and the median time to onset for the first episode was shorter in the nelfinavir arm.  The 
impact of diarrhoea on the quality of life should be further evaluated. 
Cardiac adverse events 
to  find  detect  any  potential  cardiotoxicity  related 
Considering the cardiac effects observed in dogs (prominent U waves associated with prolonged PR 
interval and bradycardia) during the toxicological study, a cardiac monitoring has been performed in 
phase  I/II  and  III  clinical  studies 
to 
lopinavir/ritonavir.  In  common  with  observations  in  dogs,  an  augmentation  of  the  PR  interval  was 
sometimes  reported  as  well  as  a  bradycardia  (about  0.5  %).  Two  healthy  volunteers  in  one  phase  I 
clinical  study,  had  an  increase  of  their  QT  interval  (>  500  msec),  but  no  apparent  dose-response 
relationship  could  be  shown.  It  was  shown  that  baseline  ECG  parameters  were  not  predictive  of 
clinically ECG interval alterations on therapy. Some preclinical and clinical data were suggestive of a 
possible mechanism of potassium channel inhibition, however the clinical relevance was not apparent 
in  the  clinical  studies.  .  Since  lopinavir/ritonavir  may  increase  blood  levels  of  substances  known  to 
induce  QT  interval  prolongation,  which  undergo  a  metabolism  through  CYP450  3A,  appropriate 
warnings on their co-administration have been added in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
20/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Pancreatitis 
Cases of pancreatitis  were reported in patients treated with lopinavir/ritonavir (3 in adult and one in 
paediatric  patients)  through  the  clinical  studies  up to  24  weeks.  In  the  expanded  access  programme, 
7 additional  cases  were  reported.  Given  the  multiple  confounding  factors,  the  causal  relationship 
between pancreatitis and the fixed dose combination could not be established. Therefore monitoring is 
necessary as elevated triglycerides may play a contributing role in the development of pancreatitis. In 
addition,  as  pancreatitis  is  of  particular  concern  in  relation  to  the  use  of  lopinavir/ritonavir,  the 
applicant committed to further investigate this safety issue. 
Laboratory findings 
The most commonly laboratories findings reported were increases in GGT with values above 5 times 
the normal upper limit (9 %), total cholesterol with values > 3 g/l (9 %) and triglycerides with values 
above 7,5 g/l (8 %).  Other very high chemistry values were glucose > 2,5 g/l (2 %), ASAT/ ALAT 
> 5N (2 %), and amylase > 2N (2 %). Higher percentages of these laboratory abnormalities occurred 
among antiretroviral-experienced than among antiretroviral naive patients. 
A  statistically  significant  decrease  in  total  T4  and  a  trend  to  decrease  for  total  T3  were  observed 
among both naïve and experienced subjects whereas TSH levels were unchanged.  
Lipids 
Mean increases from baseline were consistently seen for total cholesterol and triglycerides in patients 
receiving  the  combination.  Very  high  values  of  total  cholesterol  (>3 g/l)  or  triglycerides  (>7,5  g/l) 
occurred  in  12  %  (64/538)  and  11  %  (60/538)  respectively,  of  subjects  receiving  any  dose  of 
lopinavir/ritonavir  with  laboratory  data  available  in  M97-720,  M97-765,  M98-863,  and  M98-957 
through  24  weeks  of  therapy.  The  median  time  of  onset  was  about  56  days.  In  the  pooled  analysis, 
higher percentages of very high lipids abnormalities occurred among antiretroviral-experience subjects 
than  among  anti-retroviral  naive  subjects:  cholesterol  >  3  g/l:  21  %  versus  6  % and  triglycerides 
> 7,5 g/l: 23 % versus 5 %. 
In M98-863, the rate of very high values of total cholesterol and triglycerides was higher in patients 
receiving  lopinavir/ritonavir  (7  %  and  6%  respectively)  compared  to  patients  receiving  nelfinavir  
(3 % and 1 % respectively) through 24 weeks of therapy, although mean change from baseline in total 
cholesterol  was  similar  (40  mg/dl  versus  41  mg/dl  respectively).  In M98-863  and  in M98-957, 
LDL/HDL  ratios  were  not  significantly  changed  from  baseline  at  week  24.  Pre-existing  lipids 
elevations and lopinavir/ritonavir dose greater than 400-mg/100 mg were found to be associated with 
an increased risk of very high lipid elevations during lopinavir/ritonavir therapy. However the higher 
doses are only recommended in certain circumstances. 
Lipid-lowering agents (statin and fibrate therapy) appeared to be effective in lowering cholesterol and 
triglycerides in these subjects. However, no detail was given on maximal values, for example patients 
with major hypertriglyceridemia (such as 20-30 g/l). 
The  applicant  undertook  to  further  monitor  this  safety  issue,  especially  as  very  high  levels  of 
triglycerides have been observed up to more than 3000 mg/dl.  
Liver functions 
Very  high  ASAT  and/or  ALAT  (>  5  ULN)  values  occurred  in  4  %  (20/538)  patients  receiving  any 
dose of the combination in (M97-720, M97-765, M98-957 and M98-863 though 24 weeks of therapy. 
No case of symptomatic hepatitis attributed to lopinavir/ritonavir has been reported. Risk factors for 
very  high  ASAT  or  ALAT  elevations  include  baseline  ASAT  and  ALAT  greater  than  the  ULN, 
baseline hepatitis B/C infection and nevirapine use.   
Safety in special populations 
Children 
Almost all the patients reported at least one adverse event. The pattern was generally similar to that of 
adults,  except  for  common  childhood  diseases,  eczema  and  taste  perversion.  The  incidence  of  any 
adverse event of at least moderate severity and considered to be related to lopinavir/ritonavir was 6 % 
21/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
compared  to  35  %  in  adult  patients.  Rash  (2  %)  was  the  only  such  adverse  event  reported  by  two 
patients (one from each dose group). Liver enzymes and lipid elevations are similar to those observed 
in the adult populations. The experience in children below the age of 2 is too limited to draw definite 
conclusion on the safety of lopinavir/ritonavir in this age range.  
Events of special interest 
Lipodystrophy 
A  total  of  23  cases  of  adverse  events  potentially  representing  fat  redistribution  (“lipodystrophy”) 
syndromes  were  identified  in  adult’s  patients  receiving  lopinavir/ritonavir  (approximately  4  %).  As 
expected the incidence in antiretroviral experienced patients was higher than in naïve patients (~ 8 % 
versus  3  %).  In  study  M98-863,  lipodystrophy  was  identified  in  2  %  of  patients  receiving 
lopinavir/ritonavir treatment versus 1 % of patients receiving nelfinavir (7 versus 4 cases).  
Further to reports from the literature on the association of protease inhibitors with adverse events such 
as fat redistribution and  other  metabolic disorders,  additional  information  was presented. These data 
confirmed that combination antiretroviral therapy, including regimens containing a protease inhibitor, 
was  associated  with  redistribution  of  body  fat  in  some  patients,  including  loss  of  peripheral 
subcutaneous  fat, 
intra-abdominal  fat,  breast  hypertrophy  and  dorsocervical  fat 
accumulation (buffalo hump). Protease inhibitors may also be associated with metabolic abnormalities 
such  as  hypertriglyceridaemia,  hypercholesterolaemia,  insulin  resistance  and  hyperglycaemia.  The 
data  provided  did  not  permit  any  conclusion  about  the  causality.  A  class  labelling  wording  was 
however included into the SPC of all the protease inhibitors products, and further investigation will be 
performed to better define this adverse event. 
increased 
Muscle-related reactions 
Increased  CPK,  muscle-related  reactions  (myalgia,  myosis  and  rarely  rhabdomyolysis)  have  been 
reported  with  protease  inhibitors.  Although  it  was  difficult  to  determine  causality  of  these  reactions 
due to confounding factors and scanty information, it was nevertheless considered necessary to update 
the  relevant  information  on  muscle-related  adverse  reactions  of  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics and to reflect this effect in the Package Leaflet. 
Liver impairment in HIV positive patients 
Further  to  the  discussions  held  by  the  Ad-hoc  Group  of  Experts  on  Anti-HIV  medicinal  products  in 
November  2001, the CPMP  agreed that liver impairment  was of  increasing concern in  HIV positive 
patients  both  in  the  form  of  adverse  hepatic  effects  in  patients  with  normal  liver  function  prior  to 
antiretroviral treatment (ART) and as regards patients with chronic liver disease treated with ART.  
In January 2002 the CPMP requested the MAH for all authorised anti-retroviral medicinal products to 
conduct  a  retrospective  review  of  clinical  trials  and  post  marketing  data  relating  to  the  use  of  their 
product(s)  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and/or  HBV/HCV  co-infection.  Following  review  of 
the  submitted  responses  and  discussions  held  during  the  CPMP  meeting  and  the  Pharmacovigilance 
Working  Party  meeting  in  October  2002,  the  CPMP  adopted  a  list  of  questions  (including  general, 
product specific and SPC wording recommendations). 
The  review  of  the  MAHs’  responses  has  essentially confirmed  that  co-infected  patients  and  patients 
with  underlying  liver  disorders  are  at  increased  risk  for  adverse  events,  essentially  confined  to  liver 
events.  Overall,  there  is  a  disturbing  lack  of  general  and  product  specific  knowledge  (e.g.  relevant 
pharmacokinetic data in patients with liver impairment), but there are ongoing activities.   
Following the review of responses submitted by all MAHs of antiretroviral medicinal products, a class 
labelling  on  “liver  disease”  has  been  agreed  and  implemented  in  the  product  information  for  all 
antiretroviral medicinal products. 
The SPC of Kaletra has been reworded in accordance with the CPMP recommendations to include, in 
section 5.2, data derived from patients.  The steady state pharmacokinetic parameters of lopinavir in 
HIV-infected patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment  were compared with those of HIV-
22/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infected  patients  with  normal  hepatic  function  in  a  multiple  dose  study  with  lopinavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg  twice  daily  (study  M01-347).    A  limited  increase  in  total  lopinavir  concentrations  of 
approximately 30% has been observed which is not expected to be of clinical relevance. 
Continuous assessment of Kaletra’s long-term safety profile is performed throughout PSURs and the 
product information updated accordingly. 
4.  
Overall Conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of lopinavir/ritonavir soft capsules and oral solution was considered to be acceptable when 
used  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  defined  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics. 
Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product 
have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  The  two  pharmaceutical  forms  are 
bioavailable under non-fasting conditions. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
In vitro, lopinavir presents a potent intrinsic antiviral activity, with a resistance profile characterised 
by  cross-resistance  with  indinavir  and  ritonavir  but  very  low  cross-resistance  with  saquinavir  and 
nelfinavir. It was shown that at least 5 mutations are necessary to significantly reduce the phenotypic 
susceptibility to lopinavir. 
The  toxicological  profile  of  the  combination  was  assessed  using  a  complete  battery  of  toxicological 
studies.  Identified  target organs  were liver (rats,  mice and  dogs),  thyroid (rats  only), gastrointestinal 
tract (dogs), heart (dogs), kidney (mice only) and haematological parameters (rats). Although the ratio 
of lopinavir/ritonavir was different from the one intended for clinical use, the results were considered 
relevant. A particular concern was raised regarding the cardiac effects observed in dogs (prominent U 
waves and prolonged QT intervals). The Purkinje fibers study was not considered adequate to exclude 
any cardiac effects associated with the use of lopinavir/ritonavir. Subsequent in vitro HERG studies, 
showed inhibition at the highest concentrations of lopinavir/ritonavir tested.  The clinical relevance of 
these preclinical  data is however  unknown the  combination  did not alter the fertility parameters and 
was not teratogenic, but was slightly embryotoxicity in rats. Similar safety profiles were observed in 
adult  and  juvenile  rats,  which  support  a  paediatric  indication.  Lopinavir  was  not  mutagenic  nor 
clastogenic.  Carcinogenicity data did not raise concern in relation to the use of lopinavir/ritonavir in 
antiretroviral naive patients. . 
Efficacy 
The  combination  with  ritonavir  as  a  pharmacokinetic  enhancer  allows  to  achieve  exposure  to  drug 
concentration  highly  above 
lopinavir  (inhibitory  quotient 
Cmin/C50 > 50). 
level  of  viral 
inhibition  of 
the 
The  demonstration  of  the  benefit  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  containing  regimen  was  mainly  based  on  a 
well-designed  main  clinical  study  in  antiretroviral  naïve  patients  (M98-863).  The  percentage  of 
patients with undetectable viral load reached 79 % at week 24 in the intent-to treat (non completer = 
failure) population compared to 71 % in the nelfinavir arm.  48 weeks data, presented in response to 
concern  raised  on  the  long-term  efficacy  of  the  combination,  confirmed  a  sustained  virological 
response with lopinavir/ritonavir.  
Limited  data  in  single  protease  inhibitor  experienced  patients  suggested  a  significant  virological 
response  of  lopinavir/ritonavir  in  this  population  since  at  16  weeks  73  %  of  patients  reached 
undetectable viral load (< 400 copies/ml, ITT analysis) (study M98-888).  
In  protease  inhibitors  multiple-experienced  patients,  lopinavir/ritonavir  demonstrated  a  substantial 
virological suppression in  patients harbouring  viral  strains with reduced sensitivity  to other  protease 
inhibitors.  A  significant  reduction  of  viral  load  from  baseline  (-  1  log10  copies/ml)  at  week  2  was 
23/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated  when  lopinavir/ritonavir  represents  the  unique  change  of  a  currently  failing  regimen 
including one protease inhibitor (study M97-765).  
In children, similar efficacy was observed as that in adults but the number of children below the age of 
2 years was too small to support an indication in age group. 
The  resistance  profile  of  lopinavir  seemed  of  interest  with  in  vitro  selected  mutations  somewhat 
different from those currently associated with ritonavir resistance. Analyses of cross resistance with PI 
suggests that decreased susceptibility to lopinavir correlated closely to ritonavir and indinavir, but did 
not corrolate closely with decreased susceptibility to amprenavir, saquinavir and nelfinavir. Resistance 
patterns associated with failure to lopinavir/ritonavir need to be further characterised. The same holds 
for the evaluation of salvage therapy of patients who have failed therapy with lopinavir/ritonavir. 
Safety 
The fixed combination lopinavir/ritonavir seems to be well tolerated and is in line with that of other 
available  protease  inhibitors.  However  the  data  were  obtained  from  a  limited  number  of  patients 
exposed only short time. This was particularly true in children. Concerns were raised with respect to 
the long-term safety with regard to the high levels of triglycerides reported in patients treated with the 
combination and the occurrence of pancreatitis, particularly in antiretroviral naive patients. In addition 
considering  that  cardiac  events  were  reported  during  preclinical  and  clinical  studies,  potential  risks 
associated with lopinavir/ritonavir administration cannot be ruled out. In addition, as the oral solution 
contains a high amount of propylene glycol, appropriate warnings have been included to the Summary 
of Product Characteristics. 
Benefit/Risk Assessment 
The CHMP, on the basis of quality, safety and efficacy data submitted, considers that the benefit risk 
ratio for Kaletra remains favourable in the treatment of HIV–1 infected adults and children above the 
age of 2 years, in combination with other antiretroviral agents. 
The Marketing Authorisation was initially granted under exceptional circumstances due to the lack of 
long-term  data  on  efficacy  and  safety*.  Following  the  evaluation  of  the  data  submitted  post-
authorisation, as part of the fulfilment of specific obligations, there are no grounds for maintaining the 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
*  Marketing  Authorisation  under  exceptional  circumstances  refers  to  the  fact  that  in  exceptional 
circumstances an authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations, to be reviewed 
annually. 
24/24 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
