Amsterdam, 30 April 2020 
EMA/273575/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in 
accordance with article 46 of regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006, as amended 
Kalydeco 
International non-proprietary name: IVACAFTOR  
Procedure no.: EMEA/H/C/002494/P46 029 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 5 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 6 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 6 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 6 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 46 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ...................................... 48 
4. Additional clarification requested .......................................................... 49 
5. Assessment of the MAH responses to the Request for Supplementary 
Information ............................................................................................... 49 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
VX16-770-127 (Study 127) is submitted as a stand-alone post-authorization measure (PAM) under 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 (the “Paediatric Regulation”). 
Study 127 was designed to evaluate the efficacy of ivacaftor (IVA) treatment in subjects with cystic 
fibrosis (CF) 6 years of age and older who have a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutation.  
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
Kalydeco tablets contains ivacaftor an orally administered CFTR potentiator that increases the channel 
open probability of CFTR protein at the cell surface to enhance chloride transport. In the EU, Kalydeco 
is authorised for the treatment of CF in patients aged 6 years and older and weighing 25 kg or more 
who have 1 of the following gating (class III) mutations in the CFTR gene: G551D, G1244E, G1349D, 
G178R, G551S, S1251N, S1255P, S549N, or S549R. 
Kalydeco is also approved for the treatment of CF in patients aged 18 years and older with an R117H-
CFTR mutation. 
In combination with tezacaftor, Kalydeco is authorised in patients with CF aged 12 years and older who 
are homozygous for the F508del mutation or who are heterozygous for the F508del mutation and have 
one of the following mutations in the CFTR gene: P67L, R117C, L206W, R352Q, A455E, D579G, 
711+3A→G, S945L, S977F, R1070W, D1152H, 2789+5G→A, 3272-26A→G, and 3849+10kbC→T. 
Vertex initiated a phase 3b efficacy trial (study 127) in CF subjects 6 years of age and older, who have 
a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutation.  It was performed at a single site in Israel.  
Study 127 is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study to evaluate the efficacy 
of IVA in subjects with CF who are 6 years of age and older and have either a 3849 + 10KB C→T or 
D1152H-CFTR mutation. 
The primary endpoint of study 127 was change from baseline in lung turnovers required to reduce the 
end tidal inert gas concentration to 1/40th of its starting value (LCI2.5), which is a measure of 
ventilation inhomogeneity. Additional efficacy endpoints included change from baseline in number of 
lung turnovers required to reduce the end tidal inert gas concentration to 1/20th of its starting value 
(LCI5.0), sweat chloride, percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (ppFEV1), and Cystic 
Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) respiratory domain score. The effect of ivacaftor on organoids 
carrying either 3849 + 10KBC→T or D1152H-CFTR mutations was also assessed. 
Safety was assessed in terms of the following safety and tolerability assessments: treatment emergent 
adverse events (TEAEs), clinical laboratory values (liver function, amylase, lipase), vital signs, physical 
examinations (PEs), and ophthalmological examination (OEs; for subjects <18 years of age).  
Study VX12-770-113 and Study VX14-661-108 demonstrated improvements with IVA treatment in 
subjects with residual CFTR function, and subjects who had a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR 
mutation were among those included in these studies. Study 127 only included subjects who have a 
3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutation in order to evaluate the effects of IVA specifically in 
subjects with these 2 mutations. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
No new paediatric formulation was evaluated in Study 127. The test product was the same as the 
commercially approved product, Kalydeco, for patients 6 years of age and older (IVA 150-mg film-
coated tablets). The test product was administered to study subjects orally at a dose of 150-mg (or 
matching placebo) q12h, which is also the commercially approved dose of Kalydeco. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for VX16-770-127: A Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled, 
Crossover Study to Evaluate the Efficacy of Ivacaftor in Subjects with Cystic Fibrosis Who are 6 Years 
of Age and Older and Have Either a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR Mutation. 
The 3849 + 10KB C→T CFTR mutation results in a partially active splice site in intron 19 that leads to 
the insertion of a new 84 base pair exon, which contains an in-frame stop codon between exon 19 and 
20. This mutation has a prevalence of 0.2% to 2% and it results in a reduced amount of normal CFTR 
protein at the cell surface (average sweat chloride 66 mEq/L). The 3849+10kbC->T mutation leads to 
abnormal mRNA; however, a small amount of normally spliced transcripts can also be detected. The 
presence of these small amounts of normal cystic fibrosis transmembrane receptor protein in these 
cystic fibrosis patients is likely to be responsible for the milder severity of disease and a better life 
expectancy. It is expected to result in CF when combined with another CF-causing variant. 
D1152H is a missense mutation that results in normal or increased levels of CFTR protein at the cell 
surface but a reduction in CFTR-mediated chloride transport. It has a prevalence of <0.1% globally. 
This mutation results in normal or elevated levels of CFTR protein at the cell surface but with reduced 
levels of CFTR function (average sweat chloride 45 mEq/L; 23% of patients with pancreatic 
insufficiency). Although asymptomatic at times, the D1152H mutation is associated with a broad 
clinical spectrum. Lung disease may be evident from infancy, and it is severe in some adults, although 
all have outlived the median life expectancy of CF. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study  
Methods 
Study Design 
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-center, crossover study that includes two 
8-week treatment periods separated by an 8-week washout period (Figure 9-1). 
There will be 7 study visits, not including the Screening Visit. The total study duration for each subject 
will be approximately 32 weeks, including the Screening and the Follow-up periods. 
- Sequence 1: ivacaftor (150 mg q12h) in Treatment Period 1; washout; placebo in Treatment Period 2 
- Sequence 2: placebo in Treatment Period 1; washout; ivacaftor (150 mg q12h) in Treatment Period 2 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
Objective(s) 
Primary 
To evaluate the efficacy of ivacaftor treatment in subjects with CF 6 years of age and older who have a 
3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H CFTR mutation. 
Additional objectives 
To explore the association between ivacaftor-induced CFTR function in in vitro organoid-based 
measurements and clinical response to ivacaftor in subjects with CF 6 years of age and older who have 
a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H CFTR mutation. 
Study endpoints 
Primary 
Change from baseline in lung clearance index2.5 (LCI2.5; calculated as lung volume turnovers required 
to reach 2.5% of the starting nitrogen [N2] concentration) through 8 weeks of treatment. 
Additional endpoints 
- Change from baseline in LCI5.0 (calculated as lung volume turnovers required to reach 5.0% of the 
starting N2 concentration) through 8 weeks of treatment 
 - Change from baseline in sweat chloride through 8 weeks of treatment. 
- Change from baseline in the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) respiratory domain score 
at 8 weeks of treatment. 
- Absolute change from baseline in percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (ppFEV1) 
through 8 weeks of treatment. 
- Organoid-based measurements of ivacaftor-induced CFTR function in vitro. 
CHMP comments 
Lung injury proceeds slowly and pulmonary function measured by spirometry can be apparently normal 
in young CF patients. That means that young patients with milder disease in whom lung function may 
not have begun to decline, FEV1 may not be sufficiently sensitive to detect a treatment effect. This is 
the reason why impaired lung clearance index (LCI), which measures the degree of small airway 
disease by assessing ventilation inhomogeneity, can be demonstrated in paediatric patients with 
normal spirometry. LCI2.5 is more likely to reveal differences in ventilation homogeneity than LCI5.0 as 
while LCI2.5 measures the number of lung turnovers required to reduce the end tidal inert gas 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 7/8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentration to 1/40th of its starting value, LCI5.0 measures the number of lung turnovers required to 
reduce the end tidal inert gas concentration to 1/20th of its starting value.  
While there is agreement on that the reduction in LCI reflects improvement in ventilation homogeneity, 
the experience with this test is still limited and it is somehow unknown the change from baseline that 
can be considered clinically relevant. The use of LCI as the primary endpoint is endorsed given that 
children older than 6 years were planned to be included in the trial. In addition, it can be applied to all 
age ranges. However, the results of this endpoint should be supported by evidence of clinical relevance 
from other endpoints. 
LCI5.0 was evaluated as an additional endpoint. Other relevant endpoints were the change in ppFEV1, 
CFQ-R and sweat chloride and organoid-based measurements of ivacaftor-induced CFTR function in 
vitro. All are considered appropriate. 
Study population /Sample size 
No formal sample size calculation was conducted. The planned sample size of approximately 50 
subjects is based on the number of subjects expected to be available for participation. 
Assuming an estimated standard deviation (SD) of the paired differences of 1.00 in LCI2.5, this 
available sample size of 50 subjects will produce a 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) of the mean 
treatment difference with precision (margin of error) of 0.28 points. Similarly, the margin of error 
using a 2-sided 80% CI will be 0.18 points. 
CHMP comment 
The sample size calculation has been focused on the precision to estimate the treatment difference 
through Week 8 in LCI2.5 between IVA and placebo groups. 50 subjects were initially planned to 
participate in the study but instead, 38 have been randomized.  
The MAH should explain numerically how this reduction of the planned sample size affects to the 
precision calculated and to the results presented. 
Method of assessment efficacy and safety parameters 
MBW (multiple-breath washout) 
LCI2.5 represents the number of lung turnovers required to reduce the end tidal inert gas 
concentration to 1/40th of its starting value, whereas LCI5.0 represents the number of lung turnovers 
required to reduce the end tidal inert gas concentration to 1/20th of its starting value. 
Each MBW will be performed in multiple replicates for each visit, and the mean LCI value at each visit 
will be calculated by the sponsor or sponsor designee using all technically acceptable washout 
replicates provided by the central reader. 
During the Screening Period, the MBW test may be performed pre
 or post
bronchodilator. At all other 
visits, all MBW tests should be performed “pre
bronchodilator” and before the spirometry assessment. 
‑
‑
MBW testing must be performed before dosing, unless noted otherwise. 
‑
Pre-bronchodilator MBW testing is defined as MBW testing performed for subjects who have 
- withheld their short-acting bronchodilator (e.g., albuterol) or anticholinergic (e.g., Atrovent) for more 
than 4 hours before the MBW testing; AND  
- withheld their long-acting bronchodilator (e.g., salmeterol) more than 12 hours before the MBW 
testing; AND 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
- withheld their once-daily, long-acting bronchodilator (e.g., tiotropium bromide [Spiriva®]) for more 
than 24 hours before the MBW testing. 
In the event that a subject forgets to withhold bronchodilator(s), MBW testing should be performed 
according to the following: 
- If the subject's Day 1 (in each treatment period) MBW test is pre-bronchodilator, but on a 
subsequent visit, the subject forgets to withhold bronchodilator use, post-bronchodilator MBW testing 
will be obtained for that visit only, and the visit will not be rescheduled. 
- If at the subject’s Day 1 (in each treatment period) MBW test, the subject forgets to withhold 
his/her dose of bronchodilator, MBW testing should be performed post-bronchodilator and all 
subsequent MBW testing should be performed post-bronchodilator. 
- Each MBW test will be recorded in the source documents as pre-bronchodilator or post-
bronchodilator. 
Subjects and their parent/caregiver should not be informed of their study-related LCI results during 
the study regardless if the subject has prematurely discontinued treatment. 
Sweat Chloride Concentration 
The sweat chloride test will be performed according to the standard operating procedure of the 
European Cystic Fibrosis Society - Clinical Trial Network (ECFS – CTN), using an approved Macroduct® 
(Wescor, Logan UT) collection device.Two gel patches that contain a chemical solution that stimulates 
sweat production of the skin by an electronic circuit will be placed on the subject’s arm. Sweat samples 
will be sent to a central laboratory for testing. Individual sweat test results will not be disclosed to the 
study centers. Specific instructions for collection, handling, processing, and shipping of sweat chloride 
samples to the central laboratory will be provided separately. 
CFQ-R Score 
CFQ-R must be completed before the start of any assessments scheduled at that visit. 
The version and format of CFQ-R will be based on age at Day 1, regardless of whether the subject 
changes age during the study. Parents/caregivers will complete the CFQ-Parent version on all visits. 
The questionnaires provide information about demographics, general quality of life, school, work, or 
daily activities, and symptom difficulties (pertaining to CF). Copies of English and Hebrew versions of 
the CFQ-R used in this study will be provided in the Study Manual. 
Spirometry 
Spirometry will be performed according to the American Thoracic Society Guidelines the visits specified 
in Table 9-4 and according to the additional guidelines below.  
During the Screening Period, spirometry assessments may be performed pre- or post-bronchodilator. 
At all other visits, all spirometry assessments should be performed pre-bronchodilator. Spirometry 
assessments must be performed before dosing, unless noted otherwise. 
Pre-bronchodilator spirometry is defined as spirometry testing performed for subjects who have: 
- withheld their short-acting β-agonist (e.g., albuterol) or anticholinergic (e.g., Atrovent) for more than 
4 hours before the spirometry assessment; AND  
- withheld their long-acting bronchodilator (e.g., salmeterol) for more than 12 hours before the 
spirometry assessment; AND 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
- withheld their once-daily, long-acting bronchodilator (e.g., tiotropium bromide [Spiriva®]) for more 
than 24 hours before the spirometry assessment. 
In the event that a subject forgets to withhold bronchodilators, spirometry should be performed 
according to the following: 
- If the subject’s Day 1 (in each treatment period) spirometry is pre-bronchodilator, but on a 
subsequent visit, the subject forgets to withhold bronchodilator use, a post-bronchodilator spirometry 
will be obtained for that visit only, and the visit will not be rescheduled. 
- If at the subject’s Day 1 (in each treatment period) spirometry the subject forgets to withold his/her 
dose of bronchodilator, spirometry should be performed post-bronchodilator and all subsequent 
spirometric measurements during the study should be performed post-bronchodilator. 
- Each spirometry assessment will be recorded in the source documents as pre-bronchodilator 
or post-bronchodilator. 
The site will be provided spirometers to be used for all study assessments. Forced vital capacity (FVC), 
and FEV1 will be measured using a calibrated Masterlab pneumotachograph (Jaeger, Wűrzburg, 
Germany) or a comparable validated and calibrated device. Lung function equipment in the 
participating centers will be equally calibrated according to the ATS/ERS guidelines for lung function 
testing.  Spirometry data will be transmitted to a centralized spirometry service for quality review. 
The parameters listed below will be normalized using the GLI standards. 
- FEV1 (L) 
- Forced vital capacity (FVC) (L) 
- FEV1/FVC (ratio) 
- Forced expiratory flow (FEF25%-75%) (L/sec) 
Subjects and their parent/caregiver should not be informed of their study-related spirometry results 
during the study regardless if the subject has prematurely discontinued treatment. 
Weight, Height, and BMI 
For subjects <21 years of age, weight, stature, and BMI, adjusted for sex and age will be summarized 
as weight-for-age, height-for-age, and BMI-for-age z-scores. Z-scores will be calculated using the 
Nutrition Examination Survey Growth Chart Equations. 
Antibiotic Therapy for Sinopulmonary Signs/Symptoms 
New or changed antibiotic therapy (IV, inhaled, or oral) for the following sinopulmonary 
signs/symptoms will be determined and documented at visits as specified in Table 9-4. 
- Change in sputum 
- New or increased hemoptysis 
- Increased cough 
- Increased dyspnea 
- Malaise, fatigue, or lethargy 
- Temperature above 38°C (equivalent to approximately 100.4°F) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
- Anorexia or weight loss 
- Sinus pain or tenderness 
- Change in sinus discharge 
- Change in physical examination (PE) of the chest 
- Decrease in pulmonary function by 10% 
- Radiographic changes indicative of pulmonary infection 
Pulmonary Exacerbations 
For this study, pulmonary exacerbation is defined as a new or change in antibiotic therapy (IV, inhaled, 
or oral) for any 4 or more of the above signs/symptoms. This definition is based on the definition of a 
pulmonary exacerbation used in previous clinical studies including IVA clinical studies. 
It is recommended that study drug should not be interrupted during a pulmonary exacerbation unless, 
in the opinion of the investigator, it would be in the best interest of the subject. 
The following information will be determined for protocol-defined pulmonary exacerbations: 
- Number of pulmonary exacerbations 
- Number of days with pulmonary exacerbations 
- Time to first pulmonary exacerbation 
- Number of pulmonary exacerbations requiring hospitalizations 
- Number of days hospitalized for pulmonary exacerbations 
- Time to first hospitalization for pulmonary exacerbation 
- Number of pulmonary exacerbations requiring IV antibiotic therapy 
- Number of days on IV antibiotic therapy for pulmonary exacerbations 
- Time to first IV antibiotic therapy for pulmonary exacerbations 
Hospitalization for CF 
At visits specified in Table 9-4, subjects will be queried about planned and unplanned hospitalizations, 
defined as an admission including an overnight stay. The dates for hospitalizations and the reasons for 
hospitalizations will be documented.  
If the hospitalization is unplanned, the procedures for safety reporting should also be followed. The 
following information will be determined: 
- Number of planned hospitalizations for CF (i.e., prophylactic antibiotic therapy) 
- Number of all unplanned hospitalizations 
- Number of days of all unplanned hospitalizations 
- Time to first unplanned hospitalization 
Organoids  
Biopsies of thirty-four CF patients were taken in Israel and shipped to Hubrecht Organoid Technology 
(HUB, The Netherlands) for organoid generation and evaluation of response to Ivacaftor (VX-770) by 
performing FIS (forskolin-induced swelling) assays. HUB has developed a technology which allows the 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
expansion of tissue, derived from cystic fibrosis patients. This primary tissue culture system, 
organoids, can yield patient specific samples in quantities that allow the screening of Vertex 
compounds. To assess the restoration of CFTR activity, a swelling assay is used to determine the effect 
of the compounds on specific CFTR mutations. In this study the organoids derived from the patients in 
the clinical trial are tested for their in vitro response to Ivacaftor. 
Two biopsies failed to produce a viable organoid culture. All successfully established organoid cultures 
were frozen and stored at HUB. A dose response experiment consisting of 6 concentrations was 
performed for VX-770 in 5 different forskolin concentrations. 
CHMP comments 
The methods of assessment described are considered adequate.  
Since cystic fibrosis is a systemic disease ivacaftor would be expected to impact not only on pulmonary 
function but also on other organs such as the gastrointestinal system. No data have been provided on 
this regard (e.g., change in BMI from baseline). However, given the short duration of the study is not 
likely that relevant changes in this endpoint can be seen. 
Key inclusion criteria 
Table 1 summarizes the principal inclusion criteria. 
Key exclusion criteria  
Key exclusion criteria included the following: G551D, G1244E, G1349D, G178R, G551S, S1251N, 
S1255P, S549N, S549R, or R117H CFTR mutation 
- History of any illness or any clinical condition that, in the opinion of the investigator, might confound 
the results of the study or pose an additional risk in administering study drug to the subject. For 
example: 
- A history of cirrhosis with portal hypertension. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- An acute upper or lower respiratory infection, pulmonary exacerbation (PEx), or changes in therapy 
(including antibiotics) for pulmonary disease within 28 days before Day 1 (the first dose of study drug). 
CHMP comments 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria are acceptable for the purpose of the study. 
Prior and Concomitant Medications 
Information regarding all prior and concomitant medications, including the subject’s CF medications, 
other medications, and herbal and naturopathic remedies administered from 30 days before the 
Screening Period through the Safety Follow-up Visit will be recorded in each subject’s source 
documents and electronic case report form (eCRF). For subjects who are screened but are not enrolled 
in the study, details of prior medications will only be documented in the subjects’ source documents. 
Information about bronchodilator use during the study will be collected and documented in the 
subject’s source documents and eCRF. 
CHMP comments 
Definition of prior and concomitant medication is acceptable.  
Maintenance of Stable Medication Regimen for CF 
It is recommended that subjects remain on stable CF medication regimens from 4 weeks before Day 1 
through the end of the study. A stable medication regimen is defined as a medication regimen that the 
subject has been following for at least 4 weeks before Day 1. 
Specific requirements apply to certain CF medications: 
- At the time of study entry, subjects who are on a stable regimen of a single inhaled antibiotic that is 
continuously administered should remain on this antibiotic through the Safety Follow-up Visit. 
- At the time of study entry, subjects who are on a stable regimen of a single inhaled cycling antibiotic 
(e.g., Tobramycin Inhalation Solution [TOBI®] regimen), should remain on this antibiotic through the 
Safety Follow-up Visit. Inhaled cycling antibiotics should be administered in 28-day-on/28-day-off 
cycles. Study visits on Day 1 and Week 8 during Treatment Periods 1 and 2 should be timed to occur 
at the end of an off-cycle, but no fewer than 14 days after the last dose of inhaled antibiotics in the 
previous on-cycle. 
- At the time of study entry, subjects who are on an alternating regimen of inhaled cycling antibiotics 
that comprise continuous administration of antibiotics (e.g., TOBI administration alternating with 
Cayston®) should remain on these antibiotics according to their alternating regimens through the 
Safety Follow-up Visit. 
Administration 
Study drug tablets will be administered orally. During Treatment Period 1 and Treatment Period 2 
subjects will take 1 tablet (ivacaftor [150 mg] or matching placebo) twice per day. Study drug should 
be administered within 30 minutes of consuming fat-containing food such as a standard CF high-fat, 
high-calorie meal or snack according to the following guidelines: 
- All doses of study drug (morning and evening, as applicable) should be administered at 
approximately q12 h (± 2 hours) on each dosing occasion (e.g., if the morning doses of study drug are 
administered at 08:00 hours on Day 1, all subsequent morning doses should be administered between 
06:00 hours and 10:00 hours). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
- At study visits during the treatment periods, the morning dose of study drug will be administered at 
the site after predose assessments have been completed. The meal or snack will be provided by the 
site for the morning dose of study drug. 
- If a subject’s scheduled visit is to occur in the afternoon, the following guidelines must be used for 
administering either the morning or evening dose: 
o If the dose in the clinic will be within 6 hours of the subject’s scheduled morning dose, the 
subject should withhold their morning dose of study drug and the morning dose will be 
administered in the clinic. 
o If the dose in the clinic will be more than 6 hours after the subject’s scheduled morning dose, 
the subject should take the morning dose at home and the evening dose will be administered 
in the clinic. In this event, all assessments will be collected relative to the evening dose. 
- For the visit at the end of each treatment period, subjects will be instructed to bring all used and 
unused study drug to the site; study drug will be dispensed at each visit, as appropriate. 
Dose Modification for Toxicity 
If any unacceptable toxicity arises, individual subjects will discontinue dosing. 
Removal of Subjects 
Subjects may withdraw from the study at any time at their own request. Subjects may be withdrawn 
from study drug treatment at any time at the discretion of the investigator or Vertex for safety, 
behavior, noncompliance with study procedures, or administrative reasons. Study drug treatment will 
be withdrawn for any female subject who has a confirmed pregnancy and for any male subject whose 
female partner has a confirmed pregnancy. A subject may be withdrawn from study drug treatment 
after a discussion between the investigator and the medical monitor for any of the following reasons: 
- The subject develops a medical condition that requires prolonged concomitant therapy with a 
prohibited medication or prolonged interruption of the study drug. 
- The subject has an increase in transaminases for which withdrawal of study drug is recommended  
- The subject develops a cataract. 
If a subject has been withdrawn from study drug treatment, the subject will continue to be followed, 
provided the subject has not withdrawn consent. 
If a subject does not return for a scheduled visit, reasonable effort will be made to contact the subject. 
In any circumstance, reasonable effort will be made to document subject outcome. The investigator 
will inquire about the reason for withdrawal, request that the subject return all unused investigational 
product(s), request that the subject return for a Safety Follow-up Visit, if applicable, and follow up with 
the subject regarding any unresolved adverse events (AEs). 
If the subject withdraws consent for the study, no further evaluations will be performed and no 
additional data will be collected. Vertex may retain and continue to use any data collected before such 
withdrawal of consent. 
Blinding and Unblinding 
This will be a double-blind study. Subjects and all site personnel, including the investigator, site 
monitor, and study team, will remain blinded to treatment assignments until database lock. The Vertex 
study team will remain blinded to treatment assignments until all subjects have completed the study. 
Exceptions are made for the following personnel: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Any site personnel for whom this information is important to ensure the safety of the subject in the 
event of a life-threatening medical emergency 
- Any site personnel for whom this information is important to ensure the safety of the subject and the 
fetus in the event of a pregnancy 
- Vertex Global Patient Safety (GPS) and Regulatory Affairs personnel to satisfy serious adverse event 
(SAE) processing and reporting regulations 
- Unblinded statistician who will prepare the final (production) randomization list (this statistician is not 
part of the study team) 
- Vertex IXRS Management for IXRS oversight and system administration 
- Vertex Clinical Supply Chain 
- The bioanalytical laboratory/vendor personnel managed by Vertex Bioanalysis. 
Vertex Quality Assurance GCP personnel and all other Vertex Bioanalysis laboratory personnel will be 
blinded to the treatment assignment. 
Unblinding of the individual subject's treatment by the investigator will be limited to medical 
emergencies or urgent clinical situations in which knowledge of the subject's study treatment is 
necessary for clinical management. In such cases, investigators will use their best judgment as to 
whether to unblind without first attempting to contact the medical monitor to discuss and agree to the 
need for unblinding. If investigators deem it not necessary to unblind immediately, they will first 
attempt to contact the medical monitor to discuss and agree to the need for unblinding.  
If investigators have tried but are unable to reach the medical monitor, they will use their best 
judgment, based on the nature and urgency of the clinical situation, and may proceed with unblinding 
without having successfully reached and discussed the situation with the medical monitor. 
Timing of assessments 
The timing of assessment is shown in table below. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
Safety  
Elevation of LFT Parameters 
Subjects with new treatment-emergent ALT or AST elevations of >3 × ULN must be followed closely, 
including repeat confirmatory testing performed by the central laboratory within 48 to 72 hours of the 
initial finding and subsequent close monitoring of ALT and AST levels, as clinically indicated. In 
addition, if ALT or AST are >5 × ULN, repeat follow-up levels must be obtained within 7 ± 2 days and 
followed up 7 days later. If a subject cannot return to the site for liver function testing, a local 
laboratory may be used. Elevations in LFTs at the local laboratory must be reported immediately to the 
medical monitor, and the subject must have the tests repeated and sent to the central laboratory as 
soon as possible (ideally within 48 to 72 hours). 
LFT Elevations Leading to Study Drug Interruption. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Study drug administration must be interrupted immediately, and the medical monitor must be notified 
if any of the following criteria is met: 
- ALT or AST >5 × ULN, or 
- ALT or AST >3 × ULN in association with elevation of bilirubin >2 × ULN and/or clinical jaundice. 
Repeat testing should be performed within 48 to 72 hours to confirm the initial elevation. A thorough 
investigation of potential causes should be conducted, and the subject should be followed closely for 
clinical progression. If no convincing alternative etiology for the elevated transaminases is identified, 
regardless of whether ALT or AST levels have improved, the subject must be discontinued from the 
study in consultation with the medical monitor. 
Subjects in whom treatment is discontinued for elevated transaminases should have their 
transaminases monitored closely until levels normalize or return to baseline. If an alternative cause of 
transaminase elevation has been identified, study drug may be resumed once transaminases return to 
≤2 × ULN. Approval of the medical monitor is required before resumption of study drug. Upon 
resumption of study drug, transaminases should be assessed weekly for 4 weeks. If a protocol-defined 
transaminase elevation occurs within 4 weeks of rechallenge with the study drug (with confirmation of 
the initial elevation by repeat testing within 48 to 72 hours), then the study drug must be permanently 
discontinued, regardless of the presumed etiology. 
Physical Examinations and Vital Signs 
A physical examination (PE) of all body systems and vital signs assessment will be performed at 
screening and select study visits (Table 9-4). At other visits, symptom-directed PEs and symptom-
directed vital sign assessments can be performed at the discretion of the investigator or healthcare 
provider. 
A PE includes a review of the following systems: head/neck/thyroid; eyes/ears/nose/throat; 
respiratory; cardiovascular; lymph nodes; abdomen; skin; musculoskeletal; and neurological. Breast, 
anorectal, and genital examinations will be performed when medically indicated. After screening, any 
clinically significant abnormal findings in PEs will be reported as AEs. 
Vital signs include blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), body temperature, pulse rate, and respiration 
rate. These will be assessed following at least a 5-minute rest in the supine position. 
Ophthalmologic Examination 
Subjects who are under 18 years of age at the Screening Visit will undergo an OE at the time points in 
the protocol and Table 9-4. The OE will include: 
- measurement of best corrected distance visual acuity of each eye 
- pharmacologically dilated examination of the lens with a slit lamp 
These examinations must be conducted by a licensed ophthalmologist or optometrist. If there is 
documentation of an OE that met protocol criteria and was conducted within 3 months before the 
Screening Visit, the subject is not required to have another OE during Screening. If a cataract or lens 
opacity is identified and determined to be clinically significant by the ophthalmologist or optometrist, 
the subject (and the subject’s parent or guardian if the subject is a minor) will be notified. 
Additional OEs may be conducted at the discretion of the investigator. The Vertex medical monitor or 
designee should be notified of any additional OEs. 
In addition, at Screening, the following history will be obtained for all subjects: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 17/18 
 
 
 
- history of steroid use 
- history of trauma to the eye 
- any family history of glaucoma, congenital cataracts, or cataracts arising later in life. 
CHMP comments 
Safety endpoints are deemed appropriate as they cover the most relevant AEs identified with Kalydeco. 
Statistical Methods 
Sample size calculation 
No formal sample size calculation was conducted. The planned sample size of approximately 50 
subjects is based on the number of subjects expected to be available for participation. Assuming an 
estimated standard deviation (SD) of the paired differences of 1.00 in LCI2.5, this available sample 
size of 50 subjects will produce a 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) of the mean treatment 
difference with precision (margin of error) of 0.28 points. Similarly, the margin of error using a 2-sided 
80% CI will be 0.18 points. 
CHMP comments 
The sample size calculation has been focused on the precision to estimate the treatment difference 
through Week 8 in LCI2.5 between IVA and placebo groups. 50 subjects were initially planned to 
participate in the study but instead, 38 have been randomized.  
The Applicant should explain numerically how this reduction of the planned sample size affects to the 
precision calculated and to the results presented.  
Analysis Sets 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Full Analysis Set (FAS) is defined as all randomized subjects who have received at least 1 dose of 
study drug. 
The Safety Set is defined as all enrolled subjects who received at least 1 dose of study drug. The 
Safety Set is to be used for all safety analyses in which subjects will be analyzed according to the 
treatment they received and not according to their randomized treatment group. 
Statistical Analyses 
Continuous variables will be summarized using the following descriptive summary statistics: the 
number of subjects (n), mean, SD, standard error, median, minimum value, and maximum value. 
Categorical variables will be summarized using counts and percentages. 
Baseline: Study baseline is defined as the most recent nonmissing measurement collected before 
the first administration of study drug in Treatment Period 1. Period baseline is defined as the most 
recent nonmissing measurement collected before the first administration of study drug in each 
Treatment Period. For Treatment Period 1, the period baseline will be the study baseline; for Treatment 
Period 2, the period baseline will be from an assessment measured after the Washout Period and 
before the first administration of study drug in Period 2. 
For all efficacy analyses, the statistical inference will be based on change from study baseline. 
However, efficacy analyses based on change from period baseline will also be presented. Similarly, 
summary tables, as applicable, will be presented based on both baselines. All subject data, including 
those derived, will be presented in the subject data listings; listings will display all subjects who were 
randomized, regardless of whether or not they received study drug. 
Efficacy analysis 
Change from Baseline in LCI 
A Bayesian approach will be used to estimate the effect of ivacaftor versus placebo on change from 
study baseline in LCI2.5. A non-informative prior distribution (normal distribution with mean 0 and 
variance = 106) on the treatment difference will be assumed. The posterior distribution of the 
treatment difference will be obtained using the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method. 
The mean of the posterior distribution will be calculated and the 80% credible interval for the 
treatment difference will be provided. Using this Bayesian method, the posterior probability that 
the treatment difference for LCI2.5 is less than zero will be calculated. The study will be considered 
successful if this probability exceeds 80%. 
Supportive analyses of absolute change from study baseline in LCI2.5 through Week 8 of each double-
blind treatment period based on a mixed-effects model for repeated measures (MMRM) using the FAS 
will be performed. 
The model will include the absolute change from the study baseline in each treatment period as the 
dependent variable; sequence, treatment, treatment period, and visit within treatment period as fixed 
effects; LCI2.5 at study baseline as covariate if deemed necessary; and subject nested within 
sequence as the random effect. An unstructured covariance matrix will be used for the repeated 
measurements of the same subject within each treatment period. If there is a convergence problem for 
the unstructured covariance matrix, an appropriate covariance matrix structure, such as compound 
symmetry, will be assumed in the primary analysis. The estimated mean treatment difference overall, 
and a 80% confidence interval will be provided. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 19/20 
 
 
 
Carry-over effect will be assessed by the sequence effect in the model, as well as by comparing 
baseline for each treatment period. If there is a clinically or statistically significant unequal carry-over 
effect, then the data from the first period may be used for the analysis.  
As a sensitivity analysis, the analysis will be repeated using change from period baseline instead of 
change from study baseline. Summary, plots, and individual listings of efficacy data will be generated. 
A more detailed description of the planned statistical analysis of efficacy endpoints will be presented in 
the SAP. 
Change from Baseline in LCI5.0, Sweat Chloride, and ppFEV1 
Analysis for change from study baseline in LCI5.0, sweat chloride (mmol/L), and ppFEV1, will be 
similar to the analysis of change from baseline in LCI2.5. 
CFQ-R Score 
The raw scores in CFQ-R will be summarized into different domains of health (12 domains for subjects 
14 years of age and older; 8 for subjects 6 to 13 years of age; and 11 for parents/caregivers). The 
primary analytical focus will be the respiratory domain using a pooling of all self-response 
questionnaire versions (e.g., Adult/Adolescent and Child versions). 
Respiratory domain will be analyzed using a mixed effects model with baseline measurement as 
covariate if deemed necessary. 
Subgroup Analysis of Interest 
Subgroup analyses of LCI among subjects with a pre-determined minimum ppFEV1 at baseline (e.g., at 
least 60 percent predicted) may be performed using MMRM in a similar manner as described for 
primary endpoint LCI2.5. 
Similar analyses of ppFEV1 among subgroup of subjects with a pre-determined maximum value at 
baseline (e.g., ≤90 percent predicted) may be performed.  
These analyses will be described in more detail in the SAP prior to the database lock. 
Events Related to Outcome 
Pulmonary exacerbations, hospitalizations, and related outcomes will be summarized for each 
treatment group as appropriate. 
Organoid assessment 
In total, five forskolin concentrations and six VX-770 concentrations were tested, for a total of thirty 
experimental conditions for the assay. 
Two measures of organoid swelling were used for analysis: the AUC value and the maximum value of 
the organoid swelling over 90 minutes. Values were obtained in triplicate at each of two biological 
replicates per experimental condition. 
Background-corrected values were generated for the average of the 2 biological replicates from each 
triplicate measurement for both organoid swelling measures. These values were used to explore the 
association between organoid swelling measures and clinical measures. 
Analysis of AUC value of In Vitro Organoid Swelling 
A descriptive summary of the background corrected value of AUC was provided for each experimental 
condition corresponding to FRSK and VX-770 concentrations, by CFTR genotype for Mutation 1 (3849 + 
10KB C→T and D1152H). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 20/21 
 
 
 
Dose-response curves of the mean background corrected AUC versus the FRSK concentration were 
provided for each VX-770 dose, by the CFTR genotype for Mutation 1. Further, for each CFTR genotype 
for Mutation 1, a Pearson correlation analysis was performed of background corrected AUC versus 
placebo-corrected change from study baseline at Week 8 on IVA for each of the clinical endpoints 
(LCI2.5, ppFEV1, and sweat chloride) at each experimental condition corresponding to different FRSK 
and VX-770 concentrations. 
Analysis of Maximum Value of In Vitro Organoid Swelling 
The analysis was similar to that for the AUC value of the organoid swelling. 
Safety 
The overall safety profile of ivacaftor will be assessed in terms of: 
- Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) 
- Clinical laboratory values (e.g., LFTs) 
- Vital signs (blood pressure, pulse rate, respiratory rate, and body temperature) and PEs 
- OEs (for subjects less than 18 years of age) 
Safety analyses will be based on the Safety Set. All safety data will be presented in subject data 
listings. 
Adverse Events 
AEs will be coded according to MedDRA. The number and percentage of subjects experiencing an AE 
will be summarized by the MedDRA system organ class and preferred term. AEs will be classified as 
pre-treatment or treatment-emergent. 
Pre-treatment AEs are defined as AEs that were reported or worsened after signing the ICF up to the 
start of study drug dosing. 
Treatment-emergent AEs are defined as AEs that were reported or worsened on or after the start of 
study drug dosing through the Safety Follow-up Visit. 
Only TEAEs will be summarized in tables. Some rules that will apply to the summarization of AEs are 
(1) a subject with multiple occurrences of the same AE or a continuing AE will only be counted once; 
(2) only the maximum severity level will be presented in the severity summary; 
and (3) only the worst relationship level will be presented in the relationship summary. 
AEs leading to death, SAEs, dose interruption, and permanent discontinuation will be listed separately. 
All AEs through the Safety Follow-up Visit, including pre-treatment AEs, will be listed in a subject data 
listing. 
Clinical Laboratory Assessments 
All statistical summaries of laboratory values will be performed using SI units. LFT results will be 
summarized by treatment group at each scheduled time point. Changes from baseline will also be 
summarized. Maximum shift changes from baseline based on the LFT normal ranges will be tabulated 
by treatment. A subject data listing of abnormal LFT values from scheduled and unscheduled time 
points will be provided. Results for hematology and for chemistry assessments other than LFTs will be 
listed. Clinically significant abnormal laboratory findings will be reported as AEs. 
Vital Signs 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 21/22 
 
 
 
Systolic and diastolic blood pressure (mmHg), pulse rate (beats per minute), respiratory rate (breaths 
per minute), and body temperature (degrees C) will be summarized by treatment.  
Changes from baseline will also be summarized. Clinically significant abnormal findings will be reported 
as AEs. 
Physical Examination 
PE results performed as part of the Screening Period assessment will be presented in subject data 
listings only. Clinically relevant results identified after screening will be reported as AEs. 
Ophthalmological Examinations 
Ophthalmological examination will be done for subjects who are under 18 years of age at the 
Screening Visit and then either at the Week 24 Visit or at the ETT Visit. This examination is not 
required if the subject received study drug for a total of less than 4 weeks. 
Ophthalmologic examination findings will be presented as a data listing. Summary tables will be 
provided if deemed necessary and as appropriate. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Thirty-eight subjects were randomized, dosed, and completed the study. One subject prematurely 
discontinued study drug treatment due to pregnancy. 
Table below shows the subject disposition in the study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 22/23 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tables below are showing the demographic and the baseline characteristics. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 23/24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comments 
The demographic characteristics are presented for the FAS population that comprises 38 patients. 
These baseline characteristics were very similar for the patients in both sequences. Subjects were 
equally distributed between both mutations in both sequences and slightly more patients (57.9%) had 
3849+10kbC->T mutation (42.1% for D1152H).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 24/25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the study of organoids (see page 44) the MAH has provided information about the mutation in the 
second allele in 34 out of the 38 patients included in the study.  
- Most patients with the 3849+10kbC->T mutation (n=19) had the W1282X mutation (n=12) or the 
F508del (n=5) in the second allele. According to the CFTR2 database these variant combinations 
causes CF. Patients with CF who have these variants are likely to be pancreatic sufficient.  
- Most patients with the D1152H mutation (n=15) had also the W1282X mutation (n=5) or the F508del 
(n=4). According to the CFTR2 database, these variant combinations have varying consequences so 
some patients have CF and some do not. Patients with CF who have this variant are likely to be 
pancreatic sufficient. 
Baseline ppFEV1 was ≥40 and < 70% in around 50% of patients in both sequences (47.4%); no 
patients had ppFEV1 <40% at baseline. Twenty six percent (26.3%) and 31.6% had ppFEV ≥ 70 and 
≤90 and 26.3% and 21.1% ppFEV1 >90% in sequences 1 and 2, respectively. LCI2.5 at baseline was 
around 13 in both sequences with minimum values in some patients of 6.61 and 6.75 and maximum 
values of 21.36 and 25.47, respectively (normal value <7.5). This would be reflective of uneven 
ventilation and small airways disease in most of patients. In general, the patients seem to have a lung 
function moderately affected.  
Sweat chloride was 41.5 and 52.0 mmol/L for patients on sequence 1 and 2 and minimum values of 18 
and 12 mmol/L, respectively. Such low values, however, are considered not likely indicative of cystic 
fibrosis. It would have been desirable that a sweat chloride at baseline equal or above 60 mmol/l had 
been requested for all patients. The MAH should provide individual data of patients with sweat chloride 
values under 60 mmol/L and the corresponding mutation. 
Only 2 subjects were younger than 12 years of age in each sequence of treatment and the rest of 
patients are reported as older than 12 years. No information is provided about the exact number of 
paediatric patients and their baseline characteristics. However, for the purpose of this application 
(submission of data under Art 46 of the "Paediatric Regulation") it would be of interest to have efficacy 
and safety data in this population if the paediatric population (patients younger than 18 years of age) 
were a substantial proportion of the whole population (i.e., 50% or more). 
Medical history 
The most common medical history conditions (incidence ≥15% of subjects by PT in the FAS) are 
summarized in Table below. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 25/26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comments 
Patients with 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutations are expected to be pancreatic sufficient. 
However, some cases of pancreatitis and pancreatic failure for some patients in both sequences (3 in 
sequence 1 and 1 in sequence 2) that could be indicative of pancreatic insufficiency. 
Concomitant Medications 
The majority (94.7%) of subjects used medication prior to receiving the first dose of study drug. 
Medication regimens were generally similar before study (prior medication) and during the treatment 
period (concomitant medication), and while receiving either of the study drugs. 
Table 10-5 summarizes concomitant medications taken by at least 15% of subjects while receiving 
placebo or IVA. The most common (≥40% incidence overall) concomitant medications were indicated 
for management of CF complications and included dornase alpha, sodium chloride, and azithromycin. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 26/27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comments 
Virtually all patients received concomitant medications. Both treatment sequences behaved very 
similar although more patients in the sequence 1 had bronchiectasis (73.7% versus 42.1%), chronic 
sinusitis (26.3% versus 0) and osteopenia (15.8 versus 5.3%; respectively). No differences are 
observed in terms of concomitant treatment as except for Bactrim that was given to more patients in 
sequence 1 (21.1% versus 15.8%) in the rest of drugs the percentages are virtually identical.  
Important Protocol Deviations 
An IPD was defined as any protocol deviation that had the potential to significantly impact the 
completeness, accuracy, or reliability of the study data or that may have significantly affected a 
subject’s rights, safety, or well-being. 
Five IPDs were reported in 5 subjects (1 subject in Treatment Sequence 1 and 4 subjects in Treatment 
Sequence 2). The IPDs were related to changes in pulmonary disease within 4 weeks of Day 1 of a 
treatment period, treatment compliance <80%, and missed safety assessments. The IPDs are briefly 
described below. 
IPDs involving acute upper respiratory infection, PEx, or changes in therapy (including antibiotics) for 
pulmonary disease within 4 weeks before the Treatment Period 2, Day 1 Visit.  
It is unlikely that these IPDs impacted the ability to interpret the overall study results given their 
timing relative to the Treatment Period 2 start date and the number of subjects affected. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 27/28 
 
 
 
 
 
• One subject had an IPD of PEx during the washout period. The PEx lasted 15 days and the subject 
received antibiotic treatment during that time. The subject had the Treatment Period 2 Day 1 visit less 
than 4 weeks after the end date of the PEx and antibiotic treatment. 
• One subject had an IPD of common cold which ended with no antibiotic treatment. The cold involved 
an acute upper or lower respiratory tract infection.  The subject had the Treatment Period 2 Day 1 visit 
less than 4 weeks after the cold ended.  According to the MAH, it is unlikely that this IPD impacted the 
ability to interpret the overall study results, given it involved only 1 subject. 
• One subject had an IPD of less than 80% treatment compliance during both study periods. The 
subject was 76.7% compliant during Treatment Period 1 and 75% compliant during Treatment Period 
2. 
• One subject had an IPD of serum pregnancy test not performed during screening. The site collected a 
serum sample for this pregnancy test, but the sample was not appropriately identified, hence the test 
could not be completed. The subject’s subsequent pregnancy tests were all negative. 
• One subject had an IPD of urine pregnancy test not performed at the Treatment Period 2, Week 4 
Visit. Reportedly, the subject could not produce urine for the test. The subject later had a confirmed 
pregnancy and therefore discontinued study drug treatment.  
No safety issues were identified for these subjects. 
CHMP comment 
The protocol deviations are not likely to have affected the study outcome.  
EFFICACY RESULTS 
Primary analysis 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the absolute change from baseline in LCI2.5 through 8 weeks 
of treatment. The Bayesian analysis of the primary endpoint (through Week 8) is presented in 
table below. 
The Bayesian posterior probability of a <0 average treatment difference through Week 8 between 
the IVA and placebo groups in the change from baseline in LCI2.5 was >99% (posterior mean: -0.68; 
25th percentile: -0.83, 75th percentile: -0.53). A negative change in LCI2.5 is indicative of 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 28/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvement with IVA treatment compared to placebo. The posterior distribution of average treatment 
difference is shown in Figure 11-1. 
Figure 11-1 Posterior Distribution of Average Treatment Difference (IVA-Placebo) 
Through Week 8 for Change From Baseline in LCI2.5, FAS 
Source: Figure 14.2.1.1 
FAS: full analysis set; IVA: ivacaftor; LCI2.5: number of lung turnovers required to reduce the end tidal inert gas 
concentration to 1/40th of its starting value 
Notes: Baseline was study baseline defined as the most recent non-missing measurement before the first dose of 
study drug in Treatment Period 1. Repeated Measures Model: sequence by period by visit were cell effects with 
baseline LCI2.5 as a covariate; Covariance Structure=UN@CS; non-informative prior for cell effects and covariate 
effect; flat prior on variance-covariance parameters. 
A supportive analysis of change from baseline in LCI2.5 through 8 weeks of treatment using a 
frequentist CI estimation approach based on MMRM is presented in Table 11-2. The LS mean of 
the average treatment difference through Week 8 between IVA and placebo groups in the change 
from baseline in LCI2.5 was -0.66 (95% CI: -1.10, -0.21). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The LS mean change from baseline in LCI2.5 by visit is shown in Figure 11-2. Improvements in 
LCI2.5 were observed by Week 4 and sustained through Week 8 for the IVA group compared to 
placebo. 
Figure 11-2 LS Mean Change From Baseline in LCI2.5 by Visit, FAS 
To evaluate individual response to IVA, a waterfall plot showing the subject-level placebo corrected 
change in LCI2.5 from study baseline at Week 8 is presented in Figure 11-3. The majority of subjects 
had improvements in placebo-corrected LCI2.5 at Week 8 of IVA treatment. 
Figure 11-3 Waterfall Plot of Placebo-corrected Change From Study Baseline in LCI2.5 at 
Week 8 on IVA, FAS 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 30/31 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comment 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the absolute change from baseline in LCI2.5 through 8 weeks of 
treatment. The posterior mean is -0.68 with a Credible Interval of (-0.91; -0.45) and the Posterior 
probability that average treatment difference through 8 (IVA-Placebo) <0 is 99.76%. It implies that 
the probability of the difference between arms is greater than 0 is just 0.24% which is positive to the 
objective of the study. 
As supportive analysis for this endpoint, the MMRM with a frequentist approach is presented by the 
MAH. The LS mean of the average treatment difference through Week 8 between IVA and placebo 
groups in the change from baseline in LCI2.5 was -0.66 (95% CI: -1.10, -0.21). The upper interval is 
lower than 0 so it suggests that the difference between arms is significant in favour of the IVA arm. 
The evidence shown by the MAH is consistent from a Bayesian approach and a frequentist approach 
(MMRM) and statistical significance seems to be met according to the results presented. 
Nevertheless, the reduction in LCI2.5 seems small. It has to be acknowledged that there are limited 
data from trials using this endpoint and the minimal clinically important difference has not yet been 
defined. But compared to the effect observed in patients with a G551D-CFTR mutation treated with 
ivacaftor for whom the difference in LCI2.5 versus placebo was -2·16 [95% CI -2·88 to -1·44]; 
p<0·0001) [Davis J et al. Assessment of clinical response to ivacaftor with lung clearance index in 
cystic fibrosis patients with a G551D-CFTR mutation and preserved spirometry: a randomised 
controlled trial. Lancet Respir Med. 2013 Oct;1(8):630-638] the effect size looks very modest.    
Subgroup analysis including LS mean and 95% CI are presented in Table 11-3.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 31/32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11-3 Subgroup Analysis: MMRM Analysis of Change From Baseline in Lung 
Clearance Index (LCI2.5) Through Week 8, FAS 
CHMP comment 
Subgroup analyses for the change from baseline in LCI2.5 through week 8 are shown in table below. 
Numerical advantage seems to favour IVA in all subgroups. However, due to the small sample sizes the 
results need to be interpreted with caution. 
Other efficacy endpoints 
LCI5.0 
The results of the MMRM analysis of change from baseline in LCI5.0 (calculated as lung volume 
turnovers required to reach 1/20 of the starting N2 concentration) through 8 weeks of treatment is 
presented in Table 11-4. The LS mean of the average treatment difference through Week 8 between 
IVA and placebo groups in the change from baseline in LCI5.0 was -0.28 (95% CI: -0.48, -0.08) which 
represented an improvement in LCI5.0 with 8 weeks of IVA treatment compared to placebo. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 32/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11-4 MMRM Analysis of Change From Baseline in Lung Clearance Index (LCI5.0) 
Through Week 8, FAS 
CHMP comment 
As previously mentioned, LCI5.0 measures the number of lung turnovers required to reduce the end 
tidal inert gas concentration to 1/20th of its starting value (as compared with 1/40th for LCI2.5). It is a 
less stringent endpoint but therefore more sensitive to a placebo effect. The treatment difference from 
placebo is therefore consistent and reassuring although the effect is small.  
Sweat chloride 
The results of the MMRM analysis of the change from baseline in sweat chloride through 8 weeks of 
treatment are shown in Table 11-5. The LS mean of the average treatment difference through Week 8 
between IVA and placebo groups in the change from baseline in sweat chloride was -9.2 mmol/L (95% 
CI: -12.4, -5.9), which represented an improvement in sweat chloride with IVA treatment compared to 
placebo. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 33/34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The placebo-corrected change from baseline in sweat chloride at Week 8 for individual subjects treated 
with IVA is presented as a waterfall plot in Figure 11-5. The majority of subjects on IVA with paired 
sweat chloride measurements had a placebo-corrected change from baseline of at least -10 mmol/L by 
Week 8. 
Figure 11-5 Waterfall Plot of Placebo-corrected Change From Baseline in Sweat 
Chloride (mmol/L) at Week 8 on IVA, FAS 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 34/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comment 
The change from baseline in sweat chloride compared to placebo was -9.2 (-12.4, -5.9) with patients 
on placebo remaining virtually equal compared to their baseline value. The effect seems related to 
kalydeco administration and could be reflecting the restoration of the biochemical defect with ivacaftor 
administration. However, the effect size is not as large as the one seen in other mutations. The 
waterfall plot shows that almost all patients on IVA had a reduction in sweat chloride levels. For some 
of them the reduction versus placebo was higher than 10 mmol/L. 
CFQ-R 
The results of the MMRM analysis of the change from baseline by visit in CFQ-R RD score at Week 8 of 
treatment are shown in Table 11-6. At Week 8, the LS mean change from study baseline in CFQ-R RD 
score was -1.7 for subjects receiving placebo and +17.1 for subjects receiving IVA. The LS mean of the 
treatment difference at Week 8 between IVA and placebo groups in the change from baseline in CFQ-R 
RD was +18.7 (95% CI: 12.5, 25.0), which represented a substantial improvement in CFQ-R RD score 
with IVA treatment compared to placebo. 
Table 11-6 MMRM Analysis of Change From Baseline in CFQ-R RD Score - At Week 8,  FAS 
CHMP comments 
An important increase in CFQ-R respiratory domain at week 8 compared to placebo is reported 
(+18.7). This improvement is impressive and somehow unexpected considering the limited size effect 
on other clinical endpoints and relevant parameters.  
ppFEV1 
The results of the MMRM analysis of the absolute change from baseline in ppFEV1 through 8 weeks of 
treatment are shown in Table 11-7. The LS mean of the average treatment difference through Week 8 
between IVA and placebo groups in the absolute change from baseline in ppFEV1 was +2.7 percentage 
points (95% CI: 0.6, 4.7) and represented an improvement in ppFEV1 with IVA treatment compared to 
placebo. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 35/36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comment 
Spirometry was also performed in this trial in order to assess the change in ppFEV1 at week 8. A slight 
reduction was observed in patients on placebo while an increase was seen in patients treated with 
ivacaftor. This increase was small (+2.7) compared to that seen in other studies in which IVA was 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 36/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
given to CF patients with different mutations. An (modest) increase was seen in most patients 
(waterfall plot). 
A subgroup analysis including LS mean and 95% CI is presented in Table 11-8. Subgroup results are 
based on small sample sizes and should be interpreted with caution  
CHMP comments 
Small changes in ppFEV1 are seen in all subgroups.  However, the low number of patients in each 
subset makes it difficult to interpret the results. 
Organoid-based Measurements 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 37/38 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Intestinal-like organoid swelling is a measure of CFTR function in vitro. In this assay 5 different 
forskolin concentrations and six VX-770 concentrations were tested, for a total of thirty experimental 
conditions for the assay. 
In all patient derived organoid cultures, some level of swelling was observed (maximum swelling over 
all conditions 151%-295%). Twenty nine organoid cultures were successfully established from 33 
rectal biopsies. Four organoid cultures were lost due to failure to meet quality control standards, 
resulting in 25 viable organoids for the planned assays, representing 25 subjects (Figure 11-8). 
Dose-response curves for organoid-based measurements are shown in Figure 11-9 (AUC of organoid 
swelling) and Figure 11-10 (maximum value of organoid swelling). The VX-770 effect was most 
pronounced when the organoids were treated with 0.128 μM FRSK. Organoids established from 
subjects with either CFTR mutation (3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H) displayed dose-dependent swelling 
with VX-770 treatment. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 38/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Pearson correlation analysis was performed on background-corrected organoid swelling versus 
placebo-corrected change from study baseline at Week 8 of IVA treatment for each of the clinical 
endpoints (LCI2.5, ppFEV1, and sweat chloride) at each experimental condition corresponding to 
different FRSK and VX-770 concentrations. The in vitro organoid-based assay performed as expected 
with VX-770 treatment associated with increased organoid swelling. 
Organoids from both mutations demonstrated a response to VX-770, however no evidence of 
correlation was observed between the degree of organoid swelling and the degree of response in 
clinical endpoints. Pearson correlations of organoid swelling following treatment with 0.128 μM FRSK 
and 0.3 μM VX-770 are presented in Table 11-9 (AUC of Organoid Swelling) and Table 11-10 Maximum 
Organoid Swelling) because these experimental conditions provided the greatest window to detect a 
correlation. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 39/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comments 
The MAH has used also the intestinal organoids to assess the efficacy of ivacaftor in patients carrying 
3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H CFTR mutations. This methodology is a promising tool that might have a 
place in the assessment of very rare mutations that can be studied in clinical trials. Nevertheless, it is 
not validated yet for regulatory purposes. 
In this study, biopsies of thirty-four patients were used for that purpose. Two of them did not generate 
organoids and another two organoids failed to recover after thawing. Analysis of the other 26 organoid 
lines in the FIS assays showed swelling of most organoid lines although 2 out of the 14 carrying a 
3849+10kbC->T CFTR allele had a lower response than the average. All organoid cultures carrying a 
D1152H allele showed significant swelling when exposed to VX-770 (n=12). In most organoid cultures 
swelling was observed at high forskolin concentrations (0.32, 0.8 and 2 μM) in the absence of VX-770 
suggesting that these mutations retain some function.  
According to the MAH, studies performed in the past with organoids carrying gating mutations showed 
reproducible organoid swelling in response to VX-770 treatment that correlated with clinical benefit. In 
this particular case, although organoids from both mutations demonstrated a response to ivacaftor 
there is no evidence of correlation between the degree of organoid swelling and the degree of response 
in clinical endpoints.  
The MAH has provided additional information about the mutation in the second allele in 34 patients. 
Most subjects with the 3849+10kbC->T mutation (n=19) had the W1282X mutation (n=12) or the 
F508del (n=5) in the second allele. According to the CFTR2 database these variant combinations 
causes CF. Patients with CF who have these variants are likely to be pancreatic sufficient.  Most 
patients with the D1152H mutation (n=15) had also the W1282X mutation (n=5) or the F508del (n=4) 
in the second allele. According to the CFTR2 database, these variant combinations have varying 
consequences so some patients have CF and some do not. Patients with CF who have this variant are 
likely to be pancreatic sufficient. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 40/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Change from Baseline in Weight, Height, and BMI 
No trends were identified in the change from baseline in weight, height, or BMI, or weight-, height-, or 
BMI-forage z scores (for subjects <21 years of age) between the 2 treatment groups. 
Pulmonary Exacerbations 
There were 2 PEx in 2 subjects; 1 subject receiving placebo and 1 subject receiving IVA. 
CHMP comments 
Two patients, one in placebo and one in ivacaftor group had a pulmonary exacerbation.  
SAFETY RESULTS 
Extent of Exposure 
The extent of exposure to study drug (IVA or placebo) is summarized in Table 12-1. 
CHMP comments 
The mean exposure duration was similar for placebo (8.2 weeks) and IVA (8.1 weeks) groups.  
Adverse Events 
Adverse event summary tables include TEAEs only. TEAEs will hereafter be referred to as AEs. AEs that 
started (or increased in severity) during a specific treatment (IVA or placebo) were summarized under 
the study drug the subject received during that treatment. AEs that started (or increased in severity) 
during the Washout Period were summarized under the study drug received in Treatment Period 1. 
An overview of AEs is presented in Table 12-2 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 41/42 
 
 
 
 
 
The AEs with an incidence of at least 5% of subjects in either treatment group are presented by SOC 
and PT in Table 12-3. The SOC (≥30% incidence in any group) with the highest incidence of AEs in both 
treatment groups was infections and infestations.  
In both treatment groups, most AEs were consistent with common manifestations of CF. By PT, the 
most common AEs (≥10% incidence in any group) were infective PEx of CF, upper respiratory tract 
infection, and viral upper respiratory tract infection. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 42/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Severity of Adverse Events 
A summary of the severity of AEs is presented in Table 12-2. If a subject had more than 1 occurrence 
of an AE, the AE with the highest severity was included.  The majority of subjects had AEs that were 
mild (60.5%) or moderate (31.6%) in severity. Of the 22 subjects with AEs in the IVA group, 10 
(26.3%) subjects had mild AEs, 5 (13.2%) subjects had moderate AEs, and 7 (18.4%) had severe AEs. 
Of the 22 subjects with AEs in the placebo group, 13 (34.2%) subjects had mild AEs, 7 (18.4%) 
subjects had moderate AEs, and 2 (5.3%) subjects had severe AEs. Overall, the incidence of mild and 
moderate AEs was lower in the IVA group compared to placebo. 
The severe AEs in the IVA group included headache, influenza, upper respiratory tract infection, 
constipation, forced expiratory volume decreased, infective PEx of CF, and rash. The severe AEs in the 
placebo group included pancreatitis, myalgia, and allergy to animal. None of the severe AEs were 
considered related to study drug treatment.  
CHMP comments 
Only TEAEs are shown in this application. In both placebo and ivacaftor groups 57.9 % of patients had 
at least one TEAE. Most of them were considered not related and only 2 patients on placebo (5.3%) 
and 7 on ivacaftor (18.4%) had a severe AE. 
The most frequent TEAEs were infections and infestations, in particular of the respiratory tract that it is 
expected in this CF population, followed by respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal disorders.   
Deaths 
There were no deaths in this study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 43/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other Serious Adverse Events 
Three (7.9%) subjects had SAEs: 1 subject in the IVA group had a spontaneous abortion, 1 subject in 
the placebo group had an infective PEx of CF, and 1 subject in the placebo group had pancreatitis. All 
events were considered unlikely or unrelated to study drug. 
Adverse Events That Led to Discontinuation of Study Drug or That Led to Interruption of Study Drug  
There were no AEs that led to treatment discontinuation in this study. Two (5.3%) subjects had AEs 
that led to treatment interruption in this study: 1 subject in the IVA group who had an AE of rash and 
1 subject in the placebo group who had an SAE of pancreatitis. Both AEs were considered not related 
or unlikely related to study drug. 
CHMP comments 
One patient reported rash, an AE that it is already described in the SmPC as a very common AE. 
Clinical Laboratory Evaluation 
Liver Function Test 
There were mean decreases from baseline at Week 8 in amylase and lipase values in the IVA group 
(Table 12-4). In addition, there were more subjects with high lipase values that normalized by Week 8 
of treatment in the IVA group compared to placebo. 
The maximum on-treatment LFT results are presented in Table 12-5. The majority of subjects had 
maximum on-treatment ALT or AST ≤3 × ULN. No clinically notable trends or safety concerns were 
identified. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 44/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHMP comment 
No patients had increases in transaminases above 8 x ULN. The incidence of ALT or AST levels >3 to < 
5 x ULN was 2.6% in patients on placebo versus 0% in subjects on kalydeco. Overall, the percentage 
of patients with elevated transaminases was not very high.  One patient on IVA had elevations of 
bilirrubin >1.5 to < 2 x ULN. The percentage of patients with >ULN to 1.5 x ULN was higher in patients 
receiving Kalydeco compared to placebo (7.9% versus 5.4%, respectively).  
Mild hepatic transaminase elevation is a common occurrence in CF patients particularly among young 
children with cystic fibrosis. Elevated transaminases have been also reported in patients with CF 
receiving ivacaftor. In some instances, these elevations have been associated with concomitant 
elevations in total serum bilirubin.  
A warning on the increase of transaminases in CF patients treated with ivacaftor is in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC. 
Vital Signs (pag 74) 
No clinically relevant trends or changes from baseline were observed during either treatment period for 
HR, temperature, respiratory rate, or blood pressure. 
CHMP comments 
There were no important findings in chemistry, haematology coagulation, urinalysis and vital signs.  
Cataract opacity 
No cataracts or lens opacities were observed during either treatment period. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 45/46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Study 127 is submitted as a stand-alone post-authorization measure (PAM) under Article 46 of 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 (the “Paediatric Regulation”).  This study was designed to evaluate the 
efficacy of ivacaftor treatment in subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF) 6 years of age and older who have a 
3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutation.  
Both are mutations of low prevalence that may cause disease that it is in general of mild to moderate 
severity. Some subjects with D1152H may be asymptomatic. 
Study 127 included male and female subjects 6 years of age and older weighing ≥25 kg with confirmed 
diagnosis of CF, and a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutation on at least 1 allele, and forced 
expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) ≥40% of predicted and ≤105% of predicted at screening. 
The primary endpoint was the change in lung clearance index (LCI2.5). As lung disease usually evolves 
slowly this index, that measures the degree of small airway disease by assessing ventilation 
inhomogeneity, may be useful in young CF patients with spirometry apparently normal. LCI2.5 is more 
likely to reveal differences in ventilation homogeneity than LCI5.0 since while LCI2.5 measures the 
number of lung turnovers required to reduce the end tidal inert gas concentration to 1/40th of its 
starting value, LCI5.0 measures the number of lung turnovers required to reduce the end tidal inert gas 
concentration to 1/20th of its starting value.  
Although the experience with LCI in the assessment of lung function in CF patients is still limited and it 
is somehow unknown the change from baseline that can be considered clinically relevant, the use of 
LCI as the primary endpoint is acceptable provided that the results are supported by evidence of 
clinical relevance from other endpoints. 
Additional endpoints were the absolute change from baseline in LCI5.0 through 8 weeks, the change in 
ppFEV1, the change in CFQ-R and the change in sweat chloride. Organoid-based measurements of 
ivacaftor-induced CFTR function in vitro were also assessed as an additional endpoint. All are 
considered appropriate in this setting. 
The sample size calculation has been focused on the precision to estimate the treatment difference 
through Week 8 in LCI2.5 between IVA and placebo groups. 50 subjects were initially planned to 
participate in the study but instead, 38 have been randomized. The MAH should explain numerically 
how this reduction of the planned sample size affects to the precision calculated and to the results 
presented. 
These baseline characteristics were very similar for the patients in both sequences. Slightly more 
subjects had the 3849+10kbC->T mutation (57.9%) compared to the D1152H mutation (42.1%).  
Most patients with the 3849+10kbC->T mutation had the W1282X mutation or the F508del in the 
second allele and according to the CFTR2 database these variant combinations cause CF although the 
subjects are likely to be pancreatic sufficient. Regarding subjects with the D1152H mutation most had 
the W1282X or the F508del mutation in the second allele. These variant combinations have varying 
consequences so some patients have CF and some do not. These subjects are likely to be pancreatic 
sufficient. 
Baseline ppFEV1 was ≥40 and < 70% in around 50% of patients in both sequences. Twenty six percent 
(26.3%) and 31.6% had ppFEV ≥ 70 and ≤90 and 26.3% and 21.1% ppFEV1 >90% in sequences 1 and 
2, respectively. LCI2.5 at baseline was around 13 in both sequences with minimum values in some 
patients of 6.61 and 6.75 and maximum values of 21.36 and 25.47, respectively (normal value <7.5). 
This would be reflective of uneven ventilation and small airways disease in most of patients. In 
general, the patients seem to have a lung function moderately affected.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 46/47 
 
 
 
Sweat chloride was 41.5 and 52.0 mmol/L for patients on sequence 1 and 2 and minimum values of 18 
and 12 mmol/L, respectively. Such low values, however, are not likely indicative of CF. It would have 
been desirable that a sweat chloride at baseline equal or above 60 mmol/l had been requested for all 
patients. The MAH should provide individual data of patients with sweat chloride values under 60 
mmol/L and the corresponding mutation.  
Patients with 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutations are expected to be pancreatic sufficient. 
However, some cases of pancreatitis and pancreatic failure are described for some patients in both 
sequences (3 in sequence 1 and 1 in sequence 2) that could be indicative of pancreatic insufficiency.  
Only 2 subjects were younger than 12 years of age in each sequence of treatment of study 127 but 
based on the data available it was unknown how many were adolescents. For the purpose of this 
application (submission of data under Art 46 of the "Paediatric Regulation") it is of interest to have the 
information on the paediatric population. For this purpose, the MAH was requested to provide their 
baseline characteristics including ppFEV1 (including categories <40; ≥40 and <70; ≥70 and ≤90; and 
>90); sweat chloride, LCi2.5, LCI5 and CFQR at baseline, and the genotype of each of them if the 
paediatric population (i.e., patients younger than 18 years of age) were a substantial proportion of the 
whole population (i.e., 50% or more). For all these parameters, the mean (SD), median, minimum and 
maximum values should be provided even when these values would have a purely descriptive interest. 
In their responses the MAH explained that the percentage of children and adolescents was only 21% 
(8/38) of the study population. Given the small numbers, no sound conclusion is expected to be drawn 
from the efficacy and safety data of this subset. The MAH has not provided any data what it is 
considered acceptable. 
Efficacy results 
Efficacy results are presented only for the whole population.  
Primary endpoint: absolute change from baseline in LCI2.5 compared to placebo at week 8. 
The primary endpoint was met with a difference of -0.66 (95% CI: -1.10, -0.21) versus placebo. The 
reduction seems small. It is acknowledged that the minimal clinically important difference has not yet 
been defined for this endpoint but the effect size seems quite modest when compared with the one in 
CF patients with a G551D-CFTR mutation treated with ivacaftor (+2.16 [95% CI -2.88 to -1.44]; 
p<0.0001) [Davis J et al. Assessment of clinical response to ivacaftor with lung clearance index in 
cystic fibrosis patients with a G551D-CFTR mutation and preserved spirometry: a randomised 
controlled trial. Lancet Respir Med. 2013 Oct;1(8):630-638].  
Overall, the additional endpoints seem to support the result of the primary endpoint since a positive 
trend is seen for all of them: 
- LCI5.0: the change from baseline was -0.28. It is consistent and reassuring although the effect is 
small.  
- ppFEV1: the change form baseline was +2.7. Again the size effect is small compared to that seen in 
other studies in which IVA was given to CF patients with different mutations.  
- Sweat chloride: a reduction of 9.2 mmol/L (-12.4, -5.9) was seen. The effect size is limited compared 
to the effect of Kalydeco on sweat chloride in other mutations. The waterfall plot shows that almost all 
patients on IVA had a reduction in sweat chloride levels. For some of them the reduction versus 
placebo was higher than 10 mmol/L.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 47/48 
 
 
 
- An important increase in CFQ-R respiratory is reported (+18.7). This improvement is impressive and 
somehow unexpected considering the limited size effect on other clinical endpoints and relevant 
parameters as well as the short duration of the study. 
- organoids: Overall organoids for both mutations showed swelling in the FIS assay. No correlation 
could be demonstrated between the degree of swelling and the response in clinical endpoints. 
Based on the present data it is not possible to know if ivacaftor has any beneficial effect in the CF 
paediatric population with a 3849 + 10KB C→T or D1152H-CFTR mutation since all data have been 
provided for the overall population. As these results have been submitted under the Article 46 of the 
paediatric regulation the MAH has been asked to provide the results of the primary and additional 
endpoints for the patients between 12 and less than 18 years of age provided that they represent a 
substantial fraction of the whole population (more than 50%) even when due to the small number the 
value is expected to be mainly descriptive. According to the MAH, only 8 subjects were younger than 
18 years of age (21% of the study population). Given the small numbers, the MAH has not provided 
any data for this particular subset what it is considered acceptable. 
Safety results 
Mean exposure duration was similar for placebo (8.2 weeks) and ivacaftor (8.1 weeks) groups. 
Only TEAEs are shown in this application. In both placebo and ivacaftor groups 57.9 % of patients had 
at least one TEAE. Most of them were considered not related and only 2 patients on placebo (5.3%) 
and 7 on ivacaftor (18.4%) had a severe AE. 
The most frequent TEAEs were infections and infestations, in particular of the respiratory tract that it is 
expected in this CF population, followed by respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders.  No patients 
had increases in transaminases above 8 x ULN. The incidence of ALT or AST levels >3 to ≤ 5 x ULN 
was 2.6% in patients on placebo versus 0% in subjects on kalydeco.  A patient on IVA had elevations 
of bilirrubin >1.5 to ≤ 2 x ULN. The percentage of patients with >ULN to 1.5 x ULN was higher in 
patients receiving kalydeco (7.9% versus 5.4%, respectively).  
Mild hepatic transaminase elevation is a common occurrence in CF patients particularly among young 
children with cystic fibrosis. Elevated transaminases have been also reported in patients with CF 
receiving ivacaftor. In some instances, these elevations have been associated with concomitant 
elevations in total serum bilirubin. A warning on the increase of transaminasases in CF patients treated 
with ivacaftor is in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
Study 127 has been submitted under Article 46 of Paediatric Regulation that requires MAH to submit 
information on studies conducted in children of authorised medicines that have been completed since 
the Paediatric Regulation came into force in 2007.  
Such study included subjects older than 6 whose mean age was 32 years and there were patients as 
old as 64 years old. The MAH has provided the results for the whole population, comprising children 
adolescents and adults. Overall, efficacy data from study 127 showed a positive trend in all parameters 
assessed although the effect size is limited. No new safety data have been identified in the study 
either. However, no specific information has been provided for subjects younger than 18 years of age. 
The sample size of study 127 was very small (n=38) so the number of patients younger than 18 years 
included was expected to be also very limited. As the main aim interest of Art P46 of the “Paediatric 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 48/49 
 
 
 
 
Regulation” is to get efficacy and safety data from a paediatric perspective the MAH was requested to 
provide the baseline characteristics and the results for the primary and additional endpoints as well as 
the safety data for the paediatric population (children plus adolescents) in case that the paediatric 
population represented at least 50% of the whole population. According to the MAH, the percentage of 
children and adolescents was only 21% (8/38) of the study population. Given the small numbers, no 
sound conclusions can be drawn from the efficacy and safety perspective.  
The benefit/risk balance of Kalydeco remains positive. No changes to the SmPC are considered 
necessary. 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should address the following questions as part of this 
procedure: 
1.  Fifty subjects were initially planned to participate in the study but instead, 38 have been 
randomized. The MAH should explain numerically how this reduction of the planned sample size 
affects to the precision calculated and to the results presented. 
2.  Only 4 subjects were younger than 12 years of age in study 127 and it is unknown how many of 
them were adolescents (between 12 and less than 18 years of age). However, for the purpose of 
this submission (Art 46 of the "Paediatric Regulation") it is of interest to have information the 
paediatric population. As the sample size is very limited (38 subjects including children, 
adolescents and adults) the MAH is requested to provide the following data if the number of 
children and adolescents represent a substantial proportion of the whole population (i.e., 50% or 
more): 
- their baseline characteristics: ppFEV1 (including categories <40; ≥40 and <70; ≥70 and ≤90; 
and >90); sweat chloride, LCi2.5, LCI5 and CFQR at baseline, and the genotype of each of 
them. For all this parameters, the mean (SD), median, minimum and maximum values should 
be provided.  
- as there were sweat chloride values as low as 12 mmol/L were reported in study 127 (not 
likely indicative of CF) the MAH should provide the individual values for the paediatric patients 
with sweat chloride values under 60 mmol/L and the corresponding mutation. 
- the results for the primary and additional endpoints: change from baseline in LCI, in ppFEV1, 
in sweat chloride, in CFQ-R, and the effect on organoids. 
5.  Assessment of the MAH responses to the Request for 
Supplementary Information 
Question 1  
Fifty subjects were initially planned to participate in the study but instead, 38 have been randomized. 
The MAH should explain numerically how this reduction of the planned sample size affects to the 
precision calculated and to the results presented.  
MAH’s position 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 49/50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With 38 randomized subjects, the posterior probability that the average treatment difference (IVA-
Placebo) through 8 weeks exceeds 0 for the primary endpoint of lung clearance index (LCI2.5) is 
0.24%, and the half-width of the 95% confidence interval (CI) from the mixed-effects model for 
repeated measures (MMRM) for the primary endpoint is 0.45. If 50 subjects were randomized as 
planned in a 1:1 ratio to the 2 crossover sequences, this posterior probability would be further 
reduced. In addition, the half-width of the 95% CI would be reduced to 0.40. The conclusion however 
remains the same. 
CHMP comment 
The MAH has provided data to justify that the precision is still relevant even when they have enrolled 
38 patients instead of the 50 patients planned. It is agreeable that the conclusion remains the same. It 
should be noted that the number of paediatric patients enrolled in this study represents only the 21% 
of the study population.  Please see Question 2 for more details. 
Question 2 
Only 4 subjects were younger than 12 years of age in study 127 and it is unknown how many of them 
were adolescents (between 12 and less than 18 years of age). However, for the purpose of this 
submission (Art 46 of the "Paediatric Regulation") it is of interest to have information the paediatric 
population. As the sample size is very limited (38 subjects including children, adolescents and adults) 
the MAH is requested to provide the following data if the number of children and adolescents represent 
a substantial proportion of the whole population (i.e., 50% or more): 
- their baseline characteristics: ppFEV1 (including categories <40; ≥40 and <70; ≥70 and ≤90; and 
>90); sweat chloride, LCI2.5, LCI5 and CFQ-R at baseline, and the genotype of each of them. For all 
these parameters, the mean (SD), median, minimum and maximum values should be provided. 
- as there were sweat chloride values as low as 12 mmol/L were reported in study 127 (not likely 
indicative of CF) the MAH should provide the individual values for the paediatric patients with sweat 
chloride values under 60 mmol/L and the corresponding mutation. 
- the results for the primary and additional endpoints: change from baseline in LCI, in ppFEV1, in 
sweat chloride, in CFQ-R, and the effect on organoids. 
MAH’s position 
There were 4 children <12 years of age and 4 adolescents 12 to <18 years of age in the study 
population of 38 subjects. The percentage of children and adolescents is 21% (8/38) of the study 
population, which is less than 50%. Due to the number of children and adolescents being such a small 
percentage of the population and not reaching a substantial proportion of the whole population no 
further study data are presented for these subjects. 
CHMP comments 
The sample size of study 127 was very small (n=38) so the number of patients younger than 18 years 
included was expected to be also very limited. As the main aim interest of Art P46 of the “Paediatric 
Regulation” is to get efficacy and safety data from a paediatric perspective the MAH was requested to 
provide the baseline characteristics and the results for the primary and additional endpoints as well as 
the safety data for the paediatric population (children plus adolescents) in case that the paediatric 
population represented at least 50% of the whole population. According to the MAH, the percentage of 
children and adolescents was only 21% (8/38) of the study population. Given the small numbers, no 
sound conclusions can be drawn from the efficacy and safety perspective. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 50/51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The benefit/risk balance of Kalydeco remains positive. No changes to the SmPC are considered 
necessary. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of 
regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended  
EMA/273575/2020  
Page 51/51 
 
 
 
