EMA/473279/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Kalydeco 
ivacaftor 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/002494//0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
The development programme/ compliance with CHMP guidance/ scientific advice .............. 9 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 9 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .............................................................................. 11 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects............................. 12 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 13 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development............................................ 13 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 13 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 13 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 16 
2.3.4. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 17 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 20 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 20 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 22 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 22 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 22 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 25 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 30 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 36 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ............................................................... 38 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 39 
2.5.1. Dose response studies.................................................................................... 39 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................. 39 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 60 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 65 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 66 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 75 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 77 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 78 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................. 82 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 82 
4.  Recommendations ............................................................................... 86 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 2/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
2-methyl tetrahydrofuran 
2-MeTHF  
α1 glycoprotein 
AAG 
aldehyde dehydrogenase 
AD 
Adverse event 
AE 
ALT 
Alanine transaminase 
ANCOVA  Analysis of covariance 
AST 
AUC0-24hr 
AUC0-∞ 
Aspartate transaminase 
Area under the concentration versus time curve from time of dosing to 12 hours 
postdose 
Area under the concentration versus time curve from time of dosing extrapolated 
to infinity 
Atrio-ventricular 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Bronchodilator 
Biopharmaceutics Drug Disposition Classification System  
twice daily 
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate 
Cystic Fibrosis 
Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised 
Cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator [protein / gene] 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Confidence interval 
Apparent clearance 
Maximum observed concentration 
Minimum observed concentration 
Critical quality attribute 
Contract Research Organisation 
Clinical study report 
Common Technical Document 
Cytochrome P450 
drug-drug interaction 
Design space 
concentration at which effect is at x% maximum 
electrocardiogram 
epithelial lining fluid 
Full analysis 
forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
Good clinical practice 
gastrointestinal 
Good laboratory practice 
Good manufacturing practice 
human serum albumin? 
Human Bronchial Epithelium 
High-density polyethylene 
Human ether-a-go-go related gene 
Human gamma globulin 
AV 
BCS 
BD 
BDDCS 
BID 
cAMP 
CF 
CFQ-R 
CFTR 
CHMP 
CI 
CL/F 
Cmax 
Cmin 
CQA 
CRO 
CSR 
CTD 
CYP 
DDI 
DS 
ECx 
ECG 
ELF 
FA 
FEV1 
GCP 
GI 
GLP 
GMP 
HAS 
HBE 
HDPE 
hERG 
HGG 
HPMCAS  Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate, hypromellos acetate succinate 
IC50 
ICH 
IGG 
IPC 
Ki 
LC/MS/MS  liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry 
LLOQ 
LOCF 
Half maximal inhibitory concentration 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Immunoglobulin G 
In-process control 
inhibition constant 
Lower limit of quantification 
last observation carried forward 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/87
 
 
 
LR 
LS 
M1 
M6 
MAO 
MEK  
MMRM 
MTD 
NE 
NOAEL 
NOR 
NPD 
PAR 
PBT 
PD 
PE 
PEC 
P-gp 
PK 
PKA 
PVP 
PT 
q12h 
QbD 
qd 
QoL 
QTcF 
RMP 
SAE 
SD 
SDD 
SLS 
SmPC 
SOC 
SSC 
SVPC 
T1/2 
Tmax 
ULN 
URTI 
Vc/F  
Vp/F 
VX-770 
Vz/F 
Linear Range 
least squares 
hydroxymethyl-ivacaftor 
ivacaftor carboxylate 
Monoamine oxidase 
Methyl ethyl ketone 
Mixed-Effects Model for Repeated Measures 
maximum tolerated doses 
norethisterone 
No observed adverse effect level 
Normal operating range 
Nasal potential difference 
Proven acceptable range 
Persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pulmonary exacerbation 
Predicted environmental concentration 
P-glycoprotein 
Pharmacokinetics 
Protein kinase A 
Polyvinyl pyrrolidone (povidone) 
Preferred term 
Every 12 hours 
Quality by design 
Once a day 
Quality of life 
QT interval corrected by Fridericia’s formula 
Risk Management Plan 
Severe adverse event 
Standard deviation 
spray-dried dispersion 
Sodium lauryl sulphate 
Summary of the product characteristics 
System organ class 
special search category 
supraventricular premature complex 
(elimination) half-life 
time to maximum concentration 
Upper limit of normal 
Upper Respiratory Tract Infections 
apparent volume of distribution of the central compartment 
apparent volume of distribution of the peripheral compartment 
ivacaftor 
apparent volume of distribution 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/87
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Vertex Pharmaceuticals (U.K.) Ltd. submitted on 27 October 2011 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Kalydeco, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to 
the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 December 2010. 
Kalydeco was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/08/556 on 08 July 2008. Kalydeco was 
designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: treatment of cystic fibrosis.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in patients age 6 
years and older who have a gating mutation in the CFTR gene. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and bibliographic literature 
supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/191/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP was not yet completed as some measures were 
deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with the 
authorised orphan medicinal product Bronchitol (mannitol), EMEA/H/C001252. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance ivacaftor contained in the above medicinal product to be 
considered as a new active substance in itself. 
Protocol assistance 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 18 February 2010 and 16 December 
2010. The Protocol Assistance pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
A new application was filed in the following countries: United States of America. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/87
 
 
 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. During the 
assessment of the applicant, a marketing authorisation for ivacaftor has been granted in the United 
States of America. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Dr. Concepcion Prieto Yerro (ES) 
Co-Rapporteur: Prof. János Borvendég (HU) 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 27 October 2011. 
  Accelerated Assessment procedure was agreed-upon by CHMP on 28 September 2011. 
 
 
The procedure started on 16 November 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 February 
2012. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on  
06 February 2012. 
  During the meeting on 15 March 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on  
15 March 2012. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 April 
2012. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 10 May 2012. 
  During the meeting on 21 - 24 May 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Kalydeco on 24 May 2012.  
 
The CHMP adopted a report on non-similarity of Kalydeco with Bronchitol (mannitol) on 24 May 
2012. 
Following the CHMP positive opinion, the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP) reviewed 
the designation of Kalydeco as an orphan medicinal product in the approved indication. The outcome of 
the COMP review can be found on the Agency's website ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Rare disease 
designations. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Cystic fibrosis is an autosomal recessive genetic condition with an incidence of approximately 1:3500 
in most European and North American countries and 1:5000 to 1:20,000 in Latin America, the Middle 
East and South Africa. Progressive obstructive lung disease causes over 90% of deaths in patients with 
CF. Although CF affects multiple organs, the leading cause of mortality is the progressive loss of lung 
function.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/87
 
 
 
 
Cystic fibrosis is caused by a mutation in a gene that encodes the CFTR protein, which is expressed in 
many epithelial cells and blood cells. CFTR protein contains 2 ATP-hydrolysis domains (also termed 
nucleotide-binding domains) and 12 membrane-spanning alpha helixes. It has been established that 
CFTR conducts chloride across the cell membrane and is regulated by protein kinase A (PKA) in a 
cAMP-dependent fashion. The PKA sites within the protein serve as targets for phosphorylation. ATP 
hydrolysis is mediated by nucleotide-binding domains within the full-length ion channel (Rowe et al. 
2005). 
Although CFTR functions mainly as a chloride channel, it has many other regulatory roles, including 
inhibition of sodium transport through the epithelial sodium channel, regulation of the outwardly 
rectifying chloride channel, regulation of ATP channels, regulation of intracellular vesicle transport, 
acidification of intracellular organelles, and inhibition of endogenous calcium-activated chloride 
channels. CFTR is also involved in bicarbonate–chloride exchange. A deficiency in bicarbonate secretion 
leads to poor solubility and aggregation of luminal mucins (O’Suvillan et al. 2009). 
CFTR mutations can be classified according to the mechanisms by which they disrupt CFTR function. 
Stop codon mutations (class I) result in a truncated nonfunctional CFTR, class II mutations consist of 
aberrantly folded CFTR protein that is degraded by the cell quality control system, while class III 
mutations lead to defective regulation of the CFTR protein and, consequently, the absence of CFTR 
function. These three classes usually lead to a classic CF phenotype with pancreatic insufficiency. CFTR 
mutations that lead to defective chloride conductance are grouped together in class IV. Class V 
mutations interfere with normal transcription, thereby reducing the amount of otherwise normal CFTR. 
These latter two classes are mostly associated with a milder expression of the disease (Proesmans M et 
al. 2008). 
More than 1500 CFTR mutations have been identified, but the functional importance of only a small 
number is known. The most frequent is the class II mutation F508del, i.e. a 3 basepair (bp) deletion 
resulting in the deletion of a phenylalanine at position 508 (F508del) in the first of 2 cytoplasmic 
adenosine triphosphate (ATP) binding domains of CFTR which accounts for about two-thirds of mutated 
alleles in northern European and North American populations. Although CFTR mutation frequency 
varies from population to population, worldwide no other single mutation accounts for more than 
approximately 5% of CFTR mutations.  
The primary defect caused by G551D CFTR, the prototypical and most common Class III (regulation or 
gating) mutation for which ivacaftor is intended, is a defect in CFTR channel opening. G551D is a 
missense mutation in the coding region for NBD1 (nucleotide binding domain 1) that results in the 
replacement of a glycine for an aspartic acid at position 551 of CFTR and in which CFTR reaches the 
apical cell membrane but does not respond appropriately to cAMP-mediated phosphorylation. Other 
CFTR gating mutations include G178R, S549N, S549R, G551S, G970R, G1244E, S1251N, S1255P, and 
G1349D. 
The presence of suggestive clinical symptoms and signs combined with a sweat chloride concentration 
above 60 mmol/L and/or the presence of 2 clinically relevant CF-causing mutations is uniformly 
accepted as diagnostic for the classical form of the disease. However, patients with particular 
genotypes combining two CF-causing mutations may have a sweat chloride value in the intermediate 
range (30–60 mmol/L). 
At present, there is no cure for CF. Current CF treatments target respiratory infections, inflammation, 
mucociliary clearance, and nutritional status but none of them targets the mechanism of CF rather 
than the downstream consequences of diminished CFTR function. An alternative therapeutic strategy to 
treat CF could be to increase CFTR function by gene therapy or drugs that either enhance the activity 
of mutant chloride channels present at the cell surface such as the G551D-CFTR protein (CFTR 
potentiators) or rescue the cell surface expression of mutant CFTR (CFTR correctors).  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/87
 
 
 
Even with the current treatments, the median age of survival of individuals born today with CF is 
predicted to be between 34.4 and 46.7 years (Stern 2008; Canadian CF PDR Report 2011; UK CF 
Registry 2011) while the actual median age at death is currently between 18.7 and 33.0 years (Stern 
2008; CFF Patient Registry 2009; Colombo 2011). 
It is acknowledged that patients with CF represent a high unmet medical need for effective therapies.  
About the product 
Ivacaftor, also referred to as VX-770, is an orally bioavailable small molecule that claims to provide a 
new therapeutic approach to the treatment of CF by targeting the pathophysiology of cystic fibrosis – 
the dysfunctional CFTR protein. 
Ivacaftor represents a proposed new class of drugs, CFTR modulators, which restore the function of the 
CFTR protein. Ivacaftor is a type of CFTR modulator known as a CFTR potentiator. Ivacaftor acts on the 
CFTR protein to increase the channel open probability (or gating) to enhance chloride transport. 
Ivacaftor was found to be highly selective for CFTR in vitro, as determined by its lack of ability to 
interact with, or modulate the activities of, a broad panel of receptors and enzymes. In vitro, ivacaftor 
increased the channel activity of G551D-CFTR protein expressed in recombinant cell and primary 
human bronchial epithelial cell cultures. In vitro results showed that ivacaftor increased chloride 
transport also in other CFTR gating mutations more than 10-fold over baseline. 
Ivacaftor would be the first CFTR modulator to show an improvement in CFTR function and clinical 
benefit in subjects with CF who have a gating mutation in the CFTR gene.  
The initially applied for indication of ivacaftor was: “treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in patients age 6 
years and older who have a gating mutation in the CFTR gene”. During the assessment procedure the 
indication was restricted to “treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) in patients age 6 years and older who 
have a G551D mutation in the CFTR gene”. The restriction of the indication was based on the fact that 
the two pivotal studies included in the current application enrolled only patients who have a G551D 
mutation in at least one allele of the CFTR gene. 
The proposed posology for adults and children age 6 years and older is 150 mg (film-coated tablets) 
taken orally every 12 hours (300 mg total daily dose) with fat-containing food. 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
The Marketing Authorisation Application for Kalydeco (ivacaftor) 150 mg film-coated tablets submitted 
by Vertex Pharmaceutical (U.K.) Limited is submitted in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, as amended, and Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
EU Orphan Designation was granted on 08 July 2008 (EC Decision No. EU/3/08/556). 
On 28 September 2011 the CHMP accepted the Applicant’s request for accelerated assessment for the 
following reasons: 
  Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease with serious and chronically debilitating morbidities and 
high premature mortality, for which currently available therapies have an effect on the clinical 
consequences of the disease without addressing the underlying defect. Therefore, an unmet 
medical need for specific targeted therapies for CF patients, including sub-populations relevant for 
the specific target, exists; 
 
Ivacaftor is a selective potentiator of the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein 
that acts by increasing the CFTR channel opening probability to enhance chloride transport. This 
mode of action potentially provides an innovative therapeutic approach by targeting the underlying 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 8/87
 
 
 
defect of CF (diminished CFTR function) rather than its downstream consequences hence offering 
added value to the current treatment armamentarium;  
 
The study package intended for submission is expected to provide a reasonable basis for the 
benefit risk assessment, the endpoints used in pivotal studies appear adequate and able to reflect 
a clinically meaningful effect; 
 
The preliminary review of the available data suggests that the effect on pulmonary function 
parameters might be of clinical interest. Furthermore, treatment with ivacaftor might potentially 
decrease the need for other medical therapies; 
  Overall, the medicinal product is considered to be of major public health interest - in particular 
from the viewpoint of therapeutic innovation - for a clinical condition that constitutes an unmet 
medical need. 
The development programme/ compliance with CHMP guidance/ scientific 
advice 
Regulatory advice on the clinical development plan and the designs of Studies 102, 103, and 104 were 
sought from the regulatory authorities in the EU and US. Protocol Assistance has been provided by the 
CHMP on quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the development. In general the Applicant has 
complied with the advice provided at the Protocol assistance. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Kalydeco contains the active substance ivacaftor. For other ingredients see the SmPC. The product is 
formulated as a light blue film-coated tablet, printed in black ink with “V 150” on one face, containing 
150 mg of the active substance. The tablets are packaged in a thermoform blister (Aclar/foil) or a 
high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with desiccant. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The chemical name of the active substance is N-(2,4-di-tert-butyl-5-hydroxyphenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide.   
The corresponding molecular formula is C24H28N2O3, molecular weight is 392.5 g/mol. The molecule is 
achiral.  
Ivacaftor is a white to off-white crystalline solid. It is freely soluble in methylethyl ketone/water 
mixture, soluble in 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran and PEG 400, slightly soluble in methanol, acetone and 
ethanol and practically insoluble in water and buffers with pH 1.0 – 7.0.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
The structure of ivacaftor drug substance was determined by elemental analysis and various 
spectrometric techniques, such as NMR (1H, 13C and two-dimensional NMR), FTIR, UV-Vis and high 
resolution mass spectrometry. The proof of structure is considered satisfactory.   
The active substance shows polymorphism. Mixture of two major crystalline neat polymorphic forms (B 
and C) is obtained when manufactured by the commercial manufacturing process described. Form C is 
the most thermodynamically stable neat form. The polymorphic form is not of concern during the 
synthesis of the active substance, as the active substance is fully dissolved during manufacture of the 
finished product.  
Manufacture 
The starting materials used are considered appropriate as GMP starting materials. The synthetic routes 
for the starting materials have been described in detail and all potential related impurities or 
degradation products have been described and characterized. There are different suppliers for each 
starting material; however, the same synthetic route is applied by the different suppliers of the same 
starting material. Description of manufacturing process of the active substance including the in-process 
controls is adequate. 
Quality by Design (QbD) approach has been used in product and process development of ivacaftor. For 
the active substance synthesis, a combination of multivariate analyses and range-finding studies was 
used to define a design space for each step. All parameters with a potential impact on critical quality 
attributes (CQAs) of the active substance were identified and thoroughly investigated. The Applicant 
has proposed a combination of proven acceptable ranges (PARs) and design spaces (DSs) for the 
manufacturing process of the active substance. 
Design spaces have been developed at small laboratory scales (0.5-20 g) and the scale-up to 
production levels (100 kg) is wide (x 5000, x 10.000...). The applicant has submitted data and 
justifications to support the low risk of a scale effect. In addition 6 batches have been manufactured 
under the normal operating ranges (NORs), which is a defined area of the design space, where the 
process will normally operate during routine manufacture. Given the available development data on the 
establishment of the design space, the batch data provided and the submitted justifications on the 
effect of scale, there is enough reassurance to allow the approval of the proposed design space.  
However there is still some uncertainty on the potential impact of excursions outside the NORs on the 
quality of the active substance. It is also uncertain whether the proposed control strategy will be 
capable of detecting potential unforeseen changes in the quality of the active substance and 
consequently on the safe and effective use of the finished product. For this reason it is important to 
confirm the validity of the Design Space every time there is an excursion outside the NORs and a 
verification protocol needs to be provided detailing the strategy (studies and controls) that will be used 
for this purpose.  
The requirement for such verification protocol has been included as a condition of the Marketing 
Authorisation.   
Specification 
Control tests for the active substance include appearance, identification by FTIR spectrum, related 
substances and assay by HPLC, acetamide, sulphated ash, heavy metals and residual solvents.  
A detailed study is presented on the potential, theoretical and observed organic impurities. Impurity 
limits in the specification are justified and found safe. The limit proposed for acetamide (hydrolysis by-
product of the process solvent acetonitrile) in the active substance is established according to the 
Guideline on the Limits of Genotoxic Impurities.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/87
 
 
 
The limits set for specification parameters are acceptable and in line with batch results, stability 
studies and CHMP guidelines. Analytical methods used are sufficiently described and fully validated in 
line with the CHMP requirements.   
Results of analysis of eight production batches of the active substance were provided. Compliance with 
the specification was demonstrated.   
Stability 
The proposed retest period for ivacaftor drug substance is 30 months when stored in the intended 
container closure system. The retest period and storage conditions are supported by 18 months of 
primary stability data from three production-scale lots.  
2.2.3.   Finished Medicinal Product 
Ivacaftor film-coated tablets consist of core tablet, film coat and printing ink.  
The product contains both compendial and non-compendial excipients. Compendial excipients – 
microcrystalline cellulose (binder, diluent), lactose monohydrate (diluent), croscarmellose sodium 
(disintegrant), sodium lauryl sulphate (surfactant), colloidal silicon dioxide (flow agent), magnesium 
stearate (lubricant) and carnauba wax (polishing agent) - comply with the requirements of the 
European Pharmacopoeia (Ph.Eur.). The Ph.Eur. does not include a monograph for hypromellose 
acetate succinate (HPMCAS). HPMCAS used in the manufacture of ivacaftor SDD complies with the 
USP/NF monograph. Opadry II Blue (film coating mixture) and Opacode Black (printing ink) are non-
compendial excipient mixtures wherein the individual components meet the appropriate requirements 
of the pharmacopoeias and/or international standards. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The company identified the physico-chemical properties of the drug substance that are clinically 
relevant for the patient. These properties have been adequately analysed and are sufficiently 
controlled. Identification of the drug substance parameters that may impact the finished product 
critical quality attributes have been performed through systematic evaluation using risk assessment 
methodologies. Binary excipient compatibility studies were conducted.  
Manufacturing process development of ivacaftor film-coated tablets was conducted under a Quality by 
Design approach. Six major stages were involved in the QbD strategy for the development of ivacaftor 
tablets – definition of the target product profile, identification of CQAs, initial assessment, criticality 
analysis, risk management and mitigation and defining process validation strategies.  
Design spaces for each manufacturing step were defined. Criticality was assessed for each process 
parameter.  
Statistical analysis was provided for all designs of experiments. The applicant has proposed a 
combination of design spaces and PARs for the spray-dried dispersion and the finished product. 
The design spaces for the spray-dried dispersion and the finished product have been developed at 
commercial scale and have been found to be acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
The only excipient of animal origin contained in the drug product is lactose monohydrate. It is 
manufactured in compliance with Guideline “Note for Guidance of Minimizing the Risk of Transmitting 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/87
 
 
 
 
Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents by Human and Veterinary Products”, current version. The 
BSE/TSE statement for lactose monohydrate is provided. Excipients of human origin are not used. 
Manufacture of the product 
Manufacture of the finished product consists of two stages – manufacture of spray dispersion and 
tabletting. The spray-dried dispersion (SDD) is manufactured using solvent based spray-drying 
followed by secondary drying to remove residual solvents. In the second stage, the amorphous SDD is 
blended with additional excipients, compressed into a core tablet, film-coated and printed to form the 
final drug product. Description of manufacturing process and process controls is provided.  
Product specification 
The product specification is adequate for this type of dosage form. The product is tested for 
appearance, identification by FTIR, assay and degradation products by HPLC, dissolution, uniformity of 
dosage units, physical form by XRPD, water content and microbiological purity.   
The proposed test procedures and acceptance criteria follow the principles of the ICH Q6A guideline. All 
analytical methods are appropriately described. The analytical methods validation fulfils the 
requirements described in the ICH Q2 (R) guideline.  
Batch analysis results of the SDD and tablets indicate satisfactory consistency and compliance with the 
proposed specification.  
The quality profile of all reference materials has been correctly established. 
Stability of the product 
The studies are carried out in accordance with current ICH/CHMP guidelines. Validated stability-
indicating methods are used to analyse the stability samples. Results of three primary stability 
batches, using commercial process and commercial-scale equipment, were provided. First full-scale 
commercial batches will also be monitored for stability, once manufactured.  
All parameters remained within specification during the stability testing at all storage conditions. There 
is no trend in the data except for the water content, where a small increase can be seen. However, the 
water content also remains well below the acceptance criterion. 
Stability studies support the shelf-life as defined in the SmPC.   
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance ivacaftor is a chemically synthesised compound, well characterised and 
manufactured under a Quality by Design approach. The substance is appropriately controlled by its 
specifications; only validated methods are used. Sufficient number of batches has been manufactured 
to demonstrate batch-to-batch consistency. The active substance is stable, as demonstrated by 
stability studies on production-scale lots. 
A design space has been proposed for the manufacturing process of the active substance. The validity 
of the design space has been verified only at the normal operating ranges (NORs), which is a subset of 
the design space where the process is expected to run routinely. A stepwise approach to the 
verification is acceptable, depending on the commercial needs to move the operating ranges during the 
product lifecycle. When moving in non-verified areas of the design space, the potential scale up effect 
on the quality of the active substance should be evaluated according to a verification protocol. Such 
protocol defines the parameters that will be studied and the controls that will be used to identify 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/87
 
 
 
potential scale or equipment dependencies. These studies will be used to address the current 
uncertainty about the impact of excursions outside the NORs on the quality of the active substance and 
the adequacy of the approved control strategy to detect potential changes.  
Based on the available data the proposed design space is approvable. However since an adequate 
verification protocol was not available at the time of the Opinion, the CHMP requested a condition in 
the MA for the submission of the verification protocol that will address the currently unknown impact of 
operating outside the NORs on the quality of the active substance and thus the safe and effective use 
of the product. This verification would validate the extension of the manufacturing of the active 
substance in operating settings broader than the NORs, to cover all areas of the design space.  
The finished product is an immediate-release, film-coated tablet of 150 mg strength. Due to the active 
substance being insoluble in water, the active substance needs to be spray-dried with excipients to 
produce an amorphous form of the active substance, which only can be absorbed. Additional use of 
solubility enhancer ensures oral bioavailability. The spray-dried dispersion (SDD) is then compressed 
into tablets and film coated. Quality by Design approach is used at both the SDD and the finished 
product stages. The design spaces are generally acceptable, with the exception of scale-up for which 
the applicant needs to submit a verification protocol. The specifications are adequate; the product is 
tested by well described and validated analytical methods. Good stability is demonstrated in both types 
of container closure system.  
The quality of the product is considered acceptable.  
Quality Development 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Taking into account the discussions in 2.2.4, the quality of the product is considered acceptable.  
The CHMP has identified the following measures necessary to address the identified quality 
development issues: 
The active substance quality is assured when manufactured under the normal operating ranges (NORs) 
of the design space, as defined in Module 3.2.S of the marketing authorisation dossier. In order to 
verify the validity of the design space at commercial scale a verification protocol should be submitted 
by December 2012. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
The applicant is recommended to revisit the criticality analysis and update the marketing authorisation 
dossier as appropriate. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A comprehensive nonclinical development has been performed comprising of pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetic and toxicology studies. 
The primary pharmacodynamic was investigated in in vitro studies. The safety pharmacological studies 
were carried out according to the Studies for Human Pharmaceuticals (July 2001) and the ICH S7B 
Guidance: Nonclinical Evaluation of the Potential for Delayed Ventricular Repolarisation (QT Interval 
Prolongation) by Human Pharmaceuticals (October 2005). The majority of studies in the safety 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/87
 
 
 
pharmacology program for ivacaftor, particularly all those considered pivotal to human safety 
assessment, were conducted in compliance with GLP regulations. 
This application is supported by an extensive nonclinical pharmacokinetic development program. The 
pharmacokinetics of ivacaftor after oral administration have been investigated in various animal 
species including, mice, rats, rabbits, and dogs. Several formulations were studied as a result of 
ongoing pharmaceutical development.  
Ivacaftor was thoroughly evaluated in acute toxicity, repeat-dose toxicity, genotoxicity, 
carcinogenicity, developmental and reproductive toxicity, local tolerance and skin antigenicity toxicity 
studies. The pivotal studies of this program were conducted in compliance with GLP regulations. The 
amorphous or spray-dried dispersion (SDD) forms of ivacaftor were used in all GLP studies as it proved 
to be optimal for oral administration of ivacaftor in all 4 animal species, since produced systemic 
exposures to ivacaftor that were high and sustained (or increasing) over the duration of the studies. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
It was showed in vitro that ivacaftor is a CFTR potentiator, since it increased the chloride transport and 
open probability of G551D-CFTR expressed in Fischer rat thyroid (FRT) cells, while it did not change 
the single channel conductance. The stimulation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) was 
required for ivacaftor to act, although ivacaftor did not act by stimulating the cAMP/PKA signalling 
pathway. Ivacaftor increased of the channel open probability of G551D-CFTR in excised membranes 
patches, suggesting that ivacaftor acts directly on G551D-CFTR.  
In vivo pharmacodynamic studies were not performed due to lack of validated CF animal models. 
Therefore, an in vitro model comprising primary human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells from CF 
patients was used. This model is considered adequate to test the pharmacological action of ivacaftor 
since CF HBE cells exhibit characteristics believed to be associated with the pathogenesis of CF in the 
lungs, including low chloride transport, excessive sodium transport, defective fluid regulation and 
decreased cilia beating. Ivacaftor potentiated chloride transport of G551D-CFTR protein, the most 
common CFTR gating mutation, in primary cultures of HBE cells isolated from the bronchi of a patient 
with CF carrying the G551D and F508del CFTR mutations (G551D/F508del-HBE). This increase was 
sufficient to restore the salt and fluid balance, prevent dehydration of the airway cell surface, and 
increase the ciliary beat frequency in these cells. Ivacaftor enhanced chloride transport in some, but 
not all, cultured HBE isolated from the bronchi of some F508del-homozygous patients with CF 
(processing mutation that is the most common CF-causing CFTR mutation), although the magnitude of 
the response to ivacaftor was less than that observed for cultured G551D/F508del-HBE cells.  
The major circulating metabolite of ivacaftor, M1 (hydroxymethyl-ivacaftor, VRT-837018), was 
approximately 6-fold less potent than ivacaftor potentiating CFTR-mediated chloride transport in 
cultured G551D/F508del-HBE cells, thus was considered pharmacologically active. M6 metabolite 
(ivacaftor carboxylate, VRT-842917) was 50-fold less potent than ivacaftor in these cells and was not 
considered pharmacologically active. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
For ivacaftor, studies that may be classified as secondary pharmacodynamics studies have been 
performed and discussed under Safety Pharmacology. These studies showed that ivacaftor inhibited 
the competitive-binding of typical substrates or enzyme activities of only two targets with nanomolar 
potency of more than 140 enzymes and receptors tested in radioligand binding assays: the monoamine 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/87
 
 
 
transporter and serotonin 5-HT2C. However, tissue distribution studies in rats have shown that 
ivacaftor does not cross the blood-brain-barrier to an appreciable extent, therefore ivacaftor is unlikely 
to interact with these central nervous system targets in humans.  
In electrophysiological studies, ivacaftor inhibited only CaV1.2 (IC50 = 1.3 µM) and KV1.5 (IC50 = 3.4 
µM) with moderate potency and had little or no measurable activity (less than 50% inhibition at 10 µM) 
on the other sodium, calcium, and potassium channels tested, including hERG. The significance of 
these results in terms of human safety is unclear, since ivacaftor did not bind any of the 4 calcium 
channel targets or any of the 5 potassium channel targets in the receptor binding panel at <10 µM 
potency. Possible cardiac effects of ivacaftor are further discussed in safety pharmacology, toxicology 
and clinical sections. 
No in vitro studies of inhibition of other receptors, enzymes and ion channels activities, including hERG, 
were conducted with the major metabolites of ivacaftor, M1 and M6. Since the synthesis of gram 
quantities of M1 and M6 is not technically feasible and as there was no evidence of meaningful, off-
target effects resulting from interactions of these metabolites and ivacaftor (at therapeutic dosages) 
with other receptors, enzymes and ion channels activities, including hERG, the absence of such studies 
is justified. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
In a GLP study, ivacaftor showed a concentration-dependent inhibitory effect on hERG tail currents, 
producing a total inhibition of in hERG tail current of 34.6% at 8 μM.  
Ivacaftor produced a dose-related, but transient increase in the arterial blood pressure parameters 
(systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and mean arterial pressure) in dogs at single oral 
doses of up to 60 mg/kg. This effect was not considered adverse due to the small magnitude and brief 
nature of the response, thus the NOAEL for cardiovascular effects after oral single administration of 
ivacaftor to dogs was 60 mg/kg. ECG parameters were normal up to 60 mg/kg/day in the chronic 12-
month study in dog. However, an increased incidence and severity of cardiomyopathy with coronary 
medial degeneration in the heart was observed at ≥100 mg/kg/day in the chronic 6-month study in 
rats, which was not completely recovered; instances of atrio-ventricular (AV) block at 60 mg/kg/day in 
the 3-month study in dog, which may be related to ivacaftor’s demonstrated inhibition of the CaV1.2 
(IC50 = 1.3 μM) channel; and increased incidence of supraventricular premature complex (SVPC) runs 
at ≥30 mg/kg/day in the chronic toxicity 12-month study. These effects were not considered adverse.  
Ivacaftor did not produce adverse effects on central nervous and respiratory system in rats at single 
oral doses of up to 1000 mg/kg, however produced an inhibition of gastric emptying and 
gastrointestinal (GI) transit in male rats. The mechanism whereby decreased GI motility occurred at 
high doses in rats is unknown. In the repeated dose toxicity studies conducted in rats and dogs, there 
were no adverse effects on GI system at NOAELs, whose exposures were at least 9 (rats)- to 21 
(dogs)-fold the expected exposures (steady-state AUC0-24hr) at the human therapeutic dosage. 
However, dilated/cystic lymphatics in the small intestinal tract at dosages above the NOAEL in the 3-
month study in rat, which was not completely recovered, as well as increases of abnormal stool (≥15 
mg/kg/day) and vomiting (≥30 mg/kg/day) at dosages below the NOAEL in 12-month study in dog 
were observed. 
There is increased incidence of nephropathy with tubular basophilia in the kidneys by ivacaftor at 
dosages ≥50 mg/kg/day in the chronic 6-month study in rats (not completely recovered), which was 
considered to involve rodent-specific mechanisms. The dosage of 50 mg/kg/day, considered the NOAEL 
in this study, had an exposure of least 9-fold times the expected exposure (steady-state AUC0-24hr) at 
the human therapeutic dosage. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/87
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interactions studies were conducted, which is acceptable in the light of high 
CFTR selectivity of ivacaftor and the absence of other CF therapies targeting the CFTR protein. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Ivacaftor has been isolated in two physical forms, an amorphous form and a crystalline form. The 
absorption of ivacaftor in mouse, rats, rabbits and dogs is rapid, following oral administration of 
aqueous suspensions of the amorphous form, and bioavailability ranged from 30 to 100%. At the same 
time the crystalline form in suspension had a low oral bioavailability. The apparent permeability of 
ivacaftor in Caco-2 assay is high, which may have contributed to high oral bioavailability and suggest 
that human intestinal absorption will be high following oral administration. Ivacaftor and its metabolite 
M6 are not a substrate for efflux protein P-glycoprotein (P-gp), while its metabolite M1 may inhibit P-
gp. 
Systemic clearance following intravenous administration was lower than hepatic blood flow in mice, 
rats, dogs and monkeys and the intravenous elimination half-life of ivacaftor was shorter than that of 
oral administration, suggesting that exposure was limited by absorption.  
Systemic exposure to ivacaftor tended to increase during repeated oral dosing at toxicological dose 
levels to mice, rats, rabbits and dogs, possibly due to accumulation of ivacaftor in plasma, and Tmax 
increased with increasing dose levels, suggesting solubility limited absorption process. Therefore, a 
number of formulations studies were carried out in the preclinical phase to find an optimal formulation 
and dosage form. In these studies the bioavailability of ivacaftor in formulations studies ranged from 
0.77 to 127% which shows a very profound effect of the formulation on the absorption. 
The systemic exposure to ivacaftor’s major metabolites was higher for M1 than for M6 for all 3 species 
investigated (mice, rats and dogs), with AUC0-24hr ratios of M1: ivacaftor ranging from 5 to 24% in 
mice, 6 to 34% in rats and 7 to 25% in dogs versus AUC0-24hr ratios of M6: ivacaftor ranging from 1 to 
7% in mice, 1 to 20% in rats and 2 to 10% in dogs. Both M1 and M6 demonstrated dose-limitations to 
achieving high exposures by intravenous administration in rats, since they are practically insoluble in 
an aqueous vehicle suitable for repeat-dose studies, and had moderate to high clearance.  
Ivacaftor was rapidly distributed across all tissues in rats, with detectable amounts noted in all tissues 
at 1 hour postdose. Tissues in the gastrointestinal tract showed highest ivacaftor exposure, followed by 
organs of eliminations (liver, kidney), organs of gland systems (adrenal, lymph nodes, pancreas, 
thyroid, thymus) and lungs. Lowest exposures were noted in the brain, eyes and testes. Ivacaftor was 
not bound to melanin containing tissues. Placental transfer of ivacaftor in rats and rabbits was minimal 
and the exposures to ivacaftor in foetuses were low. Ivacaftor accumulated in the milk of lactating 
rats. 
Ivacaftor protein binding was high in mouse, rat, dog and human plasma and to isolated human 
plasma protein components. The active metabolite of ivacaftor M1 and M6 were also highly bound but 
to a somewhat lesser extent. In spite of this high protein binding, the ratio of ivacaftor levels to plasma 
was 3.8 and 0.939 for the lung and trachea, respectively. Thus, ivacaftor distributes more readily to 
the lung, trachea and lung epithelial lining fluid than to the plasma when administered orally to male 
rats. Furthermore the ratio of the concentration of ivacaftor in the epithelial lining fluid (ELF) to that in 
the plasma is 8.13, indicating substantial distribution of the compound to the lung and its excretion to 
the ELF. The mechanism of this presumably excretion process remains unclear, but in the absence of 
specific toxicity findings this is acceptable. The concentration of ivacaftor was relatively high in adrenal 
glands and lymphoid nodes were higher than plasma. This selective tissue accumulation might be 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 16/87
 
 
 
related to the high lipophilicity of ivacaftor. In the absence or any related toxicity findings the relatively 
higher lymphoid and adrenal concentrations are considered acceptable. 
Extensive metabolism was observed in both rats and humans following oral administration of 14C-
labelled ivacaftor. Using LC/MS and LC/MS/MS techniques, 11 metabolites were characterized/ 
identified from bile, urine, plasma and faecal samples. Ivacaftor was primarily metabolized to M1 and 
M6 by oxidation, M5 by glucuronidation, M1 sulfate by sulfation and to M8 metabolite by oxidation. M6 
metabolite then further conjugated to glucuronic acid and decarboxylated to form M7 metabolite or 
undergoes ring closure to form furanone metabolite of ivacaftor, designated as M405. M8 metabolite 
also was further conjugated to glucuronic acid. A direct conjugation of ivacaftor led to M3 metabolite 
formation, which was observed in plasma and urine samples. 
The metabolic profile of ivacaftor in both animals and humans are qualitatively similar. M1 and M6 
were major circulating metabolites in all species studied, and systemic exposures to M1 in rats were 
high enough at the ivacaftor NOAEL to provide adequate toxicology coverage for human exposures at 
the intended therapeutic dose level. Faecal elimination is the predominant route of excretion in rat and 
humans.  
In hepatocytes, metabolism of ivacaftor was observed in all species with the following trend monkey > 
rat > human > dog. Using S9 fractions and microsomes, marked species difference had been observed 
in the conversion rate between primates and rodents metabolic conversions rates. Indeed the relative 
concentration of M1 to ivacaftor is much higher in humans than was seen in animal studies. 
Human cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and CYP3A5 are the predominant isozymes involved in the 
metabolism of ivacaftor and human metabolism was qualitatively similar to rats and dogs. In vitro 
inhibition studies suggest that ivacaftor and M1 may have pharmacokinetic interactions with other 
drugs that are CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP3A or P-gp substrates. These potential interactions are described 
in the SmPC. 
Ivacaftor and M1 produced mild decreases in bufuralol 1'-hydroxylase activities upon preincubation 
with NADPH. The decreases in bufuralol 1'-hydroxylase activities may be attributed to the 
biotransformation of ivacaftor or M1 to more potent CYP2D6 inhibitors.  Mechanism based inactivation 
of CYP2D6 by ivacaftor or M1 could not have been excluded. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
In the single dose toxicity studies, at the maximum tolerated doses (MTD = 2000 mg/kg in mice and 
500 mg/kg in rats) the safety margins relative to the intended human therapeutic dose (150 mg every 
12 hours), were 27 times in mice and 13 times in rats based on the surface-area extrapolation. 
Ivacaftor demonstrated a low potential for acute toxicity. In both species the histopathological findings 
in the forestomach are of questionable relevance to humans lacking this anatomical feature. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
In repeat dose toxicity studies in rats, hepatotoxicity was observed at high dosages ≥200 mg/kg/day 
in the GLP 3-month study and at ≥100 mg/kg/day in the GLP 6-month study. This effect was also 
observed in mice at ≥600 mg/kg/day in a 3-month study. The hepatic accumulation of ivacaftor, 
measured in the rat 3-month study, is believed to be a rodent-specific phenomenon of xenobiotic 
overload at high daily doses. This hypothesis is supported by the lack of hepatotoxicity in dogs, despite 
high daily doses and exposures to circulating ivacaftor which were similar to the high exposures 
achieved in mice and rats at hepatotoxic dosages. In addition, an increased incidence and severity of 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/87
 
 
 
cardiomyopathy with coronary medial degeneration was observed in the heart at ≥100 mg/kg/day and 
of nephropathy with tubular basophilia in the kidneys at dosages ≥50 mg/kg/day in the chronic 6-
month study. Both effects were not completely recovered, although probably also involve rodent-
specific mechanisms.  
In dogs, occasional instances of atrio-ventricular block were observed at 60 mg/kg/day in the 3-month 
study, which is a well documented background finding in this species, but may be related to ivacaftor’s 
demonstrated inhibition of the CaV1.2 (IC50 = 1.3 μM) channel, as well as a slight increase in the 
incidence of supraventricular premature complex (SVPC) runs in only 3 out of 40 dogs at dosages ≥30 
mg/kg/day in the 12-month chronic toxicity study. The SVPC runs (multiple events within a single ECG 
recording) were not considered adverse since they were reversible, not accompanied by morphological 
changes in the heart or changes in health status, and are believed to be produced by mechanisms 
related to canine-specific control of heart rates and therefore do not translate to morbidity or 
mortality, in either dogs or humans.  
In the chronic toxicity studies, ivacaftor exposures at the NOAEL in rats (50 mg/kg/day) and dogs  
(60 mg/kg/day), were at least 9- to 21-fold the expected exposure (steady-state AUC0-24hr) at the 
human therapeutic dosage, derived from population-PK model estimates of AUC0-24hr in patients with 
CF (ages 6 to adult) in the phase 3 studies. 
Genotoxicity 
Ivacaftor has been shown to be non-mutagenic and non-clastogenic in the ICH standard battery of 
genotoxicity tests. Since M1 and M6 are produced in vitro in animal liver preparations, it is highly likely 
that these ivacaftor metabolites are also non-mutagenic and non-clastogenic in vitro. In addition, mice 
also produce both metabolites, so the mice used in the mammalian micronucleus assay would have 
been exposed to substantial amounts of these circulating metabolites at the highest ivacaftor dose 
tested (2000 mg/kg). 
Carcinogenicity 
It was concluded that ivacaftor was not carcinogenic in lifetime dosing (2 years) studies in mice at 200 
mg/kg/day (4 to 7X the human exposure) and rats at 50 mg/kg/day (17 to 31X the human exposure). 
In addition, no pre-neoplastic lesions were seen in the mouse 3-month carcinogenicity dose range-
finding study, the rat sub-chronic (3-month) and chronic (6-month) toxicity studies, or the dog sub-
chronic (3-month) and chronic (12-month) studies, suggesting a low potential for ivacaftor-induced 
tumour promotion. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Ivacaftor did not cause reproductive system toxicity in male and female rats at 200 and 100 
mg/kg/day, respectively. Dosages above 100 mg/kg/day in females were associated to 54% reduction 
in overall fertility index and number of pregnancies, significant reductions in the average number of 
corpora lutea and implantation sites with subsequent reductions in the average litter size and the 
average number of viable embryos per litter. In males treated at 200 mg/kg/day, weight decreases of 
the seminal vesicles were observed. 
Ivacaftor was not teratogenic dosed orally to pregnant rats and rabbits during the organogenesis stage 
of foetal development at 100 and more than 100 mg/kg/day (the highest dosage tested), respectively. 
The exposure of both doses is approximately 12X the exposure in human at the therapeutical dose. In 
rats, dosages above 100 mg/kg/day produced reductions of foetal body weight and increases in the 
following variations in skeletal development: cervical ribs, incompletely ossified ribs, wavy ribs and 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/87
 
 
 
sternal irregularities. These variations are commonly observed in the presence of maternally toxic 
doses, so they were not considered teratogenic. 
Ivacaftor did not cause developmental defects (learning and memory, reproductive capacity, mating 
and fertility) in the offspring of pregnant rats dosed orally from pregnancy through parturition and 
weaning at 100 mg/kg/day. Higher dosages than this, were associated with reductions of survival and 
lactation indices (92 and 98%, respectively) and of pup body weight. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic assessments were included in nearly all GLP studies and demonstrated that ivacaftor 
exposures after oral administration in the toxicology formulation were high and sustained throughout 
the dosing durations in all species studied. 
Systemic exposures to M1 at the ivacaftor NOAEL in rats were greater than 1X in male rats, 0.6X in 
females and 0.3X in dog of either sex, while for M6 were 0.5X in male rats, 0.2X in female rats and 
<0.1X in dogs of either sex. Additional studies to characterize the toxicity of M1 and M6 were not 
feasible due to the extreme difficulty in synthesizing the quantities required, combined with the fact 
that they have physicochemical and pharmacokinetic limitations to achieving higher exposures by 
direct intravenous or oral administration routes than those already achieved in the rat after oral 
ivacaftor administration. 
Local Tolerance  
Ivacaftor has been shown to have no skin irritation, eye irritation or skin sensitization potential after 
topical administration. Ivacaftor is believed to have low potential for drug-induced cataract formation, 
photoirritation/photosensitization, or photocarcinogenicity after oral administration, based on clean 
ophthalmology exams in repeat-dose studies, absence of genotoxicity in the ICH standard battery, and 
no potential for carcinogenicity detected after 2 years of oral administration in rodents, combined with 
the fact that ivacaftor does not accumulate substantially in skin or eyes after oral administration, does 
not have a significant absorbance peak in the 290 to 700 nm wavelength range and does not undergo 
photodegradation. 
Other toxicity studies 
Dependence studies have not been conducted for ivacaftor, since tissue distribution studies in rats 
have shown that ivacaftor does not cross the blood-brain-barrier to any appreciable extent. In 
addition, ivacaftor had no effects on central nervous system function in standard safety pharmacology 
studies in rats, in repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice, rats, and dogs, or on behaviour and learning in 
developing pups in the prenatal and postnatal development study. 
In a skin antigenicity study (murine local lymph node assay) ivacaftor did not show the potential to 
induce skin sensitization (delayed contact hypersensitivity). 
All known and potential impurities in ivacaftor drug substance and drug product were qualified in the 
repeat-dose animal toxicity studies described above, in additional genotoxicity assays conducted for 
specific substances of concern (all 8 substances tested which included starting materials and potential 
process impurities were negative), or based on published toxicity studies. Specified impurities in the 
ivacaftor SDD/drug product, which are not controlled to ICH classification limits, include only the 
residual solvents as well as the US Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary compendial excipient, HPMC-AS. 
Qualification of the limits for residual solvents was based on literature evaluations of the toxicological 
characteristics of these compounds. Qualification of HPMC-AS is based on levels of this compendial 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/87
 
 
 
excipient in the chronic toxicity studies described, as well as on published pharmacology, general 
toxicity, and reproductive toxicity studies. 
The Applicant notified during the procedure that findings of opacity of nucleus portion of lenses 
(cataracts) were observed in rats dosed at a high dose group (50 mg/kg/day) from postnatal day 7 
through 35 from the juvenile toxicology study (VX-770-TX-025), which was ongoing at the 
time. The findings did not seem to be reversible. Preliminary histopathology results show that cataract 
formation in juvenile rats was not associated with structural damage (lenticular degeneration) to lens 
tissues. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The main results are summarised in the following table.  
Substance (INN/Invented Name): ivacaftor 
CAS-number (if available):  
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
OECD Method 117 
Kow 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PECsurfacewater, default or 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
literature) 
Value 
PECsw = 0.009 (CF 
patients in EU from 6 
years of age) 
PECsw = 0.00036 (CF 
patients with G551D 
mutation) 
PECsw = 0.0016  (CF 
patients with other 
mutation) 
Result 
Unit 
g/L 
Conclusion 
No potential PBT  
Conclusion 
<0.01 threshold 
N 
Ivacaftor PECsurfacewater value is below the action limit of 0.01 μg/L and it is not a PBT substance as log 
Kow does not exceed 4.5. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Ivacaftor increased in vitro the chloride transport of multiple mutant CFTR forms associated with a 
variety of protein defects and disease severity.  
The increase of chloride transport by ivacaftor was most pronounced in cells expressing CFTR gating 
mutations when compared to other types of CFTR mutations. This group included, G551D, G178R, 
S549N, S549R, G551S, G970R, G1244E, S1251N, S1255P and G1349D. The fold increase in chloride 
transport for all 10 studied gating mutation proteins was greater than 10.  
Ivacaftor also potentiated chloride transport, of cells carrying CFTR mutations that are associated with 
residual CFTR function, although to a lesser extent than that observed for CFTR gating mutations, 
including CFTR conductance mutations (R117H, D110H, R117C, R347H and R352Q), mild CFTR 
processing mutations (E56K, P67L, L206W, A455E, D579G, S945L, R1070W and F1074L) and CFTR 
mutations with uncharacterized defects in the CFTR protein (D110E, D1152H, S1235R and D1270N). 
Finally, ivacaftor showed minimal effects in vitro on mutant CFTR forms that were associated with 
minimal chloride transport, including severe CFTR conductance mutations (R334W, T338I, R347P and 
L927P), severe CFTR processing mutations (F508del, A46D, G85E, E92K, S492F, I507del, V520F, 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/87
 
 
 
 
 
A559T, R560T, R560S, A561E, H1054D, G1061R, L1065P, L1065P, R1066C, R1066H, R1066M, 
L1077P, H1085R, M1101K and N1303K) and CFTR synthesis mutations (G542X, W1282X, 2184InsA 
and 2789+5G->A).  
Studies that may be classified as secondary pharmacodynamics studies have been performed and 
discussed under Safety Pharmacology. In view of ivacaftor CFTR target selectivity, the CFTR 
dependence of the disease, lack of adequate animal disease model and low incidence of observed side 
effects in animal and clinical studies, it is scientifically justified not to perform additional studies on 
secondary pharmacodynamics. Similar reasons justify the absence of pharmacodynamic drug 
interactions studies in the application (i.e. high CFTR selectivity, absence of other CF therapies 
targeting the CFTR receptor). 
Although the Cmax for ivacaftor (5.0 μM) at the therapeutic dosage is comparable to the hERG IC15 
(5.5 μM) value for ivacaftor, it was concluded that this value is not indicative of a risk for ivacaftor-
induced QT prolongation at the therapeutic dose in patients with CF, since there is no evidence of 
ivacaftor-induced QT prolongation in these patients, as well as at supratherapeutic dose of 450 mg 
q12h (Cmax = 13.9 μM) after 5 days of dosing in the thorough QT study, and in a dog telemetry study 
at single doses as high as 60 mg/kg, or in ECG measurements from repeat-dose studies of up to 1 
year duration at the 60 mg/kg/day dose level (36.2 μM to 47.6 μM). 
Safety pharmacology studies did not reveal any concerns regarding renal system, central nervous and 
respiratory system. Decreased GI motility occurred at high doses in rats. While the mechanism of this 
is unknown, the safety margin between NOEL 9 (rats) to 21 (dogs) fold the expected exposure 
(steady-state AUC0-24hr) at the human therapeutic dosage is regarded sufficient. 
Rats and dogs are adequate for repeat dose toxicological studies since their metabolic profile are 
qualitatively similar to the humans. M1 and M6 were major circulating metabolites in all species 
studied.  
The chronic toxicity studies in dog involved animals of young ages at the initiation of dosing (dogs as 
young as 3.5 months), so the indication from 6 years was sufficiently addressed by the Applicant. 
The lens opacities observed in the juvenile rat toxicity study were located in the nucleus portion of the 
lens, which is the oldest portion of the lens. Therefore the initiating event in the development of 
cataracts is believed to have occurred during early lens development. Structural damage to lens 
tissues was not observed and these findings are believed not to be pharmacodynamically related to 
ivacaftor’s mechanism of action, since ivacaftor is not active against rat CFTR. The Applicant has 
suggested that the finding of cataracts might be related to factors specific to the development of the 
eyes in newborn rats, in which, unlike in humans, hyaloid vessels persist until after birth by which time 
the retinal vessels have reached nearly to the periphery of the eye. In humans athrophy of hyaloid 
vessels is complete by the beginning of the third trimester of pregnancy and following complete 
involution of the vascular capsule during the second trimester in utero the human lens remains 
avascular and receives nutrition from the aqueous humor. Human eye development is recognised to be 
more complete at time of birth as compared to rats, therefore the risk of developing of cataracts is not 
expected in young children (children less than 6 years of age) and is believed to be not relevant for 
children aged 6 years and older. In support of this, there are examples in the literature of other 
substances that produce cataracts to rats dosed early in development but no to older rats, and there is 
no cataractogenic potential for ivacaftor detected in older rats or dogs from the chronic toxicity studies, 
neither in dosing pups via mother’s milk from birth through Day 21 post-partum from in the 
developmental and reproductive toxicity study (Seg. III). In addition, there are no reports of cataracts 
in the clinical trial participants. Therefore the CHMP concludes that these findings are unlikely to be 
relevant for use in children above 6 years of age, but as the involved mechanism of these findings is 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 21/87
 
 
 
unclear, and in order to confirm non-relevance of findings, the following measures have been included 
in the risk management plan:  
 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of the rat juvenile toxicity study (VX-
770-TX-025), including histopathology results 
 
The applicant should attempt to retrieve the head sections of the foetuses retained in alcohol from 
the rat embryo-foetal study and perform histological examination of the eyes and provide results 
Ivacaftor predicted environmental concentration (PEC) surfacewater value was found to be below the 
action limit of 0.01 µg/L and was not found to be a persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity (PBT) 
substance as log Kow does not exceed 4.5. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The pharmacologic, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological characteristics of ivacaftor were well 
characterized. No major findings were found in the non clinical studies. The information from juvenile 
toxicity study in rats about lens opacities has been adequately addressed in the risk management plan 
and additional data will be generated. The proposed SmPC appropriately reflects the relevant non-
clinical findings. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Ivacaftor is a new active substance with a novel mechanism of action and has been studied accordingly 
in several phase I studies aimed at assessing the PK, PD and safety properties and possible 
interactions. Several phase 2 and 3 studies have been included in the dossier, of which the pivotal 
phase 3 studies (studies 102 and 103) have studied use of ivacaftor in CF patients with G551D 
mutation in at least one allele at the posology proposed for clinical use (150 mg q12h).  
The clinical development has followed guidance on the development of medicinal products for cystic 
fibrosis. The Applicant has received protocol assistance from the CHMP on the clinical development for 
ivacaftor. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Study ID  Design 
Study 
Study 
Duration 
Type of study or 
Posology 
population 
Primary Endpoint 
VX06-
Phase 1, randomised, 
150 mg 
18 healthy male 
3 doses  
Bioavailability study 
770-002 
open-label, 3-period 
subjects 
crossover, single-dose 
VX08-
Phase 1, randomised, 
150 mg 
36 healthy male 
3 doses  
Bioavailability study 
770-007 
open-label, crossover, 
subjects 
single dose 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 22/87
 
 
 
VX10-
Phase 1, randomised, 
150 mg 
20 healthy male 
4 doses  
Bioavailability study 
770-012 
crossover, open-label, 
subjects 
single dose 
VX05-
Phase 1, randomised, 
Parts A, B, C 
Part A: 18 
Part A: 3 or 4 
Safety and PK study 
770-001 
double-blinded, 
and D: VX-770 
(healthy male) 
doses 
placebo controlled, 
single dose 25 
Part B: 9 (healthy 
Part B: 3 
dose escalation 
to 800 mg or 
female) 
doses 
single- and multiple 
placebo 
Part C: 10 
Parts C and 
dose 
Part E: VX-770 
(healthy male) 
D: 2 doses 
125 and 250 
Part D: 6 (with 
Part E: 14 
mg q12h or 
pancreatic 
days 
placebo 
insufficient CF) 
Part E: 20 
(healthy male) 
VX06-
770-003 
Phase 1, non-
133 mg (14C-
7 healthy male 
1 dose 
Absorption, 
randomised, open-
ivacaftor) 
subjects 
label, single dose 
distribution, 
metabolism and 
excretion study 
VX10-
Phase 1, non-
150 mg 
Group A: 12 (with 
1 dose 
Safety and PK study 
770-013 
randomised, open-
moderate hepatic 
label, single dose 
impairment) 
Group B: 12 
(healthy) 
VX08-
Phase 1, randomised, 
VX-770 
34 healthy female 
2 x 28 days 
Drug-drug interaction 
770-005 
double-blinded, 
150 mg or 
subjects 
(including 21 
study 
placebo-controlled, 
placebo q12h 
corssover, multiple 
and NE 500 μg 
dose 
+ EE 35 μg qd 
days NE + 
EE) 
Phase 1, non-
VX-770 
24 healthy male 
1 dose; 
Drug-drug interaction 
randomised, open-
150 mg single 
subjects 
10 days + 1 
study 
label, crossover, 
dose, 
dose 
single dose 
ketoconazole 
400 mg qd 
Phase 1, non-
VX-770 
24 healthy male 
1 dose; 
Drug-drug interaction 
randomised, open-
150 mg single 
subjects 
10 days + 1 
study 
label, crossover, 
dose, rifampin 
dose 
single dose 
600 mg qd 
Phase 1,  non-
VX-770 
24 healthy male 
10 days + 9 
Drug-drug interaction 
randomised, open-
150 mg q12h, 
subjects 
days 
study 
VX08-
770-006 
VX09-
770-009 
VX09-
770-010 
(including 
single 
dosing) 
label, crossover, 
midazolam 
multiple dose 
2 mg single 
dose, 
rosiglitazone 
4 mg single 
dose, 
fluconazole 
400 mg 
loading dose + 
200 mg qd 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 23/87
 
 
 
 
VX10-
770-011 
VX09-
770-008 
Phase 1,  non-
VX-770 
24 healthy male 
1 dose + 9 
Drug-drug interaction 
randomised, open-
150 mg q12h, 
subjects 
days 
study 
label, crossover, 
desipramine 
multiple dose 
50 mg single 
dose 
(including 
second single 
dose) 
Phase 1, randomised, 
VX770 150 to 
Part A: 8 healthy 
Part A: dose 
QTc 
double-blind, placebo 
450 mg q12h 
male subjects 
escalation 
and active controlled, 
or placebo; 
Part B: 72 
over 9 days 
multiple dose 
moxifloxacin 
healthy male and 
Part B: 4 x 5 
400 mg single 
female subjects 
days 
dose 
VX06-
Phase 2ª, 
25 mg, 75 mg, 
39 subjects with 
Part 1: 2 x 
PK, PD, Efficacy and 
770-101  
randomised, placebo-
150 mg, or 
CF who have 
14 days; 
Safety study  
controlled, double-
250 mg q12h 
G551D mutation 
Part 2: 28 
blinded, crossover, 
multiple-dose 
in the CFTR gene 
days 
VX08-
Phase 3, randomised, 
150 mg q12h 
161 subjects with 
48 weeks (24 
Absolute change from 
770-102 
double-blind, placebo-
CF who have 
treatment  + 
baseline in percent 
controlled, parallel-
group multicenter, 
multiple dose 
G551D mutation 
24 weeks 
predicted FEV1 
in the CFTR gene 
extension) 
through week 24 (%) 
VX08-
Phase 3, multicenter 
Part A: VX-770 
Part A: 12  
Part A: single 
Part B: absolute 
770-103 
study.  
100-mg Part 
Part B: 26 (VX-
dose  
change in percent 
Part A was single-
B: VX-770 
770) + 26 
Part B: 48 
predicted FEV1 from 
dose, open-label, to 
150-mg or 
(placebo) 
weeks (24 
baseline through 
confirm the dose for 
placebo q12h 
subjects aged 6 
weeks 
Week 24 
Part B. 
Part B was 
to 11 years with 
treatment + 
the G551D-CFTR 
24 weeks 
randomised, double-
mutation in at 
extension) 
blind 
least 1 allele 
VX08-
Phase 2, randomised, 
Part A: 
Part A: 112 (VX-
Part A: 16 
Adjusted mean 
770-104 
double-blind, placebo-
150 mg VX-
770) + 28 
weeks 
absolute change from 
(Part B 
controlled, parallel-
770 or placebo 
(placebo) 
Part B: 96 
baseline through 
ongoing) 
group study (Part A) 
q12h 
subjects with CF 
weeks 
Week 16 in percent 
with an 
Part B: open-
who are 
predicted FEV1 
open-label extension 
label 150 mg 
homozygous for 
(Part B) 
VX-770 q12h 
F508del-CFTR 
mutation 
VX08-
Phase 3, non-
VX-770 150-
192 subjects with 
96 weeks or 
Safety as determined 
770-105 
randomised, open-
mg q12h 
CF who have 
until VX-770  
by adverse events, 
(ongoing) 
label, rollover study 
G551D mutation 
marketed 
clinical laboratory 
in the CFTR gene 
(enrolment 
ongoing) 
values, standard 
digital ECGs, vital 
signs, and physical 
examinations 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 24/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VX10-
Phase 2, randomised, 
VX-770 150-
17 subjects with 
28 days + 28 
Safety and efficacy 
770-106 
placebo-controlled, 
mg q12h or 
CF who have 
days 
assessment 
(ongoing) 
double-blinded, 
placebo 
G551D mutation 
crossover, multiple-
in the CFTR gene 
dose 
(enrolment 
ongoing) 
VX10-
Phase 2, single-
VX-770 150-
8 subjects with 
14 days 
Safety and efficacy 
770-107 
centre, single-blind, 
mg q12h or 
CF who have 
(placebo) + 
assessment 
(ongoing) 
placebo-controlled 
placebo 
G551D mutation 
28 days (VX-
study of orally 
administered VX-770 
in subjects with CF 
in the CFTR gene 
770) + 14 
(enrolment 
days 
ongoing) 
(placebo) 
The Applicant conducted also 3 other phase 1 studies (two palatability studies and one interaction study with 
another compound in development), which are not listed in the table above. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Analytical Methods 
Ivacaftor (VX-770) and its two major metabolites, M1 (hydroxymethyl-ivacaftor; also known as VRT-
837018 during clinical development) and M6 (ivacaftor carboxylate, also known as VRT-842917 during 
clinical development), were determined in human plasma and human urine. For human samples, the 
analytical method was validated in K3EDTA or K2EDTA human plasma over the range of 2.00 to 
2000 ng/mL and in human urine over the range 2.00 to 2000 ng/mL by LC-MS/MS.  
Transfer and cross validation of a method for the determination of VX-770, M1, and M6 in human 
plasma and urine was performed and successfully validated.  
The linearity was demonstrated over the calibration range. The assay method was sufficiently selective 
for endogenous substances and met the requirements for precision and accuracy at each level for 
ivacaftor. The stock solution stability and long term stability in plasma samples were established. 
In drug-drug interaction clinical studies, the interacting drug was also quantified in plasma using 
validated assays. 
PK studies 
The PK of ivacaftor has been extensively studied in 14 clinical studies. Two main PK studies evaluated 
the pharmacokinetics of Ivacaftor in healthy subjects and patients with cystic fibrosis: 
 
Phase 1 study VX05-770-001 in male and female healthy volunteers and in Subjects with Cystic 
Fibrosis with a 5-part (A-E), 7-panel double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose escalation, and 
randomized design. The ivacaftor was studied as single ascending oral doses of up to 800 mg and 
in repeated doses of up to 250 mg q12h. 
 
Phase 1 Mass Balance study VX05-770-003 to investigate the Absorption, Metabolism and 
Excretion of 14C-ivacaftor following single oral administration to healthy male volunteers. This was 
an open-label, non-randomized, single dose, mass balance study in 6 healthy male subjects, to 
characterize the PK, route and extent of elimination and  to identify the major metabolites of 
ivacaftor. 
Apart from these 2 key PK studies, other studies also providing PK information of ivacaftor are studies 
002, 007 and 012 (comparative BA of different ivacaftor formulations and interaction with food); 013 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 25/87
 
 
 
(moderate hepatic impairment); 005, 006, 009, 010 and 011 (DDI); 008 (TQT study); 101, 102, 103 
and 104 (multiple dose in phase II-III studies in patients of different age strata and CF mutations). 
In addition, a pop-PK modelling had been developed that included data from studies 002, 007, 010, 
101, 102, 103 and 104. 
Absorption  
Due to the low solubility of ivacaftor in water (<0.05 μg/mL) no intravenous formulation has been 
developed. Therefore, the absolute bioavailability of ivacaftor in humans has not been determined.  
Ivacaftor is orally available. Maximum concentrations of ivacaftor were reached within 2-3 hours after 
oral administration. Cmax increased up to doses of 375 mg, after which it seemed to plateau. 
Bioequivalence  
A number of solid formulations have been assessed during early stages of clinical development of 
ivacaftor. Solid formulations (tablets) appear to be less bioavailable than the oral solution, though 
when administered in the fed state, the overall exposure increases to levels observed with the oral 
solution. Since the whole phase II-III clinical program has been conducted using the intended final 
formulation (film-coated tablets), the relevance of the results of these studies is minor. 
Food interaction  
There is a clear effect of concomitant food intake on the speed and magnitude of absorption of 
ivacaftor. In healthy volunteers high fat breakfast increased Cmax and AUC of 150 mg tablet formulation 
by an order of magnitude around 2.5 and delayed Tmax from 3 to 5 hours. A consistent effect was 
observed in patients with CF and pancreatic insufficiency in whom ivacaftor 275 mg oral solution was 
given. In this later case a standard CF meal (which contains up to 200% of the fat content of a 
standard meal) was compared with a fasted state. The impact of food on the PK of ivacaftor may have 
implications in clinical practice. Clinical studies were conducted advising patients to take ivacaftor with 
food containing fat. The recommendation given in the product information is consistent. However, 
since different fat content might result in relevantly different exposure to ivacaftor, upon a request 
from the CHMP, more detailed information on fat containing meals has been included in the SmPC. 
Distribution 
Ivacaftor and its metabolites M1 and M6 were highly bound to proteins in mouse, rat, dog, and human 
plasma, with >98% binding in all species. Protein binding percentages for ivacaftor, M1, and M6 were 
independent of concentration, indicating that no saturation of binding was evident up to 10 μM for 
ivacaftor and M6, and 20 μM for M1. Ivacaftor protein binding to human plasma components, HSA, 
AAG and HGG was greater than 97%, suggesting that ivacaftor was highly bound to most of the 
proteins of human plasma. M1 and M6 were highly (>90%) bound to HSA with moderate (30 to 90%) 
to low (0 to 30%) binding to AAG and HGG. The high degree of binding of ivacaftor, M1, or M6 through 
range of HSA concentrations (25 to 65 mg/mL) suggests that age or disease related variation in HSA 
concentrations are not likely to have a considerable impact on the clinical PK of ivacaftor, M1, and M6. 
The potential for protein binding interactions between ivacaftor, M1, and M6 and warfarin was also 
evaluated in human plasma. Results indicated that protein binding of 3H-warfarin was high (99%) and 
unaltered in the presence of ivacaftor, M1 and M6. Similarly, the protein binding percentages of 
ivacaftor, M1 or M6 were not affected by the presence of warfarin. Therefore no plasma protein 
binding-related drug-drug interactions are expected. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/87
 
 
 
Ivacaftor has a large apparent volume of distribution (Vz/F) suggesting penetration of ivacaftor into 
tissues. In study 001, where doses ranging from 25 mg to 800 mg of ivacaftor in oral solution where 
tested, Vz/F moved within the range of 250-350 L. In the population PK model, the population mean 
(95% confidence interval [CI]) estimate for Vz/F of ivacaftor as a tablet formulation (18-year-old, 70 
Kg-male subject with CF) was 186 (170; 200) L for Vc/F (Vz/F of the central compartment) and 118 
(77.2; 187) L for Vp/F (Vz/F of the peripheral compartment). The volume of distribution is much 
smaller for the biologically active M1 metabolite. The population PK estimates are 2.72 (Vc/F) and 
18.1L (Vp/F). The Applicant stated that the high Vz/F of ivacaftor is a sign of good penetration of 
ivacaftor into tissues. However, the CHMP is of an opinion that the difference between Vd-s of ivacaftor 
and M1 could reflect the difference between their protein binding. 
After oral administration of ivacaftor 150 mg every 12 hours for 7 days to healthy subjects in a fed 
state, the mean (±SD) for apparent volume of distribution of ivacaftor was 353 (122) L. 
Elimination 
Elimination in the faeces was the predominant route of elimination for ivacaftor and its metabolites, 
with a minimal renal excretion.  
Following a single oral dose in fed state, the apparent terminal half-life was approximately 12 hours. 
The population PK model estimated that for an 18 years-old, 70-kg, male subject with CF, the mean 
estimate (95% CI) for the apparent clearance (CL/F) was 19.0 (17.5, 20.5) L/h. 
Ivacaftor is extensively metabolized in humans. The major metabolic pathway involves oxidation of 
ivacaftor to M1 and M6. In vitro and clinical studies indicate that ivacaftor and M1 are primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A. In a mass balance study with radiolabelled ivacaftor, the metabolites accounted 
for approximately 65% of total dose excreted (M1-22%, M6-43%). M1 has approximately 1/6 the 
potency of ivacaftor and is considered pharmacologically active; M6 has less than 1/50 the potency of 
ivacaftor as is not considered pharmacologically active. Ivacaftor is mainly metabolised through 
CYP3A4, with some contribution probably from CY3A5. CYP3A4 distribution in the population is 
unimodal. Although CYP3A5 is bimodal, its limited contribution and the possibility to compensate lower 
metabolic rate trough an escape via CYP3A4 route makes a relevant influence of genetic polymorphism 
on the elimination of ivacaftor and its metabolites unlikely. 
The involvement of non-CYP enzymes is not fully clear. The biologically active M1 is metabolized 
possibly further by aldehyde dehydrogenae (AO) and maybe by MAO.  Data from inhibition studies in 
monkey and human liver fractions suggested a role of aldehyde oxidase and MAO isozymes in the 
conversion of M1 but it is poorly characterized.  
In the mass balance study 003, total mean recovery of radioactivity was 94.6% of the administered 
dose over 19 days, with recovery in the faeces accounting for almost 90%. Most of the administered 
radioactivity (86.1%) was recovered in the first 168 hours postdose. Plasma radioactivity declined to 
low levels, with only M1-14C-ivacaftor detected in the 48-hour sample. Total recovery in individual 
subjects ranged from 84.3% to 99.0%. Only small amounts of unchanged parent drug, 2.5% of the 
dose, were excreted in faeces, suggesting that ivacaftor is metabolized extensively and excreted in 
faeces. Only 6.6% of the total radioactivity was excreted in urine. M6 and M1 accounted for 1.15 and 
0.27% of the total administered radioactivity. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Since only one dose and strength of ivacaftor is recommended, dose proportionality is regarded not to 
be a major issue, but is of interest for the overall pharmacokinetic assessment of the substance. As 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 27/87
 
 
 
discussed above, increase in exposure at doses of ivacaftor higher than 375 mg is less than 
proportional, reaching in fact a plateau in both Cmax and AUC. 
Median accumulation rate of ivacaftor ranges from 2.2 to 2.9 in studies assessing multiple doses up to 
150 mg/12h for 5 – 28 days. Accumulation rate was similar in healthy volunteers and in patients with 
CF. Ivacaftor exposure does not appear to be affected by circadian rhythm. 
Special populations 
PK of ivacaftor in patients with CF does not appear to differ essentially from that observed in healthy 
subjects. Pharmacokinetic parameters in males and females are comparable. 
The pharmacokinetics of ivacaftor in children above 12 years is consistent with that observed in adults. 
However, specific pharmacokinetic assessment in CF subjects 6 to 11 years of age indicates that they 
have faster elimination than adults with a shorter apparent half-life, although some of the terminal 
slopes were estimated using only 2 time points and some included the Cmax value, which may affect the 
precision of the estimates of AUC0-∞, CL/F, and t1/2. Overall exposure as compared to equivalent doses 
in adults was similar in the non-compartmental analysis. Subjects aged 6 to 11 years had 
approximately 52% and 8% higher mean and median Cmin for ivacaftor and approximately 2-fold 
higher mean and median AUC, but the total body clearance was lower in children (10L/h) than in 
adults (18.9L/h) while the relative clearance per kilogram as adjusted by body weight was larger at 20 
kg (0.5 L/h/kg) than at 70 kg (0.27 L/h/kg). This is consistent with the faster elimination (larger 
relative clearance when adjusted for body weight) but smaller systematic clearance when not adjusted 
for body weight in subjects 6 to 11 years of age. These observations are also consistent with the 
predicted and observed higher AUC in children relative to adults at the 150 mg q12h dose (see below). 
The 150 mg q12h dose regimen resulted in median and mean (SD) VX-770 Cmin of 752 and 1180 (854) 
ng/mL in children aged 6 to 11 years, 492 and 556 (356) ng/mL for adolescents (12 to 17 years) and 
690 and 774 (468) ng/mL for the adult subjects. Considering that the predicted EC90 for FEV1 in CF 
subjects with a G551D-CFTR mutation is 423 ng/mL, it appears that the younger group may be 
overdosed. The CHMP therefore requested the Applicant to predict with a validated PK/PD model FEV1 
and sweat chloride concentrations for the age group of 6-11 years with the following doses: 50, 75, 
100, 125 and 150 mg. Based on the population PK/PD model developed by the Applicant higher FEV1 
responses were predicted for higher doses - the median simulated FEV1 (90% predictive intervals) at 
Week 24 were 1.94 (1.07, 3.26) for the 150 mg dose, 1.94 (1.07, 3.25) for the 125 mg dose, 1.94 
(1.07, 3.23) for the 100 mg dose, 1.93 (1.07, 3.22) for the 75 mg dose, and 1.91 (1.07, 3.18) for the 
50 mg dose. The analysis also predicted that 70.8 % of the subjects would reach practically the 
maximum FEV1 response with 2 x 100 mg dose and this response rate increased to 85.5% with 2 x 
150 mg dose. Similarly, half-dose (75 mg) would be adequate for about 52% of the target population.  
No PK data in ethnicities other than Caucasians has been provided, which is deemed acceptable as CF 
is predominantly found in Caucasians. 
Considering the marginal renal contribution to the elimination of ivacaftor, the absence of a specific 
study in patients with renal impairment is accepted by the CHMP. No dose adjustment is therefore 
proposed for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, which is reflected in the SmPC. The 
SmPC states in any case that caution should be exercised when administering ivacaftor to patients with 
severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease. 
A specific study was conducted to evaluate the effect of moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh-B, 
clinical scores 7 to 9 points) on ivacaftor PK. Results showed similar Cmax but approximately 2-fold 
increase in AUC0-∞ in hepatically impaired subjects compared to healthy subjects. The mean apparent 
terminal half-life of ivacaftor was increased and the CL/F of ivacaftor was decreased in subjects with 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 28/87
 
 
 
moderate hepatic impairment, both by approximately 2-fold of that in healthy subjects. The mean 
apparent terminal half-life of metabolites (M1 and M6) with moderate hepatic impairment was 
prolonged to approximately 1.6-fold of that in healthy subjects. Simulations for predicting steady-state 
exposure of ivacaftor showed that a dose of 150 mg q12h in subjects with Child-Pugh B would result in 
approximately 2-fold higher steady-state AUC, Cmax and Cmin values than those in healthy subjects 
Therefore a dose of 150 mg once daily is recommended for patients with CF who have moderate 
hepatic impairment. There is no clinical experience with the use of ivacaftor in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In vitro data 
Ivacaftor was found to be metabolized by recombinant CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, and human metabolism 
was qualitatively similar to rats and dogs. In addition in vitro studies showed that ivacaftor has a 
potential for drug interactions through inhibition of CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP3A.  
Ki values for ivacaftor inhibition were 3.4 M for the CYP2C8 pathway and 30 M for the CYP2C9 
pathway. Based on these results it is accepted that no interaction with CYP2C9 is expected and not 
conducting a DDI study with ivacaftor and a CYP2CP substrate is acceptable. However, since warfarin 
is metabolized by CYP2C9 and has a narrow therapeutic index, the SmPC states that concomitant use 
of ivacaftor may increase the concentration of warfarin, and monitoring of the international normalized 
ratio is recommended. 
A study was carried out to evaluate the inhibition potential of ivacaftor, M1, and M6 on P-glycoprotein 
(P-gp) efflux activities in Caco-2 cell-based assay (ivacaftor-DMPK-DM-041). The results indicated that 
ivacaftor and M6 are not substrates for P-gp transporters, while metabolite M1 is a substrate for P-gp. 
However, in vitro studies of interactions of ivacaftor with digoxin (sensitive P-gp probe substrate), 
indicated that ivacaftor and M1 (but not M6) inhibit P-gp. This may increase the concentrations of 
sensitive P-gp substrates. Therefore it is recommended that in case concomitant use of ivacaftor with 
digoxin is indicated, digoxin should be monitored to obtain the desired clinical effect. It has been 
requested to further investigate this interaction post-authorisation. 
In vivo data 
In vivo evaluation of DDI was reasonably well characterised. The potential DDIs between ivacaftor and 
inhibitors, inducers, or substrates of CYP3A, and substrates of CYP2C8 and CYP2D6 was evaluated in 
studies in healthy subjects. These studies were conducted with: ketoconazole, fluconazole, rifampin 
(CYP3A inhibition and induction of ivacaftor metabolism), an oral contraceptive combination, 
midazolam (CYP3A), desipramine (CYP2D6) and rosiglitazone (CYP2C8). 
Ketoconazole had a significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of ivacaftor by increasing ivacaftor 
systemic exposure. Based on DDI studies (also with fluconazole and rifampin), it can be concluded that 
CYP3A is the most relevant isoenzyme for metabolism of ivacaftor. Drug interactions are expected to 
occur with co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers.  
The applicant initially suggested that ivacaftor should not be co-administered with ketoconazole or any 
strong inhibitor of CYP3A. However, in the light of unmet medical need in the target population and the 
fact that it is polymedicated (concomitant administration of potent CYP3A inhibitors might be medically 
indicated) the CHMP requested to consider alternative dosing approaches (reduced doses or prolonged 
intervals). Simulation with ivacaftor dosed at 150 mg q 72h in combination with ketoconazole showed 
Cmax, Cmin and AUC 0-72h changes (90%CI) of 1.9 (1.5, 2.4), 0.95 (0.7, 1.3) and 1.4 (1.1, 1.8)-fold 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 29/87
 
 
 
relative to ivacaftor 150 mg q12h alone. Simulations with an ivacaftor twice-per-week schedule 
showed Cmax, C0 and AUC0-tau changes (90% CI) of 1.7 (1.4, 2.2), 0.6 (0.4, 0.9), and 1.3 (1.0, 1.6)-
fold during the first part of the week (tau=72 hours) and 1.9 (1.5, 2.3), 0.9 (0.6, 1.2), and 1.2 (0.9, 
1.5)-fold during the second part of the week (tau=96 hours) relative to ivacaftor 150 mg q12h alone. 
The 2 simulations of 150 mg q72h and 150 mg twice-per-week are generally comparable with the 
exception of the lower minimal concentration on 1 day of each week in the twice-per-week regimen. 
Therefore the CHMP concluded that, when co-dosing with a strong CYP3A inhibitor that is medically 
indicated, ivacaftor should be administered at 150 mg twice-per-week. This has been reflected in the 
SmPC. 
Simulation with ivacaftor 150 mg once daily in combination with a moderate inhibitor (fluconazole) 
resulted in changes (90% CI) in ivacaftor steady-state AUC0-24h and Cmax of 1.5 (1.2, 1.9)-fold and 
Cmin of 1.3 (1.0, 1.7)-fold when compared to ivacaftor 150 mg q12h administered alone. Therefore, 
when co-dosing with a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, ivacaftor should be administered at a dose of 150 mg 
once daily. This has been reflected in the SmPC. 
Co-administration of ivacaftor at steady-state increased midazolam exposure, suggesting that ivacaftor 
is a mild CYP3A inhibitor (1.25 to 2 fold increase in AUC; <50% inhibition of oral CL). This interaction 
is reflected in the SmPC.  
The  Applicant  proposes  general  caution  and  monitoring  statements  in  the  ivacaftor  SmPC  as  well  as 
specific  recommendations  about  digoxin,  cyclosporine  and  tacrolimus.  A  drug-drug  interaction  study 
with digoxin to further assess the inhibitory potential of ivacaftor on P-gp has been requested.  
Co-administration of ivacaftor at steady state did not affect the exposure of rosiglitazone (CYP2C8 
substrate), indicating that ivacaftor is not a CYP2C8 inhibitor.  
Co-administration of ivacaftor at steady-state with desipramine did not affect its exposure or exposure 
to its metabolite, indicating that ivacaftor is not a CYP2D6 inhibitor. 
Based on in vitro data aldehyde dehydrogenase (AO) and MAO may have a role in the metabolism of 
M1 (see discussion under Elimination). 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
Results from in vitro studies using human biomaterials have been discussed in the respective parts of 
the PK section. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The effects of ivacaftor on CFTR-mediated Cl- secretion in vitro were assessed in both recombinant cell 
lines (recombinant Fisher rat thyroid (FRT) cells expressing either human wild-type, G551D, or F508del 
CFTR) and primary cultures of human bronchial epithelia (HBE) isolated from the bronchi of CF and 
non-CF donor lungs. 
Ivacaftor increased the channel activity of CFTR protein located at the cell surface through increased 
gating activity, resulting in increased chloride transport. For ivacaftor to act, the CFTR channel must 
first be activated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). However, the exact mechanism of action 
of ivacaftor, i.e. the molecular basis underlying the observed increased gating activity of the mutant 
G551D-CFTR channel is not known. In vitro no response to forskolin and ivacaftor addition was 
observed in FRT cells that did not express CFTR. In addition, ivacaftor increased chloride transport only 
after stimulation of cAMP-dependent PKA and acted by increasing the channel open probability of the 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 30/87
 
 
 
G551D-CFTR protein located at the cell surface. The ability of ivacaftor to increase the channel open 
probability of G551D-CFTR in excised membrane patches that are removed from the cytosolic 
signalling pathways suggested that ivacaftor acts directly on G551D-CFTR to increase its gating 
activity. 
In vitro, several mutations have been studied and shown to respond to ivacaftor by increasing chloride 
transport (see table below). This was the case of several gating mutations (other than G551D) for 
which clinical data is not available.  
Table 4 In vitro effects of ivacaftor on CFTR-gating mutations 
Primary pharmacology 
Study 101 was a 2-part, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover, multiple-dose study 
where approximately 40 adult subjects with cystic fibrosis (CF) who have the G551D mutation in at 
least 1 allele of the CFTR gene were treated with 25 to 150 mg of ivacaftor q12h for 14 days (part 1) 
and 150 or 250 mg q12h for 28 days (part 2). 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/87
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Schematic Description of the Design of Study 101 
Adult patients with the G551D mutation in one allele of the CFTR gene were enrolled in study 101. The 
majority (32/39) of patients enrolled in study 101 had F508del-CFTR in the second allele. The analysis 
of the baseline characteristics of the disease and use of concomitant medications showed that 33 out of 
39 (84.6%) were pancreatic insufficient as demonstrated by levels of immunoreactive trypsinogen 
(IRT) below 5 ng/ml. Pancreatic insufficiency was described in the medical history for 35 out of 39 
patients (almost 90%) and approximately 37 patients were receiving pancreatic enzyme replacement 
therapy. It is concluded that most patients in study 101 were pancreatic insufficient. 
At baseline in part 1 of the study patients receiving VX-770 25 mg/75 mg and 75 mg/150 mg had a 
higher median percent predicted FEV1 (66% and 63%, respectively) than the overall median (56%) 
and subjects receiving 150 mg/75 mg VX-770 had a lower median percent predicted FEV1 (49%). 
Patients on placebo had a median percent predicted FEV1 of 57.3%. In part 2, the 150-mg VX-770 
group had a slightly lower median percent predicted FEV1 (65.1%) and median NPD (1.88 mV) than 
the other 2 groups (the NPD value refers to the zero chloride plus isoproterenol response data). In part 
2, the mean sweat chloride was 95.50 mmol/L for the 19 patients participating in the trial (93.75 
mmol/L on placebo, 100.13 on ivacaftor 150 mg BID and 95.50 on ivacaftor 250 mg BID). 
In part 1 and 2 combined 28 patients were described as having “lung infection pseudomonal” while 4 
additional patients had “Pseudomonas infection”. Apparently, twenty-two out of 39 patients (54%) 
were receiving tobramycin while colistin was being administered to 2 patients. The issue of 
pseudomonal infections is further discussed for the two pivotal trials. 
In study 101 the effects of different doses of ivacaftor on FEV1, nasal potential differences (NPD), 
sweat chloride and the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) were assessed.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 32/87
 
 
 
 
The combined results of part 1 and part 2 of study 101 are discussed below (except when they are 
specific of one part, e.g. CFQ-R in part 2) as they cover the full range of ivacaftor doses tested. 
The mean relative change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1% for Day≥3, Day14, and Day ≥14 
is represented in Figure below.  
Figure 2 Combined Part 1 and Part 2: Mean (95% CI) Relative Change from Baseline in Percent 
Predicted FEV1 for Day ≥3, Day 14, and Day ≥14, Part 1 and Part 2 Combined, FA Set 
Regarding Nasal Potential Difference (NPD), figure below show the mean (95% CI) change from 
baseline in zero chloride plus isoprotenereol response for Day 14 and Day≥14. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 33/87
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Combined Part 1 and Part 2: Mean (95% CI) Change from Baseline in NPD (Zero Chloride Plus 
Isoproterenol Response) for Day 14, and Day ≥14, FA Set 
As for the sweat chloride test figure below show the mean (95% CI) change from baseline in maximum 
sweat chloride for Day ≥3, Day 14, and Day ≥14 
Figure 4 Combined Part 1 and Part C: Mean (95% CI) Change from Baseline in Maximum Sweat 
Chloride for Day ≥3, Day 14, and Day ≥14, FA Set 
In Part 2 of study 101, subjects were asked to complete the CFQ-R, which evaluated 9 quality of life 
domains including respiratory symptoms, digestive symptoms, emotion and health perception. The 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 34/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
median (min, max; P-value) change from baseline in CFQ-R (respiratory domain) was +5.56 points 
(+0.00, +16.67; P = 0.063) on Day 14 and +8.33 points (+0.00, +16.67; P= 0.063) on Day 28 for 
subjects in the 150-mg group and +5.56 points (-11.11, +11.11; P = 0.156) on Day 14 and +11.11 
points (-5.56, +33.33; P = 0.078) on Day 28 for subjects in the 250-mg group. In contrast, subjects in 
the placebo group showed a median (minimum, maximum) increase of +2.78 points (-5.56, +11.11; P 
= 0.750) on Day 14 and +2.78 points (-5.56, +11.11; P = 0.750) on Day 28. 
Results from exploratory analyses of inflammatory biomarkers for C-reactive protein (blood), 
neutrophil count (expectorated sputum) and total IGG (blood) were provided for Part 2 of study 101. 
The difference in the change from baseline at Day 28 in C-reactive protein and total IgG levels in the 
VX-770 groups versus the placebo group was not statistically significant. Due to the small number of 
subjects providing samples, it was not possible to evaluate the effect of VX-770 on neutrophil count in 
sputum. 
A number of subgroup analyses were conducted (by immunoreactive trypsinogen in Part 1 and Part 2; 
and by baseline FEV1 severity, genotype, tobramycin use, bronchodilator use, azithromycin use, and 
inhaled sodium chloride use in Part 2 only). Due to the few patients included the results of these 
subgroups are of limited value and showed in some cases inconsistent results. 
PK/PD modelling has been developed to further elucidate the relationship between drug plasma levels 
and the effect on the 3 key variables.  
Regarding FEV1 (the most clinically relevant measured variable) the PK/PD model predicted higher 
FEV1 responses at higher doses. The median maximum response derived from 1000 simulated 
paediatric patients with covariate values sampled from study 103 were 1.94 (1.07, 3.26) for the150-
mg dose, 1.94 (1.07, 3.25) for the 125-mg dose, 1.94 (1.07, 3.23) for the 100-mg dose, 1.93 (1.07, 
3.22) for the 75-mg dose, and 1.91 (1.07, 3.18) for the 50-mg dose. The analysis also predicted that 
the 70.8% of the subjects would reach practically the maximum FEV1 response with 2 x 100 mg dose 
and this response rate increased to 85.5% with 2 x 150 mg dose. Similarly, half-dose (75 mg) was 
found to be adequate for about 52% of the target population. The results from the sweat chloride 
would support the use of 150mg dose bid.  
The observed FEV1 and sweat chloride values appeared to be unrelated, however, simulations from the 
population PK/PD models yielded a FEV1 and sweat chloride correlation, but the 90% predictive interval 
included the value of zero, which indicated that a correlation between FEV and sweat chloride 
measures has not yet been proven.  
Secondary pharmacology  
A dedicated QTc study (Study 008) was designed and conducted in line with ICHE14 recommendations. 
Study sensitivity is considered proven as the 4 (i.e. at predefined time points: 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours 
post-dose on Day 5) lower limits of the 2-sided 97.5% CI of baseline-adjusted and placebo-corrected 
QTcF for moxifloxacin exceeds 5 msec. The upper 90% two-sided CI limits for the highest mean 
change in QTcF interval were 3.1 at 0.5 hours postdose for 150-mg and 1.9 at 24 hours postdose for 
450-mg (see figure below). The 95% two-sided confidence intervals for the two ivacaftor doses have 
been provided upon CHMP request. The upper limit of the 95% 2-sided CIs for the highest mean time-
matched change from baseline in QTcF under treatment minus the time-matched change from baseline 
during placebo use was below 10 msec for both doses (150 mg and 450 mg).  
At approximately ivacaftor Tmax none of the upper limits of the 90% 2-sided CI for the two doses of 
150 mg and 450 mg exceeded the threshold of 10 msec. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 35/87
 
 
 
Figure 5 Adjusted Mean and 90% CI of Time-Matched Placebo-Subtracted Change From Baseline in 
QTcF Interval on Day 5- Part B, Complete Case Analysis Set 
No relationship between concentrations of VX770, M1 or M6 and the time-matched, placebo-
substracted differences of QTcF were found. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetic documentation for ivacaftor is extensive and contains 14 different studies, 2 of 
them (001 and 003) being pivotal for the PK characterisation of the drug.  
The validation of the methods for determination of ivacaftor, M1 and M6 are adequate and the in-study 
validation of the bioanalitycal methods is sufficient.  
Due to its low solubility the absolute oral bioavailability of ivacaftor has not been determined. It is 
orally bioavailable, and according to the high metabolism rate, it is acknowledged that it is likely to be 
highly permeable. It was found that food intake increases the availability of ivacaftor and delay tmax. 
The content in fat of the meal appears to be a major determinant of exposure. 
M1 (active) and M6 are the main metabolites of ivacaftor and both are a result of oxidative processes 
where CYP3A is involved. More than 90 % of ivacaftor is excreted in the faeces, mainly metabolised.  
The exposure to ivacaftor and its metabolites at doses above 375 mg are not proportional, but 
ivacaftor is only recommended at 150 mg BID dosing (OD in moderate hepatic failure). 
No intrinsic factor other than weight appears to play a major role in the PK of ivacaftor. However, data 
on the PK in children below 12 years not consistent and the role that weight might have played in 
these findings is unclear.  
In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that CYP3A is the main isoenzyme involved in the metabolism of 
ivacaftor, and therefore is a clear target for drug-drug interactions. In addition, ivacaftor and M1 inhibit 
P-gp. This may increase the concentrations of sensitive P-gp substrates. A phase I study in healthy 
volunteers to examine the effects of ivacaftor on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin has been included as 
a measure in the risk management plan in order to fully investigate this interaction. 
PK of ivacaftor in patients with CF does not appear to differ essentially from that observed in healthy 
subjects. In CF subjects 6 to 11 years of age there appears to be a faster elimination than in adults 
with a shorter apparent half-life. 
A higher exposure in children aged 6 – 11 years with the proposed dose has been predicted in PK 
analyses. In children aged 6 to 11 years the 150 mg q12h dose regimen resulted in median and mean 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 36/87
 
 
 
 
(SD) VX-770 Cmin of 752 and 1180 (854) ng/mL, which was above the predicted EC90 for FEV1 in CF 
subjects with a G551D-CFTR mutation of 423 ng/mL. Data from PK/PD modelling suggest that children 
may potentially benefit from a dosing according to their body weight in order to avoid higher exposure 
relative to older children and adults. However, based on the available data no particular safety concern 
has been identified with the fixed dose of 150 mg q12h in this population, and the efficacy has been 
demonstrated, hence the proposed dosing is considered acceptable. Nevertheless, the applicant should 
explore an alternative dosing regime for children from 6 to 11 years old that mimics closer the 
exposure in older children and adults. Appropriate measures have been defined in the Risk 
Management Plan. 
Considering the marginal renal contribution to the elimination of ivacaftor, the absence of a specific 
study in patients with renal impairment is accepted by the CHMP. No dose adjustment is therefore 
proposed for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, which is reflected in the SmPC. The 
SmPC states that caution should be exercised when administering ivacaftor to patients with severe 
renal impairment or end-stage renal disease. 
A dose of 150 mg once daily is recommended for patients with CF who have moderate hepatic 
impairment. There is no clinical experience with the use of ivacaftor in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment. Therefore, the use of ivacaftor in these patients is not recommended unless the benefits 
outweigh the risks. In such case, the starting dose should be 150 mg every other day and the dosing 
intervals should be modified according to clinical response and tolerability. 
Based on the in vitro studies performed ivacaftor has been qualified as a CF transmembrane 
conductance regulator (CFTR) potentiator, i.e. a compound that enhances the activity of mutant 
chloride channels present at the cell surface increasing the flow of ions through them. In vitro, several 
mutations have been studied and shown to respond to ivacaftor by increasing chloride transport. This 
is the case not only of the most prevalent gating mutation G551D but also of other gating mutations 
for which clinical data is not available. Until further clinical data exploring ivacaftor in other gating 
mutations can be provided, the indication should be restricted to patients with a G551D mutation. 
Study 101 assessed how the mechanism of action hypothesised based on in vitro investigations 
translates in the clinical setting and was also the main basis for dose selection for phase 3 clinical 
development. The effect of different doses of ivacaftor on FEV1, nasal potential differences (NPD), 
sweat chloride and the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R) were assessed. While FEV1 is the 
recommended primary clinical endpoint in efficacy studies for cystic fibrosis as the rate of decline in 
FEV1 has been demonstrated to correlate with survival and to be the strongest clinical predictor of 
mortality, Nasal Potential Difference (NPD) and sweat chloride remain biomarkers of the disease that 
are useful for testing activity of compounds aiming to restore CFTR function (CFTR activity). At the 
same time it is recognised that these parameters do not necessarily translate into clinical benefit, e.g. 
structural airway damage in the lung may not be reversible even if full CFTR activity is restored.  
Nasal PD examines different aspects of transepithelial ion transport by the nasal epithelium. In CF, this 
ion transport profile is abnormal and the nasal PD measurement distinguishes CF and non-CF. The line 
delineating CF from non-CF generally runs around a basal PD of −30 mV and a Cl− free/isoprenaline 
response of −5 to −10 mV, though many classical CF subjects will have basal values of −50 mV, and 
combined Cl− responses of 0 mV, whereas non-CF subjects will have values of −20 mV for basal PD 
and −30 mV for the combined Cl− responses (De Boeck K. et al, 2011). The transepithelial NPD under 
conditions of zero chloride concentration perfusion solution in the presence of isoproterenol was the 
primary PD assessment in study 101. 
The sweat chloride test (quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis) is the most commonly used diagnostic 
tool for CF. A sweat chloride concentration of at least 60 mmol/L is considered indicative of CF, 
whereas a sweat chloride concentration less than 40 mmol/L is considered normal. Genotype–
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 37/87
 
 
 
phenotype correlations for disease severity are associated with alterations in sweat chloride.  Normal 
adults without CFTR mutations generally have mean sweat chloride of approximately 20 mmol/L 
although there can be wide variability. Patients with two severe mutations have the most severe sweat 
chloride abnormalities, averaging greater than 100 mmol/L. 
In summary, study 101 shows that ivacaftor is able to increase the activity of mutant CRFT harbouring 
the most frequent class III mutation G551D (as shown by PND and sweat chloride) and also that this is 
associated with clinical benefit for patients (based on FEV1 improvement and CFQ-R). No biomarkers 
related to the gastrointestinal manifestations of the disease (e.g. exocrine pancreatic insufficiency) 
have been collected. As most patients enrolled in this trial were pancreatic insufficient and received 
pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, it is recognised that this would have been difficult. 
Overall, doses ranging from 75 to 250 mg show an effect than can be distinguished from placebo in the 
3 key fields of parameters studied (spirometry, NPD and sweat chloride). Among them, the 
intermediate one (150 mg) has been selected for further development. In the light of the rarity of 
condition and the limited number of patients studied, it is acknowledged that expecting more solid 
conclusions would have been unrealistic. Therefore the choice of the dose in general is accepted, even 
though no clear dose-response curve can be identified.  
PK/PD modelling was developed to further elucidate the relationship between drug plasma levels and 
the effect on the 3 key variables. It predicted higher FEV1 responses at higher doses, and the results 
from the sweat chloride would support the use of 150mg dose bid, however, this measure has a 
smaller relevance in clinical practice. 
There are two possible explanations for the controversy between the observed responses and the 
responses predicted by the structural model regarding relationship of FEV1 and sweat chloride 
outcomes. First, FEV1 measurements are associated with a high degree of variability. This variability is 
also true for the sweat chloride measurements, although to a lesser extent. Second, in the population 
PK/PD model, many of the data points lie well into the flat part of the exposure/response range, 
occurring at or near maximal response. Given these maximal responses and the observed variability 
for FEV1 and sweat chloride, it is not surprising that individual changes in FEV1 do not correlate with 
individual changes in sweat chloride. These results highlight that due to design problems the PK/PD 
model cannot be validated and cannot be refuted. Therefore PK/PD model-based predictions, 
particularly extrapolations, should be considered as hypothesis-generating rather than hypothesis-
confirming predictions. 
In the QTc study the upper 90% two-sided CI limits did not exceed 10 msec, indicating that VX 770 
does not have a clinically significant effect on the QTcF interval at the therapeutic and supratherapeutic 
dose levels.  At approximately Tmax of ivacaftor none of the upper limits of the 90% 2-sided CI for the 
two doses of 150 mg and 450 mg exceeded the threshold of 10 msec. Similarly the categorical analysis 
does not suggest that ivacaftor is associated to a significant risk to increase the QT interval. Overall, it 
is concluded that ivacaftor does not have a clinically significant effect on the QTcF interval at the 
therapeutic and supratherapeutic dose levels. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of ivacaftor have been sufficiently characterised. It 
was noted that in children aged 6 to 11 years an analysis of PK data shows a higher exposure as 
compared to older children and adults. Based on the available clinical efficacy and safety data, the 
currently proposed dosing is deemed acceptable. Nevertheless, attempts should be made in order to 
refine the dosing regimen in order to match the PK profile in this subpopulation ; the Risk management 
Plan addresses this. PK of ivacaftor are affected by hepatic impairment and use of CYP3A inhibitors; 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 38/87
 
 
 
the modified dosing regimens addresses this point adequately. The dose recommendation for patients 
with renal impairment as stated in the SmPC are appropriate, also considering the marginal renal 
contribution to the elimination of ivacaftor.  
Ivacaftor has shown effect on defective CFTR protein in case of several types of mutations, however, 
supportive clinical data is available only in patients with G551D mutation in at least one allele. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
Dose response has been assessed in Study 101, which is also a PD study. Please refer to Clinical 
Pharmacology: Primary Pharmacology for discussion on the choice of dose for the pivotal phase 3 
studies. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
Two pivotal trials (studies 102 and 103) and one extension study (study 105) to assess the effect of 
ivacaftor on patients with CF have been provided. The pivotal trials were randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled and parallel-group multicenter studies. 
Study VX08-770-102 
Methods 
This was a Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group multicenter study. 
The study included a Screening Period (Day -35 to Day -15), a Run-In Period (Day -14 to Day -1), a 
Treatment Period (Day 1 to Week 24), and an Extension Period (Week 25 to Week 48). 
Study Participants  
This study recruited CF patients of both sexes aged 12 years and older with predicted FEV1 between 
40% and 90% of predicted normal for age, gender, and height (Knudson standards) at screening and 
bearing G551D-CFTR mutation in at least 1 allele. Diagnosis of CF was defined as (1) a sweat chloride 
value ≥ 60 mmol/L or 2 CF causing mutations (all as documented in the subject’s medical record) and 
(2) chronic sinopulmonary disease or gastrointestinal/ nutritional abnormalities. 
Subjects with clinically significant abnormalities in haematology, serum chemistry, coagulation, and 
urinalysis results at screening or history of illnesses or conditions that could confound the results of the 
study or pose an additional risk were excluded from participation in the study. Exclusion criteria also 
included acute upper or lower respiratory infection, pulmonary exacerbation, or changes in therapy 
(including antibiotics) for pulmonary disease during last 4 weeks and colonization with organisms 
associated with a more rapid decline in pulmonary status, e.g., B. cenocepacia, B. dolosa, and M. 
abscessus. Patients receiving inhaled hypertonic saline treatment and those who concomitantly used 
any inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 were also excluded. 
Females of child-bearing potential had to have a negative serum pregnancy test at screening and all 
subjects of child-bearing potential and who were sexually active had to meet contraception 
requirements. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 39/87
 
 
 
Treatments 
The participants received either ivacaftor 150 mg or placebo q12h for 48 weeks (24 weeks in the 
Treatment Period and 24 weeks in the Extension Period). The subjects were recommended to take 
study drug 30 minutes after the start of a standard CF high-fat, high calorie meal or snack. 
It was recommended that subjects remain on stable medication regimens for their CF (including high-
dose ibuprofen, dornase alfa, inhaled antibiotics). Use of short-acting and long-acting bronchodilators 
and any other prior and concomitant medications was documented. 
Objectives 
The objective of the study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of VX-770 after 24 and 48 weeks of 
treatment in subjects with CF and a G551D-CFTR mutation. In addition the study was aimed at 
evaluating PK of VX-770 and its metabolites M1 and M6 after multiple oral doses of VX-770. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint for the pivotal trials was the absolute change from baseline in percent 
predicted FEV1 through 24 weeks of treatment. 
The main secondary endpoints were the absolute change from baseline in CFQ-R; absolute change 
from baseline in sweat chloride; time to first pulmonary exacerbation; absolute change from baseline 
in weight and absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 through Week 48. 
Sample size 
A minimum of 80 subjects were planned to be randomized to either VX-770 or placebo. This calculation 
was aimed at having at least 80% power to detect an expected treatment effect of 4.5% in absolute 
change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to groups of VX-770 and placebo, stratifying for age (<18 vs. 
≥18 years of age) and FEV1 (<70% vs. ≥70% predicted) at screening. 
Blinding (masking) 
The subjects, study site personnel, study monitors and the study team of the sponsor were blinded for 
treatment allocation. Most of them were blinded also for sweat chloride, bioanalysis and spirometry 
results. Emergency unblinding procedures were defined. 
Statistical methods 
The analysis for the primary endpoint was based on a Mixed-Effects Model for Repeated Measures 
(MMRM). No imputation on missing data was done for the primary analysis. In addition to the primary 
analysis based on FAS, a supportive analysis based on the PPS was conducted. To assess the 
robustness of the primary analysis, analyses were conducted using different variance-covariance 
matrices in MMRM, nonparametric analysis, and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) with missing data 
imputed using 3 methods: the last observation carried forward (LOCF), worst-case, and dropout 
reason-based. Subgroup analyses of the primary endpoint were performed in the same manner as the 
primary analysis for the following subgroups: age (<18 and ≥18 years), percent predicted FEV1 
severity at baseline (<70% and ≥ 70% predicted), sex (female and male), and geographic region 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 40/87
 
 
 
(North America, Europe, and Australia). Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were only performed based 
on the FAS.  
Results 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
l
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
t
n
e
m
t
a
e
r
T
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Assessed for eligibility  
(not reported)  
Excluded  
(not reported) 
Randomised (n=167) 
Allocated to ivacaftor (n=84). 
Received ivacaftor (n=83), FAS. 
Did not receive allocated intervention 
(n=1): requires prohibited medication. 
Allocated to placebo (n=83). 
Received placebo (n=78), FAS. 
Did not receive allocated intervention (n=5): 
not eligible (2); FEV1 too low; sick at 
randomisation visit; randomised by error. 
Discontinued intervention up to week 24 
(n=3): pregnancy; adverse event; 
required prohibited medication. 
Discontinued intervention after week 24 
(n=3): non-compliance with study 
requirements (2), withdrawal of consent. 
Completed Week 48: (n=77). 
Discontinued intervention up to week 24 
(n=7): adverse event (3), required prohibited 
medication (1), withdrawal of consent; wrong 
genotype; increased lab draws. 
Discontinued intervention after week 24 
(n=3): adverse event; required prohibited 
medication; physician decision. 
Completed Week 48: (n=68). 
PPS analysed at week 24 (n=74), 
excluded from analysis (n=9): major 
protocol violations (4), missing FEV 
assessments or study drug compliance 
<80% (5). 
Analysed at week 48 (n=69); excluded 
from analysis (n=14): major protocol 
violations (4), missing FEV assessments 
or study drug compliance <80% (10). 
PPS analysed at week 24 (n=64), excluded 
from analysis (n=14): major protocol 
violations (6), missing FEV assessments or 
study drug compliance <80% (8). 
Analysed at week 48 (n=64), excluded from 
analysis (n=14): major protocol violations (6), 
missing FEV assessments or study drug 
compliance <80% (8). 
Recruitment 
Subjects were randomized at 65 study sites in the North America, Europe, and Australia. First subject 
signed informed consent on 10 June 2009 and last subject completed the last Week 48 Visit on 11 
January 2011. 
Conduct of the study 
The study protocol was amended 4 times. Changes were numerous and related to the addition of the 
extension period up to week 48 (including additional endpoints at week 48), adjustments to inclusion 
and exclusion criteria and subject discontinuation rules, additional investigations and other changes. 
The majority of protocol deviations were related to completion of study assessments, subject visits that 
were out of the protocol-specified visit window, study drug administration, PK blood collection, minor, 
nonreportable completion errors of the ICF form, and use of prohibited medications. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 41/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Baseline characteristics were in general quite balanced en both treatment groups. In study 102 mean 
predicted FEV1 at baseline was 64% (range: 31.6% to 98.2%) and mean age was 26 years (range: 12 
to 53 years). 77.1% of patients on ivacaftor and 74.3% of patients on placebo had F508del-CFTR as 
the second allele. Pancreatic insufficiency was reported in 89.2% of ivacaftor-treated patients and 
96.2% of those on placebo.  
Table 5 Demographics and Baseline Characteristics in study 102, Full Analysis Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 42/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mean weight-for-age z-scores (points) at baseline were -0.5747 and -0.4645 in the placebo and 
ivacaftor groups, respectively which is indicative that this group of patients are, overall, well nourished. 
These figures for mean BMI-for-age z-scores (points) were -0.5605 and -0.4681.  
More patients on placebo than on ivacaftor were receiving prior medication targeting pulmonary 
function, i.e. prior medications that were used with at least a 5 percentage point higher frequency in 
the placebo group than in the ivacaftor group were dornase alfa (73.1% versus 65.1%), salbutamol 
(53.8% versus 42.2%), tobramycin (44.9% versus 33.7%), and Seretide (41.0% versus 27.7%).  
Numbers analysed 
A total of 167 subjects were randomized, of which 84 subjects were randomized to VX-770 and 83 
subjects were randomized to placebo treatment. Full Analysis set consisted of subjects who received at 
least 1 dose of the study drug – 83 subjects in the VX-770 group and 78 subjects in the placebo group. 
The Per Protocol Set at Week 24 included 138 subjects (74 subjects in the VX-770 group and 64 
subjects in the placebo group), and at Week 48 133 subjects (69 subjects in the VX-770 group and 64 
subjects in the placebo group). This set was defined as all subjects without major protocol violations 
having at least 80% overall study drug compliance and having completed at least 80% of the analysis 
period as well as having necessary predefined FEV1 measurements available. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 43/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table 6 Results for Primary and Selected Secondary Efficacy Endpoints in Study 102, Full Analysis Set 
Regarding the primary endpoint, the adjusted mean absolute change from baseline through Week 24 in 
percent predicted FEV1 (the primary efficacy endpoint) was greater in the ivacaftor group (10.39%) 
than the placebo group (-0.18%) in study 102 with a difference in favour to ivacaftor of 10.58% (95% 
CI: 8.57, 12.59). Similar effect size was observed at week 48 with a difference between ivacaftor and 
placebo of 10.50% (8.50, 12.50) and 9.99% (4.52, 15.47) for studies 102 and 103, respectively. 
Figure 6 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Percent Predicted FEV1 by Treatment in Study 102, 
Full Analysis Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 44/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
A positive effect was also seen for other secondary and tertiary endpoints, like CFTR function measured 
as change in sweat chloride concentrations, time to first pulmonary exacerbation, change in body 
weight and quality of life. 
Figure 7 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Sweat Chloride by Treatment, Full Analysis Set 
Figure 8 Time to First Pulmonary Exacerbation, Censored at Week 48 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 45/87
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Weight by Treatment, Full Analysis Set 
The mean change from baseline at Week 48 for weight-for-age z-score was 0.2998 points in the 
ivacaftor group vs -0.0307 points in the placebo group. The estimated treatment difference for 
ivacaftor versus placebo was 0.3305 points (95% CI: 0.0399, 0.6210). The mean change from 
baseline at Week 24 for weight-for-age z-score was 0.3062 points in the ivacaftor vs. -0.0129 points in 
the placebo group. The estimated treatment difference for ivacaftor versus placebo was 0.3192 points 
(95% CI: 0.1462, 0.4921). The mean change from baseline at Week 48 for BMI-for-age z-score was 
greater in the ivacaftor group (0.2491 points) than in the placebo group (-0.0765 points). The 
estimated treatment difference for ivacaftor versus placebo was 0.3256 points (95% CI: 0.0015, 
0.6497). The mean change from baseline at Week 24 for BMI-for-age z-score was greater in the 
ivacaftor group (0.2989 points) than in the placebo group (-0.0441 points). The estimated treatment 
difference for ivacaftor versus placebo was 0.3431 points (95% CI: 0.1419, 0.5443). 
Figure 10 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Pooled CFQ-R Respiratory Domain Score by 
Treatment, Full Analysis Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 46/87
 
 
 
 
 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses for Study 102 show statistically significant results in favour of ivacaftor for all 
subgroups analysed. The absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 at week 24 was 
slightly higher in adolescents (11.9%) than in adults (9.9%) while the absolute change from baseline 
in weight at week 48 was higher among patients with a FEV1(%) of less than 70% than in those with a 
FEV1(%) of 70% or higher (3.40 kg vs. 1.75kg).  
Results of performed sensitivity analyses were found to be consistent with the results of the primary 
analyses. 
Study 103 (part B) 
Methods 
This was a phase 3, two-part, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study to 
evaluate the pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of ivacaftor in subjects aged 6 to 11 years with 
cystic fibrosis and the G551D mutation in at least 1 allele. 
It had two parts (A and B). Part B is discussed in this section. Part B included a Screening Period (Days 
-35 to -15), a Run-in Period (Days -14 to -1), a Treatment Period (Day 1 to Week 24), and an 
Extension Period (Week 25 to Week 48). 
Study Participants  
Study 103 recruited subjects aged 6 to less than 12 years with 40 to 105% of FEV1 of predicted normal 
for age, gender, and height (Knudson standards) and weight ≥15 kg at screening. Other inclusion 
criteria, as well as exclusion were in general similar to those in study 102. 
Treatments 
VX-770 150-mg tablet or placebo was to be administered orally in the fed state (30 minutes after the 
start of a standard “CF” high-fat, high calorie meal or snack) q12h for 48 weeks (24 weeks in the 
Treatment Period and 24 weeks in the Extension Period). 
Objectives 
For Part B the primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of orally-administered ivacaftor after 24 
weeks of treatment in children who have CF and the G551D CFTR mutation on at least 1 allele.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 
through 24 weeks of treatment. 
The main secondary endpoints were the absolute change from baseline in CFQ-R; absolute change 
from baseline in sweat chloride; time to first pulmonary exacerbation; absolute change from baseline 
in weight and absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 through Week 48. 
Sample size 
Enrolment was planned for a minimum of 30 subjects, with a minimum of 20 subjects having a Day -
14 FEV1 of ≤90% of the predicted value. Sample size was declared to be based on the availability of 
the subject population and not on any statistical consideration. It was estimated by the Applicant that 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 47/87
 
 
 
30 subjects represented approximately 35% of eligible subjects with CF with mild or moderate lung 
disease in North America, Europe, and Australasia, aged 6 to 11 years who have the G551D mutation 
on at least 1 allele. 
Therefore, the study was not designed to be powered to detect a significant treatment effect. 
Randomisation 
Subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio within FEV1 severity strata (<70%, 70% to 90% [inclusive], 
and >90% predicted).  
Blinding (masking) 
The subjects, study site personnel, study monitors and the study team of the sponsor were blinded for 
treatment allocation. Most of them were blinded also for sweat chloride and bioanalysis results.  
Emergency unblinding procedures were defined. 
A database lock and subsequent analysis were conducted based on the data from the first 24 weeks of 
treatment, while the double-blinded extension period from Week 25 through Week 48 remained 
ongoing. Sponsor’s personnel who became unblinded to the treatment assignment to analyze and 
report the Week 24 data were replaced during the extension period from the time of unblinding until 
the lock of the Week 48 database. 
Statistical methods 
The primary analysis for the primary efficacy variable was based on an MMRM and was conducted in 
Full Analysis Set. No imputation of missing data was done, but sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
assess the impact of missing efficacy evaluations. 
Subgroup analyses primarily consisted of summary statistics and covered subgroups of percent 
predicted FEV1 severity at baseline, geographic regions and sexes. 
Several sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the robustness of the primary analysis and 
secondary endpoints. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 48/87
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
l
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
t
n
e
m
t
a
e
r
T
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Assessed for eligibility  
(n not reported)  
Excluded  
(n not reported) 
Randomised (n=52) 
Allocated to ivacaftor (n=26). 
Received ivacaftor (n=26), FAS. 
Allocated to placebo (n=26). 
Received placebo (n=26), FAS. 
Discontinued intervention up to week 24 
(n=0). 
Discontinued intervention after week 24 
(n=0). 
Completed Week 26: (n=77). 
Discontinued intervention up to week 24 
(n=3): required prohibited medication, 
withdrawal of consent, wrong mutation. 
Discontinued intervention after week 24 
(n=1): adverse event. 
Completed Week 48: (n=22). 
PPS at week 24 (n=26). 
PPS at week 48 (n=24); excluded from 
analysis (n=2): missing FEV assessments 
or study drug compliance <80% (2). 
PPS at week 24 (n=21), excluded from 
analysis (n=5): prohibited medication (2), 
missing FEV assessments or study drug 
compliance <80% (3). 
PPS at week 48 (n=20), excluded from 
analysis (n=6): prohibited medication (1), 
missing FEV assessments or study drug 
compliance <80% (5). 
Recruitment 
Subjects were randomized at 24 study sites in the North America, Europe, and Australia. First informed 
consent for part B was signed on 12 March 2010 and last subject completed the last Week 48 Visit on 
28 April 2011. 
Conduct of the study 
The study protocol was amended 6 times. Changes were numerous and related to the addition of the 
extension period up to week 48 (including additional endpoints at week 48), increase of the dose from 
100 mg to 150 mg in Part B (based on preliminary results from Part A), increase of the upper limit of 
eligible FEV1 to 105% predicted value, other adjustments to inclusion and exclusion criteria, subject 
discontinuation rules, additional investigations, updates to secondary endpoints, changes to statistical 
analysis (mostly sensitivity and subgroup analysis) and other changes. 
The majority of protocol deviations were related to completion of study assessments, subject visits that 
were out of the protocol specified visit window, study drug administration, PK blood collection, minor 
nonreportable completion errors of the ICF, and prohibited medications. One subject was found not to 
have the G551D-CFTR mutation, for one other subject the study site accidentally triggered an 
emergency unblinding. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 49/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Baseline characteristics were in general quite balanced in both treatment groups. In study 103 mean 
predicted FEV1 at baseline was 84% (range: 44.0% to 133.8%) and mean age was 9 years (range: 6 
to 12 years). Eighty-five percent of patients on ivacaftor and 77% of patients on placebo had F508del-
CFTR as the second allele. Pancreatic insufficiency was reported in 96.2% of ivacaftor-treated patients 
and 96.2% of those on placebo. 
Table 7 Demographics and Baseline Characteristics in study 103, Full Analysis Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 50/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mean baseline weight-for-age z-scores were -0.1574 (n=26) and -0.0175 (n=26) in the placebo 
and ivacaftor groups, respectively. For mean BMI-for-age z-scores these figures were 0.0808 (n=26) 
and 0.0877 (n=26).  
The proportion of subjects receiving the most commonly used prior medications that target pulmonary 
effects was similar in the placebo and ivacaftor groups, except for dornase alfa (84.6% in the placebo 
group and 69.2% in the ivacaftor group) and Seretide (19.2% in the placebo group and 11.5% in the 
ivacaftor group). 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 52 subjects were randomized: 26 subjects were randomized to VX-770 and 26 subjects were 
randomized to placebo treatment. All of these subjects received at least 1 dose of study drug and were 
included in the Full Analysis Set. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Table 8 Results for primary and selected secondary efficacy endpoints in study 103, Full Analysis Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 51/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study 103, the mean absolute change was also greater in the ivacaftor group (12.58%) than the 
placebo group (0.13%) with an estimated treatment difference for ivacaftor versus placebo of 12.45% 
(95% CI: 6.56, 18.34). Similar effect size was observed at week 48 with a difference between 
ivacaftor and placebo of 10.50% (8.50, 12.50) and 9.99% (4.52, 15.47) for studies 102 and 103, 
respectively. 
Figure 11 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Percent Predicted FEV1 by Treatment in study 103, 
Full Analysis Set 
A positive effect was also seen for other secondary and tertiary endpoints, like CFTR function measured 
as change in sweat chloride concentrations, change in body weight and quality of life. 
Figure 12 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Sweat Chloride by Treatment, Full Analysis Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 52/87
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in Weight by Treatment, Full Analysis Set 
The estimated treatment difference for weight-for-age z-score for VX-770 versus placebo at Week 24 
was 0.2730 points (95% CI: 0.1508, 0.3951). The estimated treatment difference for VX-770 versus 
placebo at Week 48 was 0.3873 points (95% CI: 0.2406, 0.5340). The mean change from baseline at 
Week 24 for BMI-for-age z-score was greater in the VX-770 group (0.3046 points) than the placebo 
group (-0.0330 points). The estimated treatment difference for VX-770 versus placebo was 0.3376 
points (95% CI: 0.1607, 0.5144). The mean change from baseline at Week 48 for the BMI-for-age z-
score was greater in the VX-770 group (0.2788 points) than the placebo group (-0.1755 points). The 
estimated treatment difference for VX-770 versus placebo was 0.4543 points (95% CI: 0.2575, 
0.6511).  
Figure 14 Mean Absolute Change From Baseline in CFQ-R Respiratory Domain Score, Full Analysis Set 
(Questionnaire Version: Children Ages 6 to 11 Years) 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses in study 103 show that treatment effect was less in children with baseline FEV1(%) 
above 90% when compared with those having a FEV1(%) of ≥70% to ≤ 90% (absolute change from 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 53/87
 
 
 
 
 
baseline in percent predicted FEV1 at week 24 was 9.3% and 6.9%, respectively). As for the absolute 
change from baseline in weight at week 24 these figures were 2.59 and 1.29 kg. A firm conclusion 
cannot be drawn due to the low numbers analysed (11 on placebo and 10 on ivacaftor). 
Subgroup analysis for FEV1% <70% shows that the mean (SD) absolute change in FEV1% predicted in 
the placebo group was 3.1087 (9.02458) versus 21.9313 (14.20915) in the ivacaftor group. 
Results of performed sensitivity analyses were found to be consistent with the results of the primary 
analyses. 
Summary of main studies 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 7. Summary of Efficacy for trial VX08-770-102 
Title: A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group Study to Evaluate 
the Efficacy and Safety of VX-770 in Subjects with Cystic Fibrosis and the G551D Mutation 
Study identifier 
VX08-770-102 
Eudra CT number: 2008-007416-15 
Design 
Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group 
multicenter study of orally administered VX-770 in subjects with CF who 
have the G551D-CFTR mutation in at least 1 allele. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
24 weeks 
14 days 
Duration of Extension phase: 
24 weeks (Week 25 to Week 48) 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
VX-770 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
150 mg VX-770 every 12 hours 
(84 subjects randomized) 
Placebo every 12 hours 
(83 subjects randomized) 
FEV1 24 weeks 
absolute change from baseline in 
percent predicted FEV1 through 
week 24 (%) 
Secondary 
FEV1 48 weeks 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
percent predicted FEV1 through 
week 48 (%) 
Secondary 
CFQ-R score 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
pooled respiratory CFQ-R score 
through Week 24 (pooled data 
from adolescents/adults and 12 
to 13 year-old versions) 
Secondary 
Sweat chloride 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
sweat chloride through Week 24 
(mmol/L) 
Secondary 
Time to exacerbation 
time to first pulmonary 
endpoint 
exacerbation through Week 48 
Secondary 
Weight 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
body weight at Week 48 (kg) 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 54/87
 
 
 
 
 
Database lock 
Database lock on 05 February 2011, last subject completed the last week 48 
visit on 11 January 2011 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Modified Intent to treat (‘Full analysis set’): all randomized subjects who 
and time point 
received at least 1 dose of study drug 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of subjects 
FEV1 24 weeks, LS mean 
variability statistic 
FEV1 48 weeks, LS mean 
variability statistic 
VX-770 
83 
10.3947 
Placebo 
78 
-0.1846 
Not reported  
Not reported  
10.1260 
-0.3715 
Not reported  
Not reported  
CFQ-R score, LS mean 
5.97* 
-2.10* 
variability statistic 
Not reported  
Not reported  
Sweat chloride, LS mean 
-48.70* 
-0.77* 
variability statistic 
Not reported  
Not reported  
Time 
to 
exacerbation, 
67* 
41* 
exacerbation-free rate, % 
variability statistic 
Weight, LS mean 
variability statistic 
Not reported  
3.11 
Not reported  
Not reported  
0.40 
Not reported  
Effect estimate per 
Comparison groups 
VX-770 vs. Placebo  
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
FEV1 24 weeks 
10.5793 
95% CI  
P-value 
(8.5666, 12.5920) 
<0.0001 
Secondary endpoint 
FEV1 48 weeks 
10.4975 
Secondary endpoint 
CFQ-R score* 
95% CI  
P-value 
95% CI  
P-value 
(8.4985, 12.4966) 
<0.0001 
8.08 
(4.73, 11.42) 
<0.0001 
Secondary endpoint 
Sweat chloride*  
-47.93 
Secondary endpoint 
Secondary endpoint 
95% CI  
P-value 
Time 
exacerbation* 
(hazard ratio) 
95% CI  
P-value 
Weight 
95% CI  
P-value 
(-51.34, -44.52) 
<0.0001 
to 
0.455 
(0.282, 0.733) 
0.0012 
2.71 
(1.33, 4.09) 
0.0001 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 55/87
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
* Data from less subjects than the modified ITT has been used for calculation of 
results for CFR-Q score (80 VX-770, 71 placebo), Sweat chloride (78 VX-770, 74 
placebo). Number of subjects in calculation of time to exacerbation endpoint not 
declared in the study report. 
Table 8. Summary of Efficacy for trial VX08-770-103 (part B) 
Title: A Phase 3, 2-Part, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group Study to 
Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics, Efficacy, and Safety of VX-770 in Subjects Aged 6 to 11 Years with 
Cystic Fibrosis and the G551D Mutation 
Study identifier 
VX08-770-103 
Eudra CT number: 2008-007479-26 
Design 
Phase 3, 2-part, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-
group, multicenter study of orally-administered VX-770 in subjects aged 6 
to 11 years with the G551D-CFTR mutation on at least 1 allele. 
Part A was designed to evaluate a single dose of VX-770 and was used to 
confirm the dose for Part B. Part B was designed to evaluate dosing of VX-
770 administered every 12 hours for up to 48 weeks. Results of part B are 
reflected in this table. 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
24 weeks 
14 days 
Duration of Extension phase: 
24 weeks (Week 25 to Week 48) 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
VX-770 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
150 mg VX-770 every 12 hours 
(26 subjects randomized) 
Placebo every 12 hours 
(26 subjects randomized) 
FEV1 24 weeks 
absolute change from baseline in 
percent predicted FEV1 through 
week 24 
Secondary 
FEV1 48 weeks 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
percent predicted FEV1 through 
week 48 
Secondary 
CFQ-R score 
adjusted mean absolute change 
endpoint 
from baseline through Week 24 
for the CFQ-R (child) respiratory 
domain score 
Secondary 
Sweat chloride 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
sweat chloride through Week 24 
(mmol/L) 
Secondary 
Weight 
absolute change from baseline in 
endpoint 
body weight at Week 24 
Database lock 
Database lock for 48 week data 24 May 2011, last subject completed the 
last Week 48 Visit (part B) on 28 April 2011 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 56/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis population 
Modified Intent to treat (‘Full analysis set’): all randomized subjects who 
and time point 
received at least 1 dose of study drug 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
Treatment group 
and estimate 
variability 
Number of subjects 
FEV1 24 weeks, LS mean 
variability statistic  
FEV1 48 weeks 
variability statistic  
VX-770 
26 
12.5787 
Placebo 
26 
0.1275* 
Not reported 
Not reported 
10.6691 
0.6761* 
Not reported 
Not reported 
CFQ-R score 
6.31 
0.25* 
variability statistic 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Sweat chloride, LS mean 
-55.53* 
-1.21* 
variability statistic 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Weight, LS mean 
3.69 
1.79 
variability statistic 
Not reported 
Not reported 
Effect estimate per 
Comparison groups 
VX-770 vs. Placebo  
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
FEV1 24 weeks* 
12.4511 
95% CI  
P-value 
(6.5627, 18.3395) 
<0.0001 
Secondary endpoint 
FEV1 48 weeks* 
9.9930 
Secondary endpoint 
CFQ-R score* 
6.06 
95% CI  
P-value 
(4.5214, 15.4645) 
0.0006 
Secondary endpoint 
Sweat chloride*  
-54.32 
95% CI  
P-value 
(-1.41, 13.53) 
0.1092 
Secondary endpoint 
95% CI  
P-value 
Weight 
95% CI  
P-value 
(-61.83, -46.82) 
<0.0001 
1.90 
(0.86, 2.94) 
0.0004 
Notes 
* Data from less subjects than the modified ITT has been used for calculation of 
results for FEV1 24 weeks (26 VX-770, 25 placebo), FEV1 48 weeks (26 VX-770, 25 
placebo), CFQ-R score (26 VX-770, 23 placebo), Sweat chloride (23 VX-770, 23 
placebo).  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Upon request from the CHMP the Applicant provided analyses of absolute change in height, height-for-
age Z score, height-for-age ratio and weight/height ratio for patients less than 20 years of age (23 
placebo-treated patients and 24 ivacaftor-treated patients in study 102; all patients in study 103). The 
question was intended to provide further insight on whether ivacaftor improves the nutritional status of 
children with cystic fibrosis given that a classic distinction between acute malnutrition (“wasting” or low 
weight for height) and chronic malnutrition (“stunting” or low height for age) is widely adopted. In 
children, failure to gain weight precedes linear growth deceleration: thus the weight/height ratio (% 
weight for age/% height for age according to the CDC table) is lessened. With chronic malnutrition, 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 57/87
 
 
 
 
 
linear growth decelerates and the weight/height ratio returns to normal, but the child is still stunted 
(decreased height for age).  
The results show that the treatment difference between groups at week 48 in mean change in height 
(cm) (95% CI) was 0.10 (-1.57, 1.77) in study 102 and 0.99 (0.07, 1.92) in study 103. These figures 
for height-for-age Z scores were 0.06 (-0.10, 0.21) and 0.12 (-0.004, 0.24).  
Two logistic regression models were used to estimate the height-for-age ratio and the weight/height 
ratio. In these analyses height-for-age ratio and weight/height ratio cut-offs of (less than) 90% and 
(less than) 95% respectively were identified as appropriate categories of response. Results are 
presented as odds ratio, i.e. the ratio of odds of height-for age-ratio <95% (or <90% for weight/ideal 
body weight ratio) in the ivacaftor group versus the placebo group. Few patients where identified 
below the specified cut-offs (indicative of acute and chronic malnutrition, respectively) and the results 
of the analyses presented should be viewed with caution.   
In study 102 at week 24 and 48 the respective odds ratio (95% CI) for height-for-age ratio were 0.759 
(0.004, 144.7) and 0.063 (0,43.671). In study 103 the odds ration could not be estimated at week 24 
while at week 48 the estimate was not meaningful due to huge 95% Confidence Interval.  
Regarding weight/height ratio the odds ratio (95% CI) were 0.415 (0.039, 4.383) at week 48 in study 
102. The odds ratio could not be estimated at week 24. In study 103, the odds ratio at week 24 was 
0.044 (0.001, 3.275) and 0.095 (0.001, 7.879) at week 48. 
Upon request from the CHMP the Applicant also performed analysis of the primary endpoint in both 
pivotal clinical studies by the functional class of the second allele of CFTR gene, and by presence or 
absence of events of URTI and bacteria in sputum during the study. 
Table 9 Absolute Change From Baseline to Week 24 in Percent Predicted FEV1, by Second CFTR Allele 
Class 
Table 10 Subgroup Analysis of Absolute Change From Baseline in Percent Predicted FEV1 by Presence 
or Absence of URTI 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 58/87
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11 Subgroup Analysis of Absolute Change From Baseline in Percent Predicted FEV1 by Presence 
or Absence of Bacteria in Sputum 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Children have been included in all phase III studies. No other studies in special populations have been 
conducted, which is acceptable in the light of rarity of the condition. 
Supportive studies 
Extension study (Study 105) 
All subjects who completed treatment in studies 102 or 103 were eligible for study 105 whose 
objective was to obtain further information on the safety and efficacy of long-term ivacaftor treatment 
(approximately 96 weeks). During this rollover study, all subjects received 150-mg ivacaftor every 12 
hours. The percent predicted FEV1 range at the beginning of study 105 was 29.1% to 110.4%. The use 
of inhaled hypertonic saline was permitted (it was not permitted in the pivotal studies). This study is 
currently ongoing. Interim analyses have been pre-specified in this study. Latest results have been 
submitted with responses to the List of Questions.   
A total of 192 subjects were enrolled in study 105: 144 subjects from Study 102, and 48 subjects from 
study 103. Of the 144 subjects enrolled from study 102, 67 subjects received placebo and 77 subjects 
received ivacaftor in study 102. Of the 48 subjects enrolled from study 103, 22 subjects received 
placebo and 26 subjects received ivacaftor in study 103. Overall, 7 patients discontinued treatment in 
study 105.  
For patients treated with ivacaftor in the pivotal studies 102 and 103 the maximum length of exposure 
in study 105 is 96 weeks (study 102) and 72 weeks (study 103). For placebo-treated patients, 
maximum length of exposure in study 105 is 48 weeks (study 102) and 24 weeks (study 103).    
In ivacaftor-treated patients in study 102 improvement in percent predicted FEV1 was maintained after 
additional 24 and 48 weeks of treatment with ivacaftor in study 105, i.e. the mean absolute change in 
percent predicted FEV1 (SD) was 10.3 (9.31) and 9.5 (10.13), respectively. Similar results were seen 
in previously placebo-treated patients as these figures were 10.0 (9.52) and 8.0 (8.14) at weeks 24 
and 48, respectively. Ivacaftor-treated patients in study 103 showed a mean absolute change from 
baseline in percent predicted FEV1 (SD) of 10.1 (14.18) at week 24 in study 105 while in previously 
placebo-treated patients this figure was 7.5 (10.90).  
Initial weight gain is kept after the additional 24 and 48 weeks of treatment with ivacaftor in study 
105. In ivacaftor-treated patients in study 102 the mean (SD) change from baseline is 3.6 (5.82) kg at 
week 24 and 3.9 (6.32) kg at week 48. In placebo-treated patients the mean (SD) absolute change in 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 59/87
 
 
 
 
weight was 2.9 (3.56) kg at week 24 and 3.5 (4.42) kg at week 48. The change was especially 
apparent in study 103 (as expected given that only children aged 6 to 11 years were included), i.e. 8.5 
(3.79) kg in ivacaftor-treated patients and 6.5 (3.47) kg in placebo-treated patients. 
Regarding pulmonary exacerbations, among ivacaftor-treated patients in study 102 more subjects had 
pulmonary exacerbations and the duration of pulmonary exacerbations was longer during the first 48 
weeks of study 105 (38 subjects had 64 events; mean [SD] duration: 19.8 [38.70] days) than during 
the 48-week treatment period in study 102 (25 subjects had 41 events; mean [SD] duration: 11.6 
[23.54] days). Pulmonary exacerbation was not a secondary endpoint in study 103. In study 105 (after 
an additional 48 weeks of treatment in ivacaftor-treated patients in study 103) the mean (SD) number 
of subjects with events was 3 out of 26, the number of events was 4 and the mean (SD) duration 3.7 
(12.76). No placebo-treated patients in study 103 reported a pulmonary exacerbation after 24 weeks 
of treatment with ivacaftor in study 105.  
While the improvement in CFQ-R respiratory domain scores after an additional 24 week treatment with 
ivacaftor in study 105 was similar to the one previously observed in ivacaftor-treated patients in 
studies 102 (8.0 and 7.2 for patients previously treated with placebo and ivacaftor, respectively) and 
103 (9.8 and 9.0 for patients previously treated with placebo and ivacaftor), the change after an 
additional 48 week treatment with ivacaftor was almost half of the one previously observed (4.5 and 
4.8 for patients previously treated with placebo and ivacaftor in study 102, respectively).  
Study 104 
Study 104 (Part A) was a 16-week, 4:1 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group 
Phase 2 study of ivacaftor (150 mg every 12 hours) in 140 patients with CF age 12 years and older 
who were homozygous for the F508del mutation in the CFTR gene and who had FEV1 ≥40% predicted.  
The mean absolute change from baseline through Week 16 in percent predicted FEV1 (primary efficacy 
endpoint) was 1.5 percentage points in the ivacaftor group and -0.2 percentage points in the placebo 
group. The estimated treatment difference for ivacaftor versus placebo was 1.7 percentage points 
(95% CI: -0.6, 4.1); this difference was not statistically significant (p=0.15). 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Overall design of the pivotal studies 102 and 103 is deemed acceptable and in line with the applicable 
regulatory guidelines and the protocol assistance provided by the CHMP. 
A considerable number of amendments were implemented in both trials. The majority of the 
amendments for Study 102 and Study 103 did not affect the main endpoints (primary endpoints and 
key secondary endpoints) and there is no evidence that the number and extent of amendments would 
compromise the study results. 
Only patients with a G551D CFTR mutation were included in studies 101, 102 and 103, therefore in the 
presence of clinical data only for patients with this particular mutation in at least one allele, the 
proposed indication has been restricted (initially applied for indication included all gating mutations). 
Tests for CFTR genotyping are available in Europe, where it is performed using a variety of CE-marked 
commercial assays. 
The primary efficacy endpoint for the pivotal trials was the absolute change from baseline in percent 
predicted FEV1 through 24 weeks of treatment. This is an accepted endpoint to measure the effect of a 
medicinal product in CF population. Rate of decline in FEV1 has been demonstrated to correlate with 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 60/87
 
 
 
survival and to be the strongest clinical predictor of mortality, with a more marked effect in patients 
with pancreatic-insufficient disease. Therefore, the primary endpoint selected for both trials and its 
timing (24 weeks) is considered appropriate. 
Spirometry was performed according to the American Thoracic Society Guidelines. While in study 101 
the Hankinson standards have been used this is not the case in the two pivotal trials where the 
Knudson equations were specified. In order to investigate to what extent this fact might affect the 
interpretation of results, upon request from the CHMP an analysis of the mean absolute change from 
baseline in percent predicted FEV1% using the Knudson reference equations was performed and 
showed that results do not essentially differ from those using the Hankinson standards.  
In study 103 inclusion of children with FEV1 in the range of 90% to 105% predicted was permitted to 
adjust for the overestimation of percent predicted FEV1 that occurs in children 6 to 11 years of age 
with the use of Knudson prediction equations. The Applicant has confirmed that this wide range of FEV1 
was intended to optimize the number of patients eligible for study participation without expanding the 
patient population to include patients with normal lung function and presumably limited potential for 
treatment response, however, the subgroup analysis by baseline percent predicted FEV1 ≥90% in study 
103 shows that avoiding limited potential for treatment response in this subgroup might not been 
achieved. 
Another important aspect that required clarification was the number of patients in which spirometry 
was performed pre-bronchodilation or post-bronchodilation. It has been clarified that changes from 
baseline in percent predicted FEV1 were calculated and used in the main analysis only when the 
baseline and the post-baseline assessments were done at the same time relative to bronchodilator 
(BD) use (i.e., “paired,” both pre-BD or both post-BD). A post-hoc analysis of study 101 of mean 
changes from baseline in FEV1 % predicted measured pre-BD and post-BD showed consistent results in 
both groups of patients (pre- and post-BD use). Overall, the use of BD before spirometry is likely to 
influence lung function parameters. In spite of this it is believed that the positive findings consistently 
seen for the remaining endpoints in the pivotal studies and the size of the effect in terms of predicted 
FEV1% supersede the likely confounding effect of the use of bronchodilators. 
Nasal Potential Difference (NPD) and sweat chloride are regarded as biomarkers of the disease that are 
useful for testing activity of compounds targeted at restore CFTR function (CFTR activity) which does 
not necessarily translates into clinical benefit, i.e. while structural airway damage in the lung may not 
be reversible even if full CFTR activity is restored this is not the case of the sweat gland which is not 
damaged by disease pathogenesis. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Regarding the primary endpoint, the adjusted mean absolute change from baseline through Week 24 in 
percent predicted FEV1 (the primary efficacy endpoint) was greater in the ivacaftor group (10.39%) 
than the placebo group (-0.18%) in study 102 with a difference in favour to ivacaftor of 10.58% (95% 
CI: 8.57, 12.59). In study 103, the mean absolute change was also greater in the ivacaftor group 
(12.58%) than the placebo group (0.13%) with an estimated treatment difference for ivacaftor versus 
placebo of 12.45% (95% CI: 6.56, 18.34). Similar effect size was observed at week 48 with a 
difference between ivacaftor and placebo of 10.50% (8.50, 12.50) and 9.99% (4.52, 15.47) for studies 
102 and 103, respectively. 
The magnitude of the effect on the primary endpoint in both pivotal studies is considered as 
meaningful in a population for whom a rate of decline in FEV1 of around 1% per year can be observed 
even when patients are treated with the standard of care. The relevance of this finding is apparent, as 
reductions in FEV1 are also associated to increased morbidity and mortality rates.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 61/87
 
 
 
In relation to Study 103, there seems to be some imbalance between the placebo and ivacaftor groups 
regarding the baseline FEV1 percent predicted while in study 102 the number of patients receiving 
concomitant medications, in particular tobramycin and other antibiotics was higher in the placebo 
group. While it is quite likely patients on placebo were not exactly comparable at baseline (i.e. they 
suffered from a more advanced pulmonary disease) to patients in the ivacaftor group, the fact that a 
treatment effect in favour of ivacaftor is consistently seen across several subgroup analyses is 
reassuring. Nevertheless, the imbalances between treatment groups are described in the SmPC as they 
are relevant for interpretation of results. 
In study 102 the results of different subgroup analyses consistently show the improvement of 
ivacaftor-treated patients vs. those on placebo. In study 103 results are not so clear cut but overall, 
the low number of patients makes it difficult to draw firm conclusions.  
It should be noticed that the effect of ivacaftor has only been shown in patients with mild to moderate 
lung disease (percent predicted FEV1 between 40 and 105% at baseline). Results from a limited 
number of patients with percent predicted FEV1 <40% have been discussed showing that the results 
are consistent with those seen in the overall population. In spite of this, the limited number of patients 
analysed (4 patients treated with ivacaftor during 96 weeks and 8 patients treated during 48 weeks) 
preclude drawing any sound conclusions. Uncertainties about the effect in advanced stages of CF (since 
patients with FEV1 <40% were excluded from studies) are reflected in the SmPC and use of ivacaftor in 
this population has to be addressed in the RMP. 
There is evidence suggesting that the rate of decline of FEV1 per year differs between patients aged 6 
and older with 1 allele of the G551D mutation and 1 allele of a mutation known to be associated with a 
severe phenotype and those with a second allele of a known “mild” mutation (e.g., R117H). While the 
first group of patients have a similar decline in percent predicted FEV1 per year as patients 
homozygous for the ∆F508 CFTR mutation, the latter have a smaller decline. In study 102 the mean 
(SD) absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 for ivacaftor-treated patients with a 
class II mutation was 14.4 (13.62) vs. -0.4 (8.54) in placebo-treated patients. In those with a class I 
mutation in the second allele these figures were 11.9 (11.85) and 0.3 (4.40), respectively. In study 
103 the figures were -0.2 (3.52) and 6.2 (not applicable due to n=1). However, the number of patients 
in studies with class III, IV or V mutations in the second allele does not exceed 9. Therefore it is not 
possible to conclude that there is sufficient data to substantiate that efficacy of ivacaftor would be 
independent of the mutation present in the second allele of CFTR gene. 
While FEV1 is the recommended primary clinical endpoint in efficacy studies for cystic fibrosis sweat 
chloride remain as biomarker of the disease that is useful for testing activity of compounds targeted at 
restore CFTR function (CFTR activity) which does not necessarily translates into clinical benefit. 
Nevertheless, the effect on sweat chloride concentration would be consistent with the activity of 
ivacaftor as a potentiator of the CFTR protein. In study 102 the mean absolute change from baseline to 
week 24 in sweat chloride values was greater in ivacaftor than in placebo group (-48.7 mmol/L and -
0.77 mmol/L) with a difference between the two groups in this value was -47.93mmol/L. The mean 
levels of sweat chloride through week 24 (50.76 mmol/L) and through week 48 (50.76 mmol/L) in the 
ivacaftor group was much lower than the sweat chloride values in placebo group through week 24 and 
week 48 (100.85 mmol/L and 100.67 mmol/L respectively). 
Significant reduction in sweat chloride concentration could also be observed in patients participating in 
study 103 due to the treatment with ivacaftor. The treatment difference of -54.3 mmol/L from baseline 
through week 24 and -53.5 mmol/L from baseline through week 48 could be observed. The mean 
change in sweat chloride concentration was -55.5mmol/L in the ivacaftor group vs -1.2 mmol/L in 
placebo group from baseline through week 24 and -56mmol/L in ivacaftor group vs -2.6mmol/L in 
placebo group through week 48. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 62/87
 
 
 
Data on changes in sweat chloride are supportive of the efficacy of ivacaftor. 
Weight is a relevant clinical endpoint to be assessed in CF population. Patients with CF do not gain 
weight due to many factors such as malabsorption or increased caloric needs due to chronic lung 
disease. In addition, it is known that poor weight gain predicts clinical lung disease, i.e. that 
progressive lung disease leads to poor weight gain. Weight is also indirectly related to exocrine 
pancreatic function. In both trials, treatment with ivacaftor resulted in a significant weight gain at week 
48. In study 102 the mean change from baseline was 3.11 kg in the ivacaftor group and 0.40 kg in the 
placebo group with a difference of 2.71 kg (95%CI: 1.33, 4.09). In study 103 the treatment difference 
at week 48 was 2.77 kg (95% CI: 1.31, 4.23). 
The positive effect of ivacaftor on weight gain also suggests that this product may have a potential for 
improving exocrine pancreatic function. In the clinical studies (102, 103) biomarkers of exocrine 
pancreatic function have not been studied. The lack of the data for a comprehensive view on height, 
body composition etc. as well as regarding any nutritional intervention in these patients limits the 
conclusions that can be done about the influence of ivacaftor on weight gain. 
Like weight, length gain is also important for children. In the additional analysis of absolute change in 
height, height-for-age Z score, height-for-age ratio and weight/height ratio for patients less than 20 
years of age difference between ivacaftor and placebo reached statistical significance. Therefore, 
concluding that ivacaftor has a systemic (particularly gastrointestinal) effect in this population of 
almost all pancreatic insufficient patients receiving pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, fat soluble 
vitamins and quite likely also nutritional counselling is not possible on the basis of available data. The 
only anthropometric measure for which a positive finding has been shown is weight-for-age Z scores. 
Mean absolute change in weight provide very limited information if sex and age are not taken into 
account. Furthermore, weight gain can occur not only due to an increase in lean body mass and this 
has not been addressed in the clinical development of ivacaftor. However, the effect of ivacaftor on 
pulmonary function is sufficiently relevant and supersedes any other consideration, especially since a 
deleterious effect of ivacaftor on body weight has not been seen. 
Pulmonary exacerbations (PE) cause important morbidity and mortality and have a relevant impact on 
quality of life of patients with CF. As PEs may lead to a permanent decline in lung function their control 
is one of the main objectives of the treatment of CF. Given that there is not a universally accepted 
definition of PE a comparison of the results among different studies is very difficult. The definition of PE 
used in trials 102 and 103 is acceptable from the clinical point of view. Ivacaftor treatment resulted in 
a statistically significant reduction in the rates of pulmonary exacerbations through week 48 (76.3% in 
the ivacaftor group and 57.4% in placebo) in study 102. However, given the low number of children in 
study 103 and the low number of pulmonary exacerbations occurred no statistical analyses were made 
in that study. The decreased rate of pulmonary exacerbations claimed with ivacaftor is expected to 
translate mainly in a decrease versus placebo in the use of systemic antibiotics. Antibiotics usually 
used for pulmonary exacerbations were used by 14.1% and 10.3% of patients on placebo respectively. 
In the ivacaftor group these figures were 4.8% and 7.2%, respectively, which supports efficacy. 
The interim results from study 105 in terms of pulmonary exacerbations are unexpected and not 
consistent with the results observed for the other endpoints, where consistent positive effect was 
observed. In light of the limited number of patient no conclusion on a long-term effect on pulmonary 
exacerbations can be drawn. The applicant should provide yearly updates on study 105 as well as the 
final study results once available. Furthermore, a long-term observational study should be performed 
addressing amongst others exacerbation rates.  
An increased incidence of Upper Respiratory Tract Infections (URTI) events was seen in patients 
treated with ivacaftor as compared to those on placebo. In patients treated with ivacaftor more 
bacteria were isolated in sputum, while patients colonised with bacteria associated with an increased 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 63/87
 
 
 
decline in lung function (e.g., Burkholderia cenocepacia, Burkholderia dolosa, and Mycobacterium 
abcessus) were excluded from the study. The applicant provided the percentage of patients with at 
least a P. aeruginosa isolate in the 12 months prior to the screening visit, the percentage of patients 
receiving inhaled antibiotics, and a subgroup analysis of the main variable (percent predicted FEV1) by 
presence/absence of P. aeruginosa. As expected the number of patients in whom P. aeruginosa was 
isolated is higher in study 102 than in study 103. However, the information provided does not permit 
to distinguish between patients with early lung colonisation/infection and those in the chronic phase. 
Most often, initial infection with P. aeruginosa is with non-mucoid strains, but with time phenotype 
changes with the emergence of mucoid strains. The mucoid strains have been associated with the 
chronic evolution of the lung disease with an unfavorable prognosis for survival.  
The subgroup analysis by presence/absence of P. aeruginosa shows that in study 102 in patients with 
P. aeruginosa isolated during the previous 12 months treatment difference in the mean absolute 
change in FEV1% predicted was 11.3%. In those without P. aeruginosa the treatment difference was 
6.9%. In study 103 these figures were as follows: 7.3% and 18.7%. With the single exception of 
patients with P. aeruginosa in study 103 the results quoted were statistically significant and favoured 
ivacaftor. These results should be viewed with caution. In addition, in study 102 the results are 
somehow unexpected in that the treatment difference in FEV1 is higher in patients with P. aeruginosa 
than in those without it.   
While the change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 is considerably lesser in placebo-treated 
patients with URTI (or with bacteria in sputum) as expected the opposite occurs in ivacaftor-treated 
patients where this change is higher precisely in patients with URTI (or with bacteria in sputum). If this 
phenomenon is an AE connected with the ivacaftor treatment, its consequences can be evaluated only 
with the results of a long term study. Otherwise the cause of the increase incidence in ivacaftor treated 
patients is unknown at present. These issues are addressed through a long term study with endpoints 
generating data on the consequences of treatment with ivacaftor on microbiological and clinical related 
issues such as periodic sputum/oropharyngeal cultures, colony density (patients with chronic infection) 
and pulmonary exacerbations. 
Quality of life was measured using the Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R, a validated 
disease-specific instrument that measures health-related quality of life for people with CF 14 years of 
age and older). There is a validated version of the CFQ-R available for school-aged children (ages 6 to 
11, and ages 12 and 13) with CF and their parents. The adjusted mean absolute change from baseline 
through week 24 for the respiratory domain score in the pooled adolescents/adults and 12 to 13 year-
old versions of CFQ-R was 5.97 points for ivacaftor group and -2.10 points for placebo group through 
week 24. The estimated treatment difference ivacaftor-placebo was 8.08 points (95% CI: 4.73, 11.42). 
Results of the analysis of the CFQ-R respiratory domain scores through Week 24 for adolescents and 
adults CFQ-R version were similar. Some improvement could also be observed in this secondary 
endpoint of absolute change from baseline in CFQ-R (child) respiratory domain score through week 24 
in study 103 in subjects aged 6 – 11 years with CF. However the difference was not statistically 
significant. 
Finally it should be mentioned that the treatment with ivacaftor caused a slight reduction in 
inflammatory mediators and also of other markers of inflammation i.e. neutrophils, platelets and 
leukocytes. In patients aged 12 or older small improvement in the EQ-5D score and oxygen saturation 
could also be observed through week 24 and week 48. 
Maintenance of the effect is an important issue in a chronic condition that requires to be treated for 
life. Long-term data beyond 48 weeks are currently limited. While current data show convincing 
efficacy, a longer term follow-up is necessary. To address the need for long-term data, the Applicant is 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 64/87
 
 
 
requested to provide the final data of study 105 when available and set-up a long term observational 
study.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
CF lung disease is the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in CF. In the lungs, the dysfunctional 
CFTR protein leads to obstruction of airways with thick mucus, establishment of chronic bacterial 
infection in the airways, and damaging inflammatory responses that are all thought to play a role in 
causing irreversible structural changes. Patients with CF typically experience a progressive loss of lung 
function ultimately resulting in respiratory failure and death.  
Results from studies 102 and 103 show consistent and positive effects of ivacaftor on most variables 
studied. Especially relevant is the effect on FEV1, on weight and on pulmonary exacerbations and 
related events due to their implication in morbidity and mortality of CF patients. Statistically significant 
results for study 103 appear reassuring considering that the studies were not powered to find 
statistical differences. Results of sensitivity analyses performed for the primary endpoint are 
consistently robust, supporting the results of the primary endpoint analysis. 
Treatment with ivacaftor treatment has shown to improve pulmonary function (measured as the 
absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 through 24 weeks of treatment) resulting in a 
clinically significant change in CF patients aged 6 years and older with a G511D-CFTR mutation. The 
magnitude of this effect (of around 10% from baseline) from the clinical perspective is notable and 
relevant as poor FEV1 is known to be associated to an increase in morbidity and mortality.  
Ivacaftor has also shown a positive effect on other relevant clinical endpoints like body weight and 
pulmonary exacerbations and related events. This effect on weight gain also suggests that ivacaftor 
may have a potential for improving exocrine pancreatic function.  
Pulmonary exacerbations are major cause of morbidity and may significantly affect quality of life of 
these patients. Ivacaftor treatment resulted in a significant reduction in the rates of pulmonary 
exacerbations and the mean duration of exacerbations in the pivotal study 102. It is noted that interim 
data from the ongoing long-term study appear to suggest an increased incidence of pulmonary 
exacerbations with time, whilst at the same time other relevant endpoints in this study show a positive 
effects seen. The long-term benefits of ivacaftor should be studied further. 
Ivacaftor was practically ineffective in patients homozygous for the F508del-CFTR mutation. The 
indication for ivacaftor has been restricted to patients with a G551D-CFTR mutation, since that is the 
only mutation in which clinical efficacy has been shown.  
As the limited number of patients studied prevents to draw sound conclusions regarding the impact of 
ivacaftor on infections caused by P. aeruginosa, long term effects of ivacaftor should be studied also on 
microbiological endpoints. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to efficacy: 
 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of the ongoing study VX08-770-105 
which evaluates the long-term safety and efficacy in patients with cystic fibrosis 
 
The applicant should conduct a 5-year long-term observational study with ivacaftor in patients with 
cystic fibrosis, including also microbiological and clinical endpoints (e.g. exacerbations), according 
to a protocol agreed with the CHMP. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 65/87
 
 
 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The safety database contained a total of 700 subjects who received at least one dose of ivacaftor in 23 
studies as of 01 July 2011. The majority of studies were pooled to provide the safety analysis of 
ivacaftor. Phase 1 pooling studies included 258 subjects and phase 2b/3 pooling studies included 293 
patients. Six additional studies were not pooled and included in total 162 subjects. 
Table 16 Number of Subjects Exposed to ivacaftor, Any Dose and Duration 
Figure 15 Overview of Studies and Poolings in the safety database of ivacaftor 
The phase 1 pooling included 258 adult healthy subjects and the median treatment duration was 3 
days (range: 1 to 14). 
The majority of safety data came from 293 patients exposed to ivacaftor in placebo-controlled phase 
2b/3 studies. The proportion by sex in this pooling was similar (male: 48.5% and female 51.5%) and 
the majority of subjects were white (97.3%) and aged 18 years or older (64.2%). In this pooling, only 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 66/87
 
 
 
 
 
109 patients had the G551D mutation in the CFTR gene (for whom ivacaftor is applied for). There were 
only 23 patients with age from 6 to 11 years-old (study 103 part B) who received ivacaftor in these 
studies. 
All phase 2b/3 studies used the same dose of ivacaftor: 150 mg q12h. Studies 102 and 103 part B had 
48-week treatment duration in subjects with G551D-CFTR mutation. Study 104 Part A had 16-week 
treatment duration in subjects with G508del-CFTR mutation. Study 105, an extension study of Studies 
102 and 103 part B, will provide data on durability of ivacaftor treatment for up to 144 weeks (48 
weeks in Study 102 or Study 103 plus up to 96 weeks in Study 105), but is currently ongoing. Study 
104 Part B, an extension study of 104 part A, provided a total duration of 40 weeks of ivacaftor 
treatment (16 weeks in Study 104 Part A and 24 weeks in Study 104 Part B).  
In this pooling, only 109 patients who received ivacaftor had the G551D mutation in the CFTR gene. 
There were only 23 patients with age from 6 to 11 years-old (study 103 part B) who received ivacaftor.  
Safety data from these 6 to 11 years-old subjects seems not to be different to older than 12 years old.  
Baseline disease characteristics showed that subjects in ivacaftor group had better predicted FEV1 
values than in placebo group: the median values were 74.5 and 69.1 respectively. Additionally, there 
were less patients with severe and very severe obstructive component (<40% and ≥40 to <70% 
predicted FEV1) and more mild and normal values on the predictive FEV1 (≥70 to ≤90% and >90%) in 
the ivacaftor group as compared to placebo group.  
Adverse events  
Table 12 Adverse events in pooled Phase 2b/3 studies 
Placebo-controlled 
Uncontrolled Extension 
Overall 
Studies (102, 103 
Studies (104 Part B 
Phase 2b/
Part B, 104 Part A) 
and 105) 
3 Studies 
Placebo/ 
Ivacaftor/ 
All 
Placebo 
Ivacaftor 
Ivacaftor 
Ivacaftor 
Ivacaftor  
(N = 132) 
(N = 221) 
(N = 72) 
(N = 110) 
(N = 293) 
n = % 
n = % 
n = % 
n = % 
n = % 
128 (97.0) 
204 (92.3)  54 (75.0) 
91 (82.7) 
263 (89.8) 
Subjects With: 
At least 1AE 
At least 1 related AE 
45 (34.1) 
74 (33.5) 
15 (20.8) 
16 (14.5) 
98 (33.4) 
At least 1 AE leading to death  0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
At least 1 SAE 
46 (34.8) 
39 (17.6) 
5 (6.9) 
21 (19.1) 
55 (18.8) 
At least 1 related SAE 
5 (3.8) 
9 (4.1) 
At least 1 AE leading to study 
10 (7.6) 
16 (7.2) 
1 (1.4) 
4 (5.6) 
0 
6 (5.5) 
10 (3.4) 
25 (8.5) 
drug interruption 
At least 1 related AE leading 
3 (2.3) 
5 (2.3) 
1 (1.4) 
2 (1.8) 
8 (2.7) 
to study drug interruption 
At least 1 AE leading to study 
7 (5.3) 
4 (1.8) 
1 (1.4) 
1 (0.9) 
6 (2.0) 
drug discontinuation 
At least 1 related AE leading 
5 (3.8) 
4 (1.8) 
0 
1 (0.9) 
5 (1.7) 
to study drug discontinuation 
Note: Related includes related and possibly related to study drug categories. A subject may appear in multiple 
categories. 
Adverse events occurring in at least 3% of subjects are summarised in the tables below for pooled 
phase 1 studies and pooled phase 2b/3 studies. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 67/87
 
 
 
Table 13 Adverse Events Occurring in At Least 3% of Subjects in Any Treatment Group by System 
Organ Class and Preferred Term: Pooled Phase 1 Studies, Safety Set 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 68/87
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 Adverse Events With an Incidence of At Least 3% in Any Treatment Group by Preferred Term: 
Pooled Phase 2b/3 Studies, Safety Set (initially submitted studies) 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 69/87
 
 
 
 
In phase 2b/3 trials there was no relevant difference between placebo and ivacaftor groups in the 
incidence of AEs. Cough and Cystic fibrosis lung (preferred term for pulmonary exacerbation) were 
reported more frequently in placebo group. However, URTI, headache, and skin disorders were 
reported more frequently in Ivacaftor group. 
The AEs by SOCs did not show important differences on cardiovascular disorders, gastrointestinal 
disorders, renal and urinary system, musculoskeletal disorders, metabolism disorders, psychiatric 
disorders, blood and lymphatic system, immune system and neoplasm disorders.  
Nervous  system  disorders:  according  to  data  submitted  by  the  applicant  around  9%  of  patients  who 
received  Ivacaftor  had  dizziness  and  24%  had  headache;  these  data  shows  clear  difference  in 
incidence with greater incidence in Ivacaftor group (around 8% for both AEs). 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 70/87
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15 Incidence of Adverse Events With At Least 3% Difference Between the Ivacaftor and Placebo 
Groups by Preferred Term: Pooled Placebo-Controlled Phase 2b/3 and Phase 3 Studies, Safety Set 
In the pooled placebo-controlled Phase 2b/3 studies, the overall incidence of URTI SSC events was 
similar between the ivacaftor and the placebo groups. The incidences were 59.1% and 58.4% 
respectively. In Phase 3 studies these incidences were 65.4% and 74.3% for patients who received 
placebo and ivacaftor respectively. Therefore the incidence of any UTRI was around 9% more frequent 
in the Ivacaftor group. Regarding the severity of these URTI, 39.4% in the ivacaftor group and 44.2% 
in the placebo group were considered mild and 33.9% in the ivacaftor group were considered moderate 
against 19.2% in the placebo group. The incidence of any URTI events were very common in patients 
treated with Ivacaftor 81 out of 109 (74.3%) and 37 out of 109 (33.9%).  
While in the pooled placebo-controlled Phase 2b/3 studies, the overall incidence of URTI SSC events 
was similar between the ivacaftor and the placebo groups, in Phase 3 studies the incidence was higher 
(phase 3 studies included patients in which Ivacaftor shown efficacy and it is the target population). 
These increased frequencies are reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Incidence of ear and labyrinth disorders was slightly higher in the ivacaftor group than in the placebo 
group in Phase 3 studies (102, 103 part B Studies) 4.8% against 9.2%.  
Table 16 Incidence of Ear and Labyrinth Events by System Organ Class and Preferred Term: Pooled 
Phase 2b/3 Studies, Safety Set 
The incidence of breast and nipple disorders (6 cases: around 3%) was more frequent in Ivacaftor than 
in Placebo Group (no cases 0%). These 6 cases were reported as breast inflammation, breast mass, 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 71/87
 
 
 
 
 
breast tenderness, nipple disorder, nipple, pain and gynecomastia. Four out of them were possibly 
related to ivacaftor and 2 out of them were severe (1 gynecomastia and 1 nipple disorder).  
Rash was a very common adverse event in the pooled placebo-controlled Phase 2b/3 studies, with a 
higher incidence in the ivacaftor group (at least 5%), 10.4% in the ivacaftor group (23 of 221 
subjects) and 5.3% in the placebo group (7 of 132 subjects). When other types of “rashes” are 
considered, the incidence of “Rash SSC events” was also higher in the ivacaftor group than in the 
placebo group: 14.5% (32 out of 221) in the ivacaftor group and 11.4% (15 of 132) in the placebo 
group. The majority of these rashes were mild or moderate in severity.  
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Table 17 Incidence of SAEs in At Least 2 Subjects in Any Treatment Group by System Organ Class and 
Preferred Term: Pooled Phase 2b/3 Studies, Safety Set 
No deaths were reported during the conduct of the clinical program. 
In phase 2b/3 studies the incidence of SAEs was lower in the ivacaftor group (17.6%) than in the 
placebo group (34.8%). Thirty five SAEs (26.5%) were reported as “cystic fibrotic lung” in patients 
who received placebo and 23 SAEs (10.4%) in patients who receive ivacaftor. 
Laboratory findings 
The descriptive statistics and incidence in categorical shifts from baseline for the majority of the clinical 
laboratory parameters (serum chemistry, haematology, and coagulation studies) assessed in the 
pooled placebo-controlled Phase 2b/3 studies showed minor differences between the ivacaftor and 
placebo groups that were not considered to be clinically meaningful. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 72/87
 
 
 
 
 
Liver-related parameters have been presented in more detail because there were reports of adverse 
events related to this parameter which led to study drug discontinuation. 
Table 18 Comparison of the Incidence of Maximum On-Treatment Transaminase Values: Placebo- 
Controlled Phase 2b/3 Studies 
Table 19 Incidence of Liver-Related Adverse Events by Preferred Term: Pooled Phase 2b/3 Studies, 
Safety Set 
Safety in special populations 
There is no data in patients older than 53 years-old and younger than 6 years-old. Additionally, there 
were only 23 patients with age from 6 to 11 years-old who received ivacaftor in these studies. Safety 
data of these subjects seems not to differ from subjects older than 12 years.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 73/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall incidence of subjects with AE was similar in the two age groups(18 years and ≥18 years 
at baseline); however some AE-s like cough, headache, nasal congestion, URTI oropharyngeal pain had 
at least 10 % higher incidence in the 18 year subgroup than ≥18 years subgroup. (See table 12-6) 
Table 20 Adverse Events Occurring in At Least 15% of Subjects in the VX-770 Group, by Preferred 
Term and Age Subgroups, Week 48, Safety Set, Study 102 
Ivacaftor has not been studied in subjects with moderate or severe renal impairment. 
According to the results of Study 013 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment had similar ivacaftor 
Cmax, but approximately 2-fold increase in ivacaftor AUC0-, compared with healthy subjects matched 
for demographics. Results showed that incidence of adverse events were higher in subjects with 
moderate hepatic impairment. Studies have not been conducted in patient with severe hepatic 
impairment. (Child-Pugh C). Patients with CF and hepatic impairment were excluded from Phase IIb/III 
studies of ivacaftor; therefore no safety data in this population are available. 
There were no important differences in the incidence of AEs between placebo and ivacaftor populations 
at 16 weeks when they were compared by SOCs and between genotype mutations. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Please refer to discussion regarding Pharmacokinetic interactions. No additional safety information 
regarding interactions has been identified in the pooled safety database. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 74/87
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Table 21 Subject Disposition and Reasons for Discontinuation: Pooled Phase 2b/3 Studies, Safety Set 
In pooled phase 2b/3 studies 4 (1.8%) subjects in the ivacaftor group discontinued for AEs: 1 subject 
for arthritis; 1 for myopathy; 1 for asthenia, fatigue, and headache; and 1 for hepatic enzyme 
increased. The incidence of drug interruption in these studies was similar between the ivacaftor (7.2%) 
and placebo (7.6%) groups. 
Post marketing experience 
Ivacaftor has not been authorised is any country at the time of submission of current application. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety data base included a total of 700 subjects who received at least one dose of ivacaftor from 
23 studies as of 01 July 2011. More than half of the subjects included during development program 
were healthy volunteers (364 out of 700 subjects). These subjects had a better health state than 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 75/87
 
 
 
 
 
patients with CF, therefore safety data coming from this healthy population could make the safety 
profile of ivacaftor appear better in the total safety database. 
Due to the very limited patient number (n=23), there is only very limited safety data in children from 6 
to 11 years-old. This fact is reflected in the SmPC and safety in this population is to be further 
addressed with additional pharmacovigilance activities as specified in the RMP. 
The phase 1 studies that were pooled included in total 258 adult healthy subjects. The median 
treatment duration was 3 days (range: 1 to 14). With this short drug exposure in pooling 1; the AEs in 
the Ivacaftor group were more frequent than in the placebo group in nervous system, gastrointestinal, 
respiratory, infections and infestation disorders. The incidence of headache, dizziness and abdominal 
pain upper was higher (at least 3% higher) in the ivacaftor alone group than the placebo group. The 
incidence of nauseas vomiting, nasopharyngitis and dysmenorrhoea was also higher in the ivacaftor 
group.  
The most important safety data come from 293 patients exposed to ivacaftor in pooled placebo-
controlled phase 2b/3 studies. Studies 102 and 103 part B had 48-week treatment duration in subjects 
with G551D-CFTR mutation. Study 104 Part A had 16-week treatment duration in subjects with 
G508del-CFTR mutation. Study 105 is an extension study of Studies 102 and 103 part B and will 
provide data on durability of ivacaftor treatment for up to 144 weeks (48 weeks in Study 102 or Study 
103 plus up to 96 weeks in Study 105). However, final results of this study are not yet available. Study 
104 Part B, was an extension study of 104 part A; this provided a total duration of 40 weeks of 
ivacaftor for Study 104 Part B subjects (16 weeks of ivacaftor in Study 104 Part A and 24 weeks of 
ivacaftor in Study 104 Part B).  
In this phase 2b/3 pooling, only 109 patients who received ivacaftor had the G551D mutation in the 
CFTR gene. The proportion by sex was balanced (male: 48.5% and female 51.5%) and the majority of 
subjects were White (97.3%). 
Baseline disease characteristics showed that the predicted FEV1 were not similar across the ivacaftor 
and placebo groups. The observed worse baseline condition in the placebo group could enhance the 
AEs rate observed on these patients. 
In the pooled phase 2b/3 studies the global incidence of AEs showed that cough and cystic fibrosis lung 
(preferred term for pulmonary exacerbation) were reported more frequently in placebo group. 
However, headache, URTI and rash were reported more frequently in the Ivacaftor group. The AEs by 
SOCs didn’t show important differences on cardiovascular disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, renal 
and urinary system, musculoskeletal disorders, metabolism disorders, psychiatric disorders, blood and 
lymphatic system, immune system and neoplasm disorders. Nonetheless, a higher incidence of 
headache, URTI and rash also were reported in the ivacaftor group. Additionally, dizziness, ear and 
labyrinth disorders and breast disorders were also seen more frequently in the ivacaftor group in phase 
3 pooling studies. Therefore, the SmPC has been updated accordingly to reflect the frequency of these 
ADRs. Rash, headache and dizziness, ear and labyrinth disorders and breast and nipple disorders 
should be closely monitored in future PSURs. 
Nearly all subjects in the ivacaftor (92.3%) and placebo (97.0%) groups in pooled phase 2b/3 studies 
had adverse events. The incidence of adverse events considered by the investigator to be related to 
the study drug (i.e., ivacaftor or placebo) was similar between the ivacaftor (33.5%) and placebo 
(34.1%) groups. The “related” SAEs were similar in both groups (3.8% in the placebo group and 4.1% 
in the Ivacaftor group); however, the incidence of SAEs (related or no related) was lower in the 
ivacaftor group (17.6%) than in the placebo group (34.8%). The majority of these SAEs were directly 
related to CF disease (clinical pulmonary exacerbation) and they were reported as “cystic fibrotic lung” 
(10% in the Ivacaftor group and 26% in placebo group). This lower incidence of SAEs observed in the 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 76/87
 
 
 
ivacaftor group could be related to ivacaftor action itself; however, this imbalance in SAEs could also 
be related to the baseline characteristic of patients included in these studies that seems not to be quite 
similar. 
Overall, a similar proportion of subjects in the ivacaftor and placebo groups had maximum 
transaminase levels exceeding a range of thresholds including ≥2 ×, ≥3 ×, ≥5 ×, and ≥8 × ULN. The 
incidence of elevations of ALT or AST between ≥2 × to <3 × ULN and ≥3 × to <5 × ULN were similar. 
The incidence of ALT or AST increases was similar between the ivacaftor and placebo group across the 
different ranges: 6.3% (≥3 × ULN) in the ivacaftor group and 8.4% (≥3 × ULN) in the placebo group; 
2.7% (≥5 × ULN) in the ivacaftor group and 2.3% (≥5 × ULN) in the placebo group; 1.8% (≥8 × ULN) 
in the ivacaftor group and 1.5% (≥8 × ULN) in the placebo group. The population with hepatic 
impairment was not included in main pivotal studies therefore no safety analysis on this population 
was conducted. The proportion of patients with “history” of liver enzyme elevation was similar in both 
groups (around 15%). In this subgroup of patients, a higher proportion of subjects in the Ivacaftor 
group had maximum on-treatment ALT or AST elevation compared to those in the placebo group. The 
effect of Ivacaftor on liver toxicity and /or hepatic enzyme elevation is unclear at this time; therefore, 
hepatotoxicity and hepatic enzyme elevation are to be monitored until this issue has been clarified. 
This has been accordingly included as important potential risk in the Risk Management Plan. 
In the light of high unmet medical need in all CF patients, including patients with other mutations in 
the CFTR gene and younger children, a significant risk of off-label use can be expected. This potential 
risk has been included in the Risk Management Plan. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment of paediatric data on clinical safety 
In general the safety profile in paediatric population is not expected to significantly differ from adult 
population, however, safety database in the age group from 6 to 11 years of age is very limited and 
safety profile in this population are addressed with additional pharmacovigilance activities in the RMP. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics.  
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The treatment with ivacaftor appears to be well tolerated. Few subjects have discontinued treatment 
due to adverse events. The majority of adverse events associated with ivacaftor were mild to moderate 
in severity. There were no deaths in any ivacaftor studies. The number of subjects in some important 
subgroups of the target population (e.g. population from 6 to 11 years-old) is very limited, therefore 
safety in these subgroups is addressed with additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
The most common adverse events in the ivacaftor group were cough, CF lung (pulmonary 
exacerbation), headache, dizziness, URTI, nasal congestion, oropharyngeal pain, nausea, and rash. 
More patients in ivacaftor reported bacteria isolated in sputum. The mechanism of nervous system 
disorders is not known. Ear and labyrinths disorder and breast disorders have been observed with 
ivacaftor. 
The adverse events that are believed to have at least plausible causal relationship with the use of 
ivacaftor (adverse reactions) have been reflected in the SmPC. The most common adverse reactions 
are nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, nasal congestion, oropharyngeal pain, 
abdominal pain, diarrhoea and rash. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 77/87
 
 
 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
 
The applicant should conduct a 5-year long-term observational study with ivacaftor in patients with 
cystic fibrosis, including also microbiological and clinical endpoints (e.g. exacerbations), according 
to a protocol agreed with the CHMP. 
 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of the ongoing study VX08-770-105 
which evaluates the long-term safety and efficacy in patients with cystic fibrosis. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation  
Table 22 Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance activities 
Agreed risk minimisation 
activities 
Important identified risks – none 
Important potential risks 
Effects on liver 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed SmPC (Section 
function tests 
pharmacovigilance practices 
4.4) includes transaminase 
Study 105 - An Open-Label, Rollover Study 
monitoring and management.  
to Evaluate the Long-Term Safety and 
The proposed SmPC (Section 
Efficacy of VX-770 in Subjects With Cystic 
4.8) describes the elevated 
Fibrosis 
transaminase incidence and 
2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
discontinuation rate in clinical 
prematurely discontinued from studies 102 
studies. 
(A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, 
Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group Study to 
Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of VX-770 
in Subjects with Cystic Fibrosis and the 
G551D Mutation), 103 (A Phase 3, 2-Part, 
Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-
Controlled, Parallel-Group Study to Evaluate 
the Pharmacokinetics, Efficacy and Safety 
of VX-770 in Subjects Aged 6 to 11 Years 
with Cystic Fibrosis and the G551D 
Mutation) and 104 (A Phase 2, Randomized, 
Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-
Group Study to Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of VX-770 in Subjects Aged 12 
Years and Older with Cystic Fibrosis who 
are Homozygous for the F508del-CFTR 
Mutation) 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 78/87
 
 
 
Cataract 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
Human relevance of this finding 
pharmacovigilance practices 
is under investigation. The initial 
Full ophthalmologic examination added to 
assessment does not suggest an 
subjects in Study 105 who initiated 
increased risk in children 6 years 
ivacaftor between 6 to 11 years of age 
and older. Therefore, it is 
Review of final data from rat juvenile 
considered that it is unnecessary 
toxicity study (Study VX-770-TX-025), 
to recommend any meaningful 
including histopathology results 
post-authorisation risk 
Retrieval and histological examination of 
minimisation activities. 
the head sections of the foetuses from the 
rat embryo-foetal study 
Concomitant use of 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
Information in the proposed 
ivacaftor with potent 
pharmacovigilance practices 
SmPC (Section 4.2) (Posology)  
CYP3A inhibitors or 
Study 105  
The proposed SmPC (Section 
inducers 
2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
4.4) Special warnings. 
prematurely discontinued from Studies 102, 
The proposed SmPC (Section 
103, and 104.  
4.5) describes the interactions. 
Dose optimization exploration activity 
Cardiac arrhythmias 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed activities are based 
pharmacovigilance practices 
on this being a theoretical risk 
Study 105  
from non-clinical findings. It has 
2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
not been confirmed in humans. 
prematurely discontinued from Studies 102, 
Statement in the proposed 
103, and 104. 
SmPC, Section 5.3 (Preclinical 
safety data) 
Off label use in 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed SmPC includes 
children less than 6 
pharmacovigilance practices 
information in: 
years old of age and in 
Long-term safety study: An Observational 
Therapeutic indications (section 
patients with other 
Study to Evaluate the Long-Term Safety of 
4.1) 
mutations (non-G551D 
Ivacaftor in Patients With Cystic Fibrosis 
Posology and method of 
CFTR gating mutations 
Study 110 
and non-class III 
Study 111 
mutations) 
Important missing information 
administration (section 4.2) 
Special warnings and precautions 
for Use (Section 4.4) 
Use in Pregnant and 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed SmPC, Section 4.6 
Lactating Women 
pharmacovigilance practices 
describes the available 
Long-term Safety Study  
information about safety in 
pregnant and lactating women. 
Pulmonary 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed SmPC, Section 4.8, 
exacerbations, and 
pharmacovigilance practices 
provides information regarding 
bacterial sputum 
Study 105 
bacterial sputum colonization as 
colonization with long 
2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
adverse drug reaction.  
term ivacaftor 
prematurely discontinued from Studies 102, 
treatment 
103, and 104.  
Long-term safety study 
Use in children 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed SmPC, Section 4.8 
between 6 to 11 years 
pharmacovigilance practices 
acknowledges the limited 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 79/87
 
 
 
old  
Study 105 
Study 110 
Study 111 
knowledge about the safety 
profile of Kalydeco in children 
between 6 to 11 years old. 
Study 112 (includes 2-yr follow-up of 
The proposed SmPC, Section 5.2 
patients from study 110) 
includes detailed information on 
2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
pharmacokinetics in the 
prematurely discontinued from study 103. 
paediatric population. 
Long-term safety study 
PK analysis to develop possible alternative 
dosing regimen to avoid higher exposure 
relative to older children and adults 
Patients with FEV1 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed statement in 
<40 % 
pharmacovigilance practices 
SmPC, Section 4.4 
Study 105  
 2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
prematurely discontinued from Studies 102, 
103, and 104.  
Long-term safety study  
Safety in patients with 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed activities are based 
cardiac diseases 
pharmacovigilance practices 
on theoretical risk from non-
Long-term safety study  
clinical findings. It has not been 
confirmed in humans. 
The statement in proposed 
SmPC, Section 5.3 (Preclinical 
safety data). 
Long-term safety 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The proposed warning in SmPC, 
pharmacovigilance practices 
Section 4.4. 
Study 105  
The proposed SmPC Section 5.1 
2-Year Follow-up of subjects who 
describes the available clinical 
prematurely discontinued from Studies 102, 
evidence, including the number 
103, and 104.  
and extent of exposure in clinical 
Long-term safety study  
studies. 
Study 109 
Study 112 
Clinical relevance of P-
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
The interaction is described in 
gp inhibition by 
pharmacovigilance practices 
the SmPC Section 4.5. 
ivacaftor 
Digoxin DDI Study - An Open-Label Phase 1 
Study in Healthy Adult Subjects to Examine 
the Effects of Ivacaftor (VX-770) on the 
Pharmacokinetics of Digoxin 
Patients with moderate 
Ongoing surveillance through routine 
In the proposed SmPC Sections 
or severe hepatic 
pharmacovigilance practices 
4.2 and 4.4, description of 
impairment  
Long-term safety study 
posology and method of 
Dose optimization exploration activity 
administration and precautions 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
for use in these patients has 
been included, respectively. 
 The proposed SmPC Section 5.2 
Page 80/87
 
 
 
 
includes more details about the 
results available from clinical 
development programme   
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below listed 
pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
The applicant should conduct a 5-year long-term observational study with ivacaftor 
Interim 
in patients with cystic fibrosis, including also microbiological and clinical endpoints 
reports: yearly 
(e.g. exacerbations), according to a protocol agreed with the CHMP. The applicant 
Final CSR: 
should submit yearly interim analyses and the final CSR  
December 
2017 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of the ongoing study 
Interim 
VX08-770-105 which evaluates the long-term safety and efficacy in patients with 
reports: yearly 
cystic fibrosis. The applicant should also submit yearly interim reports within 
PSURs. 
Final CSR: 
December 
2015 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of the rat juvenile 
June 2012 
toxicity study (VX-770-TX-025), including histopathology results. 
The applicant should attempt to retrieve the head sections of the foetuses retained 
December 
in alcohol from the rat embryo-foetal study and perform histological examination of 
2012 
the eyes and provide results 
The applicant should submit final CSR of a phase I study in healthy volunteers to 
December 
examine the effects of ivacaftor on the pharmacokinetics of digoxin 
2013 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of Study 111: A Phase 3 
June 2015 
Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Ivacaftor in Subjects With Cystic 
Fibrosis Who Have a Non-G551D CFTR Gating Mutation 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of Study VX11-770-110: 
September 
A Phase 3 Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Ivacaftor in Subjects With 
2014 
Cystic Fibrosis who Have the R117H-CFTR Mutation 
The applicant should submit an analysis of PK data with proposal for potential 
December 
additional strengths of ivacaftor to be developed for use in modified dosing 
2012 
regimens in 6 – 11 y.o. children with higher exposure to ivacaftor 
The applicant should submit an analysis of PK data (compartmental and pop PK 
September 
analysis) including data from any completed study where children from 6 to 11 
2014 
years old are enrolled (e.g. Study 110, Study 111) on a need to perform a dose 
finding study in children 6 – 11 y.o. in order to develop possible alternative dosing 
regimen to avoid higher exposure relative to older children and adults. Any safety 
data in this age range should be summarised. 
Following identification of possible alternative dosing regimen options in children 
June 2016 
aged 6-11 years old, the applicant should apply for registration of presentations of 
ivacaftor with reduced strengths suitable for modified dosing (according to 
previously submitted analyses of PK data) 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 81/87
 
 
 
 
 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Ivacaftor has shown in early clinical studies an effect clearly distinguishable from placebo in patients 
with CF and a G551D-CFTR mutation in terms of FEV1, Nasal Potential Differences, sweat chloride and 
QoL. This has been further confirmed in two pivotal placebo-controlled, 48-week duration trials 
(studies 102 and 103) where the primary endpoint was the absolute change from baseline in percent 
predicted FEV1. A roll-over study (study 105) is currently ongoing and will address the long-term 
effects of ivacaftor. 
In the two pivotal studies treatment with ivacaftor resulted in a clinically significant improvement in 
FEV1% through 24 weeks (timing of the primary efficacy variable) and 48 weeks that was around 10% 
in patients with CF aged 6 years and older with a G551D mutation in at least one allele of the CFTR 
gene and with FEV1% predicted at baseline higher than 40%. FEV1 is the recommended primary clinical 
endpoint in efficacy studies for cystic fibrosis targeting lung function as the rate of decline in FEV1 has 
been demonstrated to correlate with survival and to be the strongest clinical predictor of mortality. 
Therefore, it is considered that the magnitude of the effect is notable and relevant from the clinical 
point of view in a population where a rate of decline in FEV1% of around 1% per year is expected even 
when patients are being treated with the standard of care. 
Ivacaftor has also shown to have an impact on clinical endpoints that are of particular interest in CF 
such as pulmonary exacerbations and related events (hospitalization etc). Pulmonary exacerbations 
are a major cause of morbidity and decreased quality of life for patients with CF. Recurrent pulmonary 
exacerbations are associated with long-term decline in lung function and shortened survival. That is 
why exacerbation prevention is an important goal of CF therapy. Ivacaftor treatment resulted in a 
significant reduction in the rate of pulmonary exacerbations in the pivotal studies. The mean duration 
of exacerbations was also shorter in patients treated with ivacaftor. 
A statistically significant change in weight (around 2 kg) was observed in both trials. It is known that 
poor weight gain predicts clinical lung disease and progressive lung disease leads to poor weight gain. 
Moreover, a good nutritional status is associated with better FEV1 and survival. Analysis of weight-for-
age z scores in patients aged 20 years and younger confirms that weight gain occurred in ivacaftor-
treated patients and to a lesser extent in placebo-treated patients after 24 and 48 weeks of treatment 
in the pivotal studies. 
Efficacy results were consistent within studies and between both studies. Results of sensitivity analyses 
for the primary endpoint provided are consistently robust, supporting the results of the primary 
analysis. 
Results from the second interim analysis of study 105 show that although the magnitude of the 
treatment effect in FEV1% is slightly decreased in comparison to that seen at week 24 or 48 in the 
original studies, it is still clinically relevant. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 82/87
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The positive effect of ivacaftor has only been shown in patients with a G551D mutation in at least one 
allele of the CFTR gene. Given that clinical data are not available in patients with any gating mutation 
other than G551D, while in patients homozygous for the (class II) F508del mutation treatment with 
ivacaftor did not result in a clinical relevant improvement the indication has been restricted to patients 
with a G551D mutation.  
In addition, only patients with mild to moderate stages of the disease (with baseline FEV1% between 
40 and 105%) were included in these trials. Limited data in patients with baseline FEV1% predicted 
<40% is available suggesting that patients may also benefit from treatment with ivacaftor. On the 
contrary, subgroup analysis by baseline FEV1% >90% in study 103 suggest that the benefit of patients 
with more preserved lung function could be less pronounced. However, the available data are not 
conclusive due to the low number of patients analysed. 
The finding in study 105 regarding the incidence of pulmonary exacerbations in patients treated with 
ivacaftor in the pivotal studies, an increase of bacteria isolated in sputum and an increased reporting of 
URTI in ivacaftor-treated patients are noted. Adequate pharmacovigilance measures have been 
identified in the Risk Management Plan. Furthermore, the long-term data from study 105 as well as the 
data from the 5-year observational study will be addressing this point. 
Body weight gain can be interpreted as an indirect measure of improved exocrine pancreatic function. 
However, whether the weight gain seen with ivacaftor can be exclusively attributed to an increase in 
lean body mass remains unknown. Analyses of absolute change in height, height-for-age Z score and 
other anthropometric parameters in patients less than 20 years of age have not shown statistically 
significant differences between ivacaftor and placebo. Therefore, based on the available data no 
conclusion can be drawn whether ivacaftor improves the pancreatic exocrine function (without a direct 
assessment such as improved bile salt absorption). 
Given the chronic nature of CF it is crucial to know whether the effect of ivacaftor is maintained over 
time. Available interim data from the ongoing study 105 suggest that the effect of ivacaftor on relevant 
endpoints remains stable at least up to 60 weeks. Results of a pre-planned second interim analysis of 
study 105 has been presented showing that at week 96 (ivacaftor-treated patients from study 102) 
and at week 72 (ivacaftor-treated patients from study 103) the effect in several endpoints is 
maintained although slightly decreased when compared with those attained in the initial 48 weeks of 
treatment. In particular, the incidence and duration of pulmonary exacerbations are higher in patients 
treated with ivacaftor during 96 weeks. In spite of this, the results provided of study 105 (with the 
single exception of pulmonary exacerbations) suggest that ivacaftor is of clinical benefit. Longer term 
follow-up is necessary and adequate measures have been identified with the long-term data from 
study 105 as well as the data from the 5-year observational study. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Ivacaftor seems to be well tolerated. Cough, Cystic fibrosis lung (pulmonary exacerbation), nervous 
system disorders (as headache and dizziness), URTI, nasal congestion, oropharyngeal pain, and rash 
were the adverse events more commonly observed. Additionally, ear and labyrinth disorders (including 
otitis) and breast disorders were observed more frequent in Ivacaftor group than in placebo group. 
More patients in ivacaftor group reported bacteria isolated in sputum. 
In the pivotal studies, four patients (1.8%) subjects in the ivacaftor group discontinued for AEs (1 
subject for arthritis; 1 for myopathy; 1 for asthenia, fatigue, and headache; and 1 for hepatic enzyme 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 83/87
 
 
 
increased). The incidence of drug interruption was (8.5%) the majority of them ere due to CF lung 
(2.7%), hepatic enzyme increased (2%) and abdominal pain (0.7%). 
In the light of high unmet medical need in CF patients outside the recommended indication for 
ivacaftor, it is expected that there could be a significant risk of off-label use in other mutations in the 
CFTR gene and possibly also younger age groups. This risk has been included in the Risk Management 
Plan. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
There is no experience of use of ivacaftor in patients with severe hepatic impairment. In this case a 
careful individualised approach is recommended and ivacaftor should be administered only in those 
patients in whom their clinical circumstances allow to predict that the benefits will likely out-weight the 
risks. In that case a dosing of 150 mg of ivacaftor every other day is recommended, as stated in the 
SmPC. 
Ivacaftor has a high potential for drug interaction when concomitantly administered with drugs 
inhibiting CYP3A. Strong inhibitors have shown to increase drug exposure by 8 times. PK simulations 
indicate that longer dose intervals (e.g. twice a week) may yield in comparable exposure to that 
observed with the standard daily administration in subjects not receiving concomitant inhibitors. This 
proposal is accepted, provided that these patients are closely monitored for efficacy and safety; the 
SmPC provides adequate guidance. 
There are uncertainties associated to the long-term use of ivacaftor, especially in 6 to 11 years old 
children on whom there is limited data. Safety aspects of long-term use of ivacaftor in this and in 
general target population have to be further investigated. Adequate measures have been described in 
the Risk Management Plan. 
Patients with moderate and severe renal impairment have not been studied. Nevertheless, this is not 
considered as important missing information given that the renal route of elimination is negligible for 
ivacaftor, with minimal excretion of ivacaftor and metabolites.  
Patient with moderate and severe hepatic impairment have not been included in phase 2b/3 pooling 
studies. Cases of hepatotoxicity were observed in pre-clinical phase. Several cases of liver enzyme 
elevation have been reported with slightly higher incidence in the ivacaftor group, mainly in patients 
with history elevated liver enzyme. Also, there is no experience in patients with cardiovascular disease 
and in those undergoing organ transplantation. Monitoring liver function tests is recommended in the 
SmPC while use in patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment is regarded as important 
missing information and has been addressed in the RMP. 
Non-compartmental and compartmental analysis of PK data shows that systemic exposure in children 
is higher than in adults. In the light of the convincing efficacy data and the available safety data in this 
patient group, which is overall reassuring, the currently proposed dosing regime is deemed adequate. 
Nevertheless, a refinement of the dosing regimen in this patient population should be further explored, 
as identified in the Risk Management Plan. 
Quality aspects 
Considering that the design space for the active substance has been verified at commercial scale only 
within the normal operating ranges (NORs) and in the absence of an adequate verification protocol it is 
uncertain whether the currently approved control strategy is adequate to detect changes to the quality 
of the active substance resulting from operating outside the well-verified NORs. Although expected to 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 84/87
 
 
 
 
be low risk based on the available development data, it is also uncertain what the impact might be on 
the quality of the active substance and thus the safe and effective use of the product.  This verification 
would ensure that the extension of the manufacturing of the active substance in operating settings 
broader than the NORs has no negative impact on the quality of the active substance.  
In order to extend the manufacturing of the active substance in operating settings broader than the 
NORs, to cover all areas of the design space, the applicant should submit a verification protocol, as 
defined in Annex II of the Marketing Authorisation. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease is the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in CF. In the lungs, the 
dysfunctional CFTR protein leads to obstruction of airways with thick mucus, establishment of chronic 
bacterial infection in the airways, and damaging inflammatory responses that are all thought to play a 
role in causing irreversible structural changes. Patients with CF typically experience a progressive loss 
of lung function ultimately resulting in respiratory failure and death. 
Ivacaftor has shown to have a clinically relevant effect on pulmonary function (measured as the 
absolute change from baseline in percent predicted FEV1 through 24 weeks of treatment) in CF patients 
aged 6 years and older with a G551D-CFTR mutation. Consistent effects have also been observed in a 
relevant clinical variable such as pulmonary exacerbations and related events. Analysis of body weight 
change and weight-for-age z scores (the latter only in patients aged 20 years and younger) shows that 
ivacaftor-treated patients experienced higher body weight gain than placebo patients although it 
remains unknown if this is due to an increase of lean body mass. Results from study 105 confirm that 
(absolute) weight gain occurred in ivacaftor-treated patients and to a lesser extent in placebo-treated 
patients after 24 and 48 weeks of treatment in the pivotal studies. However, some uncertainties mainly 
related to the novel mode of action and the limited data on the long-term use of ivacaftor remain. Very 
limited data are available for patients with advanced stages of the disease (baseline FEV1<40%) 
suggest that these patients may also benefit from treatment with ivacaftor. Information on the impact 
of ivacaftor on infections by P. aeruginosa is limited.   
Ivacaftor seems to be well tolerated. The main uncertainties are related to the long-term use of 
ivacaftor mainly in children from 6 to 11 years old for which there is limited data. Overall, the safety 
database is limited which is not unexpected due to prevalence of the mutation considered. Several 
cases of liver enzyme elevation have been reported with slightly higher incidence in the ivacaftor 
group, mainly in patients with previous history of increased liver enzymes. Upper Respiratory Tract 
Infections (URTI), nervous system disorders as headache and dizziness), otitis, rash and breast AEs 
were numerically more frequent among ivacaftor-treated patients than in placebo. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The benefit risk balance of ivacaftor in the treatment of cystic fibrosis in patients age 6 years and older 
who have a G551D mutation in the CFTR gene is positive. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Ivacaftor has convincingly shown clinically relevant efficacy in patients with CF and a G551D mutation 
in at least one allele of CFTR gene from age of 6 years onwards. The safety profile is acceptable. Also 
considering the high unmet medical need in this population, the benefits of ivacaftor clearly outweighs 
their risks.  
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 85/87
 
 
 
The number of subjects studied in clinical trials reflects the target population being a subpopulation of 
an orphan condition, and had not prevented from reaching statistically significant results in clinical 
trials. The design and duration of studies is in line with regulatory requirements. Limited information is 
available on long-term safety and efficacy hence further data should be obtained on the safety and 
efficacy of ivacaftor in long term use. Adequate requirements have been identified including data from 
an ongoing long-term follow-up study as well as the initiation of a 5-year observational registry. 
The benefits of use of ivacaftor in target population are clearly established and do outweigh the 
identified risks, therefore the benefit-risk balance is positive. 
4. Recommendations 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that Kalydeco (ivacaftor) is not similar to Bronchitol 
(mannitol) within the meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200. See appendix 
1. 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Kalydeco in the treatment of cystic fibrosis in patients age 6 
years and older who have a G551D mutation in the CFTR gene is favourable and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in the RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any subsequent 
updates of the RMP agreed by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 86/87
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
Due date 
The applicant should conduct a 5-year long-term observational study with ivacaftor 
December 2017 
in patients with cystic fibrosis, including also microbiological and clinical endpoints 
(e.g. exacerbations), according to a protocol agreed with the CHMP. The applicant 
should submit yearly interim analyses and the final CSR by December 2017 
The applicant should submit the final clinical study report of the ongoing study 
December 2015 
VX08-770-105 which evaluates the long-term safety and efficacy in patients with 
cystic fibrosis by December 2015. The applicant should also submit yearly interim 
reports within PSURs. 
The applicant should submit the verification protocol for scale-up of the Design 
December 2012 
Space in case of any changes to the Normal Operating Ranges (NORs) in the 
manufacture of the active substance. The Applicant can only move into unverified 
areas of the approved design space after setting up an appropriate verification 
scheme, submitted as a variation to the marketing authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality, non-clinical and clinical properties of the active 
substance, the CHMP considers that ivacaftor is qualified as a new active substance. 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/0039/2012 and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Kalydeco 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 87/87
 
 
 
 
 
