PART VI Summary of the RMP 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for KALYDECO (ivacaftor) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for KALYDECO. The RMP details 
important risks of KALYDECO, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about KALYDECO’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
KALYDECO's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how KALYDECO should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for KALYDECO should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
KALYDECO's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
KALYDECO tablets are authorised for the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) in 
patients aged 6 years and older and weighing 25 kg or more who have an R117H-CFTR 
mutation or one of the following gating (class III) mutations in the CFTR gene: G551D, 
G1244E, G1349D, G178R, G551S, S1251N, S1255P, S549N, or S549R. KALYDECO tablets 
are also indicated in combination regimens: 
•  with tezacaftor/ivacaftor tablets for the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
aged 6 years and older who are homozygous for the F508del mutation or who are 
heterozygous for the F508del mutation and have one of the following mutations in the 
CFTR gene: P67L, R117C, L206W, R352Q, A455E, D579G, 711+3A→G, S945L, S977F, 
R1070W, D1152H, 2789+5G→A, 3272-26A→G, and 3849+10kbC→T; and 
•  with ivacaftor/tezacaftor/elexacaftor tablets for the treatment of patients with cystic 
fibrosis (CF) aged 6 years and older who have at least one F508del mutation in the CFTR 
gene. 
KALYDECO granules are indicated for the treatment of children with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
aged 4 months and older and weighing 5 kg to less than 25 kg who have an R117H-CFTR 
mutation or one of the following gating (class III) mutations in the CFTR gene: G551D, 
G1244E, G1349D, G178R, G551S, S1251N, S1255P, S549N, or S549R (see SmPC for the 
full indication). KALYDECO granules are also indicated in combination regimens: 
•  with ivacaftor/tezacaftor/elexacaftor tablets for the treatment of patients with CF aged 2 
years to less than 6 years who have at least one F508del mutation in the CFTR gene. 
KALYDECO contains ivacaftor (IVA) as the active substance and is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of KALYDECO's benefits can be found in 
KALYDECO's EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kalydeco.  
 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks 
Important risks of KALYDECO, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about KALYDECO's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of KALYDECO is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of KALYDECO are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of KALYDECO. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
• Hepatotoxicity 
• Cataract 
• Use in pregnant and lactating women 
• Indicated use in children aged less than 6 years 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Elevated liver enzymes were reported during Phase 2b/3 studies with IVA; however, 
elevations in transaminases are common in patients with CF. The contributing role of IVA is 
uncertain but cannot be excluded. 
Only generally known risk factors for increases in liver enzymes were identified in several 
instances, including concurrent acute and chronic infections or illnesses (e.g., pulmonary 
exacerbation, flu-like illness, haemoptysis, kidney infection), as well as concomitant drugs 
(e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics) and substances (e.g., alcohol) known to be associated with 
liver enzyme elevations. 
 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice is given on monitoring liver function tests. 
SmPC Section 4.8 
PL Section 4 
Prescription only 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Cataract 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
Study 126 
Lens opacities (cataracts) were observed in newborn rats and were considered IVA related. 
This finding has not been observed in older animals. The potential relevance of these findings 
in humans is unknown, but given species developmental differences between rats and humans, 
it is unlikely that the finding is relevant to humans 6 years of age and older. Non-congenital 
cataracts have been reported, although risk factors (e.g., corticosteroid use) were present, a 
contributing role of IVA cannot be completely excluded. 
Risk factors for cataracts include aging, trauma, ultraviolet light and radiation exposure, 
diabetes mellitus, intraocular inflammation, and systemic or topical corticosteroid use. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.4 where advice is given on recommended ophthalmological examinations 
SmPC Section 5.3 
PL Section 2 
Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:  
Study 126 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Indicated use in children aged less than 6 years 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
SmPC Section 4.2 where the posology is described 
SmPC Sections 4.8 and 5.2 
PL Section 2 
Prescription only 
Study 126 
SmPC Section 4.6 where advice is given on to use Kalydeco during pregnancy only if clearly 
needed and during breastfeeding if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risks. 
PL Section 2 
Prescription only 
None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
CF: cystic fibrosis; IVA: ivacaftor; PL: patient leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics 
Note: Study 126 addresses a subpopulation of the Missing Information of “Indicated use in children aged less than 
6 years.”  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Short study name: Post-Authorisation Efficacy Study 
Purpose of the study: The Post-Authorisation Efficacy Study (PAES) will evaluate whether 
long-term Kalydeco treatment slows disease progression in children. This study aims to 
confirm whether Kalydeco treatment in a “real-world” setting continues to positively impact 
 
 
nutritional status and other measures of effectiveness, including, but not limited to, 
hospitalisations, pulmonary exacerbations, and pulmonary function, and to evaluate the long-
term safety of Kalydeco treatment in this population. Because spirometry is challenging for 
children younger than 5 to 6 years of age and results may be unreliable, this long-term 
observational study will evaluate the effectiveness of Kalydeco in young patients with respect 
to lung function by following them for 6 years, allowing them to reach the age when lung 
function measurements are routinely performed and are more reliable. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Short study name: Study 126 
Purpose of the study: Study 126 will evaluate the long-term safety, pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics, and efficacy of IVA in children aged <24 months when initiating IVA 
treatment. The 96-week IVA Treatment Period includes safety evaluations of adverse events, 
clinical laboratory assessments (serum chemistry and hematology), electrocardiograms, vital 
signs, physical examinations, and ophthalmological examinations. 
