ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
One vial contains 150 mg of trastuzumab, a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced by 
mammalian (Chinese hamster ovary) cell suspension culture and purified by affinity and ion exchange 
chromatography including specific viral inactivation and removal procedures. 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
One vial contains 420 mg of trastuzumab, a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced by 
mammalian (Chinese hamster ovary) cell suspension culture and purified by affinity and ion exchange 
chromatography including specific viral inactivation and removal procedures. 
The reconstituted KANJINTI solution contains 21 mg/mL of trastuzumab. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
White to pale yellow lyophilised powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Breast cancer 
Metastatic breast cancer 
KANJINTI is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
as monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two chemotherapy 
regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included at least an 
anthracycline and a taxane unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. Hormone-receptor 
positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients are unsuitable for these 
treatments. 
in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an anthracycline is not suitable. 
in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients with 
hormone-receptor positive MBC, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Early breast cancer 
KANJINTI is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer 
(EBC): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable) (see 
section 5.1). 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination with 
paclitaxel or docetaxel. 
in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and carboplatin. 
in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant KANJINTI therapy, for 
locally advanced (including inflammatory) disease or tumours > 2 cm in diameter (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
KANJINTI should only be used in patients with metastatic or early breast cancer whose tumours have 
either HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated 
assay (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
KANJINTI in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin is indicated for the 
treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or 
gastroesophageal junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic 
disease. 
KANJINTI should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) whose tumours have 
HER2 overexpression as defined by IHC 2+ and a confirmatory SISH or FISH result, or by an IHC 3+ 
result. Accurate and validated assay methods should be used (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
HER2 testing is mandatory prior to initiation of therapy (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). KANJINTI 
treatment should only be initiated by a physician experienced in the administration of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy (see section 4.4), and should be administered by a healthcare professional only. 
KANJINTI intravenous formulation is not intended for subcutaneous administration and should be 
administered via an intravenous infusion only. 
In order to prevent medication errors it is important to check the vial labels to ensure that the 
medicinal product being prepared and administered is KANJINTI (trastuzumab) and not another 
trastuzumab-containing product (e.g. trastuzumab emtansine or trastuzumab deruxtecan). 
Posology 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Three-weekly schedule 
The recommended initial loading dose is 8 mg/kg body weight. The recommended maintenance dose 
at three-weekly intervals is 6 mg/kg body weight, beginning three weeks after the loading dose. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weekly schedule 
The recommended initial loading dose of KANJINTI is 4 mg/kg body weight. The recommended 
weekly maintenance dose of KANJINTI is 2 mg/kg body weight, beginning one week after the loading 
dose. 
Administration in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel 
In the pivotal studies (H0648g, M77001), paclitaxel or docetaxel was administered the day following 
the first dose of trastuzumab (for dose, see the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) for 
paclitaxel or docetaxel) and immediately after the subsequent doses of trastuzumab if the preceding 
dose of trastuzumab was well tolerated. 
Administration in combination with an aromatase inhibitor 
In the pivotal study (BO16216) trastuzumab and anastrozole were administered from day 1. There 
were no restrictions on the relative timing of trastuzumab and anastrozole at administration (for dose, 
see the SmPC for anastrozole or other aromatase inhibitors). 
Early breast cancer 
Three-weekly and weekly schedule 
As a three-weekly regimen the recommended initial loading dose of KANJINTI is 8 mg/kg body 
weight. The recommended maintenance dose of KANJINTI at three-weekly intervals is 6 mg/kg body 
weight, beginning three weeks after the loading dose. 
As a weekly regimen (initial loading dose of 4 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg every week) concomitantly 
with paclitaxel following chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide.  
See section 5.1 for chemotherapy combination dosing. 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
Three-weekly schedule 
The recommended initial loading dose is 8 mg/kg body weight. The recommended maintenance dose 
at three-weekly intervals is 6 mg/kg body weight, beginning three weeks after the loading dose. 
Breast cancer and gastric cancer 
Duration of treatment 
Patients with MBC or MGC should be treated with KANJINTI until progression of disease.  
Patients with EBC should be treated with KANJINTI for 1 year or until disease recurrence, whichever 
occurs first; extending treatment in EBC beyond one year is not recommended (see section 5.1). 
Dose reduction 
No reductions in the dose of trastuzumab were made during clinical studies. Patients may continue 
therapy during periods of reversible, chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression but they should be 
monitored carefully for complications of neutropenia during this time. Refer to the SmPC for 
paclitaxel, docetaxel or aromatase inhibitor for information on dose reduction or delays. 
If left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) percentage drops ≥ 10 points from baseline AND to below 
50%, treatment should be suspended and a repeat LVEF assessment performed within approximately 
3 weeks. If LVEF has not improved, or has declined further, or if symptomatic congestive heart failure 
(CHF) has developed, discontinuation of KANJINTI should be strongly considered, unless the benefits 
for the individual patient are deemed to outweigh the risks. All such patients should be referred for 
assessment by a cardiologist and followed up. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missed doses 
If the patient has missed a dose of KANJINTI by one week or less, then the usual maintenance dose 
(weekly regimen: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly regimen: 6 mg/kg) should be administered as soon as 
possible. Do not wait until the next planned cycle. Subsequent maintenance doses should be 
administered 7 days or 21 days later according to the weekly or three-weekly schedules, respectively. 
If the patient has missed a dose of KANJINTI by more than one week, a re-loading dose of 
KANJINTI should be administered over approximately 90 minutes (weekly regimen: 4 mg/kg; 
three-weekly regimen: 8 mg/kg) as soon as possible. Subsequent KANJINTI maintenance doses 
(weekly regimen: 2 mg/kg; three-weekly regimen 6 mg/kg respectively) should be administered 7 days 
or 21 days later according to the weekly or three-weekly schedules respectively. 
Special populations 
Dedicated pharmacokinetic studies in the elderly and those with renal or hepatic impairment have not 
been carried out. In a population pharmacokinetic analysis, age and renal impairment were not shown 
to affect trastuzumab disposition. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of trastuzumab in the paediatric population. 
Method of administration 
KANJINTI is for intravenous use only. The loading dose should be administered as a 90-minute 
intravenous infusion. Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus. KANJINTI intravenous 
infusion should be administered by a healthcare provider prepared to manage anaphylaxis and an 
emergency kit should be available. Patients should be observed for at least six hours after the start of 
the first infusion and for two hours after the start of the subsequent infusions for symptoms like fever 
and chills or other infusion-related symptoms (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Interruption or slowing the 
rate of the infusion may help control such symptoms. The infusion may be resumed when symptoms 
abate. 
If the initial loading dose was well tolerated, the subsequent doses can be administered as a 30-minute 
infusion. 
For instructions on reconstitution of KANJINTI intravenous formulation before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to trastuzumab, murine proteins, or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1. 
Severe dyspnoea at rest due to complications of advanced malignancy or requiring 
supplementary oxygen therapy. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability  
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the trade name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
HER2 testing must be performed in a specialised laboratory which can ensure adequate validation of 
the testing procedures (see section 5.1). 
Currently no data from clinical studies are available on re-treatment of patients with previous exposure 
to trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac dysfunction 
General considerations 
Patients treated with KANJINTI are at increased risk for developing CHF (New York Heart 
Association [NYHA] class II-IV) or asymptomatic cardiac dysfunction. These events have been 
observed in patients receiving trastuzumab therapy alone or in combination with paclitaxel or 
docetaxel, particularly following anthracycline (doxorubicin or epirubicin) containing chemotherapy. 
These may be moderate to severe and have been associated with death (see section 4.8). In addition, 
caution should be exercised in treating patients with increased cardiac risk, e.g. hypertension, 
documented coronary artery disease, CHF, LVEF of < 55%, older age. 
All candidates for treatment with KANJINTI, but especially those with prior anthracycline and 
cyclophosphamide (AC) exposure, should undergo baseline cardiac assessment including history and 
physical examination, electrocardiogram (ECG), echocardiogram, and/or multigated acquisition 
(MUGA) scan or magnetic resonance imaging. Monitoring may help to identify patients who develop 
cardiac dysfunction. Cardiac assessments, as performed at baseline, should be repeated every 3 months 
during treatment and every 6 months following discontinuation of treatment until 24 months from the 
last administration of KANJINTI. A careful risk-benefit assessment should be made before deciding to 
treat with KANJINTI. 
Trastuzumab may persist in the circulation for up to 7 months after stopping KANJINTI treatment 
based on population pharmacokinetic analysis of all available data (see section 5.2). Patients who 
receive anthracyclines after stopping KANJINTI may possibly be at increased risk of cardiac 
dysfunction. If possible, physicians should avoid anthracycline-based therapy for up to 7 months after 
stopping KANJINTI. If anthracyclines are used, the patient’s cardiac function should be monitored 
carefully. 
Formal cardiological assessment should be considered in patients in whom there are cardiovascular 
concerns following baseline screening. In all patients cardiac function should be monitored during 
treatment (e.g. every 12 weeks). Monitoring may help to identify patients who develop cardiac 
dysfunction. Patients who develop asymptomatic cardiac dysfunction may benefit from more frequent 
monitoring (e.g. every 6 - 8 weeks). If patients have a continued decrease in left ventricular function, 
but remain asymptomatic, the physician should consider discontinuing therapy if no clinical benefit of 
KANJINTI therapy has been seen. 
The safety of continuation or resumption of trastuzumab in patients who experience cardiac 
dysfunction has not been prospectively studied. If LVEF percentage drops ≥ 10 points from baseline 
AND to below 50%, treatment should be suspended and a repeat LVEF assessment performed within 
approximately 3 weeks. If LVEF has not improved, or declined further, or symptomatic CHF has 
developed, discontinuation of KANJINTI should be strongly considered, unless the benefits for the 
individual patient are deemed to outweigh the risks. All such patients should be referred for 
assessment by a cardiologist and followed up. 
If symptomatic cardiac failure develops during KANJINTI therapy, it should be treated with standard 
medicinal products for CHF. Most patients who developed CHF or asymptomatic cardiac dysfunction 
in pivotal studies improved with standard CHF treatment consisting of an angiotensin-converting 
enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) and a beta-blocker. The majority of 
patients with cardiac symptoms and evidence of a clinical benefit of trastuzumab treatment continued 
on therapy without additional clinical cardiac events. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metastatic breast cancer 
KANJINTI and anthracyclines should not be given concurrently in combination in the MBC setting. 
Patients with MBC who have previously received anthracyclines are also at risk of cardiac dysfunction 
with KANJINTI treatment, although the risk is lower than with concurrent use of KANJINTI and 
anthracyclines. 
Early breast cancer 
For patients with EBC, cardiac assessments, as performed at baseline, should be repeated every 
3 months during treatment and every 6 months following discontinuation of treatment until 24 months 
from the last administration of KANJINTI. In patients who receive anthracycline-containing 
chemotherapy further monitoring is recommended, and should occur yearly up to 5 years from the last 
administration of KANJINTI, or longer if a continuous decrease of LVEF is observed. 
Patients with history of myocardial infarction (MI), angina pectoris requiring medical treatment, 
history of or existing CHF (NYHA class II – IV), LVEF of < 55%, other cardiomyopathy, cardiac 
arrhythmia requiring medical treatment, clinically significant cardiac valvular disease, poorly 
controlled hypertension (hypertension controlled by standard medical treatment eligible), and 
haemodynamic effective pericardial effusion were excluded from adjuvant and neoadjuvant EBC 
pivotal studies with trastuzumab and therefore treatment cannot be recommended in such patients.  
Adjuvant treatment 
KANJINTI and anthracyclines should not be given concurrently in combination in the adjuvant 
treatment setting. 
In patients with EBC an increase in the incidence of symptomatic and asymptomatic cardiac events 
was observed when trastuzumab was administered after anthracycline-containing chemotherapy 
compared to administration with a non-anthracycline regimen of docetaxel and carboplatin and was 
more marked when trastuzumab was administered concurrently with taxanes than when administered 
sequentially to taxanes. Regardless of the regimen used, most symptomatic cardiac events occurred 
within the first 18 months. In one of the 3 pivotal studies conducted in which a median follow-up of 
5.5 years was available (BCIRG 006) a continuous increase in the cumulative rate of symptomatic 
cardiac or LVEF events was observed in patients who were administered trastuzumab concurrently 
with a taxane following anthracycline therapy up to 2.37% compared to approximately 1% in the two 
comparator arms (anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide followed by taxane and taxane, carboplatin 
and trastuzumab). 
Risk factors for a cardiac event identified in four large adjuvant studies included advanced age 
(> 50 years), low LVEF (< 55%) at baseline, prior to or following the initiation of paclitaxel treatment, 
decline in LVEF by 10-15 points, and prior or concurrent use of anti-hypertensive medicinal products. 
In patients receiving trastuzumab after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, the risk of cardiac 
dysfunction was associated with a higher cumulative dose of anthracycline given prior to initiation of 
trastuzumab and a body mass index (BMI) > 25 kg/m2. 
Neoadjuvant-adjuvant treatment 
In patients with EBC eligible for neoadjuvant-adjuvant treatment, KANJINTI should be used 
concurrently with anthracyclines only in chemotherapy-naive patients and only with low-dose 
anthracycline regimens i.e. maximum cumulative doses of doxorubicin 180 mg/m2 or epirubicin 
360 mg/m2. 
If patients have been treated concurrently with a full course of low-dose anthracyclines and 
KANJINTI in the neoadjuvant setting, no additional cytotoxic chemotherapy should be given after 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
surgery. In other situations, the decision on the need for additional cytotoxic chemotherapy is 
determined based on individual factors. 
Experience of concurrent administration of trastuzumab with low-dose anthracycline regimens is 
currently limited to two studies (MO16432 and BO22227).  
In the pivotal study MO16432, trastuzumab was administered concurrently with neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy containing three cycles of doxorubicin (cumulative dose 180 mg/m2). 
The incidence of symptomatic cardiac dysfunction was 1.7% in the trastuzumab arm. 
In the pivotal study BO22227, trastuzumab was administered concurrently with neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy that contained four cycles of epirubicin (cumulative dose 300 mg/m2); at a median 
follow-up exceeding 70 months, the incidence of cardiac failure/congestive cardiac failure was 0.3% 
in the trastuzumab intravenous arm. 
Clinical experience is limited in patients above 65 years of age. 
Infusion-related reactions (IRRs) and hypersensitivity 
Serious IRRs to trastuzumab infusion including dyspnoea, hypotension, wheezing, hypertension, 
bronchospasm, supraventricular tachyarrhythmia, reduced oxygen saturation, anaphylaxis, respiratory 
distress, urticaria and angioedema have been reported (see section 4.8). Pre-medication may be used to 
reduce risk of occurrence of these events. The majority of these events occur during or within 
2.5 hours of the start of the first infusion. Should an infusion reaction occur the infusion should be 
discontinued or the rate of infusion slowed and the patient should be monitored until resolution of all 
observed symptoms (see section 4.2). These symptoms can be treated with an analgesic/antipyretic 
such as meperidine or paracetamol, or an antihistamine such as diphenhydramine. The majority of 
patients experienced resolution of symptoms and subsequently received further infusions of 
trastuzumab. Serious reactions have been treated successfully with supportive therapy such as oxygen, 
beta-agonists, and corticosteroids. In rare cases, these reactions are associated with a clinical course 
culminating in a fatal outcome. Patients experiencing dyspnoea at rest due to complications of 
advanced malignancy and comorbidities may be at increased risk of a fatal infusion reaction. 
Therefore, these patients should not be treated with KANJINTI (see section 4.3).  
Initial improvement followed by clinical deterioration and delayed reactions with rapid clinical 
deterioration have also been reported. Fatalities have occurred within hours and up to one week 
following infusion. On very rare occasions, patients have experienced the onset of infusion symptoms 
and pulmonary symptoms more than six hours after the start of the trastuzumab infusion. Patients 
should be warned of the possibility of such a late onset and should be instructed to contact their 
physician if these symptoms occur. 
Pulmonary events 
Severe pulmonary events have been reported with the use of trastuzumab in the post-marketing setting 
(see section 4.8). These events have occasionally been fatal. In addition, cases of interstitial lung 
disease including lung infiltrates, acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion, respiratory distress, acute pulmonary oedema and respiratory insufficiency have been 
reported. Risk factors associated with interstitial lung disease include prior or concomitant therapy 
with other antineoplastic therapies known to be associated with it such as taxanes, gemcitabine, 
vinorelbine and radiation therapy. These events may occur as part of an infusion-related reaction or 
with a delayed onset. Patients experiencing dyspnoea at rest due to complications of advanced 
malignancy and comorbidities may be at increased risk of pulmonary events. Therefore, these patients 
should not be treated with KANJINTI (see section 4.3). Caution should be exercised for pneumonitis, 
especially in patients being treated concomitantly with taxanes. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal drug interaction studies have been performed. Clinically significant interactions between 
trastuzumab and the concomitant medicinal products used in clinical studies have not been observed. 
Effect of trastuzumab on the pharmacokinetics of other antineoplastic agents 
Pharmacokinetic data from studies BO15935 and M77004 in women with HER2-positive MBC 
suggested that exposure to paclitaxel and doxorubicin (and their major metabolites 
6-α hydroxylpaclitaxel, POH, and doxorubicinol, DOL) was not altered in the presence of trastuzumab 
(8 mg/kg or 4 mg/kg intravenous loading dose followed by 6 mg/kg q3w or 2 mg/kg q1w intravenous, 
respectively). However, trastuzumab may elevate the overall exposure of one doxorubicin metabolite, 
(7-deoxy-13 dihydro-doxorubicinone, D7D). The bioactivity of D7D and the clinical impact of the 
elevation of this metabolite was unclear. 
Data from study JP16003, a single-arm study of trastuzumab (4 mg/kg intravenous loading dose and 
2 mg/kg intravenous weekly) and docetaxel (60 mg/m2 intravenous) in Japanese women with 
HER2-positive MBC, suggested that concomitant administration of trastuzumab had no effect on the 
single dose pharmacokinetics of docetaxel. Study JP19959 was a substudy of BO18255 (ToGA) 
performed in male and female Japanese patients with advanced gastric cancer to study the 
pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and cisplatin when used with or without trastuzumab. The results of 
this substudy suggested that the exposure to the bioactive metabolites (e.g. 5-FU) of capecitabine was 
not affected by concurrent use of cisplatin or by concurrent use of cisplatin plus trastuzumab. 
However, capecitabine itself showed higher concentrations and a longer half-life when combined with 
trastuzumab. The data also suggested that the pharmacokinetics of cisplatin were not affected by 
concurrent use of capecitabine or by concurrent use of capecitabine plus trastuzumab. 
Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 in patients with metastatic or locally advanced 
inoperable HER2-positive cancer suggested that trastuzumab had no impact on the PK of carboplatin. 
Effect of antineoplastic agents on trastuzumab pharmacokinetics 
By comparison of simulated serum trastuzumab concentrations after trastuzumab monotherapy 
(4 mg/kg loading/2 mg/kg q1w intravenous) and observed serum concentrations in Japanese women 
with HER2-positive MBC (study JP16003) no evidence of a PK effect of concurrent administration of 
docetaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab was found. 
Comparison of PK results from two Phase II studies (BO15935 and M77004) and one Phase III study 
(H0648g) in which patients were treated concomitantly with trastuzumab and paclitaxel and two 
Phase II studies in which trastuzumab was administered as monotherapy (W016229 and MO16982), in 
women with HER2-positive MBC indicates that individual and mean trastuzumab trough serum 
concentrations varied within and across studies but there was no clear effect of the concomitant 
administration of paclitaxel on the pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. Comparison of trastuzumab PK 
data from Study M77004 in which women with HER2-positive MBC were treated concomitantly with 
trastuzumab, paclitaxel and doxorubicin to trastuzumab PK data in studies where trastuzumab was 
administered as monotherapy (H0649g) or in combination with anthracycline plus cyclophosphamide 
or paclitaxel (Study H0648g), suggested no effect of doxorubicin and paclitaxel on the 
pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab. 
Pharmacokinetic data from Study H4613g/GO01305 suggested that carboplatin had no impact on the 
PK of trastuzumab.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The administration of concomitant anastrozole did not appear to influence the pharmacokinetics of 
trastuzumab. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/contraception 
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
with KANJINTI and for 7 months after treatment has concluded (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy 
Reproduction studies have been conducted in cynomolgus monkeys at doses up to 25 times that of the 
weekly human maintenance dose of 2 mg/kg trastuzumab intravenous formulation and have revealed 
no evidence of impaired fertility or harm to the foetus. Placental transfer of trastuzumab during the 
early (days 20-50 of gestation) and late (days 120-150 of gestation) foetal development period was 
observed. It is not known whether trastuzumab can affect reproductive capacity. As animal 
reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, KANJINTI should be avoided 
during pregnancy unless the potential benefit for the mother outweighs the potential risk to the foetus. 
In the post-marketing setting, cases of foetal renal growth and/or function impairment in association 
with oligohydramnios, some associated with fatal pulmonary hypoplasia of the foetus, have been 
reported in pregnant women receiving trastuzumab. Women who become pregnant should be advised 
of the possibility of harm to the foetus. If a pregnant woman is treated with KANJINTI, or if a patient 
becomes pregnant while receiving KANJINTI or within 7 months following the last dose of 
KANJINTI, close monitoring by a multidisciplinary team is desirable. 
Breast-feeding 
A study conducted in cynomolgus monkeys at doses 25 times that of the weekly human maintenance 
dose of 2 mg/kg trastuzumab intravenous formulation from days 120 to 150 of pregnancy 
demonstrated that trastuzumab is secreted in the milk postpartum. The exposure to trastuzumab in 
utero and the presence of trastuzumab in the serum of infant monkeys was not associated with any 
adverse effects on their growth or development from birth to 1 month of age. It is not known whether 
trastuzumab is secreted in human milk. As human IgG1 is secreted into human milk, and the potential 
for harm to the breast-fed child is unknown, women should not breast-feed during KANJINTI therapy 
and for 7 months after the last dose. 
Fertility 
There is no fertility data available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Trastuzumab has minor influence on the ability to drive or use machines (see section 4.8). Dizziness 
and somnolence may occur during treatment with KANJINTI (see section 4.8). Patients experiencing 
infusion-related symptoms (see section 4.4) should be advised not to drive and use machines until 
symptoms abate. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Amongst the most serious and/or common adverse reactions reported in trastuzumab usage to date are 
cardiac dysfunction, infusion-related reactions, haematotoxicity (in particular neutropenia), infections 
and pulmonary adverse reactions. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
In this section, the following categories of frequency have been used: very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare 
(< 1/10 000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Presented in Table 1 are adverse reactions that have been reported in association with the use of 
intravenous trastuzumab alone or in combination with chemotherapy in pivotal clinical studies and in 
the post-marketing setting. 
All the terms included are based on the highest percentage seen in pivotal clinical studies. In addition, 
terms reported in the post-marketing setting are included in Table 1.  
Table 1 Undesirable effects reported with intravenous trastuzumab monotherapy or in 
combination with chemotherapy in pivotal clinical studies (N = 8 386) and in post-marketing 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
unspecified (incl. Cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Adverse reaction 
Infection  
Nasopharyngitis  
Neutropenic sepsis  
Cystitis  
Influenza  
Sinusitis  
Skin infection  
Rhinitis  
Upper respiratory tract infection  
Urinary tract infection  
Pharyngitis  
Malignant neoplasm progression  
Neoplasm progression 
Febrile neutropenia  
Anaemia  
Neutropenia  
White blood cell count 
decreased/leukopenia  
Thrombocytopenia  
Hypoprothrombinaemia  
Immune thrombocytopenia  
Hypersensitivity 
+Anaphylactic reaction 
+Anaphylactic shock 
Weight decreased/Weight loss  
Anorexia  
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Hyperkalaemia  
Frequency 
Very common  
Very common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Not known  
Not known 
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Not known  
Not known  
Common  
Rare  
Rare 
Very common  
Very common  
Not known 
Not known  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Very common  
Insomnia  
Common  
Anxiety 
Common  
Depression  
1Tremor  
Very common  
Very common  
Dizziness  
Very common  
Headache  
Very common  
Paraesthesia  
Very common  
Dysgeusia  
Common  
Peripheral neuropathy  
Common  
Hypertonia  
Common  
Somnolence  
Very common  
Conjunctivitis  
Very common  
Lacrimation increased  
Common  
Dry eye  
Not known  
Papilloedema  
Not known  
Retinal haemorrhage  
Uncommon 
Deafness  
1Blood pressure decreased  
Very common  
1Blood pressure increased  
Very common  
1Heart beat irregular  
Very common  
1Cardiac flutter  
Very common  
Very common  
Ejection fraction decreased*  
+Cardiac failure (congestive) 
Common  
+1Supraventricular tachyarrhythmia   Common  
Common  
Cardiomyopathy 
1Palpitation 
Common 
Uncommon  
Pericardial effusion  
Not known  
Cardiogenic shock  
Not known  
Gallop rhythm present  
Very common  
Hot flush  
+1Hypotension 
Common  
Common  
Vasodilatation  
+Dyspnoea 
Very common  
Very common  
Cough  
Very common  
Epistaxis  
Very common  
Rhinorrhoea  
+Pneumonia 
Common  
Common  
Asthma 
Common  
Lung disorder  
+Pleural effusion 
Common  
+1Wheezing 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Pneumonitis  
+Pulmonary fibrosis 
Not known  
+Respiratory distress 
Not known  
+Respiratory failure 
Not known  
+Lung infiltration 
Not known  
+Acute pulmonary oedema 
Not known  
+Acute respiratory distress 
Not known  
syndrome 
+Bronchospasm 
+Hypoxia 
+Oxygen saturation decreased 
Not known  
Not known  
Not known  
12 
 
System organ class 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Pregnancy, puerperium and 
perinatal conditions 
Frequency 
Not known  
Not known  
Not known  
Not known  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Rare  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Adverse reaction 
Laryngeal oedema  
Orthopnoea  
Pulmonary oedema  
Interstitial lung disease  
Diarrhoea  
Vomiting  
Nausea  
1Lip swelling  
Abdominal pain  
Dyspepsia  
Constipation  
Stomatitis  
Haemorrhoids  
Dry mouth  
Hepatocellular injury  
Hepatitis  
Liver tenderness  
Jaundice  
Erythema  
Rash  
1Swelling face  
Alopecia  
Nail disorder  
Palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
syndrome  
Acne  
Dry skin  
Ecchymosis  
Hyperhydrosis 
Maculopapular rash  
Pruritus  
Onychoclasis 
Dermatitis  
Urticaria  
Angioedema  
Arthralgia  
1Muscle tightness  
Myalgia  
Arthritis  
Back pain  
Bone pain  
Muscle spasms  
Neck Pain  
Pain in extremity  
Renal disorder  
Glomerulonephritis membranous   Not known  
Not known  
Glomerulonephropathy  
Not known  
Renal failure  
Not known  
Oligohydramnios  
Not known  
Renal hypoplasia  
Not known  
Pulmonary hypoplasia  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Uncommon  
Not known  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
13 
 
System organ class 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Adverse reaction 
Breast inflammation/mastitis 
Frequency 
Common 
Asthenia 
Chest pain 
Chills  
Fatigue  
Influenza-like symptoms  
Infusion-related reaction  
Pain  
Pyrexia  
Mucosal inflammation  
Peripheral oedema  
Malaise  
Oedema  
Contusion  
Very common 
Very common 
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
+ Denotes adverse reactions that have been reported in association with a fatal outcome. 
1 Denotes adverse reactions that are reported largely in association with Infusion-related reactions. Specific 
percentages for these are not available. 
* Observed with combination therapy following anthracyclines and combined with taxanes. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Cardiac dysfunction 
Congestive heart failure (NYHA class II – IV) is a common adverse reaction associated with the use 
of trastuzumab and has been associated with a fatal outcome (see section 4.4). Signs and symptoms of 
cardiac dysfunction such as dyspnoea, orthopnoea, increased cough, pulmonary oedema, S3 gallop, or 
reduced ventricular ejection fraction, have been observed in patients treated with trastuzumab (see 
section 4.4). 
In 3 pivotal clinical studies of adjuvant trastuzumab given in combination with chemotherapy, the 
incidence of grade 3/4 cardiac dysfunction (specifically symptomatic congestive heart failure) was 
similar in patients who were administered chemotherapy alone (i.e. did not receive trastuzumab) and 
in patients who were administered trastuzumab sequentially to a taxane (0.3-0.4%). The rate was 
highest in patients who were administered trastuzumab concurrently with a taxane (2.0%). In the 
neoadjuvant setting, the experience of concurrent administration of trastuzumab and low-dose 
anthracycline regimen is limited (see section 4.4). 
When trastuzumab was administered after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy NYHA class III-IV 
heart failure was observed in 0.6% of patients in the one-year arm after a median follow-up of 
12 months. In study BO16348, after a median follow-up of 8 years the incidence of severe CHF 
(NYHA class III & IV) in the trastuzumab 1 year treatment arm was 0.8%, and the rate of mild 
symptomatic and asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction was 4.6%. 
Reversibility of severe CHF (defined as a sequence of at least two consecutive LVEF values ≥ 50% 
after the event) was evident for 71.4% of trastuzumab-treated patients. Reversibility of mild 
symptomatic and asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction was demonstrated for 79.5% of patients. 
Approximately 17% of cardiac dysfunction related events occurred after completion of trastuzumab.  
In the pivotal metastatic studies of intravenous trastuzumab, the incidence of cardiac dysfunction 
varied between 9% and 12% when it was combined with paclitaxel compared with 1%-4% for 
paclitaxel alone. For monotherapy, the rate was 6% - 9%. The highest rate of cardiac dysfunction was 
seen in patients receiving trastuzumab concurrently with anthracycline/cyclophosphamide (27%), and 
was significantly higher than for anthracycline/cyclophosphamide alone (7%-10%). In a subsequent 
study with prospective monitoring of cardiac function, the incidence of symptomatic CHF was 2.2% in 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients receiving trastuzumab and docetaxel, compared with 0% in patients receiving docetaxel alone. 
Most of the patients (79%) who developed cardiac dysfunction in these studies experienced an 
improvement after receiving standard treatment for CHF. 
Infusion reactions, allergic-like reactions and hypersensitivity 
It is estimated that approximately 40% of patients who are treated with trastuzumab will experience 
some form of infusion-related reaction. However, the majority of infusion-related reactions are mild to 
moderate in intensity (NCI-CTC grading system) and tend to occur earlier in treatment, i.e. during 
infusions one, two and three and lessen in frequency in subsequent infusions. Reactions include chills, 
fever, dyspnoea, hypotension, wheezing, bronchospasm, tachycardia, reduced oxygen saturation, 
respiratory distress, rash, nausea, vomiting and headache (see section 4.4). The rate of infusion-related 
reactions of all grades varied between studies depending on the indication, the data collection 
methodology, and whether trastuzumab was given concurrently with chemotherapy or as 
monotherapy. 
Severe anaphylactic reactions requiring immediate additional intervention can occur usually during 
either the first or second infusion of trastuzumab (see section 4.4) and have been associated with a 
fatal outcome. Anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in isolated cases. 
Haematotoxicity 
Febrile neutropenia, leukopenia, anaemia, thrombocytopenia and neutropenia occurred very 
commonly. The frequency of occurrence of hypoprothrombinaemia is not known. The risk of 
neutropenia may be slightly increased when trastuzumab is administered with docetaxel following 
anthracycline therapy. 
Pulmonary events 
Severe pulmonary adverse reactions occur in association with the use of trastuzumab and have been 
associated with a fatal outcome. These include, but are not limited to, pulmonary infiltrates, acute 
respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, pneumonitis, pleural effusion, respiratory distress, acute 
pulmonary oedema and respiratory insufficiency (see section 4.4). 
Details of risk minimisation measures that are consistent with the EU Risk Management Plan are 
presented in (see section 4.4) warnings and precautions. 
Immunogenicity 
In the neoadjuvant-adjuvant EBC study (BO22227), at a median follow-up exceeding 70 months, 
10.1% (30/296) of patients treated with trastuzumab intravenous developed antibodies against 
trastuzumab. Neutralising anti-trastuzumab antibodies were detected in post-baseline samples in 2 of 
30 patients in the trastuzumab intravenous arm. 
The clinical relevance of these antibodies is not known. The presence of anti-trastuzumab antibodies 
had no impact on pharmacokinetics, efficacy (determined by pathological complete response [pCR] 
and event-free survival [EFS]) and safety determined by occurrence of administration related reactions 
(ARRs) of trastuzumab intravenous.  
There are no immunogenicity data available for trastuzumab in gastric cancer. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no experience with overdose in human clinical studies. Single doses of trastuzumab alone 
greater than 10 mg/kg have not been administered in the clinical studies; a maintenance dose of 
10 mg/kg q3w following a loading dose of 8 mg/kg has been studied in a clinical study with metastatic 
gastric cancer patients. Doses up to this level were well tolerated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic and immunomodulating agents, antineoplastic agents, 
monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug conjugates, ATC code: L01FD01  
KANJINTI is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Trastuzumab is a recombinant humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody against the human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). Overexpression of HER2 is observed in 20%-30% of primary breast 
cancers. Studies of HER2-positivity rates in gastric cancer (GC) using immunohistochemistry (IHC) 
and fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) or chromogenic in situ hybridisation (CISH) have shown 
that there is a broad variation of HER2-positivity ranging from 6.8% to 34.0% for IHC and 7.1% to 
42.6% for FISH. Studies indicate that breast cancer patients whose tumours overexpress HER2 have a 
shortened disease-free survival compared to patients whose tumours do not overexpress HER2. The 
extracellular domain of the receptor (ECD, p105) can be shed into the blood stream and measured in 
serum samples. 
Mechanism of action 
Trastuzumab binds with high affinity and specificity to sub-domain IV, a juxta-membrane region of 
HER2’s extracellular domain. Binding of trastuzumab to HER2 inhibits ligand-independent HER2 
signalling and prevents the proteolytic cleavage of its extracellular domain, an activation mechanism 
of HER2. As a result, trastuzumab has been shown, in both in vitro assays and in animals, to inhibit 
the proliferation of human tumour cells that overexpress HER2. Additionally, trastuzumab is a potent 
mediator of antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). In vitro, trastuzumab-mediated 
ADCC has been shown to be preferentially exerted on HER2 overexpressing cancer cells compared 
with cancer cells that do not overexpress HER2. 
Detection of HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification 
Detection of HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification in breast cancer 
KANJINTI should only be used in patients whose tumours have HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene 
amplification as determined by an accurate and validated assay. HER2 overexpression should be 
detected using an immunohistochemistry (IHC)-based assessment of fixed tumour blocks (see 
section 4.4). HER2 gene amplification should be detected using fluorescence in situ hybridisation 
(FISH) or chromogenic in situ hybridisation (CISH) of fixed tumour blocks. Patients are eligible for 
KANJINTI treatment if they show strong HER2 overexpression as described by a 3+ score by IHC or 
a positive FISH or CISH result. 
To ensure accurate and reproducible results, the testing must be performed in a specialised laboratory, 
which can ensure validation of the testing procedures. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended scoring system to evaluate the IHC staining patterns is as stated in table 2:  
Table 2 Recommended scoring system to evaluate the IHC staining patterns in breast cancer 
Score   Staining pattern  
0 
1+  
2+  
3+  
No staining is observed or membrane staining is observed in < 10% of 
the tumour cells.  
A faint/barely perceptible membrane staining is detected in > 10% of 
the tumour cells. The cells are only stained in part of their membrane.  
A weak to moderate complete membrane staining is detected in > 10% 
of the tumour cells.  
Strong complete membrane staining is detected in > 10% of the tumour 
cells.  
HER2 
overexpression 
assessment  
Negative  
Negative  
Equivocal  
Positive  
In general, FISH is considered positive if the ratio of the HER2 gene copy number per tumour cell to 
the chromosome 17 copy number is greater than or equal to 2, or if there are more than 4 copies of the 
HER2 gene per tumour cell if no chromosome 17 control is used. 
In general, CISH is considered positive if there are more than 5 copies of the HER2 gene per nucleus 
in greater than 50% of tumour cells. 
For full instructions on assay performance and interpretation please refer to the package inserts of 
validated FISH and CISH assays. Official recommendations on HER2 testing may also apply.  
For any other method that may be used for the assessment of HER2 protein or gene expression, the 
analyses should only be performed by laboratories that provide adequate state-of-the-art performance 
of validated methods. Such methods must clearly be precise and accurate enough to demonstrate 
overexpression of HER2 and must be able to distinguish between moderate (congruent with 2+) and 
strong (congruent with 3+) overexpression of HER2. 
Detection of HER2 over expression or HER2 gene amplification in gastric cancer 
Only an accurate and validated assay should be used to detect HER2 over expression or HER2 gene 
amplification. IHC is recommended as the first testing modality and in cases where HER2 gene 
amplification status is also required, either a silver-enhanced in situ hybridisation (SISH) or a FISH 
technique must be applied. SISH technology is however, recommended to allow for the parallel 
evaluation of tumour histology and morphology. To ensure validation of testing procedures and the 
generation of accurate and reproducible results, HER2 testing must be performed in a laboratory 
staffed by trained personnel. Full instructions on assay performance and results interpretation should 
be taken from the product information leaflet provided with the HER2 testing assays used.  
In the ToGA (BO18255) study, patients whose tumours were either IHC3+ or FISH positive were 
defined as HER2 positive and thus included in the study. Based on the clinical study results, the 
beneficial effects were limited to patients with the highest level of HER2 protein overexpression, 
defined by a 3+ score by IHC, or a 2+ score by IHC and a positive FISH result. 
In a method comparison study (study D008548) a high degree of concordance (> 95%) was observed 
for SISH and FISH techniques for the detection of HER2 gene amplification in gastric cancer patients.  
HER2 over expression should be detected using an immunohistochemistry (IHC)-based assessment of 
fixed tumour blocks; HER2 gene amplification should be detected using in situ hybridisation using 
either SISH or FISH on fixed tumour blocks. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended scoring system to evaluate the IHC staining patterns is as stated in table 3: 
Table 3 Recommended scoring system to evaluate the IHC staining patterns in gastric cancer 
Score   Surgical specimen - staining 
Biopsy specimen - staining pattern   HER2 
pattern  
No reactivity or membranous 
reactivity in < 10% of tumour 
cells  
Faint/barely perceptible 
membranous reactivity in ≥ 10% 
of tumour cells; cells are reactive 
only in part of their membrane  
Weak to moderate complete, 
basolateral or lateral membranous 
reactivity in ≥ 10% of tumour 
cells  
Strong complete, basolateral or 
lateral membranous reactivity in 
≥ 10% of tumour cells  
0 
1+  
2+  
3+  
No reactivity or membranous 
reactivity in any tumour cell  
Tumour cell cluster with a 
faint/barely perceptible membranous 
reactivity irrespective of percentage 
of tumour cells stained  
Tumour cell cluster with a weak to 
moderate complete, basolateral or 
lateral membranous reactivity 
irrespective of percentage of tumour 
cells stained  
Tumour cell cluster with a strong 
complete, basolateral or lateral 
membranous reactivity irrespective 
of percentage of tumour cells stained  
overexpression 
assessment  
Negative  
Negative  
Equivocal  
Positive  
In general, SISH or FISH is considered positive if the ratio of the HER2 gene copy number per tumour 
cell to the chromosome 17 copy number is greater than or equal to 2. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Trastuzumab has been used in clinical studies as monotherapy for patients with MBC who have 
tumours that overexpress HER2 and who have failed one or more chemotherapy regimens for their 
metastatic disease (trastuzumab alone). 
Trastuzumab has also been used in combination with paclitaxel or docetaxel for the treatment of 
patients who have not received chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. Patients who had previously 
received anthracycline-based adjuvant chemotherapy were treated with paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 infused 
over 3 hours) with or without trastuzumab. In the pivotal study of docetaxel (100 mg/m2 infused over 
1 hour) with or without trastuzumab, 60% of the patients had received prior anthracycline-based 
adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients were treated with trastuzumab until progression of disease. 
The efficacy of trastuzumab in combination with paclitaxel in patients who did not receive prior 
adjuvant anthracyclines has not been studied. However, trastuzumab plus docetaxel was efficacious in 
patients whether or not they had received prior adjuvant anthracyclines. 
The test method for HER2 overexpression used to determine eligibility of patients in the pivotal 
trastuzumab monotherapy and trastuzumab plus paclitaxel clinical studies employed 
immunohistochemical staining for HER2 of fixed material from breast tumours using the murine 
monoclonal antibodies CB11 and 4D5. These tissues were fixed in formalin or Bouin’s fixative. This 
investigative clinical study assay performed in a central laboratory utilised a 0 to 3+ scale. Patients 
classified as staining 2+ or 3+ were included, while those staining 0 or 1+ were excluded. Greater than 
70% of patients enrolled exhibited 3+ overexpression. The data suggest that beneficial effects were 
greater among those patients with higher levels of overexpression of HER2 (3+). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main test method used to determine HER2 positivity in the pivotal study of docetaxel, with or 
without trastuzumab, was immunohistochemistry. A minority of patients was tested using fluorescence 
in situ hybridisation (FISH). In this study, 87% of patients entered had disease that was IHC3+, and 
95% of patients entered had disease that was IHC3+ and/or FISH-positive. 
Weekly dosing in metastatic breast cancer 
The efficacy results from the monotherapy and combination therapy studies are summarised in table 4. 
Table 4 Efficacy results from the monotherapy and combination therapy studies 
Parameter  
Monotherapy  
Trastuzumab1  
N = 172 
Combination therapy 
Paclitaxel2  
N = 77 
Trastuzumab 
plus 
paclitaxel2 
N = 68 
49% 
(36-61) 
8.3 
(7.3-8.8) 
Trastuzumab 
plus 
docetaxel3 
N = 92 
61% 
(50-71) 
11.7 
(9.3–15.0) 
17% 
(9-27) 
4.6 
(3.7-7.4) 
18% 
(13-25) 
9.1 
(5.6-10.3) 
Response rate 
(95%CI)  
Median duration 
of response 
(months)  
(95%CI)  
11.7 
Median TTP 
(9.2-13.5) 
(months) (95%CI)  
31.2 
Median Survival 
(months) (95%CI)  
(27.3-40.8) 
TTP = time to progression; "ne" indicates that it could not be estimated or it was not yet reached. 
1. Study H0649g: IHC3+ patient subset 
2. Study H0648g: IHC3+ patient subset 
3. Study M77001: Full analysis set (intent-to-treat), 24 months results 
3.0 
(2.0-4.4) 
17.9 
(11.2-23.8) 
7.1 
(6.2-12.0) 
24.8 
(18.6-33.7) 
3.2 
(2.6-3.5) 
16.4 
(12.3-ne) 
Docetaxel3  
N = 94 
34% 
(25-45) 
5.7 
(4.6-7.6) 
6.1 
(5.4-7.2) 
22.74 
(19.1-30.8) 
Combination treatment with trastuzumab and anastrozole 
Trastuzumab has been studied in combination with anastrozole for first line treatment of MBC in 
HER2 overexpressing, hormone-receptor (i.e. oestrogen-receptor (ER) and/or progesterone-receptor 
(PR)) positive postmenopausal patients. Progression free survival was doubled in the trastuzumab plus 
anastrozole arm compared to anastrozole (4.8 months versus 2.4 months). For the other parameters the 
improvements seen for the combination were for overall response (16.5% versus 6.7%); clinical 
benefit rate (42.7% versus 27.9%); time to progression (4.8 months versus 2.4 months). For time to 
response and duration of response no difference could be recorded between the arms. The median 
overall survival was extended by 4.6 months for patients in the combination arm. The difference was 
not statistically significant, however more than half of the patients in the anastrozole alone arm 
crossed over to a trastuzumab containing regimen after progression of disease. 
Three-weekly dosing in metastatic breast cancer 
The efficacy results from the non-comparative monotherapy and combination therapy studies are 
summarised in table 5: 
Table 5 Efficacy results from the non-comparative monotherapy and combination therapy 
studies 
Parameter 
Monotherapy 
Combination therapy 
  Trastuzumab1 
N = 105 
Trastuzumab2 
N = 72 
Response rate  
(95%CI)  
Median duration of 
response (months) (range)  
24% 
(15-35) 
10.1 
(2.8-35.6) 
27% 
(14-43) 
7.9 
(2.1-18.8) 
19 
Trastuzumab 
plus paclitaxel3 
N = 32 
59% 
(41-76) 
10.5 
(1.8-21) 
Trastuzumab 
plus docetaxel4 
N = 110 
73% 
(63-81) 
13.4 
(2.1-55.1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
Monotherapy 
Combination therapy 
  Trastuzumab1 
N = 105 
Trastuzumab2 
N = 72 
3.4 
(2.8-4.1) 
ne 
Median TTP (months) 
(95%CI)  
Median Survival (months) 
(95%CI)  
TTP = time to progression; "ne" indicates that it could not be estimated or it was not yet reached. 
1. Study WO16229: loading dose 8 mg/kg, followed by 6 mg/kg 3-weekly schedule 
2. Study MO16982: loading dose 6 mg/kg weekly × 3; followed by 6 mg/kg 3-weekly schedule 
3. Study BO15935 
4. Study MO16419 
7.7 
(4.2-8.3) 
ne 
Trastuzumab 
plus paclitaxel3 
N = 32 
12.2 
(6.2-ne) 
ne 
Trastuzumab 
plus docetaxel4 
N = 110 
13.6 
(11-16) 
47.3 
(32-ne) 
Sites of progression 
The frequency of progression in the liver was significantly reduced in patients treated with the 
combination of trastuzumab and paclitaxel, compared to paclitaxel alone (21.8% versus 45.7%; 
p = 0.004). More patients treated with trastuzumab and paclitaxel progressed in the central nervous 
system than those treated with paclitaxel alone (12.6% versus 6.5%; p = 0.377). 
Early breast cancer (adjuvant setting) 
Early breast cancer is defined as non-metastatic primary invasive carcinoma of the breast. 
In the adjuvant treatment setting, trastuzumab was investigated in 4 large multicentre, randomised, 
studies. 
- 
Study BO16348 was designed to compare one and two years of three-weekly trastuzumab 
treatment versus observation in patients with HER2 positive EBC following surgery, established 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy (if applicable). In addition, comparison of two years of 
trastuzumab treatment versus one year of trastuzumab treatment was performed. Patients 
assigned to receive trastuzumab were given an initial loading dose of 8 mg/kg, followed by 
6 mg/kg every three weeks for either one or two years. 
The NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831 studies that comprise the joint analysis were designed to 
investigate the clinical utility of combining trastuzumab treatment with paclitaxel following AC 
chemotherapy, additionally the NCCTG N9831 study also investigated adding trastuzumab 
sequentially to AC→P chemotherapy in patients with HER2 positive EBC following surgery. 
The BCIRG 006 study was designed to investigate combining trastuzumab treatment with 
docetaxel either following AC chemotherapy or in combination with docetaxel and carboplatin 
in patients with HER2 positive EBC following surgery. 
- 
- 
Early breast cancer in the HERA study was limited to operable, primary, invasive adenocarcinoma of 
the breast, with axillary nodes positive or axillary nodes negative if tumours at least 1 cm in diameter.  
In the joint analysis of the NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831 studies, EBC was limited to women with 
operable breast cancer at high risk, defined as HER2-positive and axillary lymph node positive or 
HER2 positive and lymph node negative with high risk features (tumour size > 1 cm and ER negative 
or tumour size > 2 cm, regardless of hormonal status).  
In the BCIRG 006 study HER2 positive, EBC was defined as either lymph node positive or high risk 
node negative patients with no (pN0) lymph node involvement, and at least 1 of the following factors: 
tumour size greater than 2 cm, oestrogen receptor and progesterone receptor negative, histological 
and/or nuclear grade 2-3, or age < 35 years).  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy results from the BO16348 study following 12 months* and 8 years** median follow-up 
are summarised in table 6: 
Table 6 Efficacy results from study BO16348 
Parameter 
Disease-free survival (DFS) 
- No. patients with event 
- No. patients without event 
P-value versus Observation 
Hazard ratio (HR) versus 
Observation 
Recurrence-free survival 
- No. patients with event 
- No. patients without event 
P-value versus Observation 
Hazard ratio versus Observation 
Distant disease-free survival 
- No. patients with event 
- No. patients without event 
P-value versus Observation 
Hazard ratio versus Observation 
Overall survival (OS) (death) 
- No. patients with event 
- No. patients without event 
P-value versus Observation 
Hazard ratio versus Observation 
Median follow-up 
12 months* 
Median follow-up 
8 years** 
Observation 
N = 1 693 
Trastuzumab 
1 Year 
N = 1 693 
Observation 
N = 1 697*** 
Trastuzumab 
1 Year 
N = 1 702*** 
219 (12.9%) 
1 474 (87.1%) 
127 (7.5%) 
1 566 (92.5%) 
570 (33.6%) 
1 127 (66.4%) 
471 (27.7%) 
1 231 (72.3%) 
< 0.0001 
0.54 
< 0.0001 
0.76 
208 (12.3%) 
1 485 (87.7%) 
113 (6.7%) 
1 580 (93.3%) 
506 (29.8%) 
1 191 (70.2%) 
399 (23.4%) 
1 303 (76.6%) 
< 0.0001 
0.51 
< 0.0001 
0.73 
184 (10.9%) 
1 508 (89.1%) 
99 (5.8%) 
1 594 (94.6%) 
488 (28.8%) 
1 209 (71.2%) 
399 (23.4%) 
1 303 (76.6%) 
< 0.0001 
0.50 
< 0.0001 
0.76 
40 (2.4%) 
1 653 (97.6%) 
31 (1.8%) 
1 662 (98.2%) 
350 (20.6%) 
1 347 (79.4%) 
278 (16.3%) 
1 424 (83.7%) 
0.24 
0.75 
0.0005 
0.76 
*Co-primary endpoint of DFS of 1 year versus observation met the pre-defined statistical boundary 
**Final analysis (including cross-over of 52% of patients from the observation arm to trastuzumab) 
***There is a discrepancy in the overall sample size due to a small number of patients who were randomised after the cut-off 
date for the 12-month median follow-up analysis 
The efficacy results from the interim efficacy analysis crossed the protocol pre-specified statistical 
boundary for the comparison of 1-year of trastuzumab versus observation. After a median follow-up of 
12 months, the HR for DFS was 0.54 (95% CI: 0.44, 0.67) which translates into an absolute benefit, in 
terms of a 2-year disease-free survival rate, of 7.6 percentage points (85.8% versus 78.2%) in favour 
of the trastuzumab arm. 
A final analysis was performed after a median follow-up of 8 years, which showed that 1 year 
trastuzumab treatment is associated with a 24% risk reduction compared to observation only 
(HR = 0.76, 95% CI: 0.67, 0.86). This translates into an absolute benefit in terms of an 8 year 
disease-free survival rate of 6.4 percentage points in favour of 1 year trastuzumab treatment. 
In this final analysis, extending trastuzumab treatment for a duration of two years did not show 
additional benefit over treatment for 1 year [DFS HR in the intent to treat (ITT) population of 2 years 
versus 1 year = 0.99 (95% CI: 0.87, 1.13), p-value = 0.90 and OS HR = 0.98 (0.83, 1.15); 
p-value = 0.78]. The rate of asymptomatic cardiac dysfunction was increased in the 2-year treatment 
arm (8.1% versus 4.6% in the 1-year treatment arm). More patients experienced at least one grade 3 or 
4 adverse event in the 2-year treatment arm (20.4%) compared with the 1-year treatment arm (16.3%).  
In the NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831 studies trastuzumab was administered in combination with 
paclitaxel, following AC chemotherapy. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide were administered concurrently as follows: 
- 
- 
intravenous push doxorubicin, at 60 mg/m2, given every 3 weeks for 4 cycles. 
intravenous cyclophosphamide, at 600 mg/m2 over 30 minutes, given every 3 weeks for 
4 cycles. 
Paclitaxel, in combination with trastuzumab, was administered as follows: 
- 
or 
- 
intravenous paclitaxel – 80 mg/m2 as a continuous intravenous infusion, given every week for 
12 weeks. 
intravenous paclitaxel – 175 mg/m2 as a continuous intravenous infusion, given every 3 weeks 
for 4 cycles (day 1 of each cycle). 
The efficacy results from the joint analysis of the NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831 studies at the time 
of the definitive analysis of DFS*
1.8 years for the patients in the AC→P arm and 2.0 years for patients in the AC→PH arm. 
 are summarised in Table 7. The median duration of follow-up was 
Table 7 Summary of efficacy results from the joint analysis of the NSABP B-31 and 
NCCTG N9831 studies at the time of the definitive DFS analysis* 
Parameter 
AC→P 
(n = 1 679) 
AC→PH 
(n = 1 672) 
Disease-free survival 
No. patients with event (%) 
Distant recurrence 
No. patients with event 
Death (OS event) 
No. patients with event 
261 (15.5) 
133 (8.0) 
193 (11.5) 
96 (5.7) 
92 (5.5) 
62 (3.7) 
Hazard ratio vs 
AC→P 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
0.48 (0.39, 0.59) 
p < 0.0001 
0.47 (0.37, 0.60) 
p < 0.0001 
0.67 (0.48, 0.92) 
p = 0.014** 
A: doxorubicin; C: cyclophosphamide; P: paclitaxel; H: trastuzumab 
* At median duration of follow-up of 1.8 years for the patients in the AC→P arm and 2.0 years for patients in the 
AC→PH arm 
** p value for OS did not cross the pre-specified statistical boundary for comparison of AC→PH vs AC→P 
For the primary endpoint, DFS, the addition of trastuzumab to paclitaxel chemotherapy resulted in a 
52% decrease in the risk of disease recurrence. The hazard ratio translates into an absolute benefit, in 
terms of 3-year disease-free survival rate estimates of 11.8 percentage points (87.2% versus 75.4%) in 
favour of the AC→PH (trastuzumab) arm. 
At the time of a safety update after a median of 3.5-3.8 years follow-up, an analysis of DFS reconfirms 
the magnitude of the benefit shown in the definitive analysis of DFS. Despite the cross-over to 
trastuzumab in the control arm, the addition of trastuzumab to paclitaxel chemotherapy resulted in a 
52% decrease in the risk of disease recurrence. The addition of trastuzumab to paclitaxel 
chemotherapy also resulted in a 37% decrease in the risk of death. 
The pre-planned final analysis of OS from the joint analysis of studies NSABP B-31 and 
NCCTG N9831 was performed when 707 deaths had occurred (median follow-up 8.3 years in the 
AC→PH group). Treatment with AC→PH resulted in a statistically significant improvement in OS 
compared with AC→P (stratified HR = 0.64; 95% CI [0.55, 0.74]; log-rank p-value < 0.0001). At 
8 years, the survival rate was estimated to be 86.9% in the AC→PH arm and 79.4% in the 
AC→P arm, an absolute benefit of 7.4% (95% CI: 4.9%, 10.0%). 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final OS results from the joint analysis of studies NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831 are 
summarised in table 8: 
Table 8 Final overall survival analysis from the joint analysis of studies NSABP B-31 and 
NCCTG N9831 
Parameter 
AC→P 
(N = 2 032) 
AC→PH 
(N = 2 031) 
p-value 
versus 
AC→P 
Death (OS event): 
No. patients with event (%) 
418 (20.6%) 
289 (14.2%) 
< 0.0001 
A: doxorubicin; C: cyclophosphamide; P: paclitaxel; H: trastuzumab 
Hazard ratio 
versus 
AC→P 
(95% CI) 
0.64 
(0.55, 0.74) 
DFS analysis was also performed at the final analysis of OS from the joint analysis of studies 
NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831. The updated DFS analysis results (stratified HR = 0.61; 95% CI 
[0.54, 0.69]) showed a similar DFS benefit compared to the definitive primary DFS analysis, despite 
24.8% patients in the AC→P arm who crossed over to receive trastuzumab. At 8 years, the 
disease-free survival rate was estimated to be 77.2% (95% CI: 75.4, 79.1) in the AC→PH arm, an 
absolute benefit of 11.8% compared with the AC→P arm. 
In the BCIRG 006 study trastuzumab was administered either in combination with docetaxel, 
following AC chemotherapy (AC→DH) or in combination with docetaxel and carboplatin (DCarbH). 
Docetaxel was administered as follows: 
- 
or 
- 
intravenous docetaxel – 100 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour, given every 3 weeks 
for 4 cycles (day 2 of first docetaxel cycle, then day 1 of each subsequent cycle) 
intravenous docetaxel – 75 mg/m2 as an intravenous infusion over 1 hour, given every 3 weeks 
for 6 cycles (day 2 of cycle 1, then day 1 of each subsequent cycle) 
which was followed by: 
- 
carboplatin – at target AUC = 6 mg/mL/min administered by intravenous infusion over 
30-60 minutes repeated every 3 weeks for a total of six cycles 
Trastuzumab was administered weekly with chemotherapy and 3-weekly thereafter for a total of 
52 weeks. 
The efficacy results from the BCIRG 006 are summarised in Tables 9 and 10. The median duration of 
follow-up was 2.9 years in the AC→D arm and 3.0 years in each of the AC→DH and DCarbH arms. 
Table 9 Overview of efficacy analyses BCIRG 006 AC→D versus AC→DH 
Parameter 
AC→D 
(n = 1 073) 
AC→DH (n = 1 074) 
Disease-free survival 
No. patients with event 
Distant recurrence 
No. patients with event 
134 
95 
195 
144 
23 
Hazard ratio vs 
AC→D 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
0.61 (0.49, 0.77) 
p < 0.0001 
0.59 (0.46, 0.77) 
p < 0.0001 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
AC→D 
(n = 1 073) 
AC→DH (n = 1 074) 
Death (OS event) 
No. patients with event 
80 
49 
Hazard ratio vs 
AC→D 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
0.58 (0.40, 0.83) 
p = 0.0024 
AC→D = doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide, followed by docetaxel; AC→DH = doxorubicin plus 
cyclophosphamide, followed by docetaxel plus trastuzumab; CI = confidence interval 
Table 10 Overview of efficacy analyses BCIRG 006 AC→D versus DCarbH 
Parameter 
AC→D 
(n = 1 073) 
DCarbH 
(n = 1 074) 
Disease-free survival 
No. patients with event 
Distant recurrence 
No. patients with event 
Death (OS event) 
No. patients with event 
195 
144 
80 
145 
103 
56 
Hazard ratio vs 
AC→D 
(95% CI) 
0.67 (0.54, 0.83) 
p = 0.0003 
0.65 (0.50, 0.84) 
p = 0.0008 
0.66 (0.47, 0.93) 
p = 0.0182 
AC→D = doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide, followed by docetaxel; DCarbH = docetaxel, carboplatin and 
trastuzumab; CI = confidence interval 
In the BCIRG 006 study for the primary endpoint, DFS, the hazard ratio translates into an absolute 
benefit, in terms of 3-year disease-free survival rate estimates of 5.8 percentage points (86.7% versus 
80.9%) in favour of the AC→DH (trastuzumab) arm and 4.6 percentage points (85.5% versus 80.9%) 
in favour of the DCarbH (trastuzumab) arm compared to AC→D. 
In study BCIRG 006, 213/1 075 patients in the DCarbH (TCH) arm, 221/1 074 patients in the 
AC→DH (AC→TH) arm, and 217/1 073 in the AC→D (AC→T) arm had a Karnofsky performance 
status ≤ 90 (either 80 or 90). No disease-free survival (DFS) benefit was noticed in this subgroup of 
patients (hazard ratio = 1.16, 95% CI [0.73, 1.83] for DCarbH (TCH) versus AC→D (AC→T); hazard 
ratio 0.97, 95% CI [0.60, 1.55] for AC→DH (AC→TH) versus AC→D). 
In addition a post-hoc exploratory analysis was performed on the data sets from the joint analysis (JA) 
NSABP B-31/NCCTG N9831* and BCIRG 006 clinical studies combining DFS events and 
symptomatic cardiac events and summarised in table 11: 
Table 11 Post-hoc exploratory analysis results from the joint analysis 
NSABP B-31/NCCTG N9831* and BCIRG 006 clinical studies combining DFS events and 
symptomatic cardiac events 
Primary efficacy analysis 
DFS Hazard ratios 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
AC→PH 
(vs AC→P) 
(NSABP B-31 and 
NCCTG N9831)* 
AC→DH 
(vs AC→D) 
(BCIRG 006) 
DCarbH 
(vs AC→D) 
(BCIRG 006) 
0.48 
(0.39, 0.59)  
p < 0.0001 
0.61 
(0.49, 0.77) 
p < 0.0001 
0.67 
(0.54, 0.83) 
p = 0.0003 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
AC→PH 
(vs AC→P) 
(NSABP B-31 and 
NCCTG N9831)* 
AC→DH 
(vs AC→D) 
(BCIRG 006) 
DCarbH 
(vs AC→D) 
(BCIRG 006) 
0.61 
(0.54, 0.69) 
p<0.0001 
0.77 
(0.65, 0.90) 
p=0.0011 
0.72 
(0.61, 0.85) 
p<0.0001 
Long term follow-up efficacy 
analysis** 
DFS Hazard ratios 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
Post-hoc exploratory analysis with 
DFS and symptomatic cardiac 
events  
Long term follow-up**  
Hazard ratios  
(95% CI) 
A: doxorubicin; C: cyclophosphamide; P: paclitaxel; D: docetaxel; Carb: carboplatin; H: trastuzumab 
CI = confidence interval 
* At the time of the definitive analysis of DFS. Median duration of follow-up was 1.8 years in the AC→P arm 
and 2.0 years in the AC→PH arm 
** Median duration of long term follow-up for the Joint Analysis clinical studies was 8.3 years (range: 0.1 to 
12.1) for the AC→PH arm and 7.9 years (range: 0.0 to 12.2) for the AC→P arm; Median duration of long term 
follow-up for the BCIRG 006 study was 10.3 years in both the AC→D arm (range: 0.0 to 12.6) arm and the 
DCarbH arm (range: 0.0 to 13.1), and was 10.4 years (range: 0.0 to 12.7) in the AC→DH arm 
0.77 
(0.66, 0.90) 
0.67 
(0.60, 0.75) 
0.77 
(0.66, 0.90) 
Early breast cancer (neoadjuvant-adjuvant setting) 
So far, no results are available which compare the efficacy of trastuzumab administered with 
chemotherapy in the adjuvant setting with that obtained in the neoadjuvant/adjuvant setting. 
In the neoadjuvant-adjuvant treatment setting, study MO16432, a multicentre randomised study, was 
designed to investigate the clinical efficacy of concurrent administration of trastuzumab with 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy including both an anthracycline and a taxane, followed by adjuvant 
trastuzumab, up to a total treatment duration of 1 year. The study recruited patients with newly 
diagnosed locally advanced (Stage III) or inflammatory EBC. Patients with HER2+ tumours were 
randomised to receive either neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrently with neoadjuvant-adjuvant 
trastuzumab, or neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone. 
In study MO16432, trastuzumab (8 mg/kg loading dose, followed by 6 mg/kg maintenance every 
3 weeks) was administered concurrently with 10 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy as follows: 
- 
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 and paclitaxel 150 mg/m2, administered 3-weekly for 3 cycles, 
which was followed by 
- 
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 administered 3-weekly for 4 cycles, 
which was followed by 
- 
CMF on day 1 and 8 every 4 weeks for 3 cycles 
which was followed after surgery by 
- 
additional cycles of adjuvant trastuzumab (to complete 1 year of treatment) 
The efficacy results from study MO16432 are summarised in Table 12. The median duration of 
follow-up in the trastuzumab arm was 3.8 years. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 Efficacy results from MO16432 
Parameter 
Event-free survival 
Chemo + 
trastuzumab 
(n = 115) 
Chemo only 
(n = 116) 
No. patients with event 
46 
59 
Total pathological complete 
response* (95% CI) 
Overall survival 
40% 
(31.0, 49.6) 
20.7% 
(13.7, 29.2) 
No. patients with event 
22 
33 
*defined as absence of any invasive cancer both in the breast and axillary nodes 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
0.65 (0.44, 0.96) 
p = 0.0275 
p = 0.0014 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
0.59 (0.35, 1.02) 
p = 0.0555 
An absolute benefit of 13 percentage points in favour of the trastuzumab arm was estimated in terms 
of 3 years event-free survival rate (65% versus 52%). 
Metastatic gastric cancer 
Trastuzumab has been investigated in one randomised, open-label phase III study ToGA (BO18255) in 
combination with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone. 
Chemotherapy was administered as follows: 
• 
or 
• 
capecitabine – 1 000 mg/m2 orally twice daily for 14 days every 3 weeks for 6 cycles (evening 
of day 1 to morning of day 15 of each cycle) 
intravenous 5-fluorouracil - 800 mg/m2/day as a continuous intravenous infusion over 5 days, 
given every 3 weeks for 6 cycles (days 1 to 5 of each cycle) 
Either of which was administered with: 
• 
cisplatin – 80 mg/m2 every 3 weeks for 6 cycles on day 1 of each cycle. 
The efficacy results from study BO18225 are summarised in table 13: 
Table 13 Efficacy results from BO18225 
Parameter 
FP 
N = 290 
FP + H 
N = 294 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value 
11.1 
5.5 
Overall survival, median months  
Progression-free survival, Median 
months 
Time to disease progression, 
Median months 
Overall response rate,%  
Duration of response, median 
months 
FP + H: Fluoropyrimidine/cisplatin + trastuzumab 
FP: Fluoropyrimidine/cisplatin 
a Odds ratio 
5.6 
34.5% 
4.8 
13.8 
6.7 
0.74 (0.60-0.91) 
0.71 (0.59-0.85) 
0.0046 
0.0002 
7.1 
0.70 (0.58-0.85) 
0.0003 
47.3% 
6.9 
1.70a (1.22, 2.38) 
0.54 (0.40-0.73) 
0.0017 
< 0.0001 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were recruited to the study who were previously untreated for HER2-positive inoperable 
locally advanced or recurrent and/or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastro-oesophageal 
junction not amenable to curative therapy. The primary endpoint was overall survival which was 
defined as the time from the date of randomisation to the date of death from any cause. At the time of 
the analysis a total of 349 randomised patients had died: 182 patients (62.8%) in the control arm and 
167 patients (56.8%) in the treatment arm. The majority of the deaths were due to events related to the 
underlying cancer. 
Post-hoc subgroup analyses indicate that positive treatment effects are limited to targeting tumours 
with higher levels of HER2 protein (IHC 2+/FISH+ or IHC 3+). The median overall survival for the 
high HER2 expressing group was 11.8 months versus 16 months, HR 0.65 (95% CI: 0.51-0.83) and 
the median progression free survival was 5.5 months versus 7.6 months, HR 0.64 (95% CI: 0.51-0.79) 
for FP versus FP + H, respectively. For overall survival, the HR was 0.75 (95% CI: 0.51-1.11) in the 
IHC 2+/FISH+ group and the HR was 0.58 (95% CI: 0.41-0.81) in the IHC 3+/FISH+ group. 
In an exploratory subgroup analysis performed in the TOGA (BO18255) study there was no apparent 
benefit on overall survival with the addition of trastuzumab in patients with ECOG PS 2 at baseline 
[HR 0.96 (95% CI: 0.51-1.79)], non measurable [HR 1.78 (95% CI: 0.87-3.66)] and locally advanced 
disease [HR 1.20 (95% CI: 0.29-4.97)]. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
trastuzumab in all subsets of the paediatric population for breast and gastric cancer (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab were evaluated in a population pharmacokinetic model analysis 
using pooled data from 1 582 subjects, including patients with HER2 positive MBC, EBC, AGC or 
other tumour types, and healthy volunteers, in 18 Phase I, II and III studies receiving 
trastuzumab intravenously. A two-compartment model with parallel linear and non-linear elimination 
from the central compartment described the trastuzumab concentration-time profile. Due to non-linear 
elimination, total clearance increased with decreasing concentration. Therefore, no constant value for 
half-life of trastuzumab can be deduced. The t1/2 decreases with decreasing concentrations within a 
dosing interval (see Table 16). MBC and EBC patients had similar PK parameters (e.g. clearance 
(CL), the central compartment volume (Vc)) and population-predicted steady-state exposures (Cmin, 
Cmax and AUC). Linear clearance was 0.136 L/day for MBC, 0.112 L/day for EBC and 0.176 L/day for 
AGC. The non-linear elimination parameter values were 8.81 mg/day for the maximum elimination 
rate (Vmax) and 8.92 μg/mL for the Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) for the MBC, EBC, and AGC 
patients. The central compartment volume was 2.62 L for patients with MBC and EBC and 3.63 L for 
patients with AGC. In the final population PK model, in addition to primary tumour type, body 
weight, serum aspartate aminotransferase and albumin were identified as a statistically significant 
covariates affecting the exposure of trastuzumab. However, the magnitude of effect of these covariates 
on trastuzumab exposure suggests that these covariates are unlikely to have a clinically meaningful 
effect on trastuzumab concentrations. 
The population predicted PK exposure values (median with 5th - 95th Percentiles) and PK parameter 
values at clinically relevant concentrations (Cmax and Cmin) for MBC, EBC and AGC patients treated 
with the approved q1w and q3w dosing regimens are shown in table 14 (cycle 1), table 15 
(steady-state), and table 16 (PK parameters). 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 Population predicted cycle 1 PK exposure values (median with 5th - 95th percentiles) 
for trastuzumab intravenous dosing regimens in MBC, EBC and AGC patients 
Regimen 
Primary 
tumour type 
8 mg/kg + 
6 mg/kg q3w 
4 mg/kg + 
2 mg/kg qw  
MBC 
EBC 
AGC 
MBC 
EBC 
N 
805 
390 
274 
805 
390 
Cmin  
(µg/mL) 
28.7 
(2.9-46.3) 
30.9 
(18.7-45.5) 
23.1 
(6.1-50.3) 
37.4 
(8.7-58.9) 
38.9 
(25.3-58.8) 
Cmax  
(µg/mL) 
182 
(134-280) 
176 
(127-227) 
132 
(84.2-225) 
76.5 
(49.4-114) 
76.0 
(54.7-104) 
AUC0-21days 
(µg.day/mL) 
1 376 
(728 -1 998) 
1 390 
(1 039-1 895) 
1 109 
(588-1 938) 
1 073 
(597-1 584) 
1 074 
(783-1 502) 
Table 15 Population predicted steady-state PK exposure values (median with 5th - 95th 
percentiles) for trastuzumab intravenous dosing regimens in MBC, EBC and AGC patients 
Regimen 
Primary 
tumour 
type 
N 
Cmin,ss*  
(µg/mL) 
Cmax,ss** 
(µg/mL) 
AUCss, 0-21days 
(µg.day/mL) 
8 mg/kg + 
6 mg/kg q3w 
4 mg/kg + 
2 mg/kg qw 
MBC 
EBC 
AGC 
MBC 
EBC 
805 
390 
274 
805 
390 
44.2 
(1.8-85.4) 
53.8 
(28.7 - 85.8) 
32.9 
(6.1-88.9) 
63.1 
(11.7-107) 
72.6 
(46-109) 
179 
(123-266) 
184 
(134 - 247) 
131 
(72.5-251) 
107 
(54.2-164) 
115 
(82.6-160) 
1 736 
(618-2 756) 
1 927 
(1 332 – 2 771) 
1 338 
(557-2 875) 
1 710 
(581-2 715) 
1 893 
(1 309-2 734) 
Time to 
steady-
state*** 
(week) 
12 
15 
9 
12 
14 
*Cmin,ss - Cmin at steady-state 
**Cmax,ss = Cmax at steady-state 
*** time to 90% of steady-state 
Table 16 Population predicted PK parameter values at steady-state for trastuzumab intravenous 
dosing regimens in MBC, EBC and AGC patients 
Regimen 
Primary tumour 
type 
8 mg/kg + 6 mg/kg 
q3w 
4 mg/kg + 2 mg/kg 
qw 
Trastuzumab washout 
MBC 
EBC 
AGC 
MBC 
EBC 
N 
805 
390 
274 
805 
390 
Total CL range  
from Cmax,ss to Cmin,ss  
(L/day) 
0.183-0.302 
0.158-0.253 
0.189-0.337 
0.213-0.259 
0.184-0.221 
t1/2 range from 
Cmax,ss to Cmin,ss  
(day) 
15.1-23.3 
17.5-26.6 
12.6-20.6 
17.2-20.4 
19.7-23.2 
Trastuzumab washout period was assessed following q1w or q3w intravenous administration using the 
population PK model. The results of these simulations indicate that at least 95% of patients will reach 
concentrations that are < 1 µg/mL (approximately 3% of the population predicted Cmin,ss, or about 97% 
washout) by 7 months. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Circulating shed HER2-ECD 
The exploratory analyses of covariates with information in only a subset of patients suggested that 
patients with greater shed HER2-ECD level had faster non-linear clearance (lower Km) (p < 0.001). 
There was a correlation between shed antigen and SGOT/AST levels; part of the impact of shed 
antigen on clearance may have been explained by SGOT/AST levels. 
Baseline levels of the shed HER2-ECD observed in MGC patients were comparable to those in MBC 
and EBC patients and no apparent impact on trastuzumab clearance was observed. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
There was no evidence of acute or multiple dose-related toxicity in studies of up to 6 months, or 
reproductive toxicity in teratology, female fertility or late gestational toxicity/placental transfer 
studies. Trastuzumab is not genotoxic. A study of trehalose, a major formulation excipient did not 
reveal any toxicities. 
No long term animal studies have been performed to establish the carcinogenic potential of 
trastuzumab, or to determine its effects on fertility in males. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Histidine 
Histidine monohydrochloride 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Polysorbate 20 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed or diluted with other medicinal products except those 
mentioned under section 6.6. 
KANJINTI should not be diluted with glucose solutions since these cause aggregation of the protein. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years. 
Aseptic reconstitution and dilution 
After aseptic reconstitution with sterile water for injections, chemical and physical stability of the 
reconstituted solution has been demonstrated for 48 hours at 2°C - 8°C.  
After aseptic dilution in polyvinylchloride, polyethylene or polypropylene bags containing sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, chemical and physical stability of KANJINTI has 
been demonstrated for up to 30 days at 2°C - 8°C, and subsequently for 24 hours at temperatures not 
exceeding 30°C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted solution and KANJINTI infusion solution 
should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are the responsibility of the user, and would not normally be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C, unless 
reconstitution and dilution have taken place under controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted medicinal product, see sections 6.3 and 6.6. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
20 mL clear glass type I vial with butyl rubber stopper laminated with a fluoro-resin film and 
aluminium seal flip-off dust cover containing 150 mg of trastuzumab. 
Each carton contains one vial. 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
50 mL clear glass type I vial with butyl rubber stopper laminated with a fluoro-resin film and 
aluminium seal flip-off dust cover containing 420 mg of trastuzumab. 
Each carton contains one vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Appropriate aseptic technique should be used for reconstitution and dilution procedures. Care must be 
taken to ensure the sterility of prepared solutions. Since the medicinal product does not contain any 
anti-microbial preservative or bacteriostatic agents, aseptic technique must be observed. 
Aseptic preparation, handling and storage 
Aseptic handling must be ensured when preparing the infusion. Preparation should be: 
• 
performed under aseptic conditions by trained personnel in accordance with good practice rules 
especially with respect to the aseptic preparation of parenteral products. 
prepared in a laminar flow hood or biological safety cabinet using standard precautions for the 
safe handling of intravenous agents. 
followed by adequate storage of the prepared solution for intravenous infusion to ensure 
maintenance of the aseptic conditions. 
• 
• 
KANJINTI should be carefully handled during reconstitution. Causing excessive foaming during 
reconstitution or shaking the reconstituted solution may result in problems with the amount of 
KANJINTI that can be withdrawn from the vial. 
The reconstituted solution should not be frozen. 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Each 150 mg vial of KANJINTI is reconstituted with 7.2 mL of sterile water for injections (not 
supplied). Use of other reconstitution solvents should be avoided. 
This yields a 7.4 mL solution for single-dose use, containing approximately 21 mg/mL trastuzumab, at 
a pH of approximately 6.1. A volume overage of 4% ensures that the labelled dose of 150 mg can be 
withdrawn from each vial. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Each 420mg vial of KANJINTI is reconstituted with 20 mL of sterile water for injections (not 
supplied). Use of other reconstitution solvents should be avoided. 
This yields a 21 mL solution for single-dose use, containing approximately 21 mg/mL trastuzumab, at 
a pH of approximately 6.1. A volume overage of 5% ensures that the labelled dose of 420 mg can be 
withdrawn from each vial. 
KANJINTI vial 
150 mg vial 
420 mg vial 
Volume of sterile water for 
injections 
7.2 mL 
20 mL 
+ 
+ 
Final concentration 
= 
= 
21 mg/mL 
21 mg/mL 
Instructions for aseptic reconstitution 
1) Using a sterile syringe, slowly inject the appropriate volume (as noted above) of sterile water for 
injections in the vial containing the lyophilised KANJINTI, directing the stream into the lyophilised 
cake. 
2) Swirl the vial gently to aid reconstitution. DO NOT SHAKE. 
Slight foaming of the product upon reconstitution is not unusual. Allow the vial to stand undisturbed 
for approximately 5 minutes. The reconstituted KANJINTI results in a colourless to pale yellow 
transparent solution and should be essentially free of visible particulates. 
Instructions for aseptic dilution of the reconstituted solution  
Determine the volume of the solution required: 
• 
based on a loading dose of 4 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight, or a subsequent weekly dose of 
2 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight: 
Volume (mL) = Body weight (kg) × dose (4 mg/kg for loading or 2 mg/kg for maintenance) 
21 (mg/mL, concentration of reconstituted solution) 
• 
based on a loading dose of 8 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight, or a subsequent 3-weekly dose of 
6 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight: 
Volume (mL) = Body weight (kg) × dose (8 mg/kg for loading or 6 mg/kg for maintenance) 
21 (mg/mL, concentration of reconstituted solution) 
The appropriate amount of solution should be withdrawn from the vial using a sterile needle and 
syringe and added to an infusion bag containing 250 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution 
for injection. Do not use with glucose-containing solutions (see section 6.2). The bag should be gently 
inverted to mix the solution in order to avoid foaming.  
Parenteral medicinal products should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration 
prior to administration. 
No incompatibilities between KANJINTI and polyvinylchloride, polyethylene or polypropylene bags 
have been observed. 
KANJINTI is for single-use only, as the product contains no preservatives. Any unused medicinal 
product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
NL-4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1281/001 
EU/1/18/1281/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 16 May 2018 
Date of latest renewal: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)  
Patheon Biologics BV 
Zuiderweg 72/2 
9744 AP Groningen 
The Netherlands 
Immunex Rhode Island Corporation 
40 Technology Way 
West Greenwich 
Rhode Island, 02817 
United States 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
NL-4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Amgen NV  
Telecomlaan 5-7  
1831 Diegem  
Belgium 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as 
the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
35 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
trastuzumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The vial contains 150 mg trastuzumab.  
After reconstitution 1 mL concentrate contains 21 mg of trastuzumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061, 
NL-4817 ZK Breda, 
The Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1281/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
trastuzumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The vial contains 150 mg trastuzumab.  
After reconstitution 1 mL concentrate contains 21 mg of trastuzumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
IV 
For intravenous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061, 
NL-4817 ZK Breda, 
The Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1281/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
trastuzumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The vial contains 420 mg trastuzumab. 
After reconstitution 1 mL concentrate contains 21 mg of trastuzumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061, 
NL-4817 ZK Breda, 
The Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1281/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
trastuzumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The vial contains 420 mg trastuzumab. 
After reconstitution 1 mL concentrate contains 21 mg of trastuzumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, trehalose dihydrate, polysorbate 20. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061, 
NL-4817 ZK Breda, 
The Netherlands  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1281/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
trastuzumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What KANJINTI is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given KANJINTI  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How KANJINTI is given 
Possible side effects  
How to store KANJINTI 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What KANJINTI is and what it is used for 
KANJINTI contains the active substance trastuzumab, which is a monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal 
antibodies attach to specific proteins or antigens. Trastuzumab is designed to bind selectively to an 
antigen called human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). HER2 is found in large amounts on 
the surface of some cancer cells where it stimulates their growth. When trastuzumab binds to HER2 it 
stops the growth of such cells and causes them to die. 
Your doctor may prescribe KANJINTI for the treatment of breast and gastric cancer when: 
• 
• 
You have early breast cancer, with high levels of a protein called HER2. 
You have metastatic breast cancer (breast cancer that has spread beyond the original tumour) 
with high levels of HER2. KANJINTI may be prescribed in combination with the chemotherapy 
medicine paclitaxel or docetaxel as first treatment for metastatic breast cancer or it may be 
prescribed alone if other treatments have proved unsuccessful. It is also used in combination 
with medicines called aromatase inhibitors with patients with high levels of HER2 and 
hormone-receptor positive metastatic breast cancer (cancer that is sensitive to the presence of 
female sex hormones). 
You have metastatic gastric cancer with high levels of HER2, when it is in combination with the 
other cancer medicines capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin. 
• 
2.  What you need to know before you are given KANJINTI 
Do not use KANJINTI if: 
• 
you are allergic to trastuzumab, to murine (mouse) proteins, or to any of the other ingredients of 
this medicine (listed in section 6). 
you have severe breathing problems at rest due to your cancer or if you need oxygen treatment. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Your doctor will closely supervise your therapy.  
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heart checks 
Treatment with KANJINTI alone or with a taxane may affect the heart, especially if you have ever 
used an anthracycline (taxanes and anthracyclines are two other kinds of medicine used to treat 
cancer). The effects may be moderate to severe and could cause death. Therefore, your heart function 
will be checked before, during (every three months) and after (up to two to five years) treatment with 
KANJINTI. If you develop any signs of heart failure (inadequate pumping of blood by the heart), your 
heart function may be checked more frequently (every six to eight weeks), you may receive treatment 
for heart failure or you may have to stop KANJINTI treatment. 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you are given KANJINTI if: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
you have had heart failure, coronary artery disease, heart valve disease (heart murmurs), high 
blood pressure, taken any high blood pressure medicine or are currently taking any high blood 
pressure medicine. 
you have ever had or are currently using a medicine called doxorubicin or epirubicin (medicines 
used to treat cancer). These medicines (or any other anthracyclines) can damage heart muscle 
and increase the risk of heart problems with KANJINTI. 
you suffer from breathlessness, especially if you are currently using a taxane. KANJINTI can 
cause breathing difficulties, especially when it is first given. This could be more serious if you 
are already breathless. Very rarely, patients with severe breathing difficulties before treatment 
have died when they were given trastuzumab. 
you have ever had any other treatment for cancer. 
If you receive KANJINTI with any other medicine to treat cancer, such as paclitaxel, docetaxel, an 
aromatase inhibitor, capecitabine, 5-fluorouracil, or cisplatin you should also read the patient 
information leaflets for these products. 
Children and adolescents 
KANJINTI is not recommended for anyone under the age of 18 years. 
Other medicines and KANJINTI 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or may take any other 
medicines. 
It may take up to 7 months for KANJINTI to be removed from the body. Therefore, you should tell 
your doctor, pharmacist or nurse that you have had KANJINTI if you start any new medicine in the 7 
months after stopping treatment. 
Pregnancy 
• 
• 
• 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. 
You should use effective contraception during treatment with KANJINTI and for at least 7 
months after KANJINTI treatment has ended. 
Your doctor will advise you of the risks and benefits of taking KANJINTI during pregnancy. In 
rare cases, a reduction in the amount of (amniotic) fluid that surrounds the developing baby 
within the womb has been observed in pregnant women receiving trastuzumab. This condition 
may be harmful to your baby in the womb and has been associated with the lungs not 
developing fully resulting in foetal death. 
Breast-feeding 
Do not breast-feed your baby during KANJINTI therapy and for 7 months after the last dose, as 
KANJINTI may pass to your baby through your breast milk. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines 
KANJINTI may affect your ability to drive a car or use machines. If during treatment you experience 
symptoms, such as dizziness, sleepiness, chills or fever, you should not drive or use machines until 
these symptoms disappear. 
Sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How KANJINTI is given 
Before starting the treatment your doctor will determine the amount of HER2 in your tumour. Only 
patients with a large amount of HER2 will be treated with KANJINTI. KANJINTI should only be 
given by a doctor or nurse. Your doctor will prescribe a dose and treatment regimen that is right for 
you. The dose of KANJINTI depends on your body weight. 
It is important to check the product labels to ensure that the correct formulation is being given as 
prescribed. KANJINTI intravenous formulation is not for subcutaneous use and should be given as an 
intravenous infusion only. 
KANJINTI intravenous formulation is given as an intravenous infusion (“drip”) directly into your 
veins. The first dose of your treatment is given over 90 minutes and you will be observed by a health 
professional while it is being given in case you have any side effects. If the first dose is well tolerated 
the next doses may be given over 30 minutes (see section 2 under “Warnings and precautions”). The 
number of infusions you receive will depend on how you respond to the treatment. Your doctor will 
discuss this with you. 
In order to prevent medication errors it is important to check the vial labels to ensure that the medicine 
being prepared and given is KANJINTI (trastuzumab) and not another trastuzumab-containing product 
(e.g. trastuzumab emtansine or trastuzumab deruxtecan). 
For early breast cancer, metastatic breast cancer and metastatic gastric cancer, KANJINTI is given 
every 3 weeks. KANJINTI may also be given once a week for metastatic breast cancer. 
If you stop using KANJINTI 
Do not stop using this medicine without talking to your doctor first. All doses should be taken at the 
right time every week or every three weeks (depending on your dosing schedule). This helps your 
medicine work as well as it can. 
It may take up to 7 months for KANJINTI to be removed from your body. Therefore your doctor may 
decide to continue to check your heart functions, even after you finish treatment. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, KANJINTI can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Some of 
these side effects may be serious and may lead to hospitalisation. 
During a KANJINTI infusion, chills, fever and other flu like symptoms may occur. These are very 
common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people). Other infusion-related symptoms are: feeling sick 
(nausea), vomiting, pain, increased muscle tension and shaking, headache, dizziness, breathing 
difficulties, high or low blood pressure, heart rhythm disturbances (palpitations, heart fluttering or 
irregular heart beat), swelling of the face and lips, rash and feeling tired. Some of these symptoms can 
be serious and some patients have died (see section 2 under “Warnings and precautions”). 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These effects mainly occur with the first intravenous infusion (“drip” into your vein) and during the 
first few hours after the start of the infusion. They are usually temporary. You will be observed by a 
health care professional during the infusion and for at least six hours after the start of the first infusion 
and for two hours after the start of other infusions. If you develop a reaction, they will slow down or 
stop the infusion and may give you treatment to counteract the side effects. The infusion may be 
continued after the symptoms improve. 
Occasionally, symptoms start later than six hours after the infusion begins. If this happens to you, 
contact your doctor immediately. Sometimes, symptoms may improve and then get worse later. 
Serious side effects 
Other side effects can occur at any time during treatment with trastuzumab, not just related to an 
infusion. Tell a doctor or nurse straight away, if you notice any of the following side effects: 
• 
Heart problems can sometimes occur during treatment and occasionally after treatment has 
stopped and can be serious. They include weakening of the heart muscle possibly leading to 
heart failure, inflammation of the lining around the heart and heart rhythm disturbances. This 
can lead to symptoms such as breathlessness (including breathlessness at night), cough, fluid 
retention (swelling) in the legs or arms, palpitations (heart fluttering or irregular heart beat) (see 
section 2. Heart checks). 
Your doctor will monitor your heart regularly during and after treatment but you should tell your 
doctor immediately if you notice any of the above symptoms. 
• 
Tumour lysis syndrome (a group of metabolic complications occurring after cancer treatment 
characterised by high blood levels of potassium and phosphate, and low blood levels of 
calcium). Symptoms may include kidney problems (weakness, shortness of breath, fatigue and 
confusion), heart problems (fluttering of the heart or a faster or slower heartbeat), seizures, 
vomiting or diarrhoea and tingling in the mouth, hands or feet. 
If you experience any of the above symptoms when your treatment with KANJINTI has finished, you 
should see your doctor and tell them that you have previously been treated with KANJINTI. 
Other side effects 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
infections 
diarrhoea 
constipation 
heartburn (dyspepsia) 
fatigue 
skin rashes 
chest pain 
abdominal pain 
joint pain 
low counts of red blood cells and white blood cells (which help fight infection) sometimes with 
fever 
muscle pain 
conjunctivitis 
watery eyes 
nose bleeds 
runny nose 
hair loss 
tremor 
hot flush 
dizziness 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
nail disorders 
weight loss 
loss of appetite 
inability to sleep (insomnia) 
altered taste 
low platelet count 
bruising 
numbness or tingling of the fingers and toes, which occasionally may extend to the rest of the 
limb 
redness, swelling or sores in your mouth and/or throat 
pain, swelling, redness or tingling of hands and/or feet 
breathlessness 
headache 
cough 
vomiting 
nausea 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reactions 
throat infections 
bladder and skin infections  
inflammation of the breast 
inflammation of the liver 
kidney disorders 
increased muscle tone or tension 
(hypertonia) 
pain in the arms and/or legs 
itchy rash 
sleepiness (somnolence) 
haemorrhoids 
itchiness 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
dry mouth and skin  
dry eyes 
sweating 
feeling weak and unwell 
anxiety 
depression 
asthma 
infection of lungs 
lung disorders 
back pain 
neck pain 
bone pain 
acne 
leg cramps 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
deafness 
bumpy rash 
wheezing 
inflammation or scarring of the lungs 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people): 
• 
• 
jaundice 
anaphylactic reactions 
Side effects with unknown frequency (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
abnormal or impaired blood clotting 
high potassium levels 
swelling or bleeding at the back of the eyes 
shock 
abnormal heart rhythm 
respiratory distress 
respiratory failure 
acute accumulation of fluid in the lungs 
acute narrowing of the airways 
abnormally low oxygen levels in the blood 
difficulty in breathing when lying flat 
liver damage 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
swelling of the face, lips and throat 
kidney failure 
abnormally low levels of fluid around baby in womb 
failure of the lungs of the baby to develop in the womb 
abnormal development of the kidneys of the baby in the womb 
Some of the side effects you experience may be due to your underlying cancer. If you receive 
KANJINTI in combination with chemotherapy, some of them may also be due to the chemotherapy. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store KANJINTI 
KANJINTI will be stored by the health professionals at the hospital or clinic. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and on the vial label 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze the reconstituted solution. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from light. 
Infusion solutions should be used immediately after dilution. If not used immediately, in-use storage 
times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user, and would not normally be longer 
than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C. Do not use KANJINTI if you notice any particulate matter or 
discolouration prior to administration. 
Medicines should not be disposed of via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What KANJINTI contains  
• 
The active substance is trastuzumab. Each vial contains either: 
• 150 mg trastuzumab that has to be dissolved in 7.2 mL of water for injection, or  
• 420 mg trastuzumab that has to be dissolved in 20 mL of water for injection. 
The resulting solution contains approximately 21 mg/mL trastuzumab. 
The other ingredient(s) are histidine, histidine monohydrochloride, trehalose dihydrate, 
polysorbate 20. 
• 
• 
What KANJINTI looks like and contents of the pack 
KANJINTI is a powder for concentrate for solution, which is supplied in a glass vial with a rubber 
stopper containing either 150 mg or 420 mg of trastuzumab. The powder is a white to pale yellow 
pellet. Each carton contains 1 vial of powder. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
NL-4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Amgen Europe B.V. 
Minervum 7061 
NL-4817 ZK Breda 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer  
Amgen NV 
Telecomlaan 5-7 
1831 Diegem 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
s.a. Amgen n.v. 
Tel/Tél: +32 (0)2 7752711 
България 
Амджен България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 424 7440 
Česká republika 
Amgen s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 221 773 500 
Danmark 
Amgen, filial af Amgen AB, Sverige 
Tlf: +45 39617500 
Deutschland 
Amgen GmbH 
Tel.: +49 89 1490960 
Eesti 
Amgen Switzerland AG Vilniaus filialas 
Tel: +372 586 09553 
Ελλάδα 
Amgen Ελλάς Φαρμακευτικά Ε.Π.Ε.  
Τηλ.: +30 210 3447000 
Lietuva 
Amgen Switzerland AG Vilniaus filialas 
Tel: +370 5 219 7474 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
s.a. Amgen  
Belgique/Belgien 
Tel/Tél: +32 (0)2 7752711 
Magyarország 
Amgen Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 35 44 700 
Malta 
Amgen S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 6241121 
Nederland 
Amgen B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0)76 5732500 
Norge 
Amgen AB 
Tel: +47 23308000 
Österreich 
Amgen GmbH  
Tel: +43 (0)1 50 217 
España 
Amgen S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 600 18 60  
Polska 
Amgen Biotechnologia Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 581 3000 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Amgen S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 (0)9 69 363 363 
Hrvatska 
Amgen d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 (0)1 562 57 20 
Ireland 
Amgen Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 8527400 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Amgen S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 6241121 
Kύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ.: +357 22741 741 
Portugal 
Amgen Biofarmacêutica, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 4220606 
România 
Amgen România SRL 
Tel: +4021 527 3000 
Slovenija 
AMGEN zdravila d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 585 1767 
Slovenská republika 
Amgen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 321 114 49 
Suomi/Finland 
Amgen AB, sivuliike Suomessa/Amgen AB, filial 
i Finland 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 54900500 
Sverige 
Amgen AB  
Tel: +46 (0)8 6951100 
Latvija 
Amgen Switzerland AG Rīgas filiāle 
Tel: +371 257 25888 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Amgen Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1223 420305 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only 
In order to prevent medication errors it is important to check the vial labels to ensure that the medicine 
being prepared and given is KANJINTI (trastuzumab) and not another trastuzumab-containing product 
(e.g. trastuzumab emtansine or trastuzumab deruxtecan). 
Always keep this medicine in the closed original pack at a temperature of 2°C - 8°C in a refrigerator. 
Appropriate aseptic technique should be used for reconstitution and dilution procedures. Care must be 
taken to ensure the sterility of prepared solutions. Since the medicinal product does not contain any 
anti-microbial preservative or bacteriostatic agents, aseptic technique must be observed. 
A vial of KANJINTI aseptically reconstituted with sterile water for injections (not supplied) is 
chemically and physically stable for 48 hours at 2°C - 8°C after reconstitution and must not be frozen. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After aseptic dilution in polyvinylchloride, polyethylene or polypropylene bags containing sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection, chemical and physical stability of KANJINTI has 
been demonstrated for up to 30 days at 2°C - 8°C, and subsequently for 24 hours at temperatures not 
exceeding 30°C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted solution and KANJINTI infusion solution 
should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use 
are the responsibility of the user, and would not normally be longer than 24 hours at 2°C - 8°C, unless 
reconstitution and dilution have taken place under controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
Aseptic preparation, handling and storage 
Aseptic handling must be ensured when preparing the infusion. Preparation should be: 
• 
performed under aseptic conditions by trained personnel in accordance with good practice rules 
especially with respect to the aseptic preparation of parenteral products. 
prepared in a laminar flow hood or biological safety cabinet using standard precautions for the 
safe handling of intravenous agents. 
followed by adequate storage of the prepared solution for intravenous infusion to ensure 
maintenance of the aseptic conditions. 
• 
• 
KANJINTI 150 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Each 150 mg vial of KANJINTI is reconstituted with 7.2 mL of sterile water for injections (not 
supplied). Use of other reconstitution solvents should be avoided. This yields a 7.4 mL solution for 
single-dose use, containing approximately 21 mg/mL trastuzumab. A volume overage of 4% ensures 
that the labelled dose of 150 mg can be withdrawn from each vial. 
KANJINTI 420 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
Each 420 mg vial of KANJINTI is reconstituted with 20 mL of sterile water for injections (not 
supplied). Use of other reconstitution solvents should be avoided. This yields a 21 mL solution for 
single-dose use, containing approximately 21 mg/mL trastuzumab. A volume overage of 5% ensures 
that the labelled dose of 420 mg can be withdrawn from each vial. 
KANJINTI vial 
150 mg vial 
420 mg vial 
Volume of sterile water for 
injections 
7.2 mL 
20 mL 
+ 
+ 
Final concentration 
= 
= 
21 mg/mL 
21 mg/mL 
Instructions for aseptic reconstitution 
KANJINTI should be carefully handled during reconstitution. Causing excessive foaming during 
reconstitution or shaking the reconstituted solution may result in problems with the amount of 
KANJINTI that can be withdrawn from the vial. 
1) Using a sterile syringe, slowly inject the appropriate volume (as noted above) of sterile water for 
injections in the vial containing the lyophilised KANJINTI, directing the stream into the lyophilised 
cake. 
2) Swirl the vial gently to aid reconstitution. DO NOT SHAKE. 
Slight foaming of the product upon reconstitution is not unusual. Allow the vial to stand undisturbed 
for approximately 5 minutes. The reconstituted KANJINTI results in a colourless to pale yellow 
transparent solution and should be essentially free of visible particulates. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for aseptic dilution of the reconstituted solution 
Determine the volume of the solution required: 
• 
based on a loading dose of 4 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight, or a subsequent weekly dose of 
2 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight: 
Volume (mL) = Body weight (kg) × dose (4 mg/kg for loading or 2 mg/kg for maintenance) 
21 (mg/mL, concentration of reconstituted solution) 
• 
based on a loading dose of 8 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight, or a subsequent 3-weekly dose of 
6 mg trastuzumab/kg body weight: 
Volume (mL) = Body weight (kg) × dose (8 mg/kg for loading or 6 mg/kg for maintenance) 
21 (mg/mL, concentration of reconstituted solution) 
The appropriate amount of solution should be withdrawn from the vial using a sterile needle and 
syringe and added to a polyvinylchloride, polyethylene or polypropylene infusion bag containing 
250 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. Do not use with 
glucose-containing solutions. The bag should be gently inverted to mix the solution in order to avoid 
foaming. Parenteral solutions should be inspected visually for particulates and discolouration prior to 
administration.  
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
