ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANUMA 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of concentrate contains 2 mg sebelipase alfa*. 
Each vial of 10 ml contains 20 mg sebelipase alfa. 
* produced in egg white of transgenic Gallus by recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology. 
Excipient with known effect  
Each vial contains 33 mg sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly coloured solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
KANUMA is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) in patients of all ages with 
lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
KANUMA treatment should be supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in the 
management of patients with LAL deficiency, other metabolic disorders, or chronic liver diseases. 
KANUMA should be administered by a trained healthcare professional who can manage medical 
emergencies.  
Posology 
It is important to initiate treatment as early as possible after diagnosis of LAL deficiency. 
For instructions on the preventive measures and monitoring of hypersensitivity reactions, see 
section 4.4. Following the occurrence of a hypersensitivity reaction, appropriate pre-treatment should 
be considered according to the standard of care (see section 4.4). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency Presenting within the First 6 Months of Life  
The recommended starting dose in infants (< 6 months of age) presenting with rapidly progressive 
LAL deficiency is either 1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg administered as an intravenous infusion once weekly, 
depending on the clinical status of the patient. A higher starting dose of 3 mg/kg should be considered 
based on the severity of the disease and rapid disease progression. 
Dose escalations should be considered based on suboptimal response to clinical and biochemical 
criteria, including, e.g., poor growth (especially mid-upper arm circumference, MUAC), deteriorating 
biochemical markers (e.g. liver transaminases, ferritin, C-reactive Protein, and coagulation 
parameters), persistent or worsening organomegaly, increased frequency of intercurrent infections, 
and persistent worsening of other symptoms (e.g. gastrointestinal symptoms): 
- 
- 
a dose escalation to 3 mg/kg should be considered in case of suboptimal clinical response; 
a further dose escalation up to 5 mg/kg should be considered in case of persistent suboptimal 
clinical response. 
Further dose adjustments, as a reduction of the dose or an extension of the dose interval, can be made 
on an individual basis based on achievement and maintenance of therapeutic goals. Clinical studies 
evaluated doses ranging from 0.35 to 5 mg/kg once weekly, with one patient receiving a higher dose 
of 7.5 mg/kg once weekly. Doses higher than 7.5 mg/kg have not been studied.  
Pediatric and Adult Patients with LAL Deficiency 
The recommended dose in children and adults who do not present with rapidly progressive LAL 
deficiency prior to 6 months of age is 1 mg/kg administered as an intravenous infusion once every 
other week. Dose escalation to 3 mg/kg once every other week should be considered based on  
suboptimal response to clinical biochemical criteria, including; e.g., poor growth persistent or 
deteriorating biochemical markers (e.g., parameters of liver injury (ALT, AST), parameters of lipid 
metabolism (TC, LDL-c, HDL-c, TG), persistent or worsening organomegaly, and persistent 
worsening of other symptoms (e.g., gastrointestinal symptoms).  
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dosing adjustment is recommended in patients with renal impairment based on current knowledge 
of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of sebelipase alfa (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dosing adjustment is recommended in patients with hepatic impairment based on current 
knowledge of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of sebelipase alfa (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population ( 65 years old)  
The safety and efficacy of sebelipase alfa in patients older than 65 years have not been evaluated and 
no alternative dose regimens can be recommended for these patients (see section 5.1).  
Overweight patients  
The safety and efficacy of sebelipase alfa in overweight patients have not been thoroughly evaluated 
and therefore no alternative dose regimens can be recommended for these patients at this time. 
Paediatric population 
Administration of sebelipase alfa to infants with confirmed multiple-organ failure should be at the 
discretion of the treating physician. 
Method of administration  
KANUMA is for intravenous (IV) use only.  
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The total volume of the infusion should be administered over approximately 2 hours. A 1-hour 
infusion may be considered for those patients receiving the 1 mg/kg dose after patient tolerability is 
established. (For the recommended infusion volumes, see section 6.6.) The infusion period may be 
extended in the event of dose escalation. 
KANUMA should be administered through a 0.2 μm filter (see section 6.6). 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Life-threatening hypersensitivity (anaphylactic reaction) to the active substance when attempts to 
rechallenge are unsuccessful, or to egg or any of the excipients listed in section 6.1, (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis  
Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, have been reported in patients treated with 
sebelipase alfa; see section 4.8. Therefore, appropriate medical support must be readily available 
when sebelipase alfa is administered. If severe reactions occur, the sebelipase alfa infusion should be 
immediately stopped and appropriate medical treatment should be initiated. The risks and benefits of 
re-administering sebelipase alfa following a severe reaction should be considered. 
Following the first sebelipase alfa infusion, including the first infusion after a dose escalation, patients 
should be observed for 1 hour in order to monitor for any signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis or a 
severe hypersensitivity reaction. 
The management of hypersensitivity reactions may include temporarily interrupting the infusion, 
lowering the infusion rate, and/or treatment with antihistamines, antipyretics, and/or corticosteroids.  
For patients who have experienced allergic reactions during infusion, caution should be exercised 
upon re-administration. If interrupted, the infusion may be resumed at a slower rate with increases as 
tolerated. Pre-treatment with antipyretics and/or antihistamines may prevent subsequent reactions in 
those cases where symptomatic treatment was required.  
In cases of severe infusion reactions and in cases of lack or loss of effect, patients should be tested for 
the presence of antibodies. 
This medicinal product may contain traces of egg proteins. Patients with known egg allergies were 
excluded from clinical studies (see section 4.3).  
Immunogenicity 
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is potential for immunogenicity. In the sebelipase alfa clinical 
program, patients were routinely tested for anti-sebelipase alfa anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) to 
determine the immunogenicity potential of sebelipase alfa. Patients who tested positive for ADAs 
were also tested for inhibitory antibody activity. The presence of inhibitory activity has been detected 
at some postbaseline timepoints in clinical studies (see section 4.8). Overall, no conclusion on the 
relationship between development of ADAs/NAbs and associated hypersensitivity reactions or 
suboptimal clinical response can be made. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In clinical studies, 3 patients homozygous for a deletion affecting both alleles of genes Lipase A, 
lysosomal acid [LIPA] and Cholesterol 25-Hydroxylase developed inhibitory antibody activity 
associated with a suboptimal clinical response.  These patients underwent either immunomodulatory 
therapy alone or in combination with haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) or bone marrow 
transplant (BMT), resulting in improved clinical response to sebelipase alfa. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains 33 mg sodium per vial equivalent to 1.7% of the WHO recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. It is administered in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml 
(0.9%) solution for infusion (see section 6.6). This should be taken into consideration by patients on a 
controlled sodium diet. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Because it is a recombinant human protein, sebelipase alfa is an unlikely candidate for cytochrome 
P450 mediated or other drug-drug interactions. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited data from the use of sebelipase alfa in pregnant women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). As a 
precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid use of sebelipase alfa during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
There are no data from studies in breast-feeding women. It is not known whether sebelipase alfa is 
excreted in human milk. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from sebelipase alfa therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for 
the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no clinical data on the effects of sebelipase alfa on fertility. Animal studies show no 
evidence of impaired fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
KANUMA may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse events of 
dizziness have been reported with the use of sebelipase alfa, which could affect the ability to drive or 
use machines (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
The data described below reflect the exposure to sebelipase alfa in 125 patients at doses ranging from 
0.35 mg/kg once every other week to 7.5 mg/kg once weekly in clinical studies (see section 5.1), with 
a treatment duration range from 1 day to 60.5 months (5 years). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 106 children and adults enrolled in clinical studies, 102 (96.2%) have received sebelipase alfa 
at a dosage regimen of 1 mg/kg once every other week, with a median duration of exposure of 33 
months (6, 59 months). The median duration of exposure for the 19 infants enrolled in clinical studies 
was 35.5 months (1 day to 60 months). 
The most serious adverse reactions experienced by 4% of patients in clinical studies were signs and 
symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis. Signs and symptoms included chest discomfort, conjunctival 
hyperaemia, dyspnoea, hyperaemia, eyelid oedema, rhinorrhoea, severe respiratory distress, 
tachycardia, tachypnoea, irritability, flushing, pruritus, urticaria, stridor, hypoxia, pallor and 
diarrhoea.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The data in Table 1 describe adverse reactions reported in infants who received sebelipase alfa in 
clinical studies. The data in Table 2 describe adverse reactions reported in children and adults who 
received sebelipase alfa in clinical studies.  
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency. Frequencies are defined 
according to the following convention: very common ( 1/10); common ( 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon ( 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare ( 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 1: Adverse reactions reported in infants receiving sebelipase alfa (N = 19 patients) 
MedDRA System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Eye Disorders 
MedDRA Preferred Term 
Hypersensitivitya 
Anaphylactic reactionb 
Eyelid oedema 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Tachycardia 
Respiratory distress 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea  
Rash  
Rash maculo-papular 
Pyrexia 
Hyperthermia  
Drug specific antibody present 
Body temperature increased  
Oxygen saturation decreased  
Blood pressure increased  
Heart rate increased  
Respiratory rate increased  
Frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
a May include: irritability, agitation, vomiting, urticaria, eczema, pruritus, pallor, and drug 
hypersensitivity 
b Occurred in 3 infant patients treated in clinical studies. Based on Preferred Term ‘anaphylactic 
reaction’ and application of Sampson criteria to identify signs/symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis. 
Table 2: Adverse reactions reported in children and adults receiving sebelipase alfa (N = 106 
patients) 
MedDRA System organ class 
Frequency 
MedDRA preferred term 
Hypersensitivityb 
Anaphylactic reactiona   
Very Common 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Dizziness 
Tachycardia  
Hyperaemia  
Hypotension 
Dyspnoea  
Abdominal pain  
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal distension 
Rash  
Rash papular  
Fatigue  
Pyrexia 
Chest discomfort  
Infusion site reactionc 
Body temperature increased 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Investigations 
a  Occurred in 2 patients treated in clinical studies. Based on Preferred Term ‘anaphylactic reaction’ 
Common 
and application of Sampson criteria to identify signs/symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis. 
b  May include: chills, eczema, laryngeal oedema, nausea, pruritus, urticaria.  
c  Includes: infusion site extravasation, infusion site pain and infusion site urticaria  
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Five of 125 (4%) patients treated with sebelipase alfa, including 3 of 19 (16%) infants and 2 of 106 
(2%) children and adults, in clinical studies experienced serious signs and symptoms consistent with 
anaphylaxis to sebelipase alfa. Anaphylaxis occurred during the infusion as late as 1 year after 
treatment initiation. 
In clinical studies, 59 of 125 (47%) sebelipase alfa-treated patients, including 13 of 19 (68%) infants 
and 46 of 106 (43%) children and adults, experienced at least 1 hypersensitivity reaction (selected 
using a validated, pre-determined set of terms grouped together to identify potential hypersensitivity 
reactions). Signs and symptoms either consistent with or that may be related to a hypersensitivity 
reaction occurring in two or more patients included but were not limited to abdominal pain, agitation, 
bronchospasm, chills, diarrhoea, eyelid oedema, eczema, face oedema, hypertension, irritability, 
laryngeal oedema, lip swelling, nausea, oedema, pallor, pruritus, pyrexia/body temperature increased, 
rash, tachycardia, urticaria, and vomiting. The majority of reactions occurred during or within 4 hours 
of the completion of the infusion. 
Transient hyperlipidaemia  
Consistent with its known mechanism of action, asymptomatic increases in circulating cholesterol and 
triglycerides have been observed following initiation of treatment. These increases have generally 
occurred within the first 2 to 4 weeks and improved within a further 8 weeks of treatment. See 
section 5.1. 
Immunogenicity  
There is potential for immunogenicity (see section 4.4). Patients have developed anti-drug antibodies 
(ADA) to sebelipase alfa. Compared to children and adults, an increased occurrence of ADA 
positivity was observed within the infant population (10/19 patients). 
Among 125 patients with LAL Deficiency enrolled in the clinical studies, 19/125 (15.0%) patients 
tested positive for anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) at some timepoint after starting treatment with 
sebelipase alfa (9 children and adult patients and 10 infants). For children and adult patients with LAL 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deficiency, ADA positivity was transient with generally low titers of ADAs reported. Persistence of 
ADA positivity was observed for all 10 infants and persistence of high titer ADAs was observed for 3 
of the 10 infants. Among those 19 patients, 11 (58%) also showed the presence of inhibitory antibody 
activity (NAbs) at some postbaseline timepoint. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In clinical studies, doses of sebelipase alfa were explored up to 7.5 mg/kg once weekly and no 
specific signs or symptoms were identified following the higher doses. For management of adverse 
reactions, see sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:  Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, Enzymes; ATC code: 
A16AB14 
Lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency  
LAL deficiency is a rare disease associated with significant morbidity and mortality, which affects 
individuals from infancy through adulthood. LAL deficiency presenting in infants is a medical 
emergency with rapid disease progression over a period of weeks that is typically fatal within the first 
6 months of life. LAL deficiency is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterised 
by a genetic defect resulting in a marked decrease or loss in activity of the lysosomal acid lipase 
(LAL) enzyme. 
Deficient LAL enzyme activity results in the lysosomal accumulation of cholesteryl esters and 
triglycerides in a variety of cell populations, organs and organ systems, among them hepatocytes and 
macrophages. In the liver, this accumulation leads to hepatomegaly, increased hepatic fat content, 
transaminase elevation signaling chronic liver injury, and progression to fibrosis, cirrhosis, and 
complications of end-stage liver disease. In the spleen, LAL deficiency results in splenomegaly, 
anaemia, and thrombocytopenia. Lipid accumulation in the intestinal wall leads to malabsorption and 
growth failure. Dyslipidaemia is common, with elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) 
and triglycerides and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), associated with increase liver 
fat content and transaminase elevations. In addition to liver disease, patients with LAL deficiency 
experience increased risk for cardiovascular disease and accelerated atherosclerosis.  
Mechanism of action  
Sebelipase alfa is a recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase (rhLAL). 
Sebelipase alfa binds to cell surface receptors via glycans expressed on the protein and is 
subsequently internalised into lysosomes. Sebelipase alfa catalyses the lysosomal hydrolysis of 
cholesteryl esters and triglycerides to free cholesterol, glycerol and free fatty acids. Replacement of 
LAL enzyme activity leads to reductions in liver fat content and transaminases, and enables 
metabolism of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides in the lysosome, leading to reductions in LDL-C 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and non- HDL-C, triglycerides, and increases in HDL-C. Improvement in growth occurs as a result of 
substrate reduction in the intestine. 
Clinical studies 
Infants presenting with LAL deficiency 
Study LAL-CL03 
LAL-CL03 was a multicentre, open-label, single-arm study of sebelipase alfa in 9 patients under 24 
months of age with a confirmed diagnosis of LAL deficiency and growth failure with onset before 
6 months of age. Patients also had rapidly progressive liver disease and severe hepatosplenomegaly. 
The median age of patients at the time of initiation of dosing was 3 months (range = 1 to 6 months). 
The median duration of exposure to sebelipase alfa was 55.6 months per patient (range = 1 day to 60 
months). Patients received sebelipase alfa at 0.35 mg/kg once weekly (qw) for the first 2 weeks and 
then 1 mg/kg once weekly. Based on clinical response, dose escalation to 3 mg/kg once weekly 
occurred as early as 1 month and up to 20 months after starting treatment at 1 mg/kg qw for 6 patients. 
Two of these 6 patients were subsequently dose escalated to 5 mg/kg once weekly, as allowed by the 
study protocol.  
Efficacy was assessed by comparing the survival experience of sebelipase alfa-treated patients who 
survived past 12 months of age in Study LAL-CL03 with a historical cohort of untreated infants 
presenting with LAL deficiency with similar clinical characteristics. In LAL-CL03, 6 of 9 sebelipase 
alfa-treated infants survived beyond 12 months (67% 12-month survival, 95% CI: 30% to 93%). With 
continued treatment until 48 months of age, 1 additional patient died at age 15 months. In the 
historical cohort, 0 of 21 patients survived beyond 8 months of age (0% 12-month survival, 95% CI: 
0% to 16%).  
Sebelipase alfa resulted in improvements in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) / aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST) levels (indicating a decrease in liver injury) and in weight gain; 
improvements were noted within the first several weeks of treatment and were maintained through the 
end of the study. From baseline to Week 240 (Month 60), the mean reductions for ALT and AST 
were -43.5 U/l and -45.25 U/l, respectively. From baseline to Week 240, mean weight-for-age 
percentile improved from 12.74% to 43.17% and mean serum albumin levels increased from 26.9 g/l 
to 31.98 g/l. Dose escalation to 3 mg/kg once weekly was associated with additional improvements in 
weight gain, lymphadenopathy and serum albumin. 
Study LAL-CL08 
Study LAL-CL08 was a multicentre, open-label study of sebelipase alfa in 10 infants ≤ 8 months of 
age with confirmed diagnosis of rapidly progressive LAL deficiency requiring urgent intervention, 
including but not restricted to marked abdominal distension and hepatomegaly, failure to thrive, 
disturbance of coagulation, severe anaemia, and/or a sibling with a rapidly progressive course of LAL 
deficiency.  
The median age of the study patients on the date of their first infusion of sebelipase alfa was 3 months 
(range: 0.5 to 4 months). Eight (80%) patients completed the study. The median duration of exposure 
was 34 months (range: 1 to 37 months). Two (20%) patients were considered early terminated due to 
death. All 10 patients received a starting dose of 1 mg/kg qw. The 9 patients who survived beyond 
Week 4 each received a dose escalation to 3 mg/kg qw, and 7 of these patients received a subsequent 
dose escalation to 5 mg/kg qw, as allowed per study protocol. One patient received a further dose 
escalation to 7.5 mg/kg qw. Two patients had a subsequent dose reduction, which occurred after 
successful transplant procedures; one patient received a BMT and the other patient received a HSCT. 
The percentages (95% confidence intervals [CIs]) of patients surviving to 12, 18, 24, and 36 months 
of age were 90% (55.5%, 99.7%), 80% (44.4%, 97.5%), 80% (44.4%, 97.5%), and 75% (34.9%, 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96.8%), respectively. Two patients were < 36 months of age at the time of study completion and were 
excluded from the analysis for survival to 36 months. Reductions in AST, gamma glutamyltransferase 
(GGT), and total bilirubin and increases in serum albumin were observed in the overall study 
population, with median changes from baseline to last assessment of -34.5 U/L, -66.67 IU/L, -63.64 
μmol/L, and 33.33 g/L, respectively. 
Height and weight increased gradually. Median changes from baseline in Z-scores for weight for 
height (WFH) were decreases through Week 4. Starting from Week 24, there were consistent 
improvements. At Week 144, the median change (range) in Z-scores for WFH was 3.07 (-1.0, 5.3) 
from baseline. 
Children and adults with LAL deficiency 
Study LAL-CL02 
Study LAL-CL02 was a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 66 children and adults 
with LAL deficiency. Patients were randomised to receive sebelipase alfa at a dose of 1 mg/kg 
(n = 36) or placebo (n = 30) once every other week (qow) for 20 weeks in the double-blind period. 
The mean age range at randomisation was 16.5 years, range 4-58 years (36% were < 12 years old and 
71% were < 18 years old). For study entry, patients were required to have ALT levels of 1.5 X upper 
limit of normal (ULN). The majority of patients (58%) had LDL-cholesterol > 190 mg/dl at study 
entry, and 24% of patients with LDL-cholesterol > 190 mg/dl were on lipid lowering medicinal 
products. Of the 32 patients who had a liver biopsy at study entry, 100% had fibrosis and 31% had 
cirrhosis. The age range of patients with biopsy evidence of cirrhosis was 4-21 years. 
The following endpoints were assessed: normalisation of ALT, decrease in LDL-cholesterol, decrease 
in non-HDL-cholesterol, normalisation of AST, decrease in triglycerides, increase in HDL-
cholesterol, decrease in liver fat content assessed by multi-echo gradient echo magnetic resonance 
imaging (MEGE-MRI), and improvement in hepatic steatosis measured by morphometry. 
A statistically significant improvement in multiple endpoints was observed in the sebelipase alfa-
treated group as compared to the placebo group at the completion of the 20-week double-blind period 
of the study, as shown in Table 3. The absolute reduction in mean ALT level was -57.9 U/l (-53%) in 
the sebelipase alfa-treated group and -6.7 U/l (-6%) in the placebo group. 
Table 3: Primary and secondary efficacy endpoints in LAL-CL02 
Sebelipase 
alfa  
(n = 36) 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
(n = 30) 
P-valued 
Primary Endpoint 
Normalisation of ALTa 
Secondary Endpoints 
31% 
7% 
0.0271 
LDL-cholesterol, mean % change from baseline 
Non-HDL-cholesterol, mean % change from baseline 
Normalisation of ASTb 
-28% 
-28% 
42% 
-6% 
-7% 
3% 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
0.0003 
Triglycerides, mean % change from baseline 
HDL-cholesterol, mean % change from baseline  
Liver fat content c, mean % change from baseline 
< 0.0001 
a  Proportion of patients who achieved normalisation defined as 34 or 43 U/l, depending on age and 
< 0.0001 
0.0375 
-0.3% 
-32% 
-25% 
-11% 
20% 
-4% 
gender. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b  Proportion of patients who achieved normalisation defined as 34-59 U/l, depending on age and 
gender. Evaluated in patients with abnormal baseline values (n = 36 for sebelipase alfa; n = 29 for 
placebo).  
c  Evaluated in patients with MEGE-MRI assessments performed (n = 32 for sebelipase alfa; n = 25 
for placebo).  
d  P-values are from Fisher’s exact test for normalisation endpoints and Wilcoxon rank-sum test for 
all other endpoints. 
Paired liver biopsies at baseline and week 20 were available in a subset of patients (n = 26). Of 
patients with paired liver biopsies, 63% (10/16) of sebelipase alfa-treated patients had improvement in 
hepatic steatosis (at least  5% reduction) as measured by morphometry compared to 40% (4/10) of 
placebo patients. This difference was not statistically significant.  
Open-label period 
Patients who participated in Study LAL-CL02 were eligible to continue treatment in an open-label 
periods of the study. 66 patients entered the first open-label period (up to 130 weeks) at a sebelipase 
alfa dose of 1 mg/kg once every other week. In patients who had received sebelipase alfa during the 
double-blind period, reductions in ALT levels during the first 20 weeks of treatment were maintained 
and further improvements were seen in lipid parameters including LDL-cholesterol and 
HDL-cholesterol levels. Twelve (12) of 66 patients in the open label period were dose escalated to 3 
mg/kg once every other week based on clinical response. 
Placebo patients had persistently elevated serum transaminase and abnormal serum lipid levels during 
the double-blind period. Consistent with what was observed in sebelipase alfa-treated patients during 
the double-blind period, initiation of treatment with sebelipase alfa during the open-label period 
produced rapid improvements in ALT levels and in lipid parameters including LDL-cholesterol and 
HDL-cholesterol levels.  
Improvements in ALT levels and in lipid parameters (LDL-cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol levels) 
were maintained during the open-label expanded treatment period for up to 256 weeks (5 years), with 
overall mean treatment duration of 42.5 months. 
Study LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
In a separate open-label study (LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04) in adult patients with LAL deficiency, 
improvements in serum transaminase and lipid levels were sustained through the 260-week treatment 
period. Eight of nine patients transitioned from Study LAL-CL01 after 4 weeks of treatment (0.35 
mg/kg qw, 1 mg/kg qw, or 3 mg/kg qw) to Study LAL-CL04 (1 mg/kg qow or 3 mg/kg qow), with 5 
patients receiving a dose of 1 mg/kg qow and 3 patients receiving a dose of 3 mg/kg qow. Increases in 
serum transaminases and LDL-cholesterol and decreases in HDL-cholesterol were observed during 
the period in which patients were off treatment with sebelipase alfa. 
Study LAL-CL06 
LAL-CL06 was a multicenter, open-label study in 31 children and adults with LAL deficiency and 
was designed to include patients who may have been ineligible for previous clinical studies due to 
age, disease progression, previous treatment by haematopoietic stem cell or liver transplantation, less 
common disease manifestations, or disease characteristics that precluded participation in a placebo-
controlled study. At least 4 patients in the study were to be between the age of 2 and 4 years. The 
study consisted of a screening period of up to 45 days, a treatment period of up to 96 weeks and an 
expanded treatment period of up to 48 weeks (for a total of up to 144 weeks of treatment). The 
median duration of exposure to sebelipase alfa was 33 months (range: 14 to 33.5 months). 
Twenty-eight of the 31 patients completed the 96-week treatment period (1 patient discontinued 
treatment at week 61 due to withdrawal of consent, 1 patient at week 64 due to pregnancy and 1 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patient at week 76 due to transition to commercial therapy). Twenty-five of the 28 patients who 
completed the 96-week treatment period continued to receive treatment with sebelipase alfa during the 
extended treatment period. All 31 patients received sebelipase alfa at a starting dose of 1 mg/kg qow. 
Thirteen of the 31 patients received dose escalations as allowed by the study protocol. Eleven of these 
13 patients had an initial dose escalation from 1 mg/kg qow to 3 mg/kg qow, and 4 of these patients 
had a further dose escalation to 3 mg/kg qw. 
Serum transaminases (ALT/AST) were elevated at baseline in approximately 75% of patients, and 
approximately half of the patients had levels > 1.5 x ULN. Reductions in ALT and AST were evident 
by week 4 and were sustained during long-term treatment with sebelipase alfa, with mean changes 
from baseline to week 144 of -40.3 U/L (-32.0%) and -42.2 U/L (34.2%), respectively. 
Transient increases in total cholesterol, non-HDL-C, and LDL-C were observed shortly after initiation 
of treatment (week 4), and then levels dropped to below baseline by the next assessment at week 8. 
This observation is consistent with mobilization of accumulated lipid substrates from the affected 
tissues and has been observed in previous clinical studies of sebelipase alfa. Continued long-term 
therapy with sebelipase alfa produced an improvement in the serum lipid profile, with mean changes 
from baseline to week 144 in LDL-C, triglycerides, and non-HDL-C of -54.2 mg/dL, -47.5 mg/dL, 
and -63.7 mg/dL, respectively, and mean percent changes of -31.2%, -19.1%, and -30.3%, 
respectively. An increase in HDL-C levels was observed, with a mean increase from baseline to week 
144 of 10.2 mg/dL and a mean percent increase of 39.7%. 
Liver biopsy data in children and adult population 
Liver biopsy is the accepted standard for histologic assessment of liver disease activity and fibrosis, 
despite such limitations as sampling variability, potential complications of an invasive technique, and 
subjective scoring. 
Liver biopsies from 59 patients enrolled in Studies LAL-CL02 and LAL-CL06 were assessed by an 
independent pathologist at a central facility, who was blinded to assessment timepoint and treatment 
assignment. All biopsies were evaluated semi-quantitatively for histologic features such as Ishak 
Fibrosis Score, portal inflammation, lobular inflammation, macrovesicular steatosis, and 
microvesicular steatosis. Computer-assisted morphometry was used to quantify percent steatosis, 
fibrogenic cells, collagen, and macrophages.  
Liver biopsies were evaluable for Ishak Fibrosis Scores for 59 patients at baseline and 38 patients at 
Month 12 (meaning after 12 months of exposure to sebelipase alfa). There were 36 patients who had 
Ishak scores at both baseline and Month 12. 
At baseline, 3 of 59 patients (5%) had Ishak scores of 0 (no fibrosis) and 15 (25%) patients had Ishak 
scores of 6, indicating established or advanced cirrhosis. Ishak scores improved by Month 12, when 9 
of 38 patients (24%) had Ishak scores of 0 and 7 patients (18%) had Ishak scores of 6. Overall, 31 of 
36 patients (86.1%) had Ishak scores that had improved or did not progress at Month 12. There were 
10 patients (28%) with a ≥ 2 point reduction in Ishak scores from baseline to Month 12, including 
changes from stage 2 to stage 0, from stage 3 to stages 1 and 0, from stage 5 to stage 0 (> 3-point 
reduction), and from stage 6 to stages 4 and 3. Globally, these 10 patients with a ≥ 2-point reduction 
in Ishak stage scores had also substantial improvements in other study-related assessments, such as 
reduction in ALT, LDL-C, HDL-C, and non-HDL-C over the same time period. 
Based on eligibility criteria, patients in Study LAL-CL06 generally were expected to have more 
cirrhosis and intractable disease than patients in Study LAL-CL02, due to more advanced liver disease 
at baseline. The liver biopsy findings in Studies LAL-CL02 and LAL-CL06 were consistent with each 
other. At baseline, in both studies, the majority of patients had microvesicular steatosis (57 of 59, 
97%), including 45 of 59 patients (76%) with a score 4 (scale of 0-4, with severe is defined as 4 and 
equivalent to > 66% hepatocyte involvement/replacement), as expected with the underlying disease. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At month 12, the percentage of patients with severe microvesicular steatosis were decreased, with 17 
of 38 patients (45%) having > 66% hepatocyte involvement/replacement (score 4).    
Paediatric population 
Eighty-eight of 125 patients (70%) who received sebelipase alfa during clinical studies were in the 
paediatric and adolescent age range (1 month up to 18 years) at the time of first dose. Currently 
available data are described sections 4.8 and 5.1.  
LAL deficiency registry 
Medical or healthcare professionals are encouraged to participate and enrol all patients diagnosed with 
LAL deficiency in the LAL deficiency registry.. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of sebelipase alfa in children and adults were determined using a population 
pharmacokinetic analysis of 102 patients with LAL deficiency who received intravenous infusions of 
sebelipase alfa across 4 clinical studies LAL-CL02, LAL-CL03, LAL-CL04 and LAL-CL06 
(Table 4). 
Predicted pharmacokinetic and exposure parameters of sebelipase alfa from clinical trials are 
presented by age group in Table 4.  
Table 4: 
Mean (SD) Predicted Pharmacokinetic and Exposure Parameters following 
Repeated Administration of 1 mg/kg Sebelipase Alfa in Patients With LAL 
Deficiency by Age Group 
Parameter 
CL (L/h) 
Q (L/h) 
Vc (L) 
Vss (L) 
t½β (h) 
AUCss 
(ng × h/mL) 
Cmax,ss 
(ng/mL) 
Age < 4 years 
(N = 5) 
17.2 (7.07) 
1.96 (0.963) 
2.06 (1.22) 
6.13 (1.22) 
1.88 (0.69) 
Age 4 to < 12 years 
(N = 32) 
22.8 (11.2) 
1.41 (0.633) 
2.72 (1.43) 
6.79 (1.43) 
2.71 (1.63) 
Age 12 to < 18 
years (N=34) 
32.7 (10.8) 
1.61 (0.551) 
4.06 (2.01) 
8.13 (2.01) 
2.18 (1.28) 
521 (174) 
1410 (774) 
1610 (658) 
≥ 18 years 
(N = 31) 
37.6 (13.8) 
1.54 (0.594) 
6.01 (5.43) 
10.1 (5.43) 
2.24 (1.05) 
2060 (793) 
247 (80.6) 
679 (370) 
786 (315) 
997 (367) 
Note: Estimates are derived from data from Studies LAL-CL02, LAL-CL03, LAL-CL04, and LAL-CL06. 
AUCss = area under the serum concentration-time curve at steady state; CL = clearance; Cmax,ss = maximum 
observed serum concentration under steady state conditions; PK = pharmacokinetic(s); Q = peripheral clearance; 
t½β = terminal elimination half-life; Vc = central volume of distribution; Vss = Volume of distribution at steady 
state 
Linearity/non-linearity 
 No conclusion on the linearity of sebelipase alfa pharmacokinetics can be made due to limited data at 
higher exposures. No drug accumulation is observed following 1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg once every other 
week dosing, although observations for the drug accumulation at 3mg/kg every other week are based 
on a limited number of patients. Accumulation following once weekly dosing is not expected based 
on relatively rapid drug clearance. 
Special populations 
During the covariate analysis of the population pharmacokinetics model for sebelipase alfa, age, sex 
and enzyme maturation were found to not have a significant influence on CL (drug clearance) and Vc 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(central volume of distribution) of sebelipase alfa. Body weight and body surface area are significant 
covariates on CL. Sebelipase alfa has not been investigated in patients aged 65 years or older.  
There is limited information on sebelipase alfa pharmacokinetics in non-Caucasian ethnic groups.  
Sebelipase alfa is a protein and is expected to be metabolically degraded through peptide hydrolysis. 
Consequently, impaired liver function is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of sebelipase 
alfa. There is a lack of data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Renal elimination of sebelipase alfa is considered a minor pathway for clearance. There is a lack of 
data in patients with renal impairment. 
Immunogenicity  
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is the potential for the development of immunogenicity (see 
section 4.8). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated-dose toxicity in rats and monkeys, or fertility, embryo-foetal and peri- and 
postnatal development in rats and rabbits. Chronic toxicity studies in juvenile cynomolgous monkeys 
showed no toxicity at doses up to 3 times the recommended dose in infants and 10 times the 
recommended dose in adults/children. No adverse findings were observed in rat and rabbit 
embryofoetal development studies at doses up to at least 10 times the adult/children recommended 
dose and in rat fertility and peri- postnatal development studies at doses up to 10 times the 
adult/children recommended dose.  
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of sebelipase alfa have not been 
performed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Human serum albumin 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vials: 2 years.  
After dilution: Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for up to 24 hours at 2°C 
to 8°C, or up to 12 hours below 25 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the diluted solution should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C, or up to 12 hours below 25 °C, unless 
dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C).  
Do not freeze.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear glass vial (Type I) with a siliconised butyl rubber stopper, and an aluminium seal with a plastic 
flip-off cap, containing 10 ml of concentrate. 
Pack size: 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Each vial of KANUMA is intended for single use only. KANUMA has to be diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion using aseptic technique.  
The diluted solution should be administered to patients using a low-protein binding infusion set 
equipped with an in-line, low-protein binding 0.2 μm filter, with a surface area of greater than 4.5 cm2 
as available in order to avoid filter occlusion. 
Preparation of the sebelipase alfa infusion  
KANUMA should be prepared and used according to the following steps. Aseptic technique should be 
used. 
a. 
The number of vials to be diluted for infusion should be determined based on the patient’s 
weight and prescribed dose. 
It is recommended to allow KANUMA vials to reach a temperature between 15 °C and 25 °C 
prior to dilution to minimise the potential for the formation of sebelipase alfa protein particles 
in solution. The vials should not be left outside the refrigerator longer than 24 hours prior to 
dilution for infusion. The vials should not be frozen, heated or microwaved and should be 
protected from light. 
The vials should not be shaken. Prior to dilution, the concentrate in the vials should be 
inspected visually; the concentrate should be clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly 
coloured (yellow). Due to the proteinaceous nature of the medicinal product, slight flocculation 
(e.g., thin translucent fibres) may be present in the vial concentrate and is acceptable for use. 
Do not use if the concentrate is cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present.  
Up to 10 ml of concentrate should be slowly withdrawn from each vial and diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion. See Table 5 for recommended total infusion 
volumes by weight range.  The solution should be mixed gently, and not be shaken. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
Table 5: Recommended infusion volumes* 
Weight range (kg) 
1-2.9 
3-5.9 
6-10.9 
1 mg/kg dose 
3 mg/kg dose 
5 mg/kg dose** 
Total infusion 
volume (ml) 
4 
Total Infusion Volume 
(mL) 
8 
Total Infusion Volume 
(mL) 
12 
6 
10 
12 
25 
20 
50 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11-24.9 
25-49.9 
50-99.9 
100-120.9 
25 
50 
100 
250 
50 
100 
250 
500 
150 
250 
500 
600 
* The infusion volume should be based on the prescribed dose and should be prepared to a final 
sebelipase alfa concentration of 0.1-1.5 mg/ml. 
 ** For patients with LAL Deficiency presenting within the first 6 months of life who do not achieve 
an optimal clinical response with a dose of 3 mg/kg. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Alexion Europe SAS 
103-105 rue Anatole France 
92300 Levallois-Perret 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1033/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 28 August 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 23 April 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu/.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies USA Inc 
6051 George Watts Hill Drive 
Research Triangle Park 
North Carolina 
NC 27709 
UNITED STATES 
Alexion Pharma International Operations Limited (APIOL) 
Alexion Athlone Manufacturing Facility (AAMF) 
Monksland Industrial Estate 
Monksland 
Athlone 
Roscommon 
N37 DH79 
IRELAND 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Almac Pharma Services Ltd. 
Seagoe Industrial Estate 
Craigavon 
Co Armagh 
BT63 5UA 
United Kingdom 
Alexion Pharma International Operations Limited 
College Business and Technology Park 
Blanchardstown Road North 
Dublin 15 
D15 R925 
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Kanuma in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational material including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The educational material is aimed to encourage healthcare professionals to enrol patients in the 
prospective disease and clinical outcome registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase (LAL) 
Deficiency to monitor for efficacy and safety of Kanuma (LAL Deficiency Registry), with particular 
regard to hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, and anti-drug antibodies (ADA) 
development impacting response to drug. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Kanuma is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to use Kanuma have access to the educational material. The 
physician’s educational material should contain: 
-  Summary of Product Characteristics  
-  Guide for healthcare professionals   
The guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
-  Warning and precautions on the the risk of hypersensitivity including anaphylaxis or ADA 
development, with particular reference to symptoms, time to onset and severity.  
- 
Information on how to manage patients experiencing severe hypersensitivity reactions 
including anaphylaxis. 
-  Details on how to monitor for potential ADA formation following initiation of treatment with 
Kanuma, particularly in patients on Kanuma who experience clinically important 
hypersensitivity reactions or potential loss of clinical response. 
- 
Information to healthcare professionals that it is the responsibility of the MAH to provide the 
test for the monitoring of ADA positive patients including the modalities for requesting the 
test. 
19 
 
 
 
 
- 
Information on the ongoing LAL Deficiency Registry, including the importance of enrolling 
patients, also those not treated with Kanuma, and the modalities for participation. 
•  Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures:  
Description  
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): LAL Deficiency 
Registry: Non-interventional, multicentre, prospective disease and clinical 
outcome registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency to 
further understand the disease, its progression and any associated 
complication, and to evaluate the long-term efficacy  (normalisation of 
hepatic function)  and safety of Kanuma (in particular hypersensitivity 
reactions, including anaphylaxis, and anti-drug antibodies development 
potentially impacting response to drug) according to agreed protocol.  
Due date 
Interim reports 
expected every 2 
years   
Final study 
report expected 
in Jan 2027 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KANUMA 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion  
sebelipase alfa  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of concentrate contains 2 mg sebelipase alfa. Each vial contains 20 mg sebelipase alfa in 
10 ml of solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: 
Sodium citrate  
Citric acid monohydrate 
Human serum albumin 
Water for injections 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial of 10 ml 
20 mg/10 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Do not shake. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator.  
Do not freeze.  
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Alexion Europe SAS 
103-105 rue Anatole France 
92300 Levallois-Perret 
France 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1033/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC {number}  
SN {number}  
NN {number}  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
10 ml VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
KANUMA 2 mg/ml sterile concentrate  
sebelipase alfa  
IV use after dilution  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mg/10 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
Store in a refrigerator  
Do not freeze. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
KANUMA 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
sebelipase alfa 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you or your child may get. See the end 
of section 4 for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What KANUMA is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given KANUMA  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How KANUMA is given 
Possible side effects  
How to store KANUMA  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What KANUMA is and what it is used for 
KANUMA contains the active substance sebelipase alfa. Sebelipase alfa is similar to the naturally 
occurring enzyme lysosomal acid lipase (LAL), which the body uses to breakdown fats. It is used to 
treat patients of all ages with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL deficiency). 
LAL deficiency is a genetic disease that leads to liver damage, high blood cholesterol, and other 
complications due to a build-up of certain types of fats (cholesteryl esters and triglycerides). 
How KANUMA works 
This medicine is an enzyme replacement therapy. This means that it replaces the missing or defective 
LAL enzyme in patients with LAL deficiency. This medicine works by lowering the build-up of fat 
that causes medical complications, including impaired growth, liver damage and heart complications. 
It also improves blood levels of fats, including elevated LDL (bad cholesterol) and triglycerides.  
2.  What you need to know before KANUMA is given 
You must not be given KANUMA 
- 
If you or your child has experienced life-threatening allergic reactions to sebelipase alfa that 
cannot be managed when you or your child receives the medicine again, or to egg or any of the 
other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
- 
If treated with KANUMA, you or your child may experience a side effect while you or your 
child is being given the medicine or during the hours following the infusion (see section 4). 
This is known as an infusion reaction which can sometimes be severe, and may include an 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
allergic reaction that could be life-threatening and require medical treatment. The first time that 
you or your child are given KANUMA you should be observed by a healthcare professional for 
1 hour to watch for any signs of an infusion reaction. If you or your child experiences a 
severe infusion reaction like this, seek immediate medical attention. If you or your child has 
an infusion reaction you or your child may be given additional medicines to treat or help 
prevent future reactions. These medicines may include antihistamines, fever-reducing 
medicines and/or corticosteroids (a type of anti-inflammatory medicines). 
If the infusion reaction is severe, your doctor may stop KANUMA infusion and start giving you 
or your child appropriate medical treatment. 
The development of blood proteins against KANUMA, also called anti-drug antibodies, may 
occur during the treatment. Talk to your doctor if you experience decreased efficacy with 
KANUMA 
This medicine may contain egg proteins. If you or your child has an egg allergy or a history of 
allergies to eggs, tell your doctor or nurse (see You must not be given KANUMA).  
- 
- 
Other medicines and KANUMA 
Tell your doctor if you or your child are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of sebelipase alfa in pregnant women. As a precautionary measure, you 
should not be given KANUMA if you are pregnant.  
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether sebelipase alfa passes into breast milk. Tell your doctor if you are breast-
feeding or plan to do so. Your doctor will then help you decide whether to stop breast-feeding, or 
whether to stop taking KANUMA, considering the benefit of breast-feeding to the baby and the 
benefit of KANUMA to the mother. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
Driving and using machines 
KANUMA may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse effects of 
sebelipase alfa include dizziness which could affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
KANUMA contains sodium  
This medicine, when diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion for 
intravenous administration contains 33 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) at the 
recommended dose. This is equivalent to 1.7% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of 
sodium for an adult. Tell your doctor if you or your child is on a controlled sodium diet.  
3. 
How KANUMA is given 
The dose you or your child receives is based on your or your child’s body weight. 
Infants (< 6 months of age) 
For patients who have signs and symptoms of the disease when they are infants, the recommended 
starting dose is 1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg once weekly. Dose adjustments may be considered based on how 
well your child responds to treatment.  
Children and adults 
The recommended dose is 1 mg per kg body weight once every other week through a drip into a vein. 
Dose adjustments may be considered based on how well you or your child responds to treatment.  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each infusion will take approximately 1 to 2 hours. You or your child may be monitored by your 
doctor or nurse for an additional hour after the infusion. KANUMA should be started at as young an 
age as possible and is intended for long-term use. 
Your doctor or nurse will give KANUMA to you or your child by an infusion (drip) into a vein. The 
medicine will be diluted before being given to you or your child.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Side effects were seen while patients were being given the medicine or shortly after (infusion 
reactions). The most serious side effects may include an allergic reaction (seen very commonly [may 
affect more than 1 in 10 people] in infants younger than 6 months old, or commonly [may affect up to 
1 in 10 people] in children and adults) with symptoms including difficulty breathing,  rapid breathing, 
fast heartbeat, chest discomfort, mild swelling of eyelids, red eyes, runny nose, flushing, hives, 
itching, diarrhoea, paleness, wheezing, low blood oxygen, skin redness and irritability. If you or your 
child experiences symptoms like these, seek immediate medical attention. If you or your child has 
an infusion reaction you or your child may be given additional medicines to treat or help prevent 
future reactions. If the infusion reaction is severe, your doctor may stop the infusion of KANUMA in 
the vein and start giving appropriate medical treatment. 
Very Common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) side effects reported in infants (1 to 6 
months old) are:  
Hypersensitivity (irritability, agitation, vomiting, urticaria, eczema, pruritus, pallor and drug 
hypersensitivity), severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic reactions) 
Eyelid swelling 
Fast heartbeat 
Difficulty breathing 
Diarrhoea, vomiting 
Rash, raised rash 
Fever 
Decreased oxygen in the blood, blood pressure increased, rapid breathing, development of blood 
proteins 
Very Common (may affect 1 in 10 people or more) side effects reported in children and 
adolescents (4 to 18 years old) and adults are: 
Hypersensitivity (chills, eczema, laryngeal oedema, nausea, pruritus and urticaria) 
Dizziness 
Stomach ache, diarrhoea 
Tiredness, fever 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) side effects reported in children and adolescents 
(4 to 18 years old) and adults are:  
Severe allergic reaction (anaphylactic reaction),  
Fast heartbeat 
Skin redness, low blood pressure 
Shortness in breath 
Stomach bloating 
Rash, red swollen skin 
Chest discomfort, reaction at the infusion site 
Frequency, type and severity of adverse reactions in children are similar to those in adults.  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you or your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store KANUMA  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C to 8 °C). Do not freeze. Do not shake. Store in the original package in 
order to protect from light. 
For diluted solutions, immediate use is recommended. If not used immediately, the diluted solution 
may be stored up to 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C or up to 12 hours below 25 °C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What KANUMA contains  
- 
The active substance is sebelipase alfa. Each ml of concentrate contains 2 mg sebelipase alfa. 
Each vial contains 20 mg of sebelipase alfa in 10 ml.  
The other ingredients are sodium citrate (see section 2 under ‘KANUMA contains sodium’), 
citric acid monohydrate, human serum albumin, and water for injections.  
- 
What KANUMA looks like and contents of the pack 
KANUMA is supplied as a concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). It is a solution 
that is clear to slightly opalescent, and colourless to slightly coloured.  
Pack size: 1 vial containing 10 ml of concentrate. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Alexion Europe SAS 
103-105 rue Anatole France 
92300 Levallois-Perret 
France 
Manufacturer: 
Almac Pharma Services 
Seagoe Industrial Estate 
Craigavon BT63 5UA 
United Kingdom 
Alexion Pharma International Operations Limited 
College Business and Technology Park 
Blanchardstown Road North 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dublin 15 
D15 R925 
Ireland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing  
Authorisation Holder:  
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Alexion Pharma Belgium  
Tél/Tel: +32 0 800 200 31  
България  
АстраЗенека България ЕООД  
Teл.: +359 24455000  
Česká republika  
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.  
Tel: +420 222 807 111  
Danmark  
Alexion Pharma Nordics AB  
Tlf: +46 0 8 557 727 50  
Lietuva  
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva  
Tel: +370 5 2660550  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Alexion Pharma Belgium  
Tél/Tel: +32 0 800 200 31  
Magyarország  
AstraZeneca Kft.  
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500  
Malta  
Alexion Europe SAS  
Tel: +353 1 800 882 840  
Deutschland  
Alexion Pharma Germany GmbH  
Tel: +49 (0) 89 45 70 91 300  
Nederland  
Alexion Pharma Netherlands B.V.  
Tel: +32 (0)2 548 36 67  
Eesti  
AstraZeneca  
Tel: +372 6549 600  
Ελλάδα  
AstraZeneca A.E.  
Τηλ: +30 210 6871500  
España  
Alexion Pharma Spain, S.L.  
Tel: +34 93 272 30 05  
France  
Alexion Pharma France SAS  
Tél: +33 1 47 32 36 21  
Hrvatska  
AstraZeneca d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 4628 000  
Ireland  
Alexion Europe SAS  
Tel: +353 1 800 882 840  
Ísland  
Alexion Pharma Nordics AB  
Sími: +46 0 8 557 727 50  
Norge  
Alexion Pharma Nordics AB  
Tlf: +46 (0)8 557 727 50   
Österreich  
Alexion Pharma Austria GmbH  
Tel: +41 44 457 40 00  
Polska  
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00  
Portugal  
Alexion Pharma Spain, S.L. - Sucursal em 
Portugal   
Tel: +34 93 272 30 05  
România  
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL  
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41   
Slovenija  
AstraZeneca UK Limited  
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600  
Slovenská republika  
AstraZeneca AB, o.z.  
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777  
32 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Italia  
Alexion Pharma Italy srl  
Tel: +39 02 7767 9211   
Κύπρος  
Alexion Europe SAS  
Τηλ: +357 22490305  
Latvija  
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija  
Tel: +371 67377100  
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Suomi/Finland  
Alexion Pharma Nordics AB  
Puh/Tel: +46 0 8 557 727 50   
Sverige  
Alexion Pharma Nordics AB  
Tel: +46 0 8 557 727 50  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)  
Alexion Europe SAS  
Tel: +44 (0) 800 028 4394  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products. 
Each vial of KANUMA is intended for single use only. KANUMA has to be diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion using aseptic technique.  
The diluted solution should be administered to patients using a low-protein binding infusion set 
equipped with an in-line, low-protein binding 0.2 μm filter, with a surface area of greater than 4.5 cm2 
as available in order to avoid filter occlusion.   
Preparation of the sebelipase alfa infusion  
KANUMA should be prepared and used according to the following steps. Aseptic technique should be 
used. 
a. 
The number of vials to be diluted for infusion should be determined based on the patient’s 
weight and prescribed dose. 
It is recommended to allow KANUMA vials to reach a temperature between 15 °C and 25 °C 
prior to dilution to minimise the potential for the formation of sebelipase alfa protein particles 
in solution. The vials should not be left outside the refrigerator longer than 24 hours prior to 
dilution for infusion. The vials should not be frozen, heated or microwaved and should be 
protected from light. 
The vials should not be shaken. Prior to dilution, the concentrate in the vials should be 
inspected visually; the concentrate should be clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to slightly 
coloured (yellow). Due to the proteinaceous nature of the medicinal product, slight flocculation 
(e.g., thin translucent fibres) may be present in the vial concentrate and is acceptable for use. 
Do not use if the concentrate is cloudy, or if foreign particulate matter is present. 
Up to 10 ml of concentrate should be slowly withdrawn from each vial and diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion. See Table 1 for recommended total infusion 
volumes by weight range.  The solution should be mixed gently, and not be shaken. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e. 
Table 1: Recommended infusion volumes* 
33 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weight range (kg) 
1-2.9 
3-5.9 
6-10.9 
11-24.9 
25-49.9 
50-99.9 
100-120.9 
1 mg/kg dose 
Total infusion 
volume (ml) 
4 
3 mg/kg dose 
Total Infusion Volume 
(mL) 
8 
5 mg/kg dose** 
Total Infusion Volume 
(mL) 
12 
6 
10 
25 
50 
100 
250 
12 
25 
50 
100 
250 
500 
20 
50 
150 
250 
500 
600 
* The infusion volume should be based on the prescribed dose and should be prepared to a final 
sebelipase alfa concentration of 0.1-1.5 mg/ml. 
** For patients with LAL Deficiency presenting within the first 6 months of life who do not achieve 
an optimal clinical response with a dose of 3 mg/kg. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
34 
 
 
  
 
