25 June 2015 
EMA/514387/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Kanuma  
International non-proprietary name: sebelipase alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004004/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Manufacturers ..................................................................................................... 7 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 10 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ............................. 15 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 15 
2.2.6. Recommendations for future quality development ............................................... 15 
2.2.7. Introduction ................................................................................................... 15 
2.2.8. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.2.9. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 18 
2.2.10. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ....................................................... 20 
2.2.11. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ................................................................... 20 
2.2.12. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 21 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 21 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 21 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 23 
2.3.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 29 
2.3.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology .................................................................. 31 
2.3.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 34 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 35 
2.4.1. Dose-response studies- Main studies ................................................................. 35 
2.4.2. Supportive studies........................................................................................... 53 
2.4.3. Analysis/results  performed across trials ............................................................ 56 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical efficacy............................................................................ 64 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 67 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 67 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 75 
2.5.2. Conclusions on clinical safety ............................................................................ 76 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 77 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 81 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 81 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 81 
Conclusions ............................................................................................................. 85 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 85 
4.1. Proposed list of post-authorisation measures ......................................................... 87 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 2/87 
  
  
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADA  
ALT  
ALP  
Anti-drug antibody  
Alanine aminotransferase  
Alkaline phosphatase  
AUCcum  
Cumulative area under the plasma concentration-time curve  
AUCss  
Area under the concentration-time curve at steady-state  
AS 
AST  
ATU  
Active substance 
Aspartate aminotransferase  
Authorisation Temporaire d'Utilisation  
BMIFA  
Body mass index-for-age  
BSA  
CDC  
Body surface area  
Centres for Disease Control and Prevention  
CLDQ  
Chronic Liver Disease Questionnaire  
CI  
CL  
CRF  
DBS  
EAS  
EC  
ERT  
Confidence interval  
Apparent clearance  
Case report form  
Dried blood spot  
Extension Analysis Set  
Ethics committee  
Enzyme replacement therapy  
ELISA  
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay  
EW 
egg white 
FACIT  
Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy  
FAS  
FP 
GGT  
GI  
Full Analysis Set  
Finished product 
Gamma glutamyl transferase  
Gastrointestinal  
GlcNAc   
N-acetylglucosamine 
HCFA  
Head circumference-for-age  
HDL-c  
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol  
H&E  
Haematoxylin and eosin  
HeFH  
Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia  
HFA  
Height-for-age  
HMG-CoA  
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 3/87 
  
  
 
 
HRQoL  
Health-Related Quality of Life  
hs-CRP  
High sensitivity C-reactive protein  
HSCT  
Haematopoietic stem cell transplant 
HSA 
IAR  
ICH  
IMP  
IRB  
IV  
LAL  
Human serum albumin 
Infusion-associated reaction  
International Conference on Harmonisation  
Investigational Medicinal Product  
Institutional Review Board  
Intravenous  
Lysosomal Acid Lipase 
LDL-c  
Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol  
LFA  
LLM  
LLN  
LSD  
M6P 
MCT  
MDV 
Length-for-age  
Lipid-lowering medication  
Lower limit of normal  
Lysosomal Storage Disorder  
mannose-6-phosphate 
Medium chain triglyceride  
Marek’s Disease Virus 
MEGE  
Multi-echo gradient echo 
MMR  
MN  
MRI  
MTB 
Macrophage mannose receptor  
Multiples of normal  
Magnetic resonance imaging 
Master transgenic bank  
1H-MRS  
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy  
MUACRA  
Mid-upper arm circumference-for-age  
NAFLD  
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease  
NASH  
Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis  
Non-HDL-C  
Non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol  
NOR 
OOS 
OV 
Normal Operating Range  
Out Of Specification 
ovalbumin  
PBMC  
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells  
PCR 
PD  
Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction 
Pharmacodynamic  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 4/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
PES  
Primary Efficacy Analysis Set  
PK  
PP 
PPN  
PPQ 
PT  
PV 
qow  
qw  
Pharmacokinetics  
Process parameter 
Peripheral parenteral nutrition  
Process performance qualification  
Prothrombin Time  
Process Validation 
Every-other-week  
Once weekly  
rhLAL  
Recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase  
SD  
SE  
Standard deviation  
Standard error  
SF-36  
36 item Short Form Health Survey  
SMA  
Smooth muscle actin  
SmPC 
Summary of product characteristics 
SPF 
specific pathogen free 
TFHN  
Transfusion-free haemoglobin normalisation  
TPN  
UAS 
UFDF 
UK  
ULN  
US  
WFA  
WFH  
WFI 
WFL  
Total parenteral nutrition  
Unformulated active substance 
Ultrafiltration Diafiltration 
United Kingdom  
Upper limit of normal  
United States  
Weight-for-age  
Weight-for-height  
Water for Injections 
Weight-for-length  
WHO  
World Health Organisation 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 5/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Synageva BioPharma Ltd submitted on 24 November 2014 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Kanuma, through the 
centralised procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 25 
April 2014. 
Kanuma was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/10/827 on 17/12/2010. Kanuma 
was designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: Treatment of lysosomal 
acid lipase deficiency. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: long-term enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) in 
patients of all ages with lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency. 
Following the CHMP positive opinion on this marketing authorisation, the Committee for Orphan 
Medicinal Products (COMP) reviewed the designation of Kanuma as an orphan medicinal product in 
the approved indication. The outcome of the COMP review can be found on the Agency's website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Rare disease designations. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. The applicant indicated 
that sebelipase alfa was considered to be a new active substance. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/0179/2014 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/0179/2014 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) 
No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for 
a condition related to the proposed indication. 
Applicant’s request for consideration 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance sebelipase alfa contained in the above medicinal 
product to be considered as a new active substance in itself, as the applicant claims that it is not a 
constituent of a product previously authorised within the Union. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 6/87 
  
  
 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant received Protocol Assistance from the CHMP on 19 July 2012. The Protocol Assistance 
pertained to quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer of the active substance 
Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies USA Inc 
6051 George Watts Hill Drive 
Research Triangle Park 
North Carolina 
NC 27709 United States 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Almac Pharma Services Ltd. 
Seagoe Industrial Estate 
Craigavon 
Co Armagh 
BT63 5UA  
United Kingdom 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Bart Van der Schueren 
Co-Rapporteur:  Dinah Duarte 
CHMP Peer reviewer: Pieter de Graeff 
PRAC Rapporteur: Qun-Ying Yue 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 24 November 2014. 
•  Accelerated Assessment procedure was agreed-upon by CHMP on 20 November 2014. 
•  The procedure started on 24 December 2014.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 March 
2015. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 
March 2015.  
•  The PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview was endorsed by PRAC on 10 April 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 23 April 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 23 
April 2015. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 7/87 
  
  
 
 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on  
22 May 2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 3 June 2015. 
•  The PRAC RMP Advice and assessment overview was endorsed by PRAC on 11 June 2015. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint updated Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 19 June 2015. 
•  During the meeting on 25 June 2015, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Kanuma.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The target disease of the ERT product sebelipase alfa is known as LAL deficiency, and is a 
progressive multisystem disease which frequently manifests early in life leading to serious 
complications. In infants, these complications include failure to thrive with progressive liver injury, 
rapid development of liver fibrosis, and early death. In children and adults, chronic liver injury with 
liver fibrosis leading to such complications as variceal bleeding due to cirrhosis, and marked 
disturbances of lipid metabolism leading to dyslipidaemia increasing the risk of premature 
atherosclerosis, are seen. Currently there are no safe or effective therapies for this life-threatening 
disease. 
LAL deficiency is a lysosomal storage disorder (LSD) caused by mutations affecting the LIPA gene 
encoding LAL located on chromosome 10q23.2-q23.3. Lal enzyme plays a key role in the 
metabolism and degradation of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides, and its marked reduction or 
absence leads to accumulation of these lipid substrates in the lysosomes of various tissues and cell 
types throughout the body, particularly affecting the liver, leading to fibrosis, organ dysfunction 
and failure, as well as the intestine, leading to malabsorption and adverse effects on growth, and 
other issues that may result from these. 
LAL deficiency has two distinct forms of presenting itself, with the most severe one being the 
rapidly progressive presentation in young infants associated with a variety of mutations in the 
gene, and was historically seen as a separate syndrome known as Wolman disease. It has an 
incidence of approximately 1.89 individuals per million and afflicted infants rarely live past the age 
of 6 months. Clinical manifestation is usually observed as growth failure, as well as severe hepatic 
disease, as evidenced by massive hepatomegaly, elevation of transaminases, hyperbilirubinaemia, 
coagulopathy, and hypoalbuminaemia. Liver fibrosis and cirrhosis develop rapidly and have also 
been described. 
In contrast, LAL deficiency presenting in children and adults, the most frequently described form 
and historically known as cholesteryl ester storage disease (CESD), is frequently associated with an 
exon 8 splice-junction mutation c.849G>A (also commonly referred to as E8SJM-1), which has the 
potential to allow generation of full length transcripts allowing for the production of low levels of 
residual enzyme activity, and the incidence of this form is estimated between 7.7 and 25 per 
million, and higher mutation frequencies may exist among people of Iranian Jewish descent or 
Middle Eastern descent. The disease presentation can be variable, hepatic manifestations typically 
dominate the clinical picture with marked hepatomegaly, elevation of transaminases signalling 
chronic liver injury, increased hepatic tissue levels of cholesteryl esters, and liver fibrosis and 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 8/87 
  
  
 
cirrhosis manifesting early in life, but dyslipidaemia is also common, with a lipid profile that is 
indistinguishable from other more common hypercholesterolaemias such as heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia (HeFH) and includes elevations in cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-c) and triglycerides, and decreased levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(HDL-c). These lipid abnormalities coupled with the impairment of degradation of cholesteryl esters 
by macrophages are known to be associated with increased cardiovascular risk. 
There is currently limited information regarding specific molecular mechanisms beyond clinical 
presentation that predict the rate of disease progression leading to clinical events such as 
decompensated liver disease, bleeding varices, or the requirement for liver transplantation. Beyond 
the rapidly progressive clinical presentation in infancy, prognostic factors predictive of rate of 
disease progression and risk of clinical events in children and adults have not been identified. 
Likewise there is limited information regarding the utility of mutation status, residual enzyme 
activity, or other laboratory parameters in predicting the rate of disease progression in patients 
with LAL deficiency. 
The current best way of diagnosing LAL deficiency is by DBS Enzyme activity measurement, though 
this method cannot predict rates of disease progression. LAL deficiency presents and progresses 
along a clinical continuum with predominant liver pathology and dyslipidaemia, as well as other 
clinical manifestations associated with lysosomal accumulation of cholesteryl esters and 
triglycerides. 
To date there are no safe and effective therapies available to treat patients with LAL deficiency, 
and treatment options for infants are limited to a variety of supportive therapies, including 
nutritional support, blood transfusions, and albumin, in order mitigate some effects of the affliction. 
Nevertheless, these infants are marked for death. Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
in infants has been tried as a curative treatment, but results have been less than satisfactory. In 
addition HSCT is a risky procedure that carries its own share of inherent issues. 
Treatment for children or adults presenting with LAL deficiency is limited to liver transplant as liver 
function deteriorates, and attempts to manage dyslipidaemia through diet and the use of lipid-
lowering medications (LLMs). At present, there is limited information in the medical literature on 
the long-term outcomes of liver transplantation in patients with LAL deficiency. Liver 
transplantation itself also carries inherent significant risks, and requires concomitant 
immunosuppression. Furthermore, cells of haematopoietic lineage which will repopulate the 
transplanted liver will remain enzyme deficient in transplanted patients; hence, other disease 
complications may persist even if transplants are successful. 
Thus in conclusion, LAL deficiency is a serious, life-threatening disease for which a significant 
unmet medical need exists requiring new safe and effective therapies. 
Sebelipase alfa is an ERT that addresses the root cause of enzyme deficiency in patients with LAL 
deficiency thereby reducing the pathological effects of accumulated lysosomal lipid substrates.  
It is an rhLAL enzyme, purified from egg white of transgenic hens (Gallus gallus) with the same 
amino acid sequence as the native human enzyme. As with the native enzyme, sebelipase alfa 
catalyzes the lysosomal hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides to free cholesterol, 
glycerol, and free fatty acids in the lysosomes of target cells. 
In the proposed mechanism of action, infused sebelipase alfa binds via glycans expressed on the 
protein to macrophage mannose receptors or mannose-6-phosphate receptors on relevant cell 
types and is subsequently internalised and localised to the lysosomal compartment. Once localised 
to the lysosome, sebelipase alfa hydrolyzes accumulated substrate in LAL-deficient cells, thus 
reducing the pathological effects in affected tissues.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 9/87 
  
  
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The active substance, sebelipase alfa, is a recombinant form of human lysosomal acid lipase 
(hLAL). This enzyme catalyzes the hydrolysis of cholesteryl esters and triglycerides to free 
cholesterol, glycerol and free fatty acids and is as such involved in the maintenance of a normal 
lipid metabolism. It is the first recombinant product expressed in transgenic chicken (Gallus gallus) 
and purified from egg white of transgenic hens. 
The finished product is presented as a sterile liquid concentrate for injection intended for single use 
intravenous infusion containing 20 mg (2 mg/mL) of the active substance sebelipase alfa. Prior to 
intravenous administration, the finished product is diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection 
USP/Ph. Eur. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
Recombinant human lysosomal acid lipase (rhLAL) or sebelipase alfa is a glycoprotein containing 
378 amino acids in the range of 53-55 kDa. Sebelipase alfa is expressed in transgenic chicken 
(Gallus gallus) and purified from egg white of transgenic hens. Purified sebelipase alfa contains 6 
N-linked glycosylation sites. The glycans target uptake via the macrophage mannose or mannose-
6-phosphate receptors expressed on a number of cell types including Kupffer cells and hepatocytes 
in which substrate accumulation leads to disease pathogenesis.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacture 
Sebelipase alfa is produced by recombinant DNA technology in egg white (EW) of transgenic 
chicken Gallus gallus. The eggs are defined as the starting material. The manufacturing process of 
the active substance comprises 10 steps.  
Eggs are collected and EW is harvested, pooled and frozen for storage. pH-adjustment and 
clarification of thawed EW enable its processability on the first chromatography column with the 
aim to capture sebelipase alfa. Host cell proteins (EW proteins) are precipitated in the eluate by pH 
drop followed by viral inactivation with further pH drop. Purification steps remove EW proteins, 
adventitious agents and residual DNA. The last chromatography step serves to complete the 
purification of sebelipase alfa by further decreasing remaining levels of EW protein. The eluate is 
the unformulated active substance (UAS). The UAS is concentrated, diafiltered and formulated with 
the addition of human serum albumin (HSA) to yield the AS (active substance). HSA is used to 
stabilise the desired protein. Human serum albumin used as an excipient in Kanuma meets multi-
compendial requirements including USP, Ph. Eur., and JP. Sufficient information regarding the 
quality of HSA has been provided and the quality of HSA is considered adequate. 
The manufacturing process of sebelipase alfa active substance is well defined and overall 
considered adequately controlled. Process characterization and validation have been investigated 
for each manufacturing step and process performance qualification of full scale batches was 
satisfactorily completed. Critical manufacturing process steps have been defined and in-process 
controls are in place throughout the process. Hold time periods for the intermediates during 
purification and lifetime of chromatography columns have been satisfactorily addressed. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 10/87 
  
  
 
 
Critical manufacturing process steps have been defined and in-process controls are in place 
throughout the process.  
Origin, source, and history of transgenic line development 
A line of transgenic hens and males has been established containing the gene encoding hLAL. For 
the creation of transgenic animals a retroviral vector was developed encoding the hLAL sequence 
within non-coding, regulatory elements of the gene for tissue specificity. Replication deficient viral 
particles carrying the hLAL-encoding retroviral vector were generated via transfection of an 
immortalised chicken cell line. For integration of the hLAL sequence into the chicken genome the 
viral particles were injected in chicken embryos. One male with sufficient level of transgene 
cassette content in its semen as determined by PCR was chosen as the founder animal, generation 
zero (G0), to generate G1 hemizygotic transgenic animals, that all carried one copy of the 
transgene. G1 hen was selected due to highest levels of hLAL in EW. Subsequent genetic 
characterisation of this hen confirmed the correct size of the transgene, integration of a single copy 
of the transgene into Gallus gallus and the correct hLAL sequence. Of the transgene G1 generation, 
3 males with the same genetic characteristics of the transgene were selected for generation of the 
G2 transgene progeny. Transgene G2 hens were the first animals to constitute the Production Line, 
after a match of the genetic characteristics with that of G1 hen had been reconfirmed for a 
proportional number of animals. The production line includes all hens of G2 and following 
generations either hemizygous or homozygous for the transgene. Since generation G5, propagation 
of further generations has occurred only via breeding campaigns between hLAL positive hens and 
males. Breeding campaigns are conducted only via artificial insemination of hens. 
Genetic stability of the transgene is regularly evaluated with animals of a defined ratio relative to 
the overall animal number of each generation by verification of transgene sequence, consistency of 
its genomic integration site, verification of hLAL sequence and evaluation of rhLAL enzyme activity. 
To preserve the genetic lineage multiple self-sustaining production facilities are maintained and 
fertile eggs are exchanged between facilities for stocking and/or restocking other facilities. Semen 
from sires of each generation used effectively in breeding campaigns is cryopreserved in liquid 
nitrogen tanks at different facilities. 
The new expression platform in transgenic hens is well described, including the generation of the 
transgenic hens. An action plan is available on how to deal with the unlikely event of changes 
observed in the transgene. If a change in the transgene sequence would be observed in any hatch 
group from a new generation, then investigations would primarily expand on the new generation 
and if necessary go back to the parental generation affected. Any confirmed change of transgene 
would lead to exclusion of these animals from production (cull) and continuation with confirmed 
unaffected animals. Furthermore, in comparison to cell culture expression platforms where a 
Master Cell Bank and/or a Working Cell Bank are defined and characterized, a Master Transgenic 
Bank (MTB) is as such not established for the transgenic animal production line. Instead, the 
execution of the Production Line Release Specification testing, essentially establishes the MTB for 
every new generation. In addition, acceptable measures were introduced to address genetic line 
preservation. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The control strategy follows a risk based approach. Critical controls were defined based on process 
characterisation results, parameters used during viral clearance validation or specifications. As a 
process performance quality attribute, yield is monitored throughout the process. Correlation of 
process parameters with process performance and its impact on quality attributes was re-
investigated before scale-up to the commercial process by selected process characterisation 
studies. The ranges re-evaluated were those established for the pivotal clinical process. Several 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 11/87 
  
  
 
hold points are defined throughout the manufacturing process and have been adequately supported 
by hold time studies. 
Process validation 
Five consecutive process performance qualification lots were manufactured at the intended 
commercial scale and evaluated against operational, analytical and microbiological criteria. Hold 
times have been validated extensively during process validation by separate evaluation of 
intermediates at the several hold points. Overall validation can be considered successful. 
Manufacturing process development 
While establishment of the transgene production line with Gallus gallus as egg-laying “producer 
organism” is a new production platform, a very traditional approach was chosen to purification of 
EW process development. Critical process parameters and critical quality attributes were defined 
based on safety considerations (prevention of contamination with adventitious agents) and on their 
impact of process performance and product yield.  
The control strategy was built upon the correlation of process parameters with process 
performance and/or quality characteristics. The control strategy follows a risk based approach. 
Process characterisation studies were performed to highlight the criticality of various input 
parameters on process performance with a focus on clearance of EW proteins.  
Comparability investigations confirmed that there was no impact of the changes introduced during 
process development on the quality attributes of sebelipase alfa. Additional process modifications 
were implemented as a result of process characterisation studies and to prepare for process 
validation. These modifications were aimed to increase robustness of the manufacturing procedure 
and optimise the scale to ensure consistency in purification. None of these measures has had an 
impact on quality attributes as demonstrated by further product comparability studies. 
Manufacturing process development has been described with satisfactory detail, adequately 
supported by process data and consequently no concerns were raised on process development. 
Characterisation 
The primary structure of sebelipase has been confirmed. N-terminal variants were identified. The 
potential impact on safety and efficacy and in particular the potential immunological effects when 
N-terminal heterogeneity as found in sebelipase is used in humans has been discussed. Based on 
the Signal P 4.1 algorithm analysis, it is argued that the primary N-termini of sebelipase alfa are 
likely similar to the naturally secreted forms of the protein. Furthermore, N-terminal heterogeneity 
is not predicted to have any safety implications as the forms of sebelipase alfa differ by only 
several residues. Glycosylation of sebelipase has been adequately investigated.  Avian 
glycostructures differ to human ones as they exhibit rather pre-mature structures when compared 
with mature human N-glycan structures. Moreover, the avian glycostructures contain neither sialyl 
groups nor fucose representative for mature human glycostructures. The potential impact on safety 
and efficacy when avian glycostructures as found in sebelipase are used in humans is discussed as 
follows. Given that most if not all known human LAL mutations in patients with LAL deficiency will 
produce forms of LAL that will at some stage in protein maturation contain normal N-terminal 
amino acid signal peptide sequences, any differences in sebelipase alfa N-terminal composition are 
unlikely to be immunologically relevant. 
Sebelipase alfa binding to the mannose 6-phosphate receptor (M6PR) and the macrophage 
mannose receptor (MMR) was adequately characterized and the proposed assays are considered 
adequate to mirror the complex functionality of sebelipase alfa for the purpose of active substance 
release. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 12/87 
  
  
 
Forced degradation studies to investigate the potential degradation pathways of sebelipase alfa 
have been conducted by applying photo stress, oxidation and thermal stress conditions.  
Specification 
Since the data base is currently limited, the Applicant was recommended to revise the proposed 
active substance specifications once 30 additional commercial scale batches of sebelipase alfa have 
been manufactured. 
The description of analytical methods provides sufficient information on respective sample and 
standard preparation and calculations. In addition, full validation reports have been submitted and 
allow a reasonable evaluation of the validation issues. All methods are considered suitably 
validated for their intended use. 
Batch data are available for the commercial manufacturing process as well as the pivotal clinical 
process and the initial process. All batches used for clinical phases are included as well as all active 
substance PV, comparability and stability batches.  
Qualification data for the reference material used to date including release as well as 
characterisation data have been submitted. Establishment and qualification of future reference 
materials is sufficiently described. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is a sterile liquid concentrate for solution intended for single use intravenous 
infusion. The product is presented in one strength (2 mg/ml) in a 10 ml glass vial (containing 20 
mg of active substance, sebelipase alfa) and contains sodium citrate dihydrate, citric acid 
monohydrate and human serum albumin. Preservatives are not present in the product. Prior to 
intravenous administration, the finished product is diluted with 0.9% sodium chloride injection 
USP/Ph. Eur. 
The finished product is supplied in a clear, Type I borosilicate glass 10 R vial with a butyl, 
fluoropolymer coated stopper and an aluminium crimp seal with a polypropylene flip-off cap. 
Each vial is filled to a target volume of 10.5 mL to ensure the withdrawal of 10.0 mL of the product 
for further dilution prior to administration.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process of the Sebelipase alfa finished product has been adequately described. 
It starts with pooling of the active substance, followed by a bioburden reduction filtration and 
subsequent sterile filtration and aseptic filling into the vials, stoppering and crimping. No 
reprocessing is foreseen. Process validation summaries were provided in the dossier regarding the 
various aspects of the manufacturing process.  
The batch analysis data of the process performance qualification (PPQ) runs showed that the PPQ 
batches met the finished product release specification. 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Overall, the manufacturing process development of the sebelipase alfa finished product is well 
described. Initial studies showed that aggregates occurred after one week storage under real-time 
(2-8 °C) and accelerated (25 °C) conditions when sebelipase alfa was formulated without HSA. 
Consequently, a formulation containing HSA was optimised which appears justified. Nevertheless, 
particles can be observed in some vials after storage at both 2-8 °C and 25 °C. It is noted that the 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 13/87 
  
  
 
occasional appearance of proteinaceous particles was investigated during process development and 
it seems that these have been present throughout the product’s development history. Sufficient 
information has been presented to conclude that these inherent particles are not expected to 
impact the quality of the product. 
Sebelipase needs to be diluted with 0.9% saline before administration. Multiple compatibility 
studies employing various infusion bags and in-line filters were performed. Filter stacking occurred 
with 4.5 cm2 filters and higher concentrated solutions however this did not necessarily correlate 
with decreased sebelipase recovery. It is recommended in the SmPC to use a low-protein binding 
0.2 µm filter with a surface area of greater than 4.5 cm2 as available in order to avoid filter 
occlusion. The storage conditions of the readily diluted infusion in the SmPC correspond well to the 
results of the compatibility/in-use stability studies. 
Product specification 
The specifications established for the finished product cover the main quality attributes with regard 
to appearance, identity, purity, pH, potency, quantity, extractable volume, sub-visible particles, 
sterility and endotoxin.  
Most of the analytical procedures performed with the finished product are similar to that performed 
with the active substance. The proposed finished product specification will also be revised once 30 
additional commercial scale batches have been manufactured. 
Batch analyses were provided of all the batches used in pre-clinical and clinical studies. No OOS 
results occurred. The criticality of quality attributes was evaluated. Detailed reports regarding the 
evaluation process and outcome for justification of the proposed specifications have been provided.  
Stability of the product 
Long-term and accelerated stability data have been provided for 12 batches of sebelipase alfa 
finished product, including clinical and process validation batches. The production batch size of the 
finished product has been provided and therefore, it seems that all stability batches can be 
considered representative of the intended commercial finished product. Overall, the stability data 
presented support the claimed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
Adventitious agents 
Viral Safety 
Egg white (EW) from transgenic Gallus gallus is used for production of Sebelipase alfa. Human 
serum albumin (HSA) is used as an excipient for the active substance and is a licensed medical 
product. Comprehensive information regarding the quality of HSA has been provided. A plasma 
master file is linked to the plasma used for manufacture of HSA and the quality is therefore 
considered adequate.  
Sebelipase alfa is purified from the EW of eggs from transgenic Gallus gallus hens carrying the 
rhLAL gene. The animal production line as well as the EW is controlled for contamination with 
adventitious / endogenous viruses. The control strategy regarding the animals follows at large the 
Ph. Eur. monograph 5.2.2 “Chicken flocks free from specified pathogens for the production and 
quality control of vaccines” and comprises monthly serological testing of the chicken for several 
relevant viruses. EW is tested via PCR for vertically transmissible viruses and for human pathogenic 
West Nile virus (WNV) and Influenza A (IFA). The Applicant’s approach of routine testing the bulk 
egg white by PCR (although considered difficult due to its viscous nature) instead of testing the 
animals has been comprehensively justified by an overall risk mitigation strategy. This strategy 
foresees performing the PCRs for vertically transmitted agents and WNV/NDV once on blood from 
all production animals 16-20 weeks of age. Furthermore, the routine viral PCR testing for the 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 14/87 
  
  
 
respective agents will be performed on the clarified egg white, in addition to testing of bottled egg 
white. Studies on the sample uniformity and LOD of PCRs on the bottled egg white complement the 
risk mitigation strategy. This overall approach is considered acceptable. In case of positive virus 
findings in animals, an action plan has been established for handling of infected animals, their eggs 
and housing. Information has been also provided on the eggs derived from infected animals, which 
in general will not be used for production unless it has been assured by further testing, that no risk 
to product quality or patient safety is conferred by them. 
The housing strategy of the animals has been described in detail and is in general endorsed. 
Satisfactory clarifications have been provided regarding the exact nature of the foodstuff used and 
possible transportations of animals between facilities.  
The capacity of the manufacturing process to clear viruses has been analysed in 3 studies. The 
overall reduction values determined are in principal considered adequate to ensure virus safety and 
the representativeness of down-scale models has been confirmed. Also, nanofilter type and 
manufacturer have been stated and process parameters provided.  
Overall, the control strategy for virus safety of the sebelipase alfa manufacturing process contains 
several complementary steps to mitigate the risk for virus contamination. This approach is 
considered to be satisfactory. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information about the active substance, sebelipase alfa, was of acceptable quality. Adequate 
evidence regarding the manufacturing process has been provided. Specification limits and 
analytical methods presented are in general suitable to control the quality of the active substance 
and finished product. However, the CHMP recommended some points for further investigation. 
Sufficient and adequately detailed evidence regarding the manufacturing process has been 
provided. The method of manufacture has been satisfactorily described and the validation data 
shows consistent manufacture. 
The stability program is in general considered satisfactory. The results generated during the 
stability studies support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects 
The active substance (sebelipase alfa) and the finished product have been appropriately 
characterised and in general satisfactory documentation has been provided. The results indicate 
that sebelipase alfa as well as the finished product can be reproducibly manufactured. 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific 
progress, the CHMP recommended some points for further investigation.  
Non clinical aspects 
2.2.7.  Introduction 
The  nonclinical  development  programme  which  includes  pharmacology,  PK/TK  and  toxicology 
studies provided in the application is consistent with the ICH M3 [R2], ICH S6 [R1], and ICH S7A 
guidelines.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 15/87 
  
  
 
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
In  vitro  experiments  showed  the  uptake  of  sebelipase  alfa  into  MMR-expressing  rat  macrophages 
and transport to the lysosomes. The specificity of the MMR in the cellular uptake of sebelipase alfa 
was  further  confirmed  by  mannose  dose-dependent  competitive  inhibition  assays.  Additionally,  in 
LAL-deficient  human  fibroblasts  isolated  from  an  infant,  sebelipase  alfa  was  found  to  be 
endocytosed by the M6P-expressing cells and to dose-dependently restore the LAL activity.  
In  vivo,  the  pharmacologic  properties  of  sebelipase  alfa  were  investigated  in  the  “Yoshida”  rat 
model. This homozygous LAL-deficient rat exhibits multiple abnormalities analogous to the human 
disease  including  accumulation  of  cholesteryl  ester  and  triglycerides  in  the  lysosomes  of  many 
tissues (in particular, liver, spleen, and small intestine) and marked organomegaly, elevated serum 
transaminases, growth failure, and early death. 
In  the  LAL-deficient  rat,  qw  or  qow  administration  of  sebelipase  alfa  restored  LAL  enzymatic 
activity  and  led  to  improvements  in  the  abnormalities  caused  by  LAL  deficiency  in  a  dose-
dependent  manner.  LAL-deficient  rats  treated  with  sebelipase  alfa  weekly  starting  at  4  weeks  of 
age at dose levels of 0.35 mg/kg or greater gained more weight than vehicle-treated animals. The 
percentage  increase  in  body  weight  during  treatment  with  higher  dosages  was  similar  to  weight 
gain observed in the WT rats. 
A treatment-related, dose-dependent reduction in the size of key organs adversely affected by LAL 
deficiency was demonstrated for the liver, small intestine, and spleen. Reduction in organomegaly 
was seen at lower doses. Generally, the higher dose (3mg/kg) in a weekly regimen demonstrated a 
greater response in overall growth and improved hepatic and gastrointestinal tract histopathology. 
The positive effects of sebelipase alfa were demonstrated after both short (4 weeks) and long-term 
(19 weeks) treatment and they were maintained even in the presence of ADAs. The positive effects 
of  sebelipase  alfa  in  more  advanced  disease  (8  weeks  of  age)  were  comparable  to  the  effects 
observed  with  earlier  treatment  initiation  (4  weeks  of  age).  There  was  evidence  of  additional 
benefit  with  weekly  dosing  regimens  relative  to  every  other  week  dosing.  Whereas,  a  monthly 
treatment  regimen  with  sebelipase  alfa  at  3  mg/kg  showed  reduction  in  organomegaly, 
normalisation  of  serum  transaminases,  and  improvement  of  growth,  these  effects  were  not 
consistently  sustained  with  the  monthly  regimen.  In  addition,  some  hepatic  histopathological 
abnormalities persisted at the end of treatment. Although the monthly treatment regimen resulted 
in  favourable  effects  including  longer  survival  and  improvements  in  the  phenotypic  abnormalities 
compared  to  vehicle  treatment,  the  once-  monthly  regimen  was  a  less  than  fully  efficacious 
treatment  regimen  compared  to  the  effects  seen  with  a  once  weekly  and  every  other  week 
regimen. 
For  both  qw  and  qow  schedules,  similar  pharmacological  effects  and  normalisation  of  the  disease 
were noted in LAL-deficient rats given weekly sebelipase alfa at the highest doses (3 mg/kg and 5 
mg/kg),  establishing  3  mg/kg  as  the  maximally  effective  dose  for  both  treatment  regimens.  The 
results in LAL-deficient rats indicated that a more frequent dose regimen than once weekly dosing 
was not required to achieve disease control and normalization in a preclinical setting. 
An  evaluation  of  the  time  course  of  pharmacologic  abnormalities  following  cessation  of  treatment 
demonstrated that the beneficial effects of sebelipase alfa required continued administration in the 
LAL-deficient rat, as expected based on other ERTs for lysosomal disorders.  
Sebelipase  alfa  is being proposed  for  long-term  enzyme  replacement therapy  (ERT)  in  patients  of 
all ages with lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) Deficiency. The efficacy of sebelipase alfa in LAL-deficient 
rats was evaluated as early as 4 weeks since this age in the rat corresponds to approximately a 2-5 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 16/87 
  
  
 
year old child thus providing preclinical support for the evaluation of children in the clinic. Dosing < 
4-weeks of age was not evaluated in LAL deficient rats since disease manifestations begin around 
3-4 weeks of age in this model. Delayed sebelipase alfa administration in 8-week old rats through 
either  12  weeks  of  age  or  chronic  dosing  up  to  26  weeks  of  age  provided  preclinical  proof  of 
concept for the use of sebelipase alfa in adolescent and adult patients respectively. 
Secondary pharmacology programme 
No  secondary  PD  studies  were  performed  by  the  Applicant,  which  is  considered  acceptable  given 
the  nature  of  the  product  (recombinant  form  of  the  endogenous  human  lysosomal  acid  lipase 
(hLAL)). 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies did not reveal adverse effects with regards to the CNS, respiratory or 
cardiovascular systems. In the rat, weekly infusion of sebelipase alfa at dose up to 50 mg/kg for 4 
weeks produced no neurotoxic effects. No statistically significant or biologically relevant changes in 
the respiratory parameters were observed in rats given a single infusion of sebelipase alfa at dose 
levels  up  to  50  mg/kg.  There  were  no  sebelipase  alfa-related  adverse  cardiovascular  effects 
observed in the Cynomolgus monkey following single infusion at dose levels up to 50 mg/kg. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions programme 
No  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  studies  were  performed  by  the  Applicant,  which  is 
considered  acceptable  given  the  nature  of  the  product  (recombinant  form  of  the  endogenous 
human lysosomal acid lipase (hLAL)). 
2.2.8.  Pharmacokinetics 
Following  a  single  bolus  IV  administration  in  the  rat,  sebelipase  alfa  was  rapidly  cleared  from  the 
circulation and the uptake appeared to be saturable. 
The TK profile of repeated-doses of sebelipase alfa was evaluated in SD rat,  Cynomolgus monkey 
and  pregnant  New  Zealand  White  rabbit.  The  IV  infusion  (over  a  3-6h  period),  which  is  the 
intended  clinical  route  of  administration,  was  selected  in  those  studies.  In  all  the  species 
investigated,  maximum  sebelipase  alfa  concentration  was  reached  during  or  shortly  after  the 
infusion.  
Plasma  half-life  for  sebelipase  alfa  was  on  the  order  of  minutes  to  hours  in  all  of  the  nonclinical 
studies, which is very short relative to dosing interval of even once weekly; the consistent finding 
in  the  nonclinical  studies  that  each  pre-dose  value  has  returned  to  zero  or  negligibly  above 
“baseline” additionally supports that accumulation is not significant after a period of up to a week 
following administration. 
In  the  rat  and  monkey,  as  well  as  in  the  definitive  reproductive  toxicology  study  in  rabbits, 
systemic exposure increased in a greater than dose-proportional manner at dose levels between 3 
and 60 mg/kg.  
There  was  no  notable  correlation  between  the  presence  of  ADAs  and  sebelipase  alfa  systemic 
exposure in all the animal species tested. 
In  the  6-month  repeated  dose  study  in  the  monkey,  post  exposure  (AUClast)  increased  greater 
than 2-fold, suggesting a change in the PK behaviour of sebelipase alfa during 6 months of weekly 
dosing.  The  exact  mechanism  of  this  increase  is  not  known  but  it  is  not  considered  to  be  due  to 
accumulation.  Variation  in  serum  concentration  (Cmax  or  AUClast)  did  not  correlate  with  the 
presence of ADAs.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 17/87 
  
  
 
In the rat, there was an apparent gender difference in sebelipase alfa exposure, where male Cmax 
and  AUClast  values  generally  exceeded  those  for  females,  by  a  factor  of  1.42-3.20.  No  gender 
difference  with  regards  to  sebelipase  alfa  exposure  was  noted  in  the  monkey.  No  metabolism 
studies  were  performed  for  sebelipase  alfa.  Sebelipase  alfa  is  a  protein  with  identical  amino  acid 
sequence as the endogenous human enzyme and is expected to be metabolically degraded through 
peptide hydrolysis. 
No  excretion  studies  were  performed  for  sebelipase  alfa.  The  properties  of  this  enzyme  are  the 
same as for endogenous proteins. 
Studies  on  pharmacokinetic  drug  interactions  have  not  been  conducted.  Sebelipase  alfa  is  an 
enzyme  replacement  approach  for  a  missing  endogenous  enzyme.  No  scientific  rationale  was 
identified that warranted specific nonclinical PK drug interaction studies. 
2.2.9.  Toxicology 
The  nonclinical  program  supporting  sebelipase  alfa  safety  assessment  included  a  single  dose 
toxicity study conducted in the Cynomolgus monkey, and repeated dose toxicity studies conducted 
in the SD and in the Cynomolgus monkey. Reproductive toxicity studies were conducted in the rat 
and in the rabbit. 
For  the toxicological  studies,  both  the  formulation  and  the  route of  administration  (infusion)  were 
selected to mimic the intended use of sebelipase alfa in the clinic. 
Single dose toxicity 
No evidence of toxicity was observed when sebelipase alfa was administered as a single dose up to 
40 mg/kg in the Cynomolgus monkey.  
Repeat dose toxicity –  
The  repeat-dose  toxicity  of  sebelipase  alfa  was  assessed  following  administration  via  intravenous 
infusion once weekly for 4 weeks. At the initiation of dosing animals were 9 to 10 weeks old (rats) 
and  2-3  years  old  (juvenile  cynomolgus  monkey).  The  toxicological  effects  of  sebelipase  alfa  was 
assessed  in  juvenile  (2.3  to  2.9  years  of  age)  cynomolgus  monkeys  following  weekly  intravenous 
infusion of sebelipase alfa for 6 months. 
In the rat, sebelipase alfa was well tolerated following once weekly dosing for 4 weeks at doses up 
to 50 mg/kg. Clinical observations included swelling of the nose and/or paws and red discolouration 
of the skin of the paws. These transient findings that occurred on the day of dosing and appeared 
to  be  dose  related  were  anticipated  based  on  the  specific  response  of  the  rat  to  polysaccharides 
and glycoproteins. These symptoms were alleviated by diphenhydramine.  
Toxicity in Juvenile animals 
Juvenile Cynomolgus monkeys administered sebelipase alfa at dosages similar to those in rats did 
not demonstrate any comparable overt clinical signs indicative of a hypersensitivity-like reaction.  
In  the  4-week  repeated-dose  study  conducted  in  the  juvenile  monkey,  sebelipase  alfa  was  well 
tolerated  at  doses  up  to  50  mg/kg.  There  were  no  treatment-related  deaths,  and  no  sebelipase 
alfa-related  adverse  effects  were  noted  for  clinical  observations,  body  weight,  ophthalmic 
examinations,  clinical  pathology  parameters,  organ  weight,  or  macroscopic  and  microscopic 
findings. 
In  the  6-month  study  conducted  in  the  juvenile  monkey,  multifocal  myocardial  degeneration  and 
fibrosis  were  observed  in  the  heart  of  1  female  receiving  the  highest  dose  of  sebelipase  alfa  (30 
mg/kg).  The  incidence  of  this  findings  falls  within  the  historical  control  ranges  at  the  test  facility 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 18/87 
  
  
 
and is consistent with published literature. As there was no evidence for dose response trends with 
regards to changes in heart histopathology and no treatment related clinical signs or abnormal ECG 
conductance  in  the  treated  monkeys  a  relationship  between  sebelipase  alfa  administration  and 
cardiac toxicity is considered unlikely. The no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) of sebelipase 
alfa  when  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  for  6  months  (one  dose/week)  to  juvenile 
Cynomolgus monkeys is 30 mg/kg. 
Genotoxicity and Carcinogenicity 
No  genotoxicity  or  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  and  that  is  considered  satisfactory 
according to the available guidelines. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
In reproductive toxicity studies in the rat, sebelipase alfa was administered approximately every 3 
days at dose levels up to 60 mg/kg in embryo-foetal development studies (to pregnant female rats 
during gestation); fertility studies (to male and female rats prior to, during, and after mating); and 
pre- and postnatal development studies (to pregnant female rats postcoitum and postpartum).  
In  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies  in  the  rat,  sebelipase  alfa  was  well  tolerated.  There  were  no 
adverse maternal effects; no evidence of embryolethality, or teratogenicity; and no sebelipase alfa-
related deaths. There were no adverse effects on reproductive function, fertility, or early embryonic 
development in either male or female rats.  
In  the  offspring,  there  were  no  adverse  effects  on  survival,  physical  or  sensory/behavioural 
development, or reproductive competence.  
In  the  reproduction  toxicity,  fertility  and  pre-post  natal  development  studies,  transient,  non-life 
threatening  clinical  observations  consistent  with  the  well-characterised  response  of  the  rat  to 
polysaccharides and glycoproteins such as swelling and scratching were observed on dosing days. 
The  onset  and  severity  of  these  signs  were  dose  dependent,  and  the  symptoms  were  generally 
alleviated by diphenhydramine.  
In  addition,  clinical  signs  indicative  of  a  more  severe  hypersensitivity  reaction  were  observed 
starting with the 50mg/kg in the embryo-foetal development studies and the fertility studies.  
Embryo-foetal  development  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  the  rabbit  with  sebelipase  alfa  at 
doses up to 50 mg/kg every third day during gestation.   
In  a  pilot  dose-finding  study  no  adverse  maternal  effects  were  noted  but  increased  incidence  of 
embryolethality was observed at the highest dose (50 mg/kg) only.  
In  the  definitive  study,  sebelipase  alfa  up  to  50  mg/kg/dose  had  no  effect  on  the  number 
resorptions  in  pregnant  rabbits  and  no  sebelipase  alfa-related  embryolethality  was  observed.  In 
both  of  these  studies  in  rabbits,  no  sebelipase  alfa-related  adverse  clinical  signs  were  observed, 
and there was no evidence of fetotoxicity or teratogenicity. 
Toxicokinetic data 
The presence of anti-sebelipase alfa ADAs was detected in some animals in rat, monkey, and rabbit 
toxicology  studies.  There  did  not  appear  to  be  a  notable  correlation  between  ADA  status  and 
sebelipase alfa systemic exposure in any study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 19/87 
  
  
 
 
 
Local Tolerance  
Local  tolerance  was  studied  in  conjunction  with  the  4-week  and  6-month  repeated-dose  toxicity 
studies.  Overall,  histopathological  findings  were  comparable  between  control  and  sebelipase-
treated animals so that adverse effects on local tolerance are not anticipated with sebelipase alfa. 
2.2.10.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According to the Guideline on the environmental risk assessment (ERA) of medicinal products for 
human use [EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00], peptides and proteins are excluded from the need for an 
environmental risk assessment. An ERA is therefore not available. 
2.2.11.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Sebelipase  alfa  did  not  induce  toxicological  effects  when  administered  via  intravenous  infusion  to 
cynomolgus  monkeys  as  a  single  dose  (up  to  40  mg/kg).  However,  this  study  is  considered  of 
limited value in terms of safety assessment to support the repeat dose regimen planned for clinical 
use. 
Assessment of paediatric data on non-clinical aspects 
The  repeat-dose  toxicity  of  sebelipase  alfa  was  assessed  following  administration  via  intravenous 
infusion once weekly for 4 weeks (rat and juvenile monkey) and for 6 months (juvenile monkey). 
The  reversibility,  persistence,  or  delayed  occurrence  of  any  sebelipase  alfa-induced  effect  was 
evaluated after a 2-week recovery phase. At the initiation of dosing animals were 9-10 weeks old 
(rats) and 2-3 years old (Juvenile Cynomolgus monkey).  
The  immunogenicity  and  toxicokinetics  parameters  have  been  addressed  in  the  context  of  the 
repeat  dose  toxicity  program.  According  to  results,  the  antibody  titre  did  not  appear  to  correlate 
with the systemic exposure or plasma sebelipase alfa concentration. 
In general, sebelipase alfa administered by intravenous infusion was well tolerated for four weeks, 
at doses up to 50 mg/kg (in male and female S-D rats and cynomolgus monkeys pre-treated with 
diphenhydramine). Moreover, no clinical relevant safety concerns have been identified in the repeat 
dose study conducted in juvenile monkeys weekly dosed by intravenous infusion at doses up to 30 
mg/kg during 6 months.  
The  NOAEL  (expressed  as  the  HED)  in  the  rat  (50  mg/kg  for  4  weeks;  HED  =  8.1  mg/kg)  and 
monkey  (50  mg/kg  for  4  weeks;  HED  =  16.1  mg/kg  and  30  mg/kg  for  6  months;  HED  =  9.7 
mg/kg) provide for a safety margin of 2.7 to 5.4 times a clinical dose of 3 mg/kg. 
In the reproductive toxicity studies in the rat, sebelipase alfa administered approximately every 3 
days at dose levels up to 60 mg/kg was well tolerated. There were no adverse maternal effects; no 
evidence of embryolethality, foetotoxicity, or teratogenicity; and no sebelipase alfa-related deaths. 
There  were  no  adverse  effects  on  reproductive  function,  fertility,  or  early  embryonic  development 
in either male or female rats. In the offspring, there were no adverse effects on survival, physical 
or sensory/behavioural development, or reproductive competence. 
In  reproductive  toxicity  studies  in  the  rabbit,  sebelipase  alfa  was  well  tolerated.  In  a  pilot  dose-
finding study, administration of sebelipase alfa every 3 days at doses up to 50 mg/kg/dose during 
gestation  resulted  in  no  adverse  maternal  effects.  An  increase  in  late  resorptions  evidenced 
embryo-lethality  at  50  mg/kg  only.  In  the  definitive  study,  sebelipase  alfa  up  to  50  mg/kg/dose 
had  no  effect  on  the  number  resorptions  in  pregnant  rabbits  and  no  sebelipase  alfa-related 
embryo-lethality  was  observed.  In  both  of  these  studies  in  rabbits,  no  sebelipase  alfa-related 
adverse clinical signs were observed, and there was no evidence of foetotoxicity or teratogenicity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 20/87 
  
  
 
In reproductive toxicity studies after administration every 3 days or twice weekly, the NOAEL was 
60  mg/kg  (the  highest  dose  tested)  for  male  and  female  fertility,  embryonic  development, 
maternal  toxicity,  reproductive  toxicity,  and  development  of  the  F1  generation  in  the  rat;  and  50 
mg/kg (the highest dose tested) for fertility and embryonic development in the rabbit; providing a 
safety margin of 1.1 to 5.4 times a clinical dose of 3 mg/kg. 
2.2.12.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical aspects have been adequately investigated and support the use in patients.  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The clinical development programme for sebelipase alfa has been focused on providing evidence of 
safety and efficacy across the full spectrum of patients with LAL deficiency. This development 
strategy included generation of evidence of safety and effectiveness based on improvements in 
multiple disease-related abnormalities in children and adults where a placebo-controlled study was 
feasible, and demonstrating an impact on survival in infants where a placebo-controlled study 
would not be clinically or ethically acceptable because of the rapid progression and early mortality 
associated with this presentation of the disease. 
An overview of the studies in support of the efficacy and safety of sebelipase alfa in the long-term 
treatment of subjects with LAL deficiency is provided in Table 1. 
Across these studies, a total of 84 subjects with LAL deficiency have received treatment with 
sebelipase alfa, including 9 infants, 47 children and 28 adults. In addition, Synageva has completed 
a natural history study in infants which provides a historical control for interpretation of the results 
of the interventional study in infants and an observational study in children and adults which 
provides additional insights into the abnormalities associated with this disease across a broader 
population. 
GCP 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 21/87 
  
  
 
At the time of the submission, all sebelipase alfa clinical studies, with the exception of Study LAL-
CL01, were ongoing to obtain long-term safety and efficacy data and to allow subjects access to 
sebelipase alfa for uninterrupted ERT. Cut-offs were chosen to reflect a clinically meaningful 
milestone for each study: the completion of the primary efficacy assessments for Studies LAL-CL02 
and LAL-CL03, and the completion of 2 years of study treatment and follow-up (Week 104) for 
subjects enrolled in Study LAL-CL04. 
The PK, PD and/or efficacy and safety properties of sebelipase alfa were investigated in 84 subjects 
with LAL deficiency in  
two Phase 1/2 studies in adults (Study LAL-CL01, and its ongoing extension study, Study LAL-
• 
CL04)  
two ongoing pivotal studies, one Phase 3 study in children and adults (Study LAL-CL02) and one 
• 
Phase 2/3 study in infants (Study LAL-CL03).  
All the studies involved multiple dosing, with the maximum treatment duration ranging between 3 
and 4 years. The doses of sebelipase alfa evaluated ranged from 0.35 mg qw to 3 mg/kg qw and 
qow. 
The  initial  clinical  study  LAL-CL01  included  9  subjects  were  treated  with  sebelipase  alfa  in  rising 
dose cohorts of 0.35, 1.0 or 3.0 mg/kg (3 subjects each) administered IV qw for 4 weeks. Subjects 
who  completed  treatment  were  permitted  to  enrol  in  Study  LAL-CL04,  designed  to  provide  long-
term efficacy and safety data. The extension study is currently ongoing, as of the data cut-off for 
reporting of 05 Feb 2014, all 8 subjects who entered the study remain on long-term treatment with 
sebelipase alfa.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 22/87 
  
  
 
  
The  pivotal  Phase  3  study  in  children  and  adults  with  LAL  deficiency,  LAL-CL02,  was  designed  to 
investigate the effects of sebelipase alfa relative to placebo on a broad range of important disease-
related  abnormalities.  The  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  was  followed  by  an  open-label 
extension  period  where  subjects  randomised to placebo  are permitted  to  cross  over  to  sebelipase 
alfa.  The  study  has  completed  enrolment  with  66  subjects  randomised.  Final  results  from  the 
double-blind  treatment  period  are  included  in  this  submission.  A  total  of  65  subjects  remain  on 
treatment in the open-label extension period as of the data cut-off for reporting of 30 May 2014.  
The pivotal Phase 2/3 study in infants, LAL-CL03, is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, 
efficacy, PK and PD of sebelipase alfa in subjects with LAL deficiency who developed growth failure 
before 6 months of age. The study has completed enrolment with 9 infants treated. Final results for 
the primary analysis of survival to 12 months are included in this submission. Six subjects remain 
on treatment as of the data cut-off for reporting of 10 June 2014. 
The clinical development programme also includes 2 studies initiated in 2014. Study LAL-CL06 is an 
open-label Phase 2 study in paediatric and adult subjects with LAL deficiency who are not eligible 
for other current sebelipase alfa clinical studies due to age, disease progression, previous 
treatment by HSCT or liver transplantation, or less common disease manifestations. Subjects 2 to 4 
years of age are specifically targeted in this study as part of Synageva’s European Union (EU) 
Paediatric Investigation Plan.  
The second study, LAL-CL08, is an open-label Phase 2 study in infants with LAL deficiency who 
have clinical evidence of rapidly progressive disease before 8 months of age. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Bioanalytical methods 
Validation  of  the  bioanalytical  methods  used  to  quantify  sebelipase  alfa  and  detect  and 
characterized ADA were presented.  
We can conclude that the bioanalytical method proposed by the Applicant to determine sebelipase 
alfa concentration is not optimal due to:  
-  The  lack  of  use  of  a  lysosomal  acid  lipase  specific  inhibitor  and  the  lack  of  specificity  of  the 
assay  leading  to  possible  interference  by  other  forms  of  lipase  and  esterases  possibly  present  in 
study samples; 
-  The  higher  variability  of  the  method  than  usually  accepted  due  to  the  measure  of  analyte 
activity using small volumes and 
-  The failure to demonstrate adequate selectivity with lipaemic serum samples and therefore the 
potential interference of endogenous lipids present in the study samples  
In  the  context  of  LAL  deficiency,  an  orphan  disease,  pharmacodynamics  of  sebelipase  alfa 
(sebelipase alfa is targeted to key cell types by glycan structures which allow uptake and trafficking 
to the lysosome by the mannose receptor and the mannose-6-phosphate receptor. 
In the lysosome sebelipase alfa is able to catalyse the hydrolysis of accumulated cholesteryl esters 
and triglycerides generating free cholesterol and free fatty acids which can then leave the lysosome 
and enter the normal cellular pathways for lipid metabolism and given the unmet medical need of 
the disease, the issues raised for the determination of sebelipase alfa in serum for PK analysis are 
considered to be further investigated post approval. 
Concerning the antibody assays, the Applicant is requested to determine the screening cut-point of 
the  target  population  with  the  data  of  the  samples  from  the  studies  LAL-CL02,  LAL-CL03,  LAL-
CL04,  LAL-CL06  and  LAL-CL08,  once  they  become  available  for  the  update  of  the  POPPK  analysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 23/87 
  
  
 
upon  completion  of  the  ongoing  studies.  The  95%  confidence  interval  related  to  the  newly 
computed cut-point should be provided to allow adequate comparison with the validated cut-point 
determined with samples from healthy drug-naïve subjects (see POPPK analysis below). 
The  above  request  together  with  the  two  additional  listed  below  will  need  to  be  investigated  and 
addressed post approval in order to fully characterized the bioanalytical methods.  
1.  The final sample analysis reports should be provided upon completion of the following studies: 
LAL-CL02, LAL-CL03, LAL-CL04, LAL-CL06 and LAL-CL08 studies; 
2.  The  final  report  of  the  parallelism  study  is  targeted  for  Q3  2015  and  should  be  submitted  to 
complete the current validation report of the method for the determination of sebelipase in human 
serum using enzymatic activity assay. 
Absorption 
Sebelipase alfa  is  an  IV  formulation,  and  no  significant  changes  were  made  to  the  manufacturing 
process since initiation of pivotal clinical development; therefore, no bioavailability, bioequivalence 
or food effect studies were performed as part of the clinical development programme. 
Distribution 
According to the applicant, the PK of sebelipase alfa was described by a 1-compartment model with 
Vc and CL. 
After  multiple-dose  qw  administration  in  subjects  with  LAL  deficiency,  the  median  Vz  on  Day  21 
decreased with increasing dose. In Study LAL-CL01, the median Vz was markedly higher with the 
0.35  mg/kg  dose  (788.2  mL/kg;  N=3)  than  with  the  1  and  3  mg/kg  doses  (70.01  and  22.05 
mL/kg, respectively; each N=3). The lower Vz at higher doses indicates that more sebelipase alfa 
was in the systemic circulation at the higher doses, due to saturation of the uptake mechanism. 
After  multiple-dose  administration  of  the  1  and  3  mg/kg  doses  in  Study  LAL-CL01  (qw 
administration)  and  its  extension  study,  Study  LAL-CL04  (qow  administration),  the  median  Vz 
ranged  between  70.0  and  229  mL/kg  with  the  1  mg/kg  dose  (N=3  to  5)  and  between  21.1  and 
50.4 mL/kg with the 3 mg/kg dose (N=1 to 3), with no consistent trends over time relative to the 
initial administration on Day 0 of Study LAL-CL01. 
Protein binding data have not been provided by the applicant. 
Metabolism Elimination 
No specific excretion or metabolism studies in human have been performed with sebelipase alfa. As 
a  fully  human  recombinant  human  LAL  enzyme,  sebelipase  alfa  is  expected  to  be  metabolised  in 
the same manner as other endogenous proteins (degraded into small peptides and amino acids via 
catabolic pathways), and subject to similar elimination. 
The  plasma  elimination  of  sebelipase  alfa  was  rapid  at  all  doses.  After  multiple-dose  qw 
administration in Study LAL-CL01, the median t 1/2 of sebelipase alfa on Day 21 was 0.78 h with the 
0.35 mg/kg dose and shorter, at 0.11 and 0.13 h, with the 1 and 3 mg/kg doses, respectively.  
After  multiple-dose  administration  of  the  1  and  3  mg/kg  doses  in  Study  LAL-CL01  (qw 
administration)  and  its  extension  study,  Study  LAL-CL04  (qow  administration),  the  median  t 1/2 
ranged between 0.11 and 0.26 h with the 1 mg/kg dose and between 0.11 and 0.21 h with the 3 
mg/kg  dose,  with  no  consistent trends over  time  relative  to the  initial  administration  on  Day  0  of 
Study LAL-CL01. 
After multiple-dose qw administration in Study LAL-CL01, the median CL of sebelipase alfa on Day 
21 was similar with the 0.35 and 1 mg/kg doses, and approximately 4- to 5-fold lower with the 3 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 24/87 
  
  
 
 
mg/kg dose. After multiple-dose administration of the 1 and 3 mg/kg doses in Study LAL-CL01 (qw 
administration)  and  its  extension  study,  Study  LAL-CL04  (qow  administration),  the  median  CL 
ranged between 541 and 900 mL/h/kg with the 1 mg/kg dose and between 108 and 165 mL/h/kg 
with the 3 mg/kg dose, with no consistent trends over time relative to the initial administration on 
Day 0 of Study LAL-CL01. 
Based  on  the  population  pharmacokinetics  model,  clearance  appears  to  slightly  increase  with  age 
and  body  weight  for  the  dose  0.35  mg/kg  and  1  mg/kg.  For  infants,  the  interpretation  of  the 
results  obtained  with  the  dose  0.35  mg/kg  and  3  mg/kg  dose,  is  limited  by  the  small  number  of 
subjects.   
Because sebelipase alfa is a recombinant human LAL enzyme, renal excretion and hepatic enzyme-
mediated  metabolism  are  not  expected  to  represent  major  elimination  routes.  Thus,  variations  in 
renal  and  hepatic  function  are  not  expected  to  affect  the  elimination  of  sebelipase  alfa,  as  also 
indicated by covariate analysis during development of the population PK model for sebelipase alfa.  
No pharmacokinetics of metabolites have been studied which is acceptable.  
Specific enzymes involved in the metabolism are unknown but the risk of clinically relevant genetic 
polymorphism is low.  
Serum  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa  increased  in  a  reasonably  dose-proportional  manner  between 
the  0.35  and  1  mg/kg  doses  (Study  LAL-CL01)  and  in  a  more  than  dose  proportional  manner 
between the 1 and 3 mg/kg doses (Studies LAL-CL01 and LAL-CL04). Based on median values for 
AUC0-last,  AUC0-inf,  and  Cmax,  the  difference  in  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa  between  the  1  and  3 
mg/kg  doses  was  consistently  more  than  dose  proportional  on  Day  21  and  at  Weeks  24,  52,  and 
104.  At  each  of  these  visits,  the  3-fold  increase  in  dose  resulted  in  approximately  10-  to  15-fold 
increases  in  exposure,  which  suggests  that,  consistent  with  the  reduced  clearance  at  the  higher 
dose level, either receptor binding or serum clearance mechanisms for sebelipase alfa may become 
saturated between these 2 dose levels.  
Concerning  the  amount  of  data  available  at  the  time  of  the  analysis,  the  applicant  commits  to 
update the POP PK model as suggested and to expand the model to a population PK/PD model at 
the time data from phase III study will be available.  
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Although  in  this  study  there  were  some  changes  in  post-infusion  PK  parameters  with  increasing 
dose, there was no evidence for drug accumulation with either the 1 or 3 mg/kg doses, based on 
the absence of any increase in pre-infusion concentrations of sebelipase alfa in Study LAL-CL04 (0 
ng/mL in all subjects apart from the 1 instance, described in LAL-CL04 CSR Section 12.1.1) and the 
overall  lack  of  increasing  median  values  for  AUC0-last,  AUC0-inf,  and  Cmax  that  were  measured 
over time. The 30% to 45% decreases in these parameters observed between Weeks 52 and 104 
in the 1 mg/kg dose were within the range of variability observed for these parameters across the 
continuum of Studies LAL-CL01 and LAL-CL04. Similarly, for a given dose, the CL of sebelipase alfa 
was relatively consistent across the continuum of Studies LAL-CL01 and LAL-CL04. Thus, there was 
no overall trend for change over time in the exposure to sebelipase alfa, which was also confirmed 
by the population analysis of PK parameters in Study LAL-CL02. However, these results should be 
taken  with  caution  due  to  the  very  limited  number of  patients.  Since  Study  LAL-CL04  is  currently 
ongoing  in  subjects  who  completed  study  LAL-CL01,  the  MAH  should  provide  updated  data  after 
completion of the LAL-CL04 study (30 October 2017).  
The values of % CV for intra-individual variability have been reported by the applicant. Sebelipase 
alfa demonstrates a moderate intra-individual variability for Cmax both in Study LAL-CL01 and LAL-
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 25/87 
  
  
 
CL04. For AUClast, Sebelipase alfa shows also a moderate intra-individual variability in Study LAL-
CL01 but a low intra-patient variability in Study LAL-CL04. 
Population PK 
Based upon serum concentration data obtained from children and infants in Studies LAL-CL02, and 
from  LAL-CL03,  using  sparse  sampling,  a  population  PK  model  was  developed  to  describe  the 
concentration-time data for sebelipase alfa from these two clinical studies. Observations for adults 
were obtained from LAL-CL01, LAL-CL04 and LAL-CL02 studies.  
According  to  this  POP  PK  analysis,  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa  varies  across  subject  age,  which 
results in proportionately higher exposures in older subjects compared to younger subjects.  
However,  the  amount  of  data  available  at  the  time  of  the  analysis  limited  the  reliability  of  the 
evaluated  PK  profile  and  did  not  allow  exploring  adequately  the  time-dependent  and  exposure 
(dose and concentration)-dependent non-linearity, and the effects of body size and maturation on 
the PK.  
The  model  should  be  refined  to  include  updated  data  from  ongoing  studies  in  children/infants,  to 
differentiate  children/  infants  and  adults,  to  discuss  the  effect  of  body  size  and  maturation  of  the 
PK  and  to  ensure  that  time,  exposure  and  non-linearity  parameters  are  adequately  addressed. 
Once  a  refined  population  PK  model  has  been  obtained,  expansion  to  a  population  PK/PD  model 
should  be  considered,  which  would  allow  further  assessment  of  whether  and  how  plasma 
concentrations  of  sebelipase  alfa  are  linked  to  PD  outcomes,  or  whether  an  indirect  effect  is 
present, e.g. due to a delayed distribution to an effect site such as the lysosomal compartment.  
BQL data were excluded from the analysis. At the time of the update of the POP PK model with the 
results of the phase III ongoing studies, the applicant is strongly advised to correctly handle BQL 
data if their rate remains relatively high. 
The  very  sparse  data  collected  during  the  infusion  did  not  allow  the  adequate  estimation  of  the 
parameters.    At  the  time  of  refinement  of  the  model  after  completion  of  phase  III  studies,  the 
applicant  is  strongly  advised  to  carefully  consider  the  (clinical)  impact  of  unreliable  data  on  the 
model  parameter  estimates.  A  sensitivity  analysis  showing  the  results  of  modelling  with  and 
without these data should be performed.  
The Applicant committed to provide updated POP PK information in the post marketing setting by 
31 March 2019. 
Finally, a discussion on the impact of possible underexposing infants and lower aged children when 
using  a  body-weight  based  dosing  whereas  the  actual  effect  of  body  size  on  clearance  is  better 
described  by  an  allometric  function  should  be  provided.  This  should  also  be  done  at  the  time  of 
refinement of the model after completion of phase III studies. The model will also be updated when 
ongoing  studies  (LAL-CL06  and  LAL-CL08)  are  completed  and  therefore  more  data  available  on 
long term follow up of patients, including children aged from 2 to 4 years old.  
Overall,  in  section  5.2  of  the  SmPC,  the  results  of  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  the  different 
paediatric age groups have been summarised adequately with a comparison to adults. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 26/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
The 4 clinical studies included in the current submission were all conducted in subjects with LAL 
deficiency in populations that were intended to be representative of patients with LAL deficiency in 
clinical practice, including children (≥ 4 years) and adults as well as infants (≤ 2 years).  
The ongoing study LAL-CL06 would be informative for the population of children aged from 2 to 4 
years. Among the 2 ongoing pivotal studies one Phase 3 study was conducted in children and 
adults (Study LAL-CL02) and 1 Phase 2/3 study in infants (Study LAL-CL03). 
Drug-drug PK interactions 
No  pharmacokinetic  drug-drug  interactions  have  been  conducted  with  sebelipase  alfa.  This  has 
been adequately reflected in section 4.5 of the SmPC. This is considered acceptable for an enzyme 
intended to be used in enzyme replacement therapy. However it is expected that any evidence of 
product interactions should be reported post-authorisation.  
Immunogenicity 
The  data  presented  below  describe  the  information  available  at  submission.  Further  data  was 
provided in the context of a safety update at the answer to the D120 LoQ and are discussed later in 
the safety part of this report.  
Positive  ADA  titres  were  observed  in  adults  and  children  participating  in  Study  LAL-CL02  and 
infants participating in Study LAL-CL03.  
Only  a  single  isolated  ADA-positive  result  was  reported  in  one  subject  in  Study  LAL-CL04,  which 
was considered a spurious finding. The Applicant reported that this subject was tested positive on 
one  occasion,  namely  Week  4,  with  a  titre  of  1:160  and  judged  that  this  result  fell  probably  into 
the  5%  false  positive  range  since  none  of  the  subsequent  samples  were  determined  to  be  ADA 
positive. In addition, this is supported by the very low titer observed. Given the results seen in the 
efficacy  and  safety  evaluation,  and  that  the  subject’s  titres  remained  low,  and  that  this  was  an 
isolated observation, it is considered that this aberrant data point is of minor interest and no cause 
for concern from a clinical point of view.  
In  Study  LAL-CL02,  5  of  the  35  subjects  with  data  in  the  sebelipase  alfa  group  had  at  least  one 
positive  ADA  titre  during  the  double-blind  period.  Concurrent  testing  of  sebelipase  alfa 
concentrations and ADA titres was available at Week 0 (when all subjects were ADA negative) and 
Week  22.  In  general,  ADA  titres  were  low  and  unsustained.  During  the  double-blind  period,  3 
subjects  had  positive  ADA  titres  at  only  a  single  time  point,  and  2  subjects  had  positive  titres  at 
more than 1 time point. Two of the 5 subjects with a positive ADA titre were positive by Week 4, 
the first post-Baseline time point assessed, and by the end of the double-blind period at Week 20, 
only 1 subject had a positive titre. Two of the subjects with positive ADA titres during the double-
blind  period  were  also  positive  during  the  open-label  period,  but  with  low  titres  and  had  become 
non-positive  by  the  last  time  points  assessed  prior  to  data  cut-off.  None  of  the  subjects  in  the 
placebo group had a positive ADA titre during the double-blind period, and none of these subjects 
had  a  positive  titre  after  initiating  sebelipase  alfa  in  the  open-label  period  through  Week  20,  the 
last time point assessed.  
The Applicant reported that none of the subjects developed neutralizing antibodies at any time but 
this observation is discrepant depending on the summary report consulted. At Week 22, 4 of the 5 
subjects who had positive ADA titres at any time during the study were ADA negative. No patients 
continued  to  present  positive  ADA  titres  at  the  data  cut-off.  The  estimated  PK  parameters  were 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 27/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
generally consistent between Weeks 0 and 22, irrespective of whether the subjects had been ADA-
positive at any time during the study. 
In  Study  LAL-CL03,  4  of  the  7  subjects  with  data  had  positive  ADA  titres  during  at  least  one 
assessment. In these 4 subjects, positive titres first occurred at Week 5, Week 8 (2 subjects), or 
Week 59. Three of the subjects were receiving sebelipase alfa at a dose of 1 mg/kg qw, and one at 
a dose of 3 mg/kg qw.  
Persistence of positive ADA titres was observed in 3 subjects and 2 of them had a negative titre at 
their  last  assessment  prior  data  cut-off.  Two  of  the  4  subjects  tested  positive  were  also  tested 
positive  for  neutralizing  antibodies  (inhibition  of  the  LAL  enzyme  activity  and  the  LAL  cellular 
uptake). 
Two of the above subjects tested positive for neutralising antibodies concurrent with the first report 
of  positive  ADA  titre.  One  subject  had  a  comparatively  low  level  of  inhibition  (18.9%)  when  first 
tested at Week 5, and thereafter had a high level of inhibition (70.9% to 90.3%). The other subject 
had  a  high  level  of  inhibition  when  first  tested  at  Week  8  (83.2%)  and  continued  to  have  a  high 
level of  inhibition  through  Week  48  (82.1%  to  89.8%);  this  subject  was  ADA  negative  at the  last 
assessment, and thus neutralising antibody activity was not evaluated for this time point. 
The former of the two above subjects showed possible signs of ADA effect on clinical response with 
suboptimal rates of growth, even when the dose was increased to 3mg/kg qw. Thus the dosing was 
upped  to  5  mg/kg  qw.  Other  factors  other  than  ADA  development  could  have  contributed  to  the 
slow growth response though as other markers of efficacy showed the expected improvements. 
Therefore, in general ADA positivity did not show any untoward effects on markers of efficacy nor 
safety in neither infants nor children and adults. However very limited data are available to assess 
any apparent impact of immunogenicity, in terms of ADA or neutralising antibody formation, on the 
exposure to sebelipase alfa.  
Finally when seen according to mutation status, no ADAs were detected in any of the 11 subjects 
who  were  homozygous  for  the  c.894G>A  mutation,  whereas  they  were  detected  in  2  of  the  17 
subjects  who  were  compound  or  presumed  compound  heterozygous  for  the  c.894G>A  mutation, 
and in 3 of the 8 subjects classified in the “other” mutation category in LAL-CL02. No differences in 
titres were observed between these 2 ADA-positive genotype groups. 
In Study LAL-CL03, none of the subjects had the c.894G>A mutation and all 4 of the ADA-positive 
subjects were classified in the “other” mutation category. 
From  the  covariate  analyses  of  the  POP  PK,  it  can  be  inferred  that  having  more  than  one 
consecutive positive ADA result or an isolated positive ADA result would have no relevant effect on 
the  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa.  In  addition,  based  on  the  final  dataset  used  for  POP  PK,  it  was 
unlikely  that  either  a  categorical  ADA-positive  status  (>  1  consecutive  positive  ADA  titre)  or  a 
positive  ADA  titre  would  be  able  to  explain  a  possible  decrease  in  sebelipase  alfa  exposure. 
However,  due  to  the  limited  number  of  patients  developing  ADA  in  the  whole  studies  considered, 
no definitive conclusion could be drawn up to now on PK parameters.  
In  addition,  the  applicant  is  requested  to  provide  for  adequate  surveillance  of  antibody  formation 
and  commit  to  study  the  PK  profile  in  antibody  positive  patients.  Information  in  relation  to  ADA 
antibodies  is  mentioned  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC.  Additionally  collecting  of  information  in  the 
registry in the post authorization setting is requested. Treating physicians should be made aware of 
the registry, the procedures to be followed and the data that would need to be submitted.   
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 28/87 
  
  
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Biopharmaceutics 
Sebelipase  alfa  is  a  recombinant  human  lysosomal  acid  lipase  (rhLAL)  enzyme,  purified  from  egg 
white of transgenic Gallus, with the same amino acid sequence as the native human enzyme. It is a 
glycoprotein  with  a  molecular  weight  of  approximately  55  kD  with  6  N-linked  glycosylation  sites. 
Structural  and  compositional  analyses  demonstrate  that  sebelipase  alfa  glycans  consist  of 
predominately N- acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) and mannose terminated N-linked structures, as well 
as  mannose-6-phosphate  moieties.  These  glycans  target  uptake  via  receptors  expressed  on  a 
number of cell types including Kupffer cells and hepatocytes in which substrate accumulation leads 
to disease pathogenesis. The described N-glycan structures are common to those found in human 
proteins and have been shown to facilitate protein uptake into cells via the macrophage mannose 
or mannose-6-phosphate receptors 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Evidence of biological activity 
Evidence  of  biological  activity  is  based  upon  the  results  seen  in  studies  LAL-CL02  and  LAL-
CL01/CL04. 
In  the  latter,  a  rapid  response  in  serum  lipids  (initial  increases  in  LDL-c,  triglycerides,  and  total 
cholesterol)  on  initiation  of  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  (accompanied  by  decreases  in  liver 
transaminases  and  increase  in  HDL-c)  was  seen.  Biologically  this  is  not  unexpected  as  these  are 
probably the lipids that were heaped in the liver and saw rapid release after the initial treatment. 
These responses reversed when sebelipase alfa treatment ceased after 4 doses in Study LAL-CL01, 
followed  by  sustained  decreases  in  serum  lipids  along  with  the  sustained  decreases  in  liver 
transaminases  when  longer-term  treatment  in  Study  LAL-CL04  started.  The  initial  peaks  seen  in 
the  LAL-CL01  part  of  this  dual  study  were  not  seen  in  the  long-term  extension  study,  lending 
credence to the idea that the peaks were due to hepatically stored lipids being released. 
These findings were also echoed in LAL-CL02, which saw initial peak increases in serum lipids after 
sebelipase alfa treatment around 2 to 4 weeks after initial administration, after which serum levels 
decreased  below  baseline  from  Week  6  of  treatment  onward.  Liver  transaminases  also  showed 
significant  improvements  after  treatment.  The  group  of  patients  that  were  on  placebo  during  the 
double-blind  phase  of  the  trials  again  echoed  these  findings  as  soon  as  they  were  switched  to 
sebelipase alfa ERT when entering the open-label period. 
Thus in conclusion, the results obtained after initiating sebelipase alfa treatment in Study LAL-CL01 
and its extension study, Study LAL-CL04, as well as in the double-blind and open-label periods of 
Study  LAL-CL02,  provide  evidence  that  enzyme  replacement  therapy  with  sebelipase  alfa  in 
subjects with LAL deficiency mobilises accumulated lysosomal lipid, normalizes liver transaminases, 
and improves the serum lipid profile. 
The  transient  increases  in  these  serum  lipids  following  initiation  of  treatment  are  consistent  with 
increased availability of free cholesterol and fatty acids in the cell leading to increased secretion of 
very-low-density lipoprotein and/or down-regulation of the LDL-c receptor. 
Additionally, decreased HDL-c levels have also been described in patients with LAL deficiency and a 
link  has  been  established  between  LAL  activity,  cholesteryl  ester,  and  triglyceride  breakdown 
products,  and  expression  of  the  ABCA1  transporter,  which  is  important  for  reverse  cholesterol 
transport.  With  sustained  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  in  Studies  LAL-CL04  and  LAL-CL02,  HDL-c 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 29/87 
  
  
 
levels  increased  significantly  by  as  early  as  6 weeks  after  initiating  treatment,  leading  to  further 
credence of biological activity. 
Efficacy endpoints 
The  efficacy  endpoints  considered  in  the  graphical  analysis  of  exposure-response  relationships 
included ALT, LDL-c, triglycerides, HDL-c, total cholesterol, and liver fat content. 
In the graphical analysis of all data from Studies LAL-CL01, LAL-CL04, and LAL-CL02, subjects with 
higher ALT Baseline values (defined as ≥ 3x ULN) showed a similar relative change from Baseline 
and ALT Baseline values did not affect the response to sebelipase alfa treatment over time for any 
other efficacy endpoints. 
ALT,  LDL-c,  triglycerides,  and  total  cholesterol  decreased  over  time,  whereas  HDL-c  was  found  to 
increase over time. The limited data available for percentage liver fat also suggested a decrease in 
fat  content  over  time.  Taken  together,  these  results  were  consistent  with  a  positive  response  to 
treatment with sebelipase alfa for these efficacy endpoints. 
Infants (< 1 year at Baseline) in Study LAL-CL03 were found to have generally lower absolute HDL-
c values and initially (up to Week 50) lower absolute ALT, LDL-c, triglyceride, and total cholesterol 
values  than  children,  adolescents,  and  adults  in  the  other  studies.  However,  the  changes  from 
Baseline  in  these  endpoints  were  comparable  across  all  age  groups  over  time  with  comparable 
trends in all efficacy endpoints. 
Subjects receiving concomitant lipid lowering medication (LLM) had generally lower absolute LDL-c 
and total cholesterol values; however, response to sebelipase alfa treatment did not appear to be 
affected  by  concomitant  LLM  as  the  change  from  Baseline  in  all  efficacy  endpoints  appeared 
comparable  over  time  between  subjects  receiving  concomitant  LLM  and  subjects  not  receiving 
concomitant LLM. This suggests that the combined effect of sebelipase alfa and LLM is additive, not 
synergistic. 
A  strong  positive  correlation  was  observed  between  LDL-c  and  total  cholesterol,  while  more 
moderate  correlation  was  observed  between  triglycerides  and  HDL-c  (negative),  LDL-c  (positive), 
and  total  cholesterol  (positive),  and  mild  correlations  between  liver  fat  content  and  LDL-c, 
triglycerides,  and  total  cholesterol  (all  positive).  No  correlations  were  apparent  between  ALT  and 
the other continuous efficacy endpoints variables. 
Dosing 
The  doses  of  sebelipase  alfa  investigated  in  the  clinical  studies  were  expected  to  provide 
therapeutic effects on the basis of nonclinical findings: 
In a 4-week study, the minimum effective dose of sebelipase alfa in the nonclinical rat model of 
• 
LAL deficiency was 0.35 mg/kg qw, and was generally comparable to the PD effects of sebelipase 
alfa administered at a dose of 1 mg/kg qow. These data suggested that a qow dose of less than 1 
mg/kg would have a decreased probability of demonstrating efficacy.  
In  the  nonclinical  rat  model  of  LAL  deficiency,  the  PD  effects  of  sebelipase  alfa  were  broadly 
• 
comparable at the 2 highest qw dosing regimens (3 mg/kg qw and 5 mg/kg qw) and the 2 highest 
qow dosing regimens (3 mg/kg qow and 5 mg/kg qow) studied. These data indicated that 3 mg/kg 
would be a maximally effective dose with both qw and qow administration.  
In  adults  and  children  with  LAL  deficiency,  substrate  accumulation  and  pathology  are  most 
• 
prominent  in  the  liver  and  spleen.  Dose-response  analysis  in  the  nonclinical  rat  model 
demonstrated that substrate was substantially reduced in these organs with a 1 and 3 mg/kg qow 
regimen. Favourable effects on body weight gain and intestinal organ weight showed more notable 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 30/87 
  
  
 
dose  dependence  and  more  marked  improvement  with  the  3  mg/kg  qow  regimen,  and  improved 
effects with more frequent qw dosing regimens. 
The doses of sebelipase alfa that were then evaluated in the clinical studies ranged from 0.35 mg 
qw  to  3  mg/kg  qw  and  qow,  with  adults  in  LAL-CL01  being  treated  with  0.35,  1,  or  3  mg/kg  qw 
doses  of  sebelipase  alfa  and  those  that  went  on  to  LAL-CL04  then  being  initially  treated  with  qw 
doses and then transitioned to a qow dosing regimen (1 or 3 mg/kg). In LAL-CL02 active treatment 
at  all  timepoints  consisted  of  1  mg/kg  qow.  Infants  in  LAL-CL03  nfants  were  initially  treated  with 
sebelipase alfa at a dose of 0.35 mg/kg qw, then escalated to 1 mg/kg qw, then to 3 mg/kg qw if a 
suboptimal clinical response was seen (weight-for-age), and they could escalate to 5 mg/kg qw at 
maximum. 
The  decision  to  use  different  dose  schedules  (qw  versus  qow)  in  the  studies  conducted  in  infants 
(Study LAL-CL03) and in adults and children (Study LAL-CL02) was initially based on the fact that 
although preclinical studies demonstrated that substantial reductions in organ size and lipid content 
of the liver and spleen were achieved with lower doses, other tissues more frequently abnormal in 
infants,  including  the  gastrointestinal  tract,  benefited  from  both  higher  doses  and  a  qw  dosing 
schedule.  Further  support  for  the  benefits  of  qw  dosing  were  provided  by  differences  in  the 
beneficial effect on weight gain. Secondly, investigation of the off rate for the effects of sebelipase 
alfa treatment on liver transaminases provided support for the utility of qow dosing in patients with 
prominent liver manifestations. 
The  basis  for  the  observed  differences  in  dose  and  dose  frequency  requirements  in  infants 
compared  to  children  and  adults  has  not  been  definitively  established.  The  c.894G>A  mutation, 
which  is  thought  to  allow  production  of  small  amounts  of  normal  enzyme,  is  substantially  more 
common  in  affected  children  and  adults  and  the  small  amounts  of  residual  enzyme  in  these 
patients may be an important modifier of the rate of reaccumulation of lysosomal lipid during the 
interval between infusions. 
2.3.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
In  general,  the  pharmacodynamics  for  sebelipase  alfa  show  that  treatment  in  LAL-deficient 
subjects,  both  those  suffering  from  the  early-onset  rapidly  progressing  form  and  those  with  the 
more  conventional  mutations  that  give  rise  to  the  late-onset  form,  is  able  to  improve  the 
biomarkers that are used to identify LAL deficiency (transaminases and serum lipid content), with a 
clear relation between exposure and response. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The POP PK modelling approach includes all available data from studies LAL-CL01, LAL-CL02, LAL-
CL03 and LAL-CL04 and is considered well described and documented. The approach used might be 
endorsed in overall. 
Based on the results from the POP PK analysis, a non-linear relationship between body weight and 
CL  was  found,  which  results  in  proportionately  higher  exposures  in  larger  subjects  compared  to 
smaller  subjects.  Additionally,  no  effect  of  gender  on  the  clearance  or  volume  of  distribution  has 
been reported. 
It  is  noted that  an  uniform  bodyweight  normalization  of  the  dose  proposed  for  all the  age  ranges 
(1 mg/kg) in the posology section while an allometric function was used to include BSA levels as a 
covariate on CL, in the PK analysis.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 31/87 
  
  
 
According to the POP PK analysis, exposure to sebelipase alfa varies across subject age, which 
results in proportionately higher exposures in older subjects compared to younger subjects. The 
amount of data available at the time of the analysis limited the reliability of the evaluated PK 
profile and did not allow exploring adequately the time-dependent and exposure (dose and 
concentration)-dependent non-linearity, and the effects of body size and maturation on the PK.  
In the post authorization setting, the model should be refined to include updated data from 
ongoing studies in children/infants, to differentiate children/infants and adults, to discuss the effect 
of body size and maturation of the PK and to ensure that time, exposure and non-linearity 
parameters are adequately addressed. Further, expansion to a population PK/PD model should be 
considered, which would allow further assessment of whether and how plasma concentrations of 
sebelipase alfa are linked to PD outcomes, or whether an indirect effect is present, e.g. due to a 
delayed distribution to an effect site such as the lysosomal compartment.  
BQL data were excluded from the analysis. At the time of the update of the POP PK model with the 
results of the phase III ongoing studies, the applicant is strongly advised to correctly handle BQL 
data if their rate remains relatively high. 
At the time of refinement of the model after completion of phase III studies, in the post 
authorisation setting, the applicant is strongly advised to carefully consider the clinical impact of 
unreliable data on the model parameter estimates. A sensitivity analysis showing the results of 
modelling with and without these data should be performed.  
Overall, it is recommended that the model is updated when ongoing studies (LAL-CL06 and LAL-
CL08) are completed and therefore more data available on long term follow up of patients, 
including children aged from 2 to 4 years old (timelines by 31 March 2019). 
A  quantitative  population  PK/PD  model  which  is  currently  lacking  should  be  developed  to  explore 
the impact of the bodyweight-based dosing on the PD biomarkers. This should also be done at the 
time of refinement of the model after completion of phase III studies. A discussion on the impact of 
possible underexposing infants and lower aged children and overdosing in the overweight patients 
when  using  a  body-weight  based  dosing  whereas  the  actual  effect  of  body  size  on  clearance  is 
better described by an allometric function and should be provided post approval. 
The  aspects  of  absorption,  distribution  and  biotransformation  are  correctly  discussed  by  the 
applicant  but  no  specific  studies  have  been  performed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
sebelipase in patients with decreased renal function. This is acceptable because sebelipase alfa is a 
recombinant human LAL enzyme of relatively high-MW (55 kDa), renal excretion is not expected to 
represent  a  major  elimination  route.  Additionally,  variations  in  renal  function  are  not  expected  to 
affect the elimination of sebelipase alfa, as also indicated by covariate analysis during development 
of the population PK model for sebelipase alfa.  
No  pharmacokinetic  drug-drug  interactions  have  been  conducted  with  sebelipase  alfa  which  is 
acceptable for an enzyme intended to be used in enzyme replacement therapy. 
Children and adults included in the studies have evidence of significant hepatic involvement (Child 
Plugh  A  and  B).  Few  data  are  available  in  infants  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  (only  two 
subjects clearly classified as Child-Pugh C in Study LAL-CL03).  
The influence of race on sebelipase alfa PK has not been analysed by non-compartmental methods 
as all subjects included in Studies LAL-CL01 and LAL-CL04 are reported as Caucasian.  Since 82% 
of the subjects included in the POP PK analysis are reported as Caucasian, no effect of race on the 
clearance or volume of distribution of sebelipase alfa could be established as the predominance of 
Caucasians precludes the identification of an effect even if one existed. This lack of PK data in the 
other ethnic groups has been adequately reflected in the SmPC in special populations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 32/87 
  
  
 
Data for elderly patients are unavailable. No PK data in patients older than 65 has been provided. 
The lack of data for this specific population of patients has been clearly stated in the section 5.2 of 
the SmPC. 
Finally, the wording introduced in section 4.2 of the SmPC is considered acceptable and describes 
adequately the current data in relation to special populations. 
No  dosing  adjustment  can  be  recommended  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  or  hepatic 
impairment  and  a  contra-indication  in  severe  renal  impairment  due  to  lack  of  data  is  not 
appropriate in the case of sebelipase alfa.  
The  effect  of  hepatic  impairment  on  sebelipase  alfa  pharmacokinetics  appears  negligible  as 
indicated by covariate analysis during development of the population PK model for sebelipase alfa. 
In  studies  LAL-CL01,  LAL-CL02  and  LAL-CL04,  subjects  had  no  severe  hepatic  dysfunction  (Child-
Pugh C) and in study LAL-CL03 there are two subjects who are clearly classified as Child-Pugh C. 
The lack of data was adequately reflected in the section 5.2 of the SmPC. 
Special populations: 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
“No  dosing  adjustment  is  recommended  in  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic  impairment  based  on 
current knowledge of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of sebelipase alfa. See section 
5.2.)” 
The following wording in the Section 5.2 of the SmPC is also endorsed. 
SmPC: 
“Sebelipase  alfa  is  a  protein  and  is  expected  to  be  metabolically  degraded  through  peptide 
hydrolysis. Consequently, impaired liver function is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of 
sebelipase alfa. There is a lack of data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Renal elimination of sebelipase alfa is considered a minor pathway for clearance. There is a lack of 
data in patients with renal impairment.” 
Immunogenicity 
The  issue  of  immunogenicity  and  the  immune  system’s  response  to  the  exogenous  recombinant 
LAL  enzyme  raises  some  concern,  thus  a  warning  is  provided  in  the  SmPC  in  relation  of  ADA 
antibodies and ADA testing.  
In  the  initial  data  set  in  infants  with  rapid-onset  disease,  of  the  7  patients  whom  survived  until 
their 12th month of life there were 5 whom tested ADA positive, for which 2 developed neutralising 
antibodies.  One  of  these  latter  two  showed  consistently  high  neutralizing  AB  titres  and  exhibited 
symptoms of growth failure. On the other hand, other markers of efficacy were affected positively. 
Five of 7 subjects presenting with ADA positivity represents a high percentage. Likewise 2 out of 7 
subjects developing neutralising antibodies represents close to 30% of the study population.  
The  limited  amount  of  patients  available  for  this  trial  makes  it  impossible  to  draw  definite 
conclusions  on  these  observations,  and  thus  monitoring  of  all  patients  during  usage  is 
recommended.  Additionally  the  ongoing  study  in  infants  (LAL-08)  is  considered  essential  to 
continue gathering long term efficacy and safety data especially in relation to immunogenicity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 33/87 
  
  
 
 
 
In  adults,  there  seem  to be  less  a  cause  for  concern,  as  only  a  small  fraction  of  patients  became 
ADA  positive,  and  in  all  cases  the  ADA  induction  was  transient  and  did  not  coincide  with  signs  of 
impact on the efficacy of the treatment.  
Nevertheless,  the  occurrence  observed  indicates  that  immunogenic  responses  to  treatment  are 
possible in all aetiologies of the disease and can occur at any time, thus meaning that vigilance on 
the long term usage is necessary. 
The  bio-molecular  typing  of  the  immune  response,  in  particular  the  development  of  neutralizing 
ADAs  and  the  type  of  antibodies  involved  is  currently  not  entirely  clear  and  answering  the  above 
concerns would be considered an advantage. 
Collection  of  further  information  on  immunogenicity  will  be  done  through  the  post  authorization 
setting (registry) and in the ongoing clinical studies. Treating physicians should be made aware of 
the registry, the procedures to be followed and the data that would need to be submitted, through 
educational materials provided. 
These  pharmacovigilance  activities  will  also  be  able  to  detect  early  warning  if  antibodies  arise  in 
response  to  the  exogenous  recombinant  LAL.  Additionally  the  there  is  a  need  to  study  immunity 
against the ERT in the long-term, as ERTs are more likely to be used on a lifelong basis. 
2.3.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
In conclusion, pharmacokinetics of sebelipase alfa has been investigated to an acceptable extent. 
However, given the nature of the orphan disease and the high unmet medical need, PK parameters 
were determined in a limited number of patients and some issues should be investigated in the 
post marketing setting. 
A  quantitative  population  PK/PD  model  should  be  developed  to  explore  the  impact  of  the 
bodyweight-based  dosing  on  the  PD  biomarkers  at  the  time  of  refinement  of  the  model  after 
completion of phase III studies. 
Additionally  the  impact  of  possible  underexposing  infants  and  lower  aged  children  and 
overexposing the overweight patients when using a body-weight based dosing whereas the actual 
effect of body size on clearance is better described by an allometric function should be provided. 
The full details in relation to the post authorization measure to be provided are all detailed below to 
ensure  that  all  aspects  will  be  taken  into  account.  Objective:  To  provide  further  refinement  of  PK 
parameters and expand to a population PK/PD model at the time data from phase III study will be 
available should be provided. According to the current POP PK analysis, exposure to sebelipase alfa 
varies  across  subject  age,  which  results  in  proportionately  higher  exposures  in  older  subjects 
compared to younger subjects. In addition, a non-linear relationship between body weight and CL 
was  found,  which  results  in  proportionately  higher  exposures  in  larger  subjects  compared  to 
smaller subjects. The amount of data available at the time of the analysis limited the reliability of 
the evaluated PK profile and did not allow exploring adequately the time-dependent and exposure 
(dose and concentration)-dependent non-linearity, and the effects of body size and maturation on 
the  PK.  The  model  should  be  refined  to  include  updated  data  from  ongoing  studies  in 
children/infants, to differentiate children/infants and adults, to discuss the effect of body size and 
maturation  of  the  PK  and  to  ensure  that  time,  exposure  and  non-linearity  parameters  are 
adequately  addressed.  Once  a  refined  population  PK  model  has  been  obtained,  expansion  to  a 
population  PK/PD  model  should  be  considered,  which  would  allow  further  assessment  of  whether 
and  how  plasma  concentrations  of  sebelipase  alfa  are  linked  to  PD  outcomes,  or  whether  an 
indirect effect is present, e.g. due to a delayed distribution to an effect site such as the lysosomal 
compartment.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 34/87 
  
  
 
BQL data were excluded from the analysis. At the time of the update of the POP PK model with the 
results of the phase III ongoing studies, the applicant is strongly advised to correctly handle BQL 
data if their rate remains relatively high. 
The very sparse data collected during the infusion did not allow the adequate estimation of the 
parameters. At the time of refinement of the model after completion of phase III studies, the 
applicant is strongly advised to carefully consider the (clinical) impact of unreliable data on the 
model parameter estimates. A sensitivity analysis showing the results of modelling with and 
without these data should be performed.  
A discussion on the impact of possible underexposing infants and lower aged children and 
overexposing the overweight patients when using a body-weight based dosing whereas the actual 
effect of body size on clearance is better described by an allometric function should be provided. 
This should also be done at the time of refinement of the model after completion of phase III 
studies. 
Finally,  the  screening  cut-point  of  the  target  population  for  ADA  detection  should  be  determined 
with the data of the whole sample from phase III study. The 95% confidence interval related to the 
newly computed cut-point should also be provided to allow adequate comparison with the validated 
cut-point determined with samples from healthy drug-naïve subjects. 
Overall, the development is acceptable and the data support approval. However the main concern 
is  the  question  of  immunogenic  responses  to  the  administration  of  endogenous  LAL-enzyme. 
Nevertheless, a pattern could not be discovered, and the majority of events were entirely transient 
without any apparent negative influence on the subject or treatment results. A possible decrease in 
efficacy  was  sometimes  suspected  although  one  should  be  aware  that  it  is  not  proven  beyond  a 
reason of doubt that this was due to the ADA development, could be adequately managed by dose 
adaptation (see later). 
This will be further characterised through long-term post-approval safety and  efficacy monitoring, 
including collection of immunogenic AEs (registry, ongoing studies and risk minimisation activities). 
This is adequately reflected in the RMP. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
The Applicant submitted data of 4 studies in support of the efficacy part of the dossier; two pivotal 
trials of which one in infants with Wolman disease (LAL-CL03) and one in children and adults with 
LAL deficiency (LAL-CL02), which also support the dose response.  
2.4.1.  Dose-response studies- Main studies  
2.4.1.1.  Study LAL-CL03 
Title: An Open Label, Multicenter, Dose Escalation Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, 
Efficacy, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of SBC-102 in Children with Growth Failure Due 
to Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency 
Methods  
The  study  consisted  of  a  screening  period  of  up to  3  weeks,  a  treatment period  of  up to  4  years, 
and a follow-up visit at least 30 days after the last dose of investigational medicinal product (IMP). 
Duration of main phase: Up to 4 years for each subject. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 35/87 
  
  
 
Study Participants  
The participants were infants with Wolman disease. 
Treatments 
All subjects received sebelipase alfa, administered by IV infusion at a starting dose of 0.35 mg/kg 
or 0.2 mg/kg, and escalating to 1 mg/kg qw and 3 mg/kg qw, as applicable. 
Dosing frequency could be reduced to qow for subjects who had been on treatment for at least 96 
weeks and had been receiving a stable dose for at least 24 weeks. Dose reductions were permitted 
in the event of poor tolerability. Fourteen Synageva drug lots of sebelipase alfa were administered 
in this study. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint: Proportion of subjects in the Primary Efficacy Set (PES) surviving to 12 months 
of age 
Secondary endpoints:  
-  Proportion of subjects surviving at 18 and 24 months of age 
-  Median age at death 
-  Changes  from  baseline  in  percentiles  and/or  z-scores  for  weight-for-age  (WFA),  weight-for-
length  or  height  (WFL/WFH),  length  or  height-for-age  (LFA/HFA),  head  circumference-for-age 
(HCFA), and mid-upper arm circumference-for-age (MUACFA) 
-  Dichotomous growth status indicators of underweight, wasting, and stunting 
-  Changes  from  baseline  in  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT),  aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST), 
and serum ferritin  
-  Normalisation of hemoglobin levels without requirement for blood transfusion. 
Limited  PK  sampling  was  performed,  as  blood  volume  permitted,  to  measure  sebelipase  alfa 
concentrations within critical time windows. 
Safety endpoints:  
Safety  was  evaluated  based  on  the  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs), 
including serious adverse events (SAEs) and infusion-associated reactions (IARs), as well as results 
of clinical laboratory results (chemistry, haematology, urinalysis, and anti-drug antibodies [ADAs]), 
vital  sign  measurements,  physical  examinations,  electrocardiograms  (ECGs),  and  information  on 
use of concomitant medications/therapies. 
Sample size 
9 eligible subjects enrolled 
Participants flow 
After confirmation of study eligibility based on screening assessments, subjects initiated weekly IV 
infusions  with  sebelipase  alfa.  All  subjects  who  initiated  treatment  under  the  LAL-CL03  protocol 
received a starting dose of 0.35 mg/kg weekly (qw), and were escalated to a dose of 1 mg/kg qw 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 36/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
once  acceptable  safety  and  tolerability  had  been  demonstrated  during  at  least  2  infusions  at  the 
dose of 0.35 mg/kg.  
Results  
The data cut-off for the application was 3 years, one month and six days since initiation. 
All subjects received sebelipase alfa, administered by IV infusion at a starting dose of 0.35 mg/kg 
(8  subjects)  or  0.2  mg/kg  (1  subject),  and  escalating  to  1  mg/kg  qw  and  3  mg/kg  qw,  as 
applicable.  
Dosing frequency could be reduced to qow for subjects who had been on treatment for at least 96 
weeks and had been receiving a stable dose for at least 24 weeks. Dose reductions were permitted 
in  the  event  of  poor  tolerability.  One  subject  who  had  a  continued  suboptimal  response  in 
association with the presence of neutralising antibodies received a dose increase to 5 mg/kg qw. 
One  subject  initiated  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa  under  a  Temporary  Use  Authorisation 
(Autorisation Temporaire d'Utilisation; ATU) prior to enrolling in LAL-CL03; this subject received a 
gradual dose escalation from 0.2 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg over a period of 4 weeks under the ATU and 
thereafter continued on a dose of 1 mg/kg qw and was transitioned into extension study LAL-CL05 
(Week 40) and then into study LAL-CL03 (Week 85) at this dose. 
Subjects who had a suboptimal clinical response after receiving at least 4 infusions at a dose of 1 
mg/kg  could  be  considered  for  a  further  dose  escalation  to  3  mg/kg  qw,  contingent  upon 
acceptable safety and tolerability of preceding infusions. Subjects on long-term treatment (at least 
96  weeks)  who  had  been  on  a  stable  dose  of  sebelipase  alfa  for  at  least  24  weeks  could  be 
considered for a reduction in infusion frequency to every-other-week (qow) infusions of sebelipase 
alfa.  
Such subjects received sebelipase alfa at the same dose (per infusion) that they had been receiving 
on  their  stable  qw  dosing  schedule.  Any  subject  receiving  qow  dosing  who  subsequently  met 
criteria for a suboptimal clinical response was to either revert to his/her stable qw dosing schedule 
or,  if  applicable,  escalate  in  dose  from  1  mg/kg  qow  to  3  mg/kg  qow.  Dose  reductions  were 
permitted in the event of poor tolerability. 
Survival 
Sebelipase alfa demonstrated a clinically meaningful improvement in survival in subjects with LAL 
deficiency  presenting  in  infancy  who  had  documented  growth  failure  or  other  evidence  of  rapidly 
progressive disease within the first 6 months of life. 
For  the  primary  efficacy  set  (PES),  the  proportion  of  subjects  surviving  to  12  months  of  age  was 
67% (exact 95% CI = 29.93%, 92.51%). 
The ages of the surviving subjects at their last available assessment were 12.0, 15.7, 15.8, 20.4, 
25.1,  and  42.2  months,  and  thus  the  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  PES  surviving  to  18  and  24 
months of age were 33% (3 of 9 subjects) and 22% (2 of 9 subjects). 
Growth 
Growth improvements were observed for all 6 surviving subjects. For WFA percentile, one subject 
improved across 2 major centiles, 2 subjects improved across 3 major centiles, 1 subject improved 
across 4 major centiles, and 1 subject improved across 5 major centiles from baseline through the 
last  assessment  prior  to  data  cut-off.  Two  of  these  subjects  had  substantive  increases  in  WFA 
within  the  first  6  weeks  and  continuing  throughout  treatment,  1  subject  having  a  more  gradual 
increase in WFA throughout treatment, and 3 subjects showing an initial growth deceleration with 
increases in WFA beginning between Month 3 and 6. Data for other growth parameters (LFA, mid-
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 37/87 
  
  
 
upper  arm  circumference-for-age  [MUACFA],  head  circumference-for-age  [HCFA],  body  mass 
index-for-age  [BMIFA],  and  WFL)  supported  the  trends  observed  for  WFA:  2  subjects  had  an 
increasing  trend  in  all  growth  parameters  from  the  onset  of  treatment,  3  subjects  had  an  initial 
decreasing  trend  in  all  or  most  growth  parameters,  after  which  improvements  were  noted  in  all 
parameters, and 1 subject had a more gradual and fluctuating growth response but demonstrated 
an overall improvement in all parameters by the last assessment. 
Developmental milestones 
Development  milestones,  as  assessed  by  the  Denver  II,  were  primarily  normal  for  those  subjects 
who were on treatment with sebelipase alfa for 24 weeks or longer. No subject tested as abnormal 
in any skill area at any time point, and "suspect" test results were reported in only a few instances 
in gross motor and language skills. 
Effects on Serum Transaminases 
Liver parameters improved in all 6 surviving subjects. Reductions in serum transaminases were 
evident by Week 1, when all subjects were receiving sebelipase alfa at a dose of ≤ 0.35 mg/kg, 
and decreased further by Week 4, 2 weeks after most subjects escalated to 1 mg/kg qw (median 
reduction from Baseline = -55.5 U/L for AST, n = 4 and -33.0 U/L for ALT, n = 5), and remained 
fairly stable thereafter. Normalisation of transaminase levels was achieved for 4 of the 6 subjects 
with elevated Baseline AST and all 4 subjects with elevated Baseline ALT, with normal levels 
achieved in these subjects between Week 1 and Week 5. Three subjects had transient elevations in 
serum transaminases shortly prior to the data cut-off, which were temporally associated with a 
switch from a qw to qow dosing regimen (1 subject) or were noted in association with a severe 
viral infection (1 subject) or a study ultrasound that was positive for gallstones (1 subject). Levels 
were generally stable (and remained normal to near-normal in subjects who had normalised) 
through the data cut-off. 
During the conduct of this study, emerging clinical data indicated that some subjects in the study 
were developing antibodies to sebelipase alfa, and thus could be developing neutralising antibodies 
with the potential to impact efficacy. In response to observations in one subject, the protocol was 
amended to allow a further dose escalation to 5 mg/kg qw in the specific situation where a subject 
receiving a dose of 3 mg/kg qw met the protocol definition for suboptimal response. This 
suboptimal response was observed in association with the presence of neutralising antibodies. Dose 
escalation to 5 mg/kg and dose continuation (after the first 2 infusions of 5 mg/kg) were 
undertaken in consultation with the SC. (see further discussion in the report). 
2.4.1.2.  Study LAL-CL02 
Title: A Multicenter, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Study of SBC-102 in Patients with Lysosomal 
Acid Lipase Deficiency (ARISE [Acid Lipase Replacement Investigating Safety and Efficacy]) (LAL-
CL02) 
Methods/Study participants 
This  multicentre,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  was  designed  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
efficacy of sebelipase alfa in patients with LAL deficiency.  
The  study  consisted  of  a  screening  period  of  up  to  6  weeks,  a  20-week  double-blind  treatment 
period, an open-label period of up to 130 weeks, and a follow- up phone call at least 4 weeks after 
the  last  dose  of  study  drug.  Subjects  in  the  placebo  group  could  crossover  to  receive  sebelipase 
alfa upon entry into the open-label period. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 38/87 
  
  
 
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  randomised  to  treatment  following  completion  of  all  screening  assessments  and 
confirmation of  study  eligibility.  Randomisation  was stratified  by the  following parameters:  age  at 
randomization  (<  12  years,  ≥  12  years);  average  screening  ALT  level  (<  3  ×  ULN,  ≥  3  ×  ULN); 
and use of lipid-lowering medications (LLM). 
The patients were followed up in an open label extension.  
Sample size 
36 subjects were planned. 
Treatments 
Every-other-week  (qow)  IV  infusions  of  sebelipase  alfa  at  a  dose  of  1  mg/kg,  for  a  total  of  11 
infusions over this 20-week period. No dose modifications were permitted during the double-blind 
treatment period. Subjects who demonstrated evidence of significant clinical progression on blinded 
study drug were permitted to discontinue from the double-blind treatment period and transition to 
open-label treatment with sebelipase alfa at a dose of 1 mg/kg qow. Subjects may also have been 
considered  for  a  further  dose  escalation  to  3  mg/kg  qow  in  the  event  of  inadequate  clinical 
response during open-label treatment, as described below. 
Placebo infusions were identical in volume (based on a subject's weight) and administered over the 
same duration as infusions of sebelipase alfa in the SA group. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy  and  safety  assessments  were  performed  at  regular  intervals  throughout  the  study.  In 
addition,  the  PK  of  sebelipase  alfa  and  effects  on  health-related  quality  of  life  (HRQOL)  were 
characterised at selected time points. Blood and urine samples also were collected for an additional 
analysis  of  potential  disease-  related  biomarkers  in  this  population.  An  independent  safety 
committee  (SC)  appointed  by  the  Sponsor  provided  additional  oversight  of  subject  safety  in  this 
study through periodic and ad-hoc reviews of safety data. 
Primary endpoint: Proportion of subjects who achieved ALT normalisation (i.e., ALT below the age-
and gender-specific ULN provided by the central laboratory performing the assay) at the last visit 
in the double-blind treatment period. 
Secondary  endpoints:  Changes  (improvement or  normalisation  rates,  as  applicable)  from  baseline 
to the end of the double-blind treatment period (Week 20): 
-  relative reduction in LDL-c 
-  relative reduction in non-HDL-c 
-  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  an  abnormal  baseline  AST  (i.e.,  >  ULN)  who  achieved  AST 
normalisation, based on age- and gender-specific normal ranges provided by the central laboratory 
performing this assay 
-  relative reduction in triglycerides 
-  relative  increase  in  HDL-c;  and,  in  the  subset  of  subjects  for  whom  the  assessments  were 
performed 
-  relative reduction in liver fat content 
-  the proportion of subjects who showed improvement in liver histopathology 
-  relative reduction in liver volume 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 39/87 
  
  
 
Results 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
All 66 subjects had a confirmed diagnosis of LAL deficiency, based on DBS LAL enzyme testing, at 
baseline.  Genetic  testing  showed  that  overall,  85%  of  subjects  had  at  least  one  copy  of  the 
previously described c.849G>A common exon 8 splice junction mutation (32% homozygotes, 53% 
compound heterozygotes); the remaining 10 subjects had other distinct mutations. 
The  median  age  at  onset  of  the  first  LAL  deficiency  related  abnormalities  was  reported  to  be  4 
years overall, with a similar median age at onset of 5 and 4 years in the SA  and placebo groups, 
respectively.  Overall,  44%  of  subjects  had  a  history  or  evidence  of  medically  important  chronic 
liver disease at baseline, including cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and/or coagulopathy. 
As  required  by  the  entrance  criteria,  all  subjects  had  an  ALT  >  1.5  ×  ULN  at  baseline.  In  the  SA 
and placebo groups, mean baseline ALT values were 105.1 U/L and 99.0 U/L, respectively. All but 1 
subject in the placebo group had elevated AST values at baseline; mean AST values were 86.6 U/L 
and  78.2  U/L  in  the  SA  and  placebo  groups,  respectively.  The  mean  GGT  was  similar  in  the  SA 
group and placebo group at baseline (52.4 and 52.0 U/L, respectively); 36% of subjects in the SA 
group and 40% of subjects in the placebo group had elevated baseline GGT levels. 
Baseline assessments of lipids demonstrated marked dyslipidaemia. Mean LDL-c values were 189.9 
mg/dL  (4.9  mmol/L)  and  229.5  mg/dL  (5.9  mmol/L)  in  the  SA  and  placebo  groups,  respectively. 
Overall, more than half (58%) of subjects had LDL-c values in the very high range (> 190 mg/dL). 
Hypertriglyceridaemia, defined as TG levels ≥ 200 mg/dL, was seen in 21% of subjects. Mean HDL-
c  values  were  32.4  mg/dL  (0.8  mmol/L)  and  33.4  mg/dL  (0.9  mmol/L)  in  the  SA  and  placebo 
groups,  respectively.  Statistically  significant  differences  between  groups  were seen  with  regard  to 
cholesterol and non-HDL-c at baseline, with higher mean values seen in the placebo group than in 
the SA group. In the SA and placebo groups, mean baseline cholesterol values were 252.5 mg/dL 
(6.53 mmol/L) and 296.7 mg/dL (7.67 mmol/L), respectively (p=0.0341), and mean baseline non-
HDL-c  values  were  220.5  mg/dL  (5.7  mmol/L)  and  263.8  mg/dL  (6.8  mmol/L),  respectively 
(p=0.0341). 
Baseline  liver  pathology  was  available  in  32  subjects  in  the  FAS,  including  19  subjects  in  the  SA 
group  and  13  subjects  in  the  placebo  group.  As  assessed  by  the  blinded  central  reviewer,  all 
(100%) subjects with baseline biopsies had evidence of fibrosis. A total of 5 (26%) of 19 subjects 
in  the  SA  group  and  5  (38%)  of  13  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  with  biopsy  data  available  for 
analysis  had  Ishak  fibrosis  scores  of  5  or  6,  indicating  either  early  or  incomplete  cirrhosis  or 
probable or definite cirrhosis, respectively. 
Multi-echo gradient-echo (MEGE) assessment of fat content was available in 35 subjects in the SA 
group and 26 subjects in the placebo group. At baseline, the mean liver fat content, as assessed by 
MEGE, was 8.5%, with similar mean liver fat content of 8.75% and 8.16% in the SA and placebo 
groups,  respectively.  Liver  volume  assessments  by  MRI  were  available  in  36  subjects  in  the  SA 
group and 28 subjects in the placebo group. The mean baseline liver volume, as assessed by MRI, 
was 1.46 multiples of normal (MN) overall, with similar mean liver volumes of 1.44 and 1.50 MN in 
the SA and placebo groups, respectively. 
Extent of Exposure: 
Thirty-five of 36 subjects in the SA group and 29 of 30 subjects in the placebo group received all 
eleven  study  drug  infusions  during  the  double-blind  treatment  period,  as  planned.  One  subject  in 
the  SA  group  received  only  2  of  11  study  drug  infusions;  this  subject  withdrew  from  the  double-
blind treatment period of the study after experiencing a severe atypical infusion-related reaction.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 40/87 
  
  
 
 
In the placebo group, one subject received 10 of 11 study drug infusions; this subject missed the 
planned  study  drug  infusion  at  Week  8  because  she  had  chickenpox  and  it  was  decided  to  hold 
study drug until the event resolved. 
When  data  from  the  open-label  period  were  considered,  the  maximum  number  of  sebelipase  alfa 
infusions received as of the cut-off for this report was 35.  
Overall,  35  subjects  in  the  SA  group  received  at  least  12  study  drug  infusions,  with  8  subjects 
receiving  at  least  20  study  drug  infusions  through  the  cut-off  for  this  report.  In  the  placebo/SA 
group,  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa  had  not  reached  the  level  seen  in  the  SA  group  during  the 
double-blind  treatment  period  as  of  the  cut-off  for  this  report.  Half  (15)  of  subjects  in  the 
placebo/SA  group  had  received  at  least  5  infusions  during  the  open-label  period  as  of  the  cut-off 
for this report. 
Per protocol, infusions were completed over approximately 2 hours from Week 0 to Week 22, and 
were to be administered over approximately 1 hour starting at Week 24. As of the cut-off for this 
report,  40  subjects,  21  in  the  SA  group  and  19  in  the  placebo/SA  group,  received  at  least  1 
sebelipase  infusion  at  over  approximately  1  hour  during  the  open-label  period;  the  maximum 
number of infusions administered over approximately 1 hour for an individual subject was 21. 
Efficacy: 
Primary Endpoint: 
1.  ALT normalisation: A greater proportion of subjects in the SA group (31%) than in the placebo 
group (7%) achieved normalisation in ALT by the last time point in the double-blind period, a 24% 
difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA;  the  difference  between  groups  was  statistically 
significant  (p=0.0271).  All  subjects  in  the  SA  group  demonstrated  a  decrease  in  ALT;  the  mean 
decrease  in  ALT  in  the  SA  group  was  -57.9  U/L  representing  a  mean  percent  decrease  from 
baseline of -53%. In contrast, the decrease from baseline to the last time point in the double-blind 
period  in  the  placebo  group  was  -6.7  U/L,  representing  a  -6%  mean  percent  decrease  from 
baseline. 
Secondary Endpoints: 
2.  LDL-c  Reduction:  a  greater  mean  percent  change  from  baseline  in  LDL-c  was  seen  in  the  SA 
group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (-28.42%  versus  -6.25%,  respectively),  a  -22.17%  difference 
between  groups  in  favour  of  SA;  the  difference  between  groups  was  statistically  significant 
(p<0.0001).  
3.  Non-HDL-c Reduction: a greater mean percent reduction in non-HDL-c was seen in the SA group 
than  in  the  placebo  group  (-27.97%  versus  -6.94%,  respectively),  a  -21.04%  difference  between 
groups in favour of SA; the difference between groups was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
4.  AST Normalisation: a greater proportion of subjects in the SA group (42%) than in the placebo 
group  (3%)  experienced  normalisation  in  AST  by  the  last  time point in  the  double-blind  period,  a 
39%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA;  the  difference  between  groups  was  statistically 
significant (p=0.0003). The mean decrease in AST in the SA group was -41.9 U/L, representing a 
mean percent decrease from baseline of -44%. In contrast, the decrease from baseline to the last 
time point in the double-blind period in the placebo group was -6.3 U/L, representing a -7% mean 
percent decrease from baseline.  
5.  TG  Reduction:  a  greater  mean  percent  decrease  from  baseline  to  the  last  time  point  in  the 
double- blind period in TG was seen in the SA group than in the placebo group (-25.45% versus -
11.14%,  respectively),  a  -14.30%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA;  the  difference 
between groups was statistically significant (p=0.0375).  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 41/87 
  
  
 
6.  HDL-c  Increase:  a  greater  mean  percent  increase  from  baseline  to  the  last  time  point  in  the 
double- blind period in HDL-c was seen in the SA group than in the placebo group (19.57% versus 
-0.29%,  respectively),  a  19.86%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA;  this  difference 
between groups was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
7.  Liver  Fat  Content  Reduction:  a  greater  mean  percent  decrease  from  baseline  to  the  last  time 
point in the double-blind period in liver fat content was seen in the SA group than in the placebo 
group  (-31.98%  versus  -4.21%,  respectively),  a  -27.77%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of 
SA; this difference between groups was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
8.  Liver  Histology  Improvement:  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  SA  group  (63%)  than  in 
the  placebo  group  (40%) experienced improvement  in  liver  histology  (steatosis  by  morphometry) 
from  baseline  to  the  last  time  point  in  the  double-blind  period,  as  determined  by  central  blinded 
read.  This  23%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA  was  not  statistically  significant 
(p=0.4216). As this result was not statistically significant, formal hypothesis testing stopped at this 
point in the sequence. 
9.  Liver  Volume  Reduction:  a  greater  mean  percent  decrease  from  baseline  in  liver  volume  was 
seen in the SA group than in the placebo group at the last time point in the double-blind treatment 
period  (-10.28%  versus  -2.66%,  respectively),  a  -7.62%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of 
SA. However, the SAP did not allow formal statistical testing of this endpoint. 
Findings in the PP Set were similar to those in the FAS. 
In summary, sebelipase alfa was statistically significantly more effective than placebo in improving 
a  broad  range  of  disease-related  abnormalities,  including  normalisation  of  serum  transaminases 
(ALT  and  AST),  improvement  in  dyslipidemia  (reductions  in  LDL-c,  non-HDL-c,  and  TG,  and 
increases in HDL-c), and reduction in liver fat content as assessed by MRI. Furthermore, sebelipase 
alfa  treatment  produced  clear  reductions  in  MRI-estimated  liver  volume  during  the  20-week 
double-blind  treatment  period.  The  positive  effects  of  sebelipase  alfa  seen  in  sebelipase  alfa-
treated  subjects  were  very  consistent,  with  a  highly  similar  pattern  of  response  in  the  subjects 
treated initially with sebelipase alfa and in those who switched to sebelipase alfa in the open-label 
treatment period. Furthermore, evidence of the consistency of efficacy of sebelipase alfa was seen 
across the analysed study subgroups. 
2.4.1.3.  Summary of main study(ies) 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy 
as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 1: Summary of efficacy for trial LAL-CL03 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 42/87 
  
  
 
Title:  An  Open  Label,  Multicenter,  Dose  Escalation  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety,  Tolerability, 
Efficacy, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of SBC-102 in Children with Growth Failure Due 
to Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency 
Study identifier 
LAL-CL03 
Design 
The  study  consisted  of  a  screening  period  of  up  to  3  weeks,  a  treatment 
period  of  up  to  4  years,  and  a  follow-up  visit  at  least  30  days  after the  last 
dose of investigational medicinal product (IMP). 
After  confirmation  of  study  eligibility  based  on  screening  assessments, 
subjects  initiated  weekly  IV  infusions  with  sebelipase  alfa.  All  subjects  who 
initiated  treatment  under  the  LAL-CL03  protocol  received  a  starting  dose  of 
0.35 mg/kg weekly (qw), and were escalated to a dose of 1 mg/kg qw once 
acceptable  safety  and  tolerability  had  been  demonstrated  during  at  least  2 
infusions  at  the  dose  of  0.35  mg/kg.  One  subject  initiated  treatment  with 
sebelipase  alfa  under  a  Temporary  Use  Authorisation  (Autorisation 
Temporaire  d'Utilisation;  ATU)  prior  to  enrolling  in  LAL-CL03;  this  subject 
received a gradual dose escalation from 0.2 mg/kg to 1 mg/kg over a period 
of 4 weeks under the ATU and thereafter continued on a dose of 1 mg/kg qw 
and was transitioned into extension study LAL-CL05 (Week 40) and then into 
study LAL-CL03 (Week 85) at this dose 
Subjects  who  had  a  suboptimal  clinical  response  after  receiving  at  least  4 
infusions  at  a  dose  of  1  mg/kg  could  be  considered  for  a  further  dose 
escalation to 3 mg/kg qw, contingent upon acceptable safety and tolerability 
of preceding infusions. Subjects on long-term treatment (at least 96 weeks) 
who had been on a stable dose of sebelipase alfa for at least 24 weeks could 
Design 
be  considered  for  a  reduction  in  infusion  frequency  to  every-other-week 
(qow)  infusions  of  sebelipase  alfa.  Such  subjects  received  sebelipase  alfa  at 
the same dose (per infusion) that they had been receiving on their stable qw 
dosing  schedule.  Any  subject  receiving  qow  dosing  who  subsequently  met 
criteria  for  a  suboptimal  clinical  response  was  to  either  revert  to  his/her 
stable  qw  dosing  schedule  or,  if  applicable,  escalate  in  dose  from  1  mg/kg 
qow  to  3  mg/kg  qow.  Dose  reductions  were  permitted  in  the  event  of  poor 
tolerability. 
During the conduct of this study, emerging clinical data indicated that some 
subjects in the study were developing antibodies to sebelipase alfa, and thus 
could  be  developing  neutralising  antibodies  with  the  potential  to  impact 
efficacy. In response to observations in 1 subject, the protocol was amended 
to  allow  a  further  dose  escalation  to  5  mg/kg  qw  in  the  specific  situation 
where  a  subject  receiving  a  dose of  3  mg/kg  qw  met  the  protocol  definition 
for  suboptimal  response,  and  this  suboptimal  response  was  observed  in 
association with the presence of neutralising antibodies. Dose escalation to 5 
mg/kg  and  dose  continuation  (after  the  first  2  infusions  of  5  mg/kg)  were 
undertaken in consultation with the SC. 
Duration of main phase: 
Up  to  4  years  for  each  subject  (data  cut-off  for  this  report:  3  years,  one 
month and six days since initiation) 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 43/87 
  
  
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
Exploratory: survival in infants with Wolman disease on sebelipase alfa 
Treatments groups 
Wolman disease infants 
9 eligible subjects enrolled 
All subjects received sebelipase alfa, administered by IV infusion at a starting 
dose of 0.35 mg/kg (8 subjects) or 0.2 mg/kg (1 subject), and escalating to 
1  mg/kg  qw  and  3  mg/kg  qw,  as  applicable.  One  subject  who  had  a 
continued  suboptimal  response 
in  association  with  the  presence  of 
neutralising  antibodies  received  a  dose  increase  to  5  mg/kg  qw.  Dosing 
frequency could be reduced to qow for subjects who had been on treatment 
for  at  least  96  weeks  and  had  been  receiving  a  stable  dose  for  at  least  24 
weeks.  Dose  reductions  were  permitted  in  the  event  of  poor  tolerability. 
Fourteen  Synageva  drug  lots  of  sebelipase  alfa  were  administered  in  this 
study. 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary 
Proportion  of  subjects  in  the  Primary  Efficacy  Set  (PES) 
endpoint 
surviving to 12 months of age 
Secondary 
Proportion of subjects surviving at 18 and 24 months of age 
efficacy 
endpoints 
Median age at death 
Changes  from  baseline  in  percentiles  and/or  z-scores  for 
weight-for-age 
(WFA),  weight-for-length 
or 
height 
(WFL/HFL), 
length  or  height-for-age  (LFA/HFA),  head 
circumference-for-age 
(HCFA), 
and  mid-upper 
arm 
circumference-for-age (MUACFA) 
Dichotomous  growth  status 
indicators  of  underweight, 
wasting, and stunting 
Changes  from  baseline  in  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT), 
aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and serum ferritin  
Normalisation  of  hemoglobin  levels  without  requirement  for 
blood transfusion. 
Safety 
Safety  was  evaluated  based  on  the  incidence  of  treatment-
endpoints 
emergent adverse events (TEAEs), including serious adverse 
events  (SAEs)  and  infusion-associated  reactions  (IARs),  as 
well  as  results  of  clinical  laboratory  results  (chemistry, 
haematology,  urinalysis,  and  anti-drug  antibodies  [ADAs]), 
vital 
sign  measurements, 
physical 
examinations, 
electrocardiograms  (ECGs),  and  information  on  use  of 
concomitant medications/therapies. 
PK endpoints 
Limited  PK  sampling  was  performed,  as  blood  volume 
permitted,  to  measure  sebelipase  alfa  concentrations  within 
critical time windows. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 44/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Database lock 
10 June 2014 
Results and Analysis 
Survival 
Sebelipase  alfa  demonstrated  a  clinically  meaningful  improvement  in  survival  in  subjects  with  LAL 
deficiency  presenting  in  infancy  who  had  documented  growth  failure  or  other  evidence  of  rapidly 
progressive disease within the first 6 months of life. 
For the PES, the proportion of subjects surviving to 12 months of age was 67% (Figure 3.4.1, exact 
95%  CI  =  29.93%,  92.51%).  The  ages  of  the  surviving  subjects  at  their  last  available  assessment 
were 12.0, 15.7, 15.8, 20.4, 25.1, and 42.2 months, and thus the proportion of subjects in the PES 
surviving to 18 and 24 months of age were 33% (3 of 9 subjects) and 22% (2 of 9 subjects). 
Growth 
Growth  improvements  were  observed  for  all  6  surviving  subjects.  For  WFA  percentile,  1  subject 
improved across 2 major centiles, 2 subjects improved across 3 major centiles, 1 subject improved 
across  4  major  centiles,  and  1  subject  improved  across  5  major  centiles  from  baseline  through  the 
last assessment prior to data cut-off. Two of these subjects had substantive increases in WFA within 
the first 6 weeks and continuing throughout treatment, 1 subject having a more gradual increase in 
WFA  throughout  treatment,  and  3  subjects  showing  an  initial  growth  deceleration  with  increases  in 
WFA  beginning  between  Month  3  and  6.  Data  for  other  growth  parameters  (LFA,  mid-upper  arm 
circumference-for-age  [MUACFA],  head  circumference-for-age  [HCFA],  body  mass  index-for-age 
[BMIFA], and WFL) supported the trends observed for WFA: 2 subjects had an increasing trend in all 
growth  parameters  from the  onset of  treatment,  3 subjects  had  an  initial decreasing  trend in  all  or 
most growth parameters, after which improvements were noted in all parameters, and 1 subject had 
a  more  gradual  and  fluctuating  growth  response  but  demonstrated  an  overall  improvement  in  all 
parameters by the last assessment. 
Developmental milestones 
Development  milestones,  as  assessed  by  the  Denver  II,  were  primarily  normal  for  those  subjects 
who were on treatment with sebelipase alfa for 24 weeks or longer. No subject tested as abnormal in 
any skill area at any time point, and "suspect" test results were reported in only a few instances in 
gross motor and language skills. 
Effects on Serum Transaminases 
Liver  parameters  improved  in  all  6  surviving  subjects.  Reductions  in  serum  transaminases  were 
evident by Week 1, when all subjects were receiving sebelipase alfa at a dose of ≤ 0.35 mg/kg, and 
decreased  further  by  Week  4,  2  weeks  after  most  subjects  escalated  to  1  mg/kg  qw  (median 
reduction  from  Baseline  =  -55.5  U/L  for  AST,  n  =  4  and  -33.0  U/L  for  ALT,  n  =  5),  and  remained 
fairly  stable  thereafter.  Normalisation  of  transaminase  levels  was  achieved  for  4  of  the  6  subjects 
with  elevated  Baseline  AST  and  all  4  subjects  with  elevated  Baseline  ALT,  with  normal  levels 
achieved in these subjects between Week 1 and Week 5. Three subjects had transient elevations in 
serum  transaminases  shortly  prior  to  the  data  cut-off,  which  were  temporally  associated  with  a 
switch from a qw to qow dosing regimen (1 subject) or were noted in association with a severe viral 
infection  (1  subject)  or  a study  ultrasound  that  was  positive  for gallstones  (1 subject).  Levels  were 
generally stable (and remained normal to near-normal in subjects who had normalised) through the 
data cut-off. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 45/87 
  
  
 
 
Effects on Serum Ferritin 
Serum  ferritin  decreased  rapidly  on  treatment  in  all  6  surviving  subjects.  The  median  reduction  in 
serum ferritin was -122.0 μg/L by Week 1 (n = 4) and -269.3 μg/L by Week 6 (n = 3). Ferritin levels 
normalised in all 4 subjects who had an elevated Baseline level; time to normalisation ranged from 
approximately 1 week to 13 weeks and, as might be expected, was longer for those subjects with a 
higher Baseline ferritin level. 
Haematological Effects 
Haematological  abnormalities  associated  with  LAL  deficiency  also  improved  during  treatment  with 
sebelipase  alfa.  Transfusion-free  haemoglobin  normalisation  (also  referred  to  as  short-term  TFHN) 
was  achieved  by  83.3%  (5  of  6)  of  the  surviving  subjects,  including  all  3  subjects  who  had  low 
haemoglobin  levels  at  Baseline.  The  estimated  median  time  to  achieve  short-term  TFHN  based  on 
Kaplan-Meier analysis was 4.6 months, with a lower 95% confidence limit of 0.2 months (the upper 
confidence  limit  could  not  be  estimated).  Two  (33.3%)  of  the  6  surviving  subjects  also  achieved 
TFHN  maintenance  (also  referred  to  as  sustained  early  TFHN),  which  extended  from  Week  6  to the 
last available assessment in these subjects. 
Table 1: Summary of efficacy for trial LAL-CL02 
Title:  A  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Placebo-controlled  Study  of  SBC-102  in  Patients  with  Lysosomal 
Acid Lipase Deficiency (ARISE [Acid Lipase Replacement Investigating Safety and Efficacy]) 
Study identifier 
LAL-CL02 
Design 
This  multicentre,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  was  designed  to 
evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  sebelipase  alfa  in  patients  with  LAL 
deficiency. The study consisted of a screening period of up to 6 weeks, a 20-
week  double-blind  treatment  period,  an  open-label  period  of  up  to  130 
weeks,  and  a  follow-up  phone  call  at  least  4  weeks  after  the  last  dose  of 
study  drug.  Subjects  in  the  placebo  group  could  crossover  to  receive 
sebelipase alfa upon entry into the open-label period. 
Subjects were randomised to treatment following completion of all screening 
assessments  and  confirmation  of  study  eligibility.  Randomisation  was 
stratified by the following parameters: age at randomisation (< 12 years, ≥ 
12 years); average screening ALT level (< 3 × ULN, ≥ 3 × ULN); and use of 
lipid-lowering medications (LLM) (yes, no). 
Efficacy  and  safety  assessments  were  performed  at  regular  intervals 
throughout  the  study.  In  addition,  the  PK  of  sebelipase  alfa  and  effects  on 
health-related  quality  of  life  (HRQOL)  were  characterised  at  selected  time 
points. Blood and urine samples also were collected for an additional analysis 
of  potential  disease-related  biomarkers  in  this  population.  An  independent 
safety  committee  (SC)  appointed  by  the  Sponsor  provided  additional 
oversight of subject safety in this study through periodic and ad-hoc reviews 
of safety data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 46/87 
  
  
 
 
 
Duration of main phase: 
20 weeks double-blind 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
6 Weeks of screening + 
Duration of Extension phase:  Maximum 130 Weeks in open-label period 
Hypothesis 
Superiority of sebelipase alfa ERT to placebo 
Treatments groups 
Sebelipase 
alfa 
(double-
N=36 
blind) 
Every-other-week  (qow) 
IV 
infusions  of 
sebelipase  alfa  at  a  dose  of  1  mg/kg,  for  a 
total of 11 infusions over this 20-week period. 
No  dose  modifications  were  permitted  during 
the  double-blind  treatment  period.  Subjects 
who  demonstrated  evidence  of  significant 
clinical  progression  on  blinded  study  drug 
were  permitted  to  discontinue  from  the 
double-blind  treatment  period  and  transition 
to  open-label  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa 
at a dose of 1 mg/kg qow. Subjects may also 
have  been  considered  for  a  further  dose 
escalation  to  3  mg/kg  qow  in  the  event  of 
inadequate  clinical  response  during  open-
label treatment, as described below. 
Placebo (double-blind) 
N=30 
Placebo  infusions  were  identical  in  volume 
(based 
on 
a 
subject's  weight) 
and 
administered  over  the  same  duration  as 
infusions of sebelipase alfa in the SA group. 
Open-label group 
N=65 
qow  IV  infusions  of  sebelipase  alfa  at  a  dose 
of  1  mg/kg,  irrespective  of  their  treatment 
allocation  during  the  double-blind  treatment 
period.  Beginning  at  Week  24,  subjects 
received  sebelipase  alfa 
infusions  over 
approximately  1  hour.  However, 
if 
the 
infusion  was  not  well  tolerated,  the  infusion 
rate  could  be  decreased  to  the  previously 
tolerated  infusion  rate.  A  subject  may  have 
received a total of up to 64 infusions over the 
maximum  130-week  open-label  period.  A 
dose increase to 3 mg/kg qow was permitted 
in  the  event  of  an 
inadequate  clinical 
response,  and  a  dose  reduction  to  0.35 
mg/kg  qow  was  permitted  in  the  event  of 
poor  tolerability.  All  dose  adjustments  were 
made  at  the  discretion  of  the  Investigator  in 
consultation with the Sponsor. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 47/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary 
Proportion of subjects who achieved ALT normalisation (i.e., 
endpoint 
ALT below the age-and gender-specific ULN provided by the 
central  laboratory  performing  the  assay)  at  the  last  visit  in 
the double-blind treatment period. 
Secondary 
Changes 
(improvement  or  normalisation 
rates,  as 
endpoints 
applicable)  from  baseline  to  the  end  of  the  double-blind 
treatment period (Week 20): 
relative reduction in LDL-c 
relative reduction in non-HDL-c 
the  proportion  of  subjects  with  an  abnormal  baseline  AST 
(i.e.,  >  ULN)  who  achieved  AST  normalisation,  based  on 
age-  and  gender-specific  normal  ranges  provided  by  the 
central laboratory performing this assay 
relative reduction in triglycerides 
relative increase in HDL-c; and, in the subset of subjects for 
whom the assessments were performed 
relative reduction in liver fat content 
the proportion of subjects who showed improvement in liver 
histopathology 
relative reduction in liver volume 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 48/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive 
Changes  (or  normalisation,  as  applicable)  from  baseline  to 
efficacy 
endpoints 
the end of the double-blind treatment period (Week 20): 
proportion  of  subjects  with  abnormal  baseline  gamma 
glutamyltransferase  (GGT)  (i.e.,  >  ULN)  who  achieved 
normalisation  based  on  age-  and  gender-specific  normal 
ranges  provided  by  the  central  laboratory  performing  this 
assay 
absolute reductions in ALT, AST, and GGT 
relative reduction in spleen volume and fat content 
z-scores  and  percentiles  for  weight-for-age  (WFA),  and 
stature-for-age (SFA) (based on Centres for Disease Control 
and Prevention [CDC] child growth standards) in subjects ≤ 
18 years of age on the date of informed consent 
absolute 
chitotriosidase 
reductions 
in 
serum 
ferritin  and 
serum 
During  the  open-label  period,  durability  of  clinical  response 
in  subjects  originally  randomised  to  sebelipase  alfa  and 
treatment  response  in  subjects  originally  randomised  to 
placebo  were  investigated  for  efficacy  endpoints  similar  to 
those described above. 
The  effect  of  anti-drug  antibodies  (ADAs)  on  the  efficacy  of 
sebelipase alfa also was explored. 
Safety 
incidence  of  adverse  events  (AEs),  serious  adverse  events 
endpoints 
(SAEs), and IARs 
changes from baseline in 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) 
and clinical laboratory tests (haematology, serum chemistry 
[including lipid panel], and urinalysis) 
changes  in  vital  signs  during  and  post-infusion,  relative  to 
pre-infusion values 
physical examination findings 
use of concomitant medications/therapies 
characterisation  of  ADAs  including  proportion  antibody 
positive, time to antibody positivity, ADA titre by time point, 
peak ADA titre, and time to peak ADA titre. 
The effect of ADAs on the safety of sebelipase alfa also was 
explored,  in  particular,  the  relationship  between  ADA-
positive subjects and the incidence of IARs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 49/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PK endpoints 
Population  and  individual  PK  parameters  are  to  be  reported 
in a separate report. Parameters to be determined, based on 
samples  collected  in  this  study,  may  have  included,  as 
permitted  by  the  data,  clearance  (CL)  and  volume  (V) 
estimates  along  with  secondary  parameters  of  area  under 
the  concentration-  time  curve  (AUC),  maximum  observed 
(Cmax), 
concentration 
time 
to  maximum  observed 
concentration  (Tmax),  and  terminal  elimination  half-life 
(t1/2).  The  effect  of  ADAs  on  sebelipase  alfa  PK  also  was 
explored. 
Health-related 
Exploratory  HRQOL  measures 
included  changes 
from 
QOL 
baseline  in  scores  for  the  Functional  Assessment  of  Chronic 
Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) scale, Chronic Liver 
Disease  Questionnaire  (CLDQ),  and/or  Paediatric  Quality  of 
Life 
Inventory  (PedsQLTM)  Generic  Core  Scales,  as 
appropriate to the age of the subject. 
Database lock 
30 May 2014 
Efficacy Results and Analysis 
Baseline Disease Characteristics 
All  66  subjects  had  a  confirmed  diagnosis  of  LAL  deficiency,  based  on  DBS  LAL  enzyme  testing,  at 
baseline.  Genetic  testing  showed  that  overall,  85%  of  subjects  had  at  least  one  copy  of  the 
previously  described  c.849G>A  common  exon  8  splice  junction  mutation  (32%  homozygotes,  53% 
compound heterozygotes); the remaining 10 subjects had other distinct mutations. 
The median age at onset of the first LAL deficiency related abnormalities was reported to be 4 years 
overall,  with  a  similar  median  age  at  onset  of  5  and  4  years  in  the  SA  and  placebo  groups, 
respectively. Overall, 44% of subjects had a history or evidence of medically important chronic liver 
disease at baseline, including cirrhosis, portal hypertension, and/or coagulopathy. 
As required by the entrance criteria, all subjects had an ALT > 1.5 × ULN at baseline. In the SA and 
placebo  groups,  mean  baseline  ALT  values  were  105.1  U/L  and  99.0  U/L,  respectively.  All  but  1 
subject in the placebo group had elevated AST values at baseline; mean AST values were 86.6 U/L 
and 78.2 U/L in the SA and placebo groups, respectively. The mean GGT was similar in the SA group 
and  placebo  group  at  baseline  (52.4  and  52.0  U/L,  respectively);  36%  of  subjects  in  the  SA  group 
and 40% of subjects in the placebo group had elevated baseline GGT levels. 
Baseline  assessments  of  lipids  demonstrated  marked  dyslipidaemia.  Mean  LDL-c  values  were  189.9 
mg/dL  (4.9  mmol/L)  and  229.5  mg/dL  (5.9  mmol/L)  in  the  SA  and  placebo  groups,  respectively. 
Overall, more than half (58%) of subjects had LDL-c values in the very high range (> 190 mg/dL). 
Hypertriglyceridaemia, defined as TG levels ≥ 200 mg/dL, was seen in 21% of subjects. Mean HDL-c 
values were 32.4 mg/dL (0.8 mmol/L) and 33.4 mg/dL (0.9 mmol/L) in the SA and placebo groups, 
respectively. Statistically significant differences between groups were seen with regard to cholesterol 
and non-HDL-c at baseline, with higher mean values seen in the placebo group than in the SA group. 
In  the  SA  and  placebo  groups,  mean  baseline  cholesterol  values  were  252.5  mg/dL  (6.53  mmol/L) 
and  296.7  mg/dL  (7.67  mmol/L),  respectively  (p=0.0341),  and  mean  baseline  non-HDL-c  values 
were 220.5 mg/dL (5.7 mmol/L) and 263.8 mg/dL (6.8 mmol/L), respectively (p=0.0341). 
Baseline  liver  pathology  was  available  in  32  subjects  in  the  FAS,  including  19  subjects  in  the  SA 
group and 13 subjects in the placebo group. As assessed by the blinded central reviewer, all (100%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 50/87 
  
  
 
subjects with baseline biopsies had evidence of fibrosis. A total of 5 (26%) of 19 subjects in the SA 
group  and  5  (38%)  of  13 subjects  in  the  placebo  group  with  biopsy  data  available  for  analysis  had 
Ishak fibrosis scores of 5 or 6, indicating either early or incomplete cirrhosis or probable or definite 
cirrhosis, respectively. 
Multi-echo  gradient-echo  (MEGE)  assessment  of  fat  content  was  available  in  35  subjects  in  the  SA 
group and 26 subjects in the placebo group. At baseline, the mean liver fat content, as assessed by 
MEGE,  was  8.5%,  with  similar  mean  liver  fat  content  of  8.75%  and  8.16%  in  the  SA  and  placebo 
groups, respectively. Liver volume assessments by MRI were available in 36 subjects in the SA group 
and 28  subjects  in  the  placebo  group.  The  mean  baseline  liver  volume,  as  assessed  by  MRI,  was 
1.46  multiples  of  normal  (MN)  overall,  with  similar mean  liver  volumes  of  1.44  and  1.50  MN in  the 
SA and placebo groups, respectively. 
Efficacy: 
Primary Endpoint: 
  ALT normalisation: A greater proportion of subjects in the SA group (31%) than in the placebo group 
(7%)  achieved  normalisation  in  ALT  by  the  last  time  point  in  the  double-blind  period,  a  24% 
difference between groups in favour of SA; the difference between groups was statistically significant 
(p=0.0271). All subjects in the SA group demonstrated a decrease in ALT; the mean decrease in ALT 
in  the  SA  group  was  -57.9  U/L,  representing  a  mean  percent  decrease  from  baseline  of  -53%.  In 
contrast, the decrease from baseline to the last time point in the double-blind period in the placebo 
group was -6.7 U/L, representing a -6% mean percent decrease from baseline. 
Secondary Endpoints: 
  LDL-c  Reduction:  a  greater  mean  percent  change  from  baseline  in  LDL-c  was  seen  in  the  SA  group 
than  in  the  placebo  group  (-28.42%  versus  -6.25%,  respectively),  a  -22.17%  difference  between 
groups in favour of SA; the difference between groups was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
  Non-HDL-c  Reduction:  a  greater  mean  percent  reduction  in  non-HDL-c  was  seen  in  the  SA  group 
than  in  the  placebo  group  (-27.97%  versus  -6.94%,  respectively),  a  -21.04%  difference  between 
groups in favour of SA; the difference between groups was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
  AST Normalisation: a greater proportion of subjects in the SA group (42%) than in the placebo group 
(3%)  experienced  normalisation  in  AST  by  the  last  time  point  in  the  double-blind  period,  a  39% 
difference between groups in favour of SA; the difference between groups was statistically significant 
(p=0.0003). The mean decrease in AST in the SA group was -41.9 U/L, representing a mean percent 
decrease from baseline of -44%. In contrast, the decrease from baseline to the last time point in the 
double-blind period in  the  placebo  group  was  -6.3 U/L,  representing  a  -7% mean  percent  decrease 
from baseline.  
  TG  Reduction:  a  greater mean  percent  decrease  from  baseline  to the  last time  point in  the  double- 
blind  period  in  TG  was  seen  in  the  SA  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (-25.45%  versus  -11.14%, 
respectively), a -14.30% difference between groups in favour of SA; the difference between groups 
was statistically significant (p=0.0375).  
  HDL-c Increase: a greater mean percent increase from baseline to the last time point in the double-
blind period in HDL-c was seen in the SA group than in the placebo group (19.57% versus -0.29%, 
respectively),  a  19.86%  difference  between  groups in  favour  of  SA;  this  difference  between  groups 
was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
  Liver Fat Content Reduction: a greater mean percent decrease from baseline to the last time point in 
the  double-blind  period  in  liver  fat  content  was  seen  in  the  SA  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (-
31.98%  versus  -4.21%,  respectively),  a  -27.77%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA;  this 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 51/87 
  
  
 
difference between groups was statistically significant (p<0.0001).  
  Liver  Histology  Improvement:  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  SA  group  (63%)  than  in  the 
placebo  group  (40%)  experienced  improvement  in  liver  histology  (steatosis  by  morphometry)  from 
baseline to the last time point in the double-blind period, as determined by central blinded read. This 
23% difference  between groups  in  favour  of  SA  was  not  statistically  significant  (p=0.4216).  As this 
result  was  not  statistically  significant,  formal  hypothesis  testing  stopped  at  this  point  in  the 
sequence. 
  Liver Volume Reduction: a greater mean percent decrease from baseline in liver volume was seen in 
the SA group than in the placebo group at the last time point in the double-blind treatment period (-
10.28%  versus  -2.66%,  respectively),  a  -7.62%  difference  between  groups  in  favour  of  SA. 
However, the SAP did not allow formal statistical testing of this endpoint. 
Findings in the PP Set were similar to those in the FAS. 
In summary, sebelipase alfa was statistically significantly more effective than placebo in improving a 
broad  range  of  disease-related  abnormalities,  including  normalisation  of  serum  transaminases  (ALT 
and  AST),  improvement  in  dyslipidemia  (reductions  in  LDL-c,  non-HDL-c,  and  TG,  and  increases  in 
HDL-c),  and  reduction  in  liver  fat  content  as  assessed  by  MRI.  Furthermore,  sebelipase  alfa 
treatment produced clear reductions in MRI-estimated liver volume during the 20-week double-blind 
treatment period. The positive effects of sebelipase alfa seen in sebelipase alfa-treated subjects were 
very  consistent,  with  a  highly  similar  pattern  of  response  in  the  subjects  treated  initially  with 
sebelipase  alfa  and  in  those  who  switched  to  sebelipase  alfa  in  the  open-label  treatment  period. 
Furthermore, evidence of the consistency of efficacy of sebelipase alfa was seen across the analysed 
study subgroups. 
Extent of Exposure: 
Thirty-five of 36 subjects in the SA group and 29 of 30 subjects in the placebo group received all 11 
study  drug  infusions  during  the  double-blind  treatment  period,  as  planned.  One  subject  in  the  SA 
group  received  only  2  of  11  study  drug  infusions;  this  subject  withdrew  from  the  double-blind 
treatment  period  of  the  study  after  experiencing  a  severe  atypical  infusion-related  reaction.  (This 
subject may enter the open-label period upon rechallenge.) In the placebo group, 1 subject received 
10  of  11  study  drug  infusions;  this  subject  missed  the  planned  study  drug  infusion  at  Week  8 
because she had chickenpox and it was decided to hold study drug until the event resolved. 
When  data  from  the  open-label  period  were  considered,  the  maximum  number  of  sebelipase  alfa 
infusions  received  as  of  the  cut-off  for  this  report  was  35.  Overall,  35  subjects  in  the  SA  group 
received at least 12 study drug infusions, with 8 subjects receiving at least 20 study drug infusions 
through  the  cut-off  for  this  report.  In  the  placebo/SA  group,  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa  had  not 
reached the level seen in the SA group during the double-blind treatment period as of the cut-off for 
this report. Half (15) of subjects in the placebo/SA group had received at least 5 infusions during the 
open-label period as of the cut-off for this report. 
Per  protocol,  infusions  were  completed  over  approximately  2  hours  from  Week  0  to  Week  22,  and 
were  to  be  administered  over  approximately  1  hour  starting  at  Week  24.  As  of  the  cut-off  for  this 
report,  40  subjects,  21  in  the  SA  group  and  19  in  the  placebo/SA  group,  received  at  least  1 
sebelipase  alfa  infusion  at  over  approximately  1  hour  during  the  open-label  period;  the  maximum 
number of infusions administered over approximately 1 hour for an individual subject was 21. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 52/87 
  
  
 
 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No specific studies in renally impaired or elderly patients were undertaken. As infants were a core 
target group of one of the main studies the results are treated in the different sections pertaining 
to main studies and comparison between studies. 
2.4.2.  Supportive studies 
2.4.2.1.  Study LAL-CL01 and study LAL-CL-04 
Methods/ treatments 
Study LAL-CL01 was a completed Phase 1/2 open-label dose-escalation study in adult subjects with 
liver  dysfunction  due  to  LAL  deficiency.  Focus  of  these  trials  was  the  assessment  of  the  safety, 
tolerability, PK, and PD of 3 dose levels of sebelipase alfa (0.35 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg, and 3 mg/kg). 
Upon  completing  the  4  dose  schedule  in  LAL-CL01  subjects  had  a  treatment  free  period  (which 
ranged from 9 to 28 weeks) after which they entered Study LAL-CL04, which is an ongoing Phase 
1/2  open-label  extension  designed  to  assess  the  long-term  safety,  tolerability,  and  efficacy  of 
sebelipase alfa at 2 dose levels (1 and 3 mg/kg qow). 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of sebelipase alfa in 
subjects  with  liver  dysfunction  due  to  Lysosomal  Acid  Lipase  (LAL)  Deficiency,  while  secondary 
objectives included the aim to evaluate the long-term efficacy of sebelipase alfa in subjects with 
liver dysfunction due to LAL deficiency. 
Sample size 
Nine adult subjects enrolled in LAL-CL01, of which the majority was male and all were of Caucasian 
ethnicity, and 8 of these also enrolled in the LAL-CL04 extension study. 
Results 
Subjects  saw  decreases  in  liver  volume  up  to  Week  104,  which  was  the  data  cut-off  for  the  LAL-
CL04  study,  and  those  who  had  MEGE  data  for  liver  fat  content  available  also  showed  significant 
decreases at all timepoints examined for this parameter. 
All  subjects  had  liver  transaminases  above  the  normal  range  at  first  study  enrolment,  and 
showed rapid lowering of levels upon treatment start. In the non-treated phase between LAL-CL01 
and  LAL-CL04  ALT  and  AST  rose  again  and  subsequently  dropped  once  more after  treatment  was 
resumed in LAL-CL04 with levels reaching approximate normal reference ranges at data cut-off. 
Serum lipid levels increased during the first 4 weekly infusions of sebelipase alfa in LAL-CL01 and 
ten  dropped  again  following  discontinuation  of  therapy.  This  is  thought  to  be  consistent  with 
mobilisation  of  pathological  accumulations  of  lipids.  Of  note  is  that  no  AEs  were  associated  with 
these transient increases in lipids. As expected with continued treatment with sebelipase alfa, the 
mean  LDL  and  triglycerides  decreased to below  original  Baseline  levels  at  Week  12  and  remained 
so through Week 104 on the qow dosing regimens. Furthermore, post-infusion increases in serum 
lipids similar in magnitude to those seen during the first 4 weeks of dosing in LAL-CL01 were not 
seen  in  the  one-week  post-infusion  sample  taken  after  approximately  6  months  of  treatment  in 
LAL-CL04. 
Over  time,  decreases  were  observed  in  LDL,  total  cholesterol,  and  triglycerides.  Mean  LDL 
decreased  by  73  mg/dL  (1.89  mmol/L;  p=0.0156;  61%)  at  Week  52  and  by  65  mg/dL  (1.69 
mmol/L;  p=0.0313;  54%)  at  Week  104.  Mean  total  cholesterol  decreased  by  71  mg/dL  (1.84 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 53/87 
  
  
 
 
mmol/L; p=0.0156; 39%) at Week 52 and by 66 mg/dL (1.71 mmol/L; p=0.0313; 34%) at Week 
104.  Mean  triglycerides  decreased  by  72  mg/dL  (0.81  mmol/L;  p=0.0469;  36%)  at  Week  52  and 
by  68  mg/dL  (0.76  mmol/L;  p=0.0625;  31%)  at  Week  104.  Additionally,  an  increase  in  HDL  was 
observed. Mean HDL increased by 9 mg/dL (0.24 mmol/L; p=0.0156; 29%) at Week 52 and by 5 
mg/dL (0.13 mmol/L; p=0.1250; 18%) at Week 104. 
Mean  serum  ferritin  decreased  from  LAL-CL01  Baseline  to  Week  104  (227  μg/  L  to  139  μg/L, 
p=0.0313).  Mean  high  sensitivity  C-reactive  protein  (hs-CRP)  also  decreased  from  LAL-CL01 
Baseline to Week 104 (0.23 mg/dL [2.3 mg/L] to 0.11 mg/dL [1.1 mg/L], p=0.1563). 
Pathology  reports  of  post-treatment  liver  biopsy  assessments  are  currently  available  from  2 
subjects.  Although  one  must  be  careful  about  drawing hepatic histopathology  conclusions  from 
such  limited  data,  there  appeared  to  be  a  marked  reduction  in  fat  content  and  fibrosis  in  both  of 
these subjects following sebelipase alfa treatment. 
2.4.2.2.  Study LAL-NH01 
Study LAL-1-NH01 is a completed multinational, multicentre, retrospective natural history study of 
patients  presenting  with  LAL  deficiency  before  2  years  of  age  and  diagnosed  with  LAL  deficiency 
from 01 January 1985 to 30 September 2011, which aimed to: 
•  Characterize  patient  survival  and  key  aspects  of  the  clinical  course  of  LAL  deficiency/Wolman 
phenotype 
•  Serve  as  a  historical  reference  for  efficacy  studies  of  enzyme  replacement  therapy  (ERT)  in 
patients with LAL deficiency/Wolman phenotype. 
A  feasibility  questionnaire  was  sent  to  approximately  500  physicians,  identified  by  review  of 
medical  literature  and  through  referrals  by  other  physicians  receiving  the  questionnaire,  in  44 
countries.  Specified  demographic  and  clinical  data  from  eligible  patients  were  extracted  through 
clinical chart review and entered on case report forms (CRFs) for further analysis. For any patient 
alive  as of  the  last  chart  record  reviewed, their physician  was  contacted  prior  to  database lock  to 
determine the patient's survival status. 
Data were collected and listed for 36 eligible patients, but one patient turned out to be part of one 
of the studies conducted in support of this application. Thus ultimately the analysis set was made 
up of 35 eligible patients. 
Patient  demographics  showed  a  predominantly  Caucasian  (48.6%)  patient  makeup  with  Asians 
(22.8%) making up the second largest contingent and characteristics in patients with early growth 
failure were similar to those of the overall eligible patient population. 
Symptom  onset  was  reported  within  the  first  month  of  life  in  15  (42.9%)  eligible  patients,  with 
only 2 subjects not exhibiting symptoms until 3 months of age. 
Liver test analysis revealed that abnormalities in liver function tests (aspartate aminotransferase 
[AST], alanine aminotransferase [ALT], gamma glutamyl transferase [GGT], and/or total bilirubin) 
were also noted within the first few months of life in most patients. 
Supportive interventions were received by 33 (94.3%) subjects, most commonly under the form 
of nutritional support (71.4%) or blood transfusions (62.9%). Steroid therapy was administered to 
only 5 (14.3%) patients. Other common interventions included plasma, platelets, albumin, vitamin 
K, antibiotics, diuretics, and morphine. 
Hematopoietic  stem  cell  transplantation  (HSCT)  as  a  treatment  with  curative  intent  was 
received by 10 (28.6%) eligible patients, at a median age of 5.45 months. One patient receiving a 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 54/87 
  
  
 
HSCT  at  approximately  35  months  also  had  a  prior  liver  transplant  at  approximately  4  months. 
HSCT  procedures  were  performed  less  frequently  in  patients  with  early  growth  failure  (19.2%) 
compared with patients without early growth failure (55.6%). 
Clinical chemistry and haematology testing revealed that abnormalities in ALT, AST, GGT, and 
total  bilirubin  were  observed  in  61.5%,  90.4%,  83.3%,  and  52.4%  of  patients,  respectively,  and 
that all these parameters worsened over time in a subset of patients. 
Serum lipid observations were as follows: 
Almost  all  patients  had  abnormally low serum  albumin  and  abnormally  high  serum ferritin 
at diagnosis and death. 
Physical examinations  revealed that  body  weights  were  low  at  birth  (or  first  measurement)  for 
all subjects, and that rapid and marked decreases in WFA Z-scores and percentiles were observed 
over time in a majority of patients. Other findings on physical examination included hepatomegaly, 
splenomegaly  and  abdominal  distension,  as  well  as  adrenal  calcification  and  enlarged  liver  and 
spleen. 
Histopathological  findings  indicating  that  a  large  amount  of  patients  had  fibrosis  and/or 
steatosis. 
Survival findings showed that 54.3% of patients died by 4 months of age, and 88.6% died by 9 
months of age. The K-M estimate (95% CI) for probability of survival past 12 months of age was 
0.114 (0.009, 0.220) in the overall eligible patient population. 
Median  age  at  death  in  treated  (with  HSCT  and/or  liver  transplant)  patients  (8.6  months)  was 
greater  than  that  in  untreated  patients  (3.0  months)  and  treatment  was  associated  with  a 
significantly  longer  time  from  birth  to  death  in  the  K-M  analyses  for  the  overall  eligible  patient 
population  (p=0.0008,  log-rank  test).  While  these  results  may  indicate  a  modest  effect  of 
treatment, prudence of rash interpretation should be had as they may also reflect the fact that the 
treated  subgroup  could  have  been  biased  toward  patients  who  survived  long  enough  to  receive 
such  treatment,  as  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  median  age  at  transplant  initiation  (5.45  months) 
exceeded the median age at death in the study population (3.71 months). 
Survival was poorer for patients with early growth failure (median age at death=3.46 months) and 
particularly  so  for  those  with  early  growth  failure  who  were  untreated,  all  of  whom  died  before  8 
months  of  age  (median  age  at  death=3.02  months).  K-M  estimates  for  probability  of  survival 
beyond 12 months of age were 0.038 (0.000, 0.112) for all patients with early growth failure and 
0.000 (0.000, 0.000) for untreated patients with early growth failure. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 55/87 
  
  
 
2.4.3.  Analysis/results  performed across trials   
No across-trial analysis was performed due to the fact that the main and supportive trials were too 
dissimilar across populations, methods and designs to allow this in a meaningful way.  
Instead the Applicant opted for a comparison between trials, the results and findings of which are 
discussed later in this report. 
Demographics 
Baseline characteristics 
LAL-CL03 
All  9  subjects  enrolled  in  Study  LAL-CL03  had  confirmed  LAL  deficiency  and  LIPA  genetic  testing 
indicated  distinct  mutations  were  identified  for  each  of  the  6  subjects  with  none  having  the 
previously  described  c.849G>A  common  exon  8  splice  junction  mutation,  which  is  commonly 
associated with LAL deficiency presenting in children and adults.  
In Study LAL-CL03, age at symptom onset ranged from 0 months (birth) to 5.0 months of age, and 
age  at  diagnosis  ranged  from  0  months  (birth)  to  5.8  months  of  age,  compared  to  42.9%  of 
patients  reporting  symptom  onset  within  the  first  month  of  life  and  all  patients  exhibiting 
symptoms by 4 months of age in study LAL-1-NH01. 
Initial  signs  and  symptoms  of  LAL  deficiency  reported  in  both  Study  LAL-CL03  and  Study  LAL-1-
included  hepatosplenomegaly,  abdominal  distension,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  adrenal 
NH01 
calcification, and failure to thrive. 
Marked abnormalities in liver biochemical parameters were observed at Baseline in all subjects with 
AST  elevated  in  all  9  subjects  (median=125  U/L)  and  ALT  was  elevated  in  7  (median=145  U/L). 
Elevations in GGT, total bilirubin, and ALP were also reported. Eight of the 9 subjects had a finding 
of  hepatomegaly  and/or  splenomegaly  on  Baseline  physical  examination.  In  comparison, 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 56/87 
  
  
 
 
abnormalities in liver function tests (AST, ALT, GGT, and/or total bilirubin) were also noted within 
the first few months of life in most patients in the historical control cohort from Study LAL-1-NH01. 
In Study LAL-CL03, serum lipid abnormalities were observed at Baseline in most subjects with data 
available,  consistent  with  the  serum  lipid  abnormalities  observed  in  the  historical  control  cohort 
from  Study  LAL-1-NH01  and  the  literature,  where  consistently  low  HDL-c  but  often  normal  LDL-c 
and total cholesterol are observed. 
LAL-CL02 
Median age at disease onset was 4.0 years and across all 66 subjects. 
Genetic  testing  showed  that  overall,  56  (85%)  subjects  had  at  least  one  copy  of  the  previously 
described c.849G>A common exon 8 splice junction mutation (21 [32%] homozygotes, 35 [53%] 
compound  heterozygotes);  the  remaining  10  (15%)  subjects  had  distinct  mutations  other  than 
common variants identified. 
There were no differences in medical histories between ERT and placebo groups.  
Baseline liver pathology was evaluated in 32 of the 66 subjects, with all having biopsy evidence of 
fibrosis (19 in the sebelipase alfa group, 13 in the placebo group). Ten (31%) of these 32 subjects 
(5 in each treatment group) had either early or incomplete cirrhosis or probable or definite cirrhosis 
with less than half (4 of 10) having a documented medical history of cirrhosis. All but 1 subject had 
biopsy evidence of microvesicular steatosis at Baseline. 
Despite over  one-third  of subjects  receiving  LLMs  (26  of  66;  39%)  Baseline  assessments  of  lipids 
demonstrated  marked  dyslipidaemia,  with  a  greater  degree  of  dyslipidaemia  seen  in  the  placebo 
group than in the sebelipase alfa group. 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
Medical  history  findings  were  consistent  with those expected  in  this patient  population,  and  those 
seen  in  Study  LAL-CL02.  Seven  subjects  had  a  medical  history  of  hepatomegaly  and/or 
splenomegaly and 1 subject had prior biopsy evidence of hepatic fibrosis. 
Infant survival 
LAL-CL03 
In the historical control cohort from Study LAL-1-NH01, none of the 21 infants survived beyond 8 
months  of  age.  In  contrast,  6  of  9  sebelipase  alfa-treated  infants  in  Study  LAL-CL03  survived 
beyond 12 months (67% at 12 months of age; 95% CI: 29.9%, 92.5%) 
For the 3 subjects who died in Study LAL-CL03 before data cut-off, the age at death (median age 
of  2.92  months,  range:  2.8  to  4.3  months)  was  consistent  with  the  median  age  at  death  of  3.0 
months (range: 1.4 to 7.1 months) for the historical control cohort from Study LAL-1-NH01. 
LAL-CL02 
Not applicable. 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
Not applicable.
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 57/87 
  
  
 
Transaminase levels 
LAL-CL03 
Reductions in ALT were observed as early as Week 1 in some of these subjects, when all subjects 
were receiving sebelipase alfa at a dose of ≤ 0.35 mg/kg, and were apparent in all 5 subjects by 
Week 4 of treatment, 2 weeks after most subjects escalated to 1 mg/kg qw. 
All  7  subjects  with  post-Baseline  data  also  showed  rapid  and  marked  reductions  in  AST  following 
initiation of treatment with sebelipase alfa, which were already observed by Week 1 in the majority 
(6 of 7) of subjects at a dose of ≤0.35 mg/kg, and  further reductions were observed by 2 weeks 
after  most  subjects  escalated  to  1  mg/kg  qw  and  the  median  AST  levels  remained  stable  from 
Week 4 through Week 60. 
Reductions  in  GGT  and  bilirubin  were  observed  following  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa  which  by 
Week  4  represented  median  percent  changes  of  -13%  and  -21%,  respectively.  Further  marked 
decreases  in  GGT  were  observed  through  Week  12  (median  change=-79%,  n=5)  and  were  fairly 
stable thereafter through Week 164. Modest and gradual decreases in total bilirubin were observed 
through Week 84 (median change=-40%). 
In  contrast,  no  normalizations  were  noted  in  the  historical  control  group  for  either  of  these 
parameters. 
LAL-CL02 
Treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa  led  to  normalisation  of  ALT  levels  in  a  significantly  greater 
proportion  of  subjects  compared  placebo  (p=0.0271).  At  the  end  of  the  double-blind  treatment 
period,  31%  (11  of  36)  of  subjects  in  the  sebelipase  alfa  group  compared  with  7%  (2  of  30)  of 
subjects in the placebo group achieved normalisation in ALT. 
Following the transition to sebelipase alfa treatment from placebo during the open-label period for 
placebo-arm subjects, a rapid decline in ALT levels was observed with a mean percent decrease in 
ALT of 27% by Week 2 and 46% by Week 14. Normalisation was achieved by 22% of subjects by 
Week  2  and  44%  by  Week  14,  similar  to the  decrease  observed  in  subjects who  initially  received 
sebelipase alfa treatment during the double-blind treatment period. 
Treatment with sebelipase alfa led to normalisation of AST levels in a significantly higher proportion 
of  subjects  treated  with  sebelipase  alfa  compared  with  placebo  (p=0.0003).  At  the  end  of  the 
double-blind  treatment  period,  42%  (15  of  36  subjects)  of  subjects  in  the  sebelipase  alfa  group 
compared with 3% (1 of 30 subjects) in the placebo group achieved normalisation in AST 
Following  the transition  from  placebo  to  sebelipase alfa  treatment  during the open-label period,  a 
rapid decline in AST levels was observed with mean percent decreases ranging from 20% to 39% 
from Weeks 2 to 14 in these subjects with 15% achieving AST normalisation by Week 2 and 38% 
by  Week  14;  a  decrease  similar  to  the  decrease  observed  in  subjects  who  initially  received 
sebelipase alfa treatment during the double-blind treatment period. 
Findings in this study also echoed those of LAL-CL03 with rapid and significant reductions in GGT, 
total  bilirubin,  and  ALP  following  initiation  of  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa  in  the  double-blind 
treatment period. 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
Mean  ALT  levels  during  LAL-CL01  and  LAL-CL04  rapidly  declined  after  initiation  of  treatment  with 
sebelipase  alfa  over  the  full  range  of  doses.  After  the  treatment-free  interval  between  dosing  in 
LAL-CL01 and LAL-CL04 (ranging from 9 to 28 weeks), ALT was increased at the LAL-CL04 Baseline 
relative to the end of treatment value in LAL-CL01.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 58/87 
  
  
 
The  reversibility  of  response  upon  discontinuation  of  treatment  supports  that  transaminase 
reductions  were  related  to  treatment;  re-initiation  of  treatment  in  LAL-CL04  produced  a  similar 
rapid decline in ALT. 
Mean  AST  levels  during  LAL-CL01  and  LAL-CL04  rapidly  declined  after  initiation  of  treatment  with 
sebelipase  alfa  over  the  full  range  of  doses.  After  the  treatment-free  interval  between  dosing  in 
LAL-CL01  and  LAL-CL04  (ranging  from  9  to  28  weeks),  AST  was  increased  at  the  LAL-CL04 
Baseline relative to the end of treatment value in LAL-CL01.  
The  reversibility  of  response  upon  discontinuation  of  treatment  supports  that  transaminase 
reductions  were  related  to  treatment;  re-initiation  of  treatment  in  Study  LAL-CL04  produced  a 
similar  rapid  decline  in  AST.  The  improvements  were  maintained  after  the  transition  from  qw  to 
qow dosing 
Changes in GGT and ALP were consistent with those reported in Study LAL-CL02, with reductions in 
both  parameters  observed  following  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa,  and  these  results,  supported 
by  the  findings  from  the  open-label  extension  period  of  Study  LAL-CL02  demonstrate  a  sustained 
effect  of  sebelipase  alfa  on  liver-related  biochemical  parameters  over  a  longer  duration  of 
treatment. 
Liver fat, volume & histopathology 
LAL-CL03 
Improvements  in  hepatomegaly  were  observed  with  sebelipase  alfa  treatment.  On  physical 
examination,  improvement  in  liver  size  was  observed  for  all 6  subjects  surviving  beyond  Week  4 
and shifts to a non-palpable liver were observed for 3 of 4 subjects with available data by Week 36. 
LAL-CL02 
Significant  improvements  in  hepatomegaly  were  observed  in  subjects  treated with  sebelipase  alfa 
in  with  a  significant  difference  of  -7.62%  (p=0.0068),  in  favour  of  the  sebelipase  alfa  arm, 
apparent  between  treatment  groups.  Note  however  that  formal  statistical  testing  of  this  endpoint 
was not done in this study. 
Improvement in liver histopathology from Baseline to the last time point in the double-blind period 
was  reported  in  a  greater  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  sebelipase  alfa  group  than  in  the  placebo 
group  (63%  versus  40%;  respectively),  though  this  difference  was  not  significant  (p=0.4216) 
(Important clinical differences between groups were noted however, see AR.). 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
Reductions in hepatic fat and liver volume were observed following the initiation of sebelipase alfa 
treatment  in  Study  LAL-CL04.  Reductions  in  liver  fat  content  were  seen  within  10/12  weeks  of 
initiation of treatment across all doses, with further improvements through the last available time 
point. 
Pathology  reports  suggested  that  histopathological  improvements  were  observed  following 
extended treatment with sebelipase alfa in steatosis and fibrosis in these cases. 
Dyslipidaemia improvement 
LAL-CL03 
Despite potential confounding factors, LDL-c levels were shown to decrease in the majority (5 of 6) 
of  surviving  subjects  following  initiation  of  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  and  normalised  in  2  of  2 
subjects who had an elevated LDL-c at Baseline or the first available assessment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 59/87 
  
  
 
Transient  increase  in  LDL-c,  total  cholesterol  and  triglycerides  were  seen  at  Week  1  of  treatment 
consistent with the cellular fat mobilization mechanism of action of sebelipase alfa. 
LAL-CL02 
Treatment with sebelipase alfa led to a statistically significant greater mean percent change in LDL-
c  levels  from  Baseline  to  the  end  of  the  double-blind  treatment  period  (-28%)  compared  with 
subjects  who  received  placebo,  and  results  for  non-HDL-c  (-28%  versus  -7%,  respectively; 
p<0.0001)  and  triglycerides  (-25%  versus  -11%,  respectively;  p=0.0375)  were  similar.  The 
marked decreases in LDL-c were associated with statistically significant increases in HDL-c levels in 
favour of sebelipase alfa (20% versus -0.3%; p<0.0001). 
Following transition of placebo-treated subjects to open-label treatment with sebelipase alfa in the 
open-label extension (Figure 7), a similar transient increase with subsequent rapid decline in LDL-c 
was  observed  as  was  an  improvement  in  HDL-c.  Importantly,  among  the  subjects  randomised  to 
sebelipase alfa, further reductions in LDL-c were observed during the open-label extension. 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
More  substantial  increases  were  noted  for  cholesterol  and  triglycerides  during  the  initial  4-week 
treatment period and this was again observed following the initial 4 weekly infusions in Study LAL-
CL04  as  subjects  who  entered  the  extension  study  had  been  off  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa 
ranging from 9 to 28 weeks. These increases were likely higher in Studies LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 than 
those  observed  in  Study  LAL-CL02  due  either  to  the  more  frequent  dosing  interval  or  more 
frequent assessments conducted in the earlier studies. By Week 104, all 7 subjects in Study LAL-
CL04 with data available at the time of the data cut-off showed decreases from their original Study 
LAL-CL01 Baseline values in LDL-c and most had increases in HDL-c and decreases in triglycerides. 
Of note, as was observed with transaminase levels, when subjects went off treatment at the end of 
Study  LAL-CL01  (interval  between  dosing  of  9  to  28  weeks),  LDL-c  levels  increased  and  HDL-c 
levels  decreased  from  the  lowest  and  highest  levels,  respectively,  within  4  weeks  after  the  last 
dose  of  sebelipase  alfa  in Study  LAL-CL01  during  the  period  between  studies.  These  observations 
support  the  utility  of  these  biochemical  parameters  in  the  monitoring  of  the  clinical  effects  of 
sebelipase alfa and highlight the requirement for continuous treatment with sebelipase alfa. 
Growth and weight improvement 
LAL-CL03 
Marked and rapid improvements in WFA percentiles following initiation of sebelipase alfa treatment 
were observed for all 6 subjects who survived beyond Week 4. Half of them achieved WFA near or 
above the 25th centile, 1 achieved WFA above the 90th centile, and 1 maintained WFA above the 
75th centile. The final subject had increases in WFA but remained under the 10th centile. 
In contrast, in the historical control cohort from LAL-1-NH01, rapid and marked decreases in WFA 
percentiles were observed over time. 
Moderate  improvements  in  LFA/HFA  percentiles  following  initiation  of  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  in 
were observed. Although half of the subjects who survived beyond Week 4 had fluctuating LFA/HFA 
percentiles  they  nevertheless  showed  an  overall  improvement  during  treatment  with  sebelipase 
alfa. The other subjects initially decreased in LFA/HFA, but returned to Baseline level eventually. 
In  contrast,  in  the  historical  control  cohort  from  LAL-1-NH01,  rapid  and  marked  decreases  in  LFA 
percentiles were observed over time. 
Mid-Upper  Arm  Circumference-for-Age,  Head  Circumference-for-  Age,  BMI-for-Age,  and  Weight-
for-Length (or Height) all followed the above trend of improvement. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 60/87 
  
  
 
LAL-CL02 
Improvement  in  growth  was  not  a  secondary  endpoint  in  Study  LAL-CL02,  but  some 
anthropometric measurements were taken. 
Review  of  change  from  Baseline  to  Week  20  of  the  double-blind  treatment  period  revealed  small 
mean  increases  in  weight  from  Baseline  in  the  sebelipase  alfa  and  placebo  groups.  A  continued 
increase  from  Baseline  in  weight  was  observed  during  the  open-label  period  in  subjects  initially 
treated  with  sebelipase  alfa  and  a  mean  increase  from  Baseline  of  1.8  kg  was  observed  at  Week 
14,  in  subjects  who  transitioned  from  placebo  to  sebelipase  alfa  during  the  open-label  period. 
Given  that  no  analysis  was  foreseen  on  these  parameters  in  the  protocol,  no  decisions  can  be 
drawn from these findings. 
Baseline height measurements were obtained in all subjects and follow-up height measurements in 
subjects  ≤18  years  of  age,  and  review  of  change  from  Baseline  revealed  small  mean  increases 
from in both the sebelipase alfa and placebo groups which is expected in a population with this age 
structure.  Consistent  with  the  mean  change  seen  in  the  subjects  initially  treated  with  sebelipase 
alfa  in  the  double-blind  period,  a  mean  increase  from  Baseline  was  observed  in  subjects  who 
transitioned  from  placebo  to  sebelipase  alfa  during  the  open-label  period  and  in  subjects  initially 
treated with sebelipase alfa. 
Insights into the effects of treatment on height will require longer-term follow-up of growth using 
centile charts. 
Inflammation markers and haematological parameters 
LAL-CL03 
Rapid and marked reductions in serum ferritin were observed following initiation of sebelipase alfa 
treatment,  with  reductions  apparent  by  Week  1  and  further  observations  through  Week  6,  the 
latter after which ferritin remained fairly stable through Week 60. 
Improvements  in  haematological  parameters  (i.e.,  TFHN  levels)  were  observed  in  infants  with 
rapidly  progressive  disease.  Of  the  6  subjects  surviving  beyond  Week  4,  5  achieved  TFHN 
normalisation prior to the data cut-off (haemoglobin levels consistently above the age-adjusted LLN 
over a minimum period of 4 weeks, with no transfusions during this period or for 2 weeks prior to 
the first haemoglobin measurement in the period)  
In 2 other subjects, TFHN maintenance was also achieved (transfusion-free at Week 6 and had no 
haemoglobin levels below the age-adjusted LLN beginning at Week 8 and continuing for at least 13 
weeks). 
In  contrast,  in  the  historical  control  cohort  from  Study  LAL-1-NH01,  blood  transfusions  were 
administered  to  62.9%  of  patients  in  the  study,  and  no  change  in  haemoglobin  levels  were 
observed from the time of diagnosis to death. 
LAL-CL02 
Marked  reductions  in  serum  ferritin  were  observed  in  Study  LAL-CL02  following  initiation  of 
sebelipase  alfa  treatment.  At  the  last  visit  in  the  double-blind  treatment  period,  decreases  from 
Baseline were seen in the sebelipase alfa and placebo groups, with the difference between groups 
being statistically significant in favour of sebelipase alfa. The reason for the decrease in ferritin in 
the placebo group is unknown. 
Decrease  in  serum  ferritin  continued  during  the  open-label  period,  and  these  results  support  the 
findings from Study LAL-CL04, demonstrating a sustained effect of sebelipase alfa on serum ferritin 
reduction over a longer duration of treatment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 61/87 
  
  
 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
Though  Baseline  serum  ferritin  levels  were  normal  in  8  of  9  study  subjects  in  LAL-CL01,  mean 
reductions  in  serum  ferritin  were  observed  from  Baseline  up  until  to  study  LAL-CL04  Week  104, 
demonstrating  that  the  sebelipase  alfa-mediated  reduction  on  serum  ferritin  is  maintained  over 
long-term treatment. 
This  decrease  and  the  magnitude  the  decrease  in  serum  ferritin  were  independent  of  dose,  and 
these findings are consistent with the reduction reported in LAL-CL02. 
Spleen fat and Health-related QOL 
LAL-CL03 
Improvements  in  splenomegaly  were  apparent  with  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  as  on  physical 
examination, improvement in spleen size was observed in all 5 subjects who had a palpable spleen 
at Baseline. Shifts to a non-palpable spleen were observed for 2 of 4 subjects with available data 
by  Week  20,  and  for  3  subjects  with  available  data  by  Week  36.  Additionally,  marked  reductions 
were observed for 4 subjects who had spleens that extended 4 to 8 cm beyond the costal margin at 
Baseline, and spleens for all 4 subjects were non-palpable by the last assessment.  
On  abdominal  imaging  (ultrasound  and  MRI),  improvement  in  spleen  size  was  observed  for  all  5 
subjects  with  Baseline  and  post-Baseline  data.  After  the  initial  improvement,  spleen  sizes  were 
stable  or  continued  to  decrease  over  time,  with  the  exception  of  1  subject  who  had  a  worsening 
splenomegaly that coincided with a switch to qow dosing. 
Normal development milestones and dietary improvements were achieved in infants on long-term 
sebelipase alfa treatment. 
LAL-CL02 
Similarly  as  above,  significant  improvements  in  splenomegaly  were  observed  in  subjects  treated 
with  sebelipase  alfa  in  this  study.  A  significant  mean  absolute  decrease  from  Baseline  to  the  last 
time  point  in  the  double-blind  period  in  spleen  volume  was  observed  in  subjects  treated  with 
sebelipase alfa compared with an increase of in subjects treated with placebo group. 
Consistent  with  the  reductions  in  spleen  volume,  a  mean  absolute  decrease  from  Baseline  to  the 
last  time  point  in  the  double-blind  period  in  spleen  fat  content  was  observed  for  subjects  who 
received sebelipase alfa compared with the increase observed for placebo, but this difference was 
not statistically significant. 
In  children  and  adults,  though  there  was  some  consistency  in  the  HRQoL  measurements  in  the 
subjects with low scores, there was no obvious treatment effect overall in fatigue or quality of life 
LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 
Although increased spleen lipid content was anticipated, summaries of the spleen fat content were 
not created in Studies LAL-CL01/LAL-CL04 as the low values, lack of information on fat content in 
normal  spleens,  and  the  absence  of  a  placebo  comparator,  made  any  effect  of  sebelipase  alfa 
treatment difficult to interpret. 
No QOL endpoints were examined in this study. 
Long-term efficacy 
In total 6 of the 9 subjects enrolled in LAL-CL03 were still alive at data cut-off, with the oldest child 
being  42.2  months  of  age  and  the  youngest  being  12  months  of  age.  The  longest  exposure 
duration  was  +/-  38  months.  In  contrast,  none  of  the  untreated  subjects  that  were  part  of  the 
historical control cohort in LAL-1-NH01 lived past the age of 8 months. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 62/87 
  
  
 
Not  only  long-term  survival,  but  also  improved  growth  and  normal  development  milestones  were 
achieved  in  infants  on  long-term  sebelipase  alfa  treatment,  as  well  as  improvements  in  serum 
transaminase  levels,  haematological  parameters,  serum  lipid  levels,  serum  ferritin,  and 
hepatosplenomegaly. 
Long-term efficacy was evaluated in 8 adults who completed their Week 104 assessment in Study 
LAL-CL04 and 65 subjects who continued to the open-label period of Study LAL-CL02, including 5 
subjects  in  the  sebelipase  alfa/sebelipase  alfa  treatment  group  who  completed  their  Week  36 
assessment. 
Initiation of sebelipase alfa treatment produced a rapid decline in transaminase levels, with notable 
decreases  occurring  in  the  majority  of  subjects  within  2  weeks.  Overall  improvements  and 
normalisation of serum transaminase levels were sustained through Week 104 of Study LAL-CL04 
and through Week 36 of Study LAL-CL02.  
All 7 subjects who received the full set of infusions in Study LAL-CL04 through Week 104 showed 
decreases  in  mean  LDL-c  and  triglycerides  to  levels  below  original  Baseline  levels,  and  most 
subjects showed increases in HDL-c. Decreases in LDL-c and triglycerides, and increases in HDL-c, 
were  noted  at  Week  12  of  Study  LAL-CL04  and  continued  through  Week  104  on  the  qow  dosing 
regimens.  These  early  improvements  in  lipid  profiles  after  12  weeks  on  ERT  with  sebelipase  alfa 
improved  even  further  between  Week  12  and  Week  104,  with  further  reductions  in  total 
cholesterol, LDL-c, and triglycerides, and further increases in HDL-c. 
Similarly,  further  reductions  in  LDL-C  continued  during  the  open-label  extension  period  in  Study 
LAL-CL02,  with  a  maximum  decrease  from  Baseline  around  44%  at  Week  36.  Sustained 
improvement in HDL-c, triglycerides, and non-HDL-C levels were also seen, with a maximum mean 
percent increase from Baseline around 41% seen at Week 36.  
Other  benefits  of  ERT  with  sebelipase  alfa  were  also  demonstrated  in  LAL-CL04  with  patients 
showing further reduction in fat fraction in the liver, reduction in liver volumes, and improvements 
in liver histopathology. 
Immunogenicity 
In  Study  LAL-CL03,  4  subjects  were  ADA  positive  during  at  least  one  assessment,  defined  as 
having  a  positive  screening  ELISA  that  was  confirmed  by  depletion  ELISA.  Most  subjects  who 
developed ADAs did so within the first 2 months of exposure. At the time of initial ADA positivity, 3 
subjects  were  receiving  a  dose  of  1  mg/kg  qw  and  1  was  receiving  a  dose  of  3  mg/kg  qw. 
Persistence  of  ADA  positivity  was  observed  in  3  subjects;  1  had  a  single  positive  result  and 
thereafter  tested  negative.  All  3  subjects  who  had  multiple  positive  ADA  assessments  showed 
decreases  from  maximum  titre  with  continued  dosing,  with  2  of  these  3  having  a  negative  ADA 
result  at  their  last  assessment  prior  to  data  cut-off.  Two  subjects  who  were  ADA  positive  tested 
positive for in vitro neutralising antibodies that inhibited both LAL enzyme activity and LAL cellular 
uptake, one of whom was ADA negative at the last assessment. 
A medical review of the clinical response data for the 4 subjects who tested ADA positive suggested 
that  the  presence  of  neutralising  antibodies  in  one  subject  could  have  been  a  contributing  factor, 
along  with  other  comorbid  conditions,  in  the  subject’s  suboptimal  rate  of  growth;  other  clinical 
outcome  measures  in  this  subject  do  not  appear  to  have  been  affected  by  the  development  of 
ADAs.  The  other  3  subjects  testing  positive  for  ADAs,  one  of  whom  also  developed  neutralising 
antibodies,  showed  no  evidence  of  a  potential  loss  of  response  in  any  clinical  outcome  measures 
coincident with the development of ADAs. 
In  Study  LAL-CL02,  35  of the  36  subjects  who  received  sebelipase  alfa  in the double-blind period 
were  evaluated  for  ADAs. Five  (14%)  subjects  had at  least one  positive  ADA test.  Those  subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 63/87 
  
  
 
who  developed  ADAs  did  so  within  the  first  3  months  of  exposure  and  none  of  the  5  subjects 
developed neutralizing antibodies at any time, with the exception of partial inhibition of cell uptake 
just  above  the  assay  cut  point  in  one  subject  at  Week  12.  As  samples  from  this  subject  were 
negative for inhibition of cell uptake at all other time points (including Weeks 20 and 28), this may 
represent an isolated false positive result. In general, ADA titres were low and not sustained. Two 
subjects  were  positive  at  only  a  single  time  point  and  none  of  the  5  subjects  with  positive  ADA 
titres continued to be ADA positive at their last time point prior to data cut-off. Review of efficacy 
results among the 5 ADA-positive subjects showed that all 5 experienced a decrease from Baseline 
to  the  last  time  point  in  the  double-blind  period  in  ALT,  AST,  and  LDL-c.  Thus,  evidence  of  the 
effectiveness of sebelipase alfa was seen among ADA-positive subjects. 
In  Study  LAL-CL01,  all  samples  from  the  9  subjects  enrolled  were  negative  for  ADAs  as  were  all 
samples from 7 of 8 subjects in Study LAL-CL04. One subject in Study LAL-CL04 had 1 result that 
was above the pre-determined positivity cut-off for ADAs. This finding occurred at a single isolated 
assessment  at  Week  4,  and  did  not  coincide  with  any  notable  change  in  serum  transaminases  or 
lipids. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
LAL deficiency in both its forms (rapidly progressing in infants and ‘normal’ progressing in adults) is 
a designated orphan disease, which severely limits the potential pool of patients on which can be 
drawn to populate the trials. This is especially true in infants with the rapidly progressing form of 
the disease, whom usually do not live past their 6th month of age, which further lowers the already 
low availability of potential subjects in this patient group. 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The Applicant submitted data of 4 studies in support of the efficacy part of the dossier; two pivotal 
trials of which one in infants with Wolman disease (LAL-CL03) and one in children and adults with 
LAL  deficiency  (LAL-CL02).  Data  of  two  additional  trials  was  used  in  support  of  the  observations 
made  in  the  pivotal  trials;  one  was  a  natural  history  study  of  Wolman  disease  in  infants  (LAL-1-
NH01)  and  the  other  was  a  dual  PK/PD/safety  study  in  adults  (LAL-CL01/04)  that  consisted  of  a 
dose  escalation  study  (CL01)  followed  by  an  extension  study  (LAL-CL04)  for  subjects  whom 
completed the course in the former. 
In regards to Wolman’s disease infants, the Applicant opted for a combined phase 2/3 open-label 
trial without a comparison arm. This design choice is considered acceptable as there is currently no 
effective treatment for infants suffering from this disease, and they usually die a few months after 
birth.  
The Applicant attempted to rectify the very low number of infant subjects in the LAL-CL03 trial by 
doing  a  natural  history  study  whereby  collecting  historic  records  and  measurements  for  Wolman 
disease victims from the 1980’s onward. 
This  method  is  considered  acceptable  in  order  to  try  and  mitigate  to  some  extent  the  issue  of 
extremely  small  study  populations,  though  some  caution  is  necessary  as  state  of  the  arts  on 
measuring methods and data retention may evolve over time and may cause older data to have a 
lesser informative weight then newer data. 
The pivotal trial in children and adults was a more traditional Phase III trial consisting of a double-
blind  period  whereby  subjects  were  randomized  to  either  receive  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  or 
placebo.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 64/87 
  
  
 
Given that LAL deficiency in subjects with the normal onset variety can be marginally supported by 
dietary measures and is not as lethal as the Wolman disease form but mainly manifest in lowered 
quality of life, allowing placebo treatment for a limited time is fully acceptable. Moreover, after the 
double-blind  study  there  was  an  open-label  extension  period  in  which  previously  placebo-treated 
patients were switched to ERT treatment (initial qw dosing that was switched to qow after 4 weeks) 
while  former  sebelipase  alfa  treated  patients  continued  on  from  the  double  blind  phase,  in  a  qow 
schedule. 
Since non-infant patients usually survive for a longer time then infants with Wolman disease, there 
was a larger pool of patients. Nevertheless, with the disease being orphan and the prevalence very 
rare about 66 patients went through the trial procedures, thus limiting the statistical power of the 
outcomes. 
In  a  similar  fashion  to  the  LAL-CL03  and  LAL-1-  NH01,  the  Applicant  used  the  results  from  the 
PI/PII LAL-CL01/CL04 studies to support the outcomes seen in LAL-CL02. 
In  summary,  all  studies  designed  for  efficacy  analysis  were  of  different  designs  and  harbouring 
populations  with  different  dispositions.  Thus  intra-study  or  pooled  analysis  would  be  a  futile 
exercise from a statistical point of view, and as such a simple comparison between studies to see 
whether  the  effects  seen  in  each  trial  were  mirrored  in  other  trials,  is  done,  considering  that  this 
would indicate that any beneficial effect seen would very likely be due to sebelipase alfa treatment. 
This approach is acceptable, although observations and conclusions drawn from such an intra-study 
comparison lack the absolute certainty that a more formal statistical comparison would achieve due 
to  the  inherent  statistical  analysis  limitations  in  the  former,  the  intrinsic  nature  of  the  orphan 
disease precludes the possibility of using traditional statistical analyses. 
In  the  current  dossier  long-term  efficacy  data  are  lacking.  Both  pivotal  trials  as  well  as  LAL-CL04 
were still ongoing or in follow-up at the moment of data cut-off. The natural  history study LAL-1-
NH01  also  lacks  long  term  data,  which  is  non-surprising  given  the  nature  of  the  subjects  that  it 
included  (Wolman  disease  infants  whom  usually  pass  away  within  the  first  6  month  of  life)  while 
LAL-CL01 had a duration of only 4 weeks. However, due to the high medical need it is acceptable 
to obtain this information post approval and the applicant has committed to long-term monitoring 
of efficacy and safety in the post-authorization setting, which will help to fill in this knowledge gap 
in the coming years. 
This  procedure  is  assessed  under  accelerated  assessment  due  to  the  lack  of  effective  treatment 
and the high mortality of the disease in infants. This is considered appropriate, and the overall data 
submitted  considered  comprehensive  for  a  full  marketing  authorisation,  nevertheless  long-term 
efficacy  and  safety 
follow  up  will  be  necessary  post  approval  with  monitoring  after 
commercialisation. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Generally the results observed in the pivotal trials were positive, with significant improvements in 
survival for infants, in molecular markers of LAL deficiency and in makers such as hepato-histology, 
growth, liver size and QOL. 
Transaminases  such  as  ALT  and  AST,  as  well  as  serum  lipids  and  free  cholesterols  increased  or 
decreased  (along  the  type  of  marker)  to  near  normal  levels  with  treatment  relative  to  Baseline; 
and these improvements were seen in all ERT treatment populations across the different trials. 
Likewise  other  markers  saw  similar  improvements,  and  a  majority  of  infants  lived  to  or  past  the 
age  of  12  months  (compared  to  6  months  in  the  natural  history  study),  thus  demonstrating  a 
significant benefit in survival.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 65/87 
  
  
 
Despite  the  limitations  above  mentioned  (statistical  limitations,  limited  number  of  patients),  the 
efficacy  results  are  mirrored  across  trials  (contrasting  to  the  lack  of  efficiency  of  non-ERT 
treatments in the natural history study). This is very reassuring and indicates that sebelipase alfa 
ERT  actively  improves  the  negative  effects  of  LAL  deficiency  over  the  whole  of  the  disease 
spectrum. 
Additionally,  the  applicant  has  provided  efficacy  data  in  patients  with  LAL  deficiency  in  all  age 
groups,  namely  infants,  children  and  adults,  thus  in  effect,  a  comprehensive  efficacy 
documentation is provided for this orphan disease. 
In  conclusion,  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  gave  rise  to  impressive  results  on  the  main  efficacy 
endpoints.  Nevertheless,  despite  these  very  positive  results,  there  are  also  some  areas  which 
remain unclear. 
Firstly, as mentioned in the previous section, there is currently no long-term efficacy data available 
beyond  36  months.  Given  that  this  ERT  treatment  will  be  a  lifelong  treatment,  as  the  underlying 
gene defects are not corrected, the data submitted remain limited in regard to long-term use. This 
will be addressed through the ongoing clinical trials and the registry where collection of long term 
efficacy data (liver function) will be captured. 
There is also some uncertainty in regards to long-term immunogenic developments. Patients may 
or  may  not  develop  resistance  to  the  ERT  treatment  on  a  longer  term  basis  or  heterozygote 
subjects whom still have a basal level of endogenous enzyme might develop cross-reactive ABs in 
reaction to the exogenous recombinant enzyme.  
Furthermore,  there  have  been  cases  of  ADA  positivity  among  subjects  in  the  LAL-CL02  and  LAL-
CL03  trials.  In  LAL-CL02, in  adults  and  children,  ADA  development  was  rare  (less  than  10%)  and 
without  obvious  impact  on  efficacy  (transient  effect  while  no  ADA  positivity  was  reported  in  the 
LAL-CL01/CL04 trial).  
In  the  LAL-CL03  infant  study,  of  the  6  infants  that  lived  to  or  past  the  age  of  12  months,  four 
(>50%  of  subjects)  developed  ADA  positive  titres  and  two  (thus  30%  of  subjects)  patients 
developed  neutralizing  ABs,  of  which  one  showed  a  negative  effect  on  growth  improvement 
(although  other  markers  seemed  unaffected).  A  definite  judgement  of  loss  of  efficacy  is  not 
possible  at  present,  however,  this  is  a  point  of  concern,  thus  further  monitoring  over  time  in  the 
post  authorisation  setting.  It  is  considered  important  to  monitor  immunogenicity  in  the  post 
approval setting to collect data to provide further insight on this matter. This is further discussed in 
the safety part of this report, together with the updated data provided at D120 of the procedure.  
Additionally,  in  the  infant  trial  almost  50%  of  the  participating  patients  died  despite  treatment, 
which  raises  concern.  Review  of  the  deceased  subject’s  autopsies  and  medical  histories  showed 
that numerous medical co-morbidities were present which could each be a possible reason for their 
deaths. It is thus impossible to implicate LAL-enzyme treatment with any degree of certainty. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  majority  of  patients  lived  to  at  least  12  months  of  age,  which  is  a  clear 
improvement in term of survival compared to untreated patients as exhibited in the natural history 
study results.  
Due  to  the  limited  number  of  available  subjects  definite  conclusions  related  to  possible  lack  of 
efficacy in certain patients, there is a need to continue gathering long term efficacy data in the post 
authorisation setting. In this context the ongoing study in infants less than 8 months (LAL CL-08) is 
considered a key study to further characterise long term efficacy in infants with Wolman disease.    
Lastly,  the  rationale  for  the  final  recommended  dose  was  further  discussed  during  the  procedure 
due  to  concerns  expressed  earlier  in  the  report.  In  the  end,  the  CHMP  agreed  with  the  Applicant 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 66/87 
  
  
 
clarification  provided  during  assessment,  that  the  non-clinical  aspects  and  safety  margins  could 
support  rationale  for  selecting  the 1  mg/kg  qow  dose  as  a  posology  showing adequate efficacy  in 
the LAL-CL02 trial in children and adults. 
In  the  Wolman  infants’  trial,  most  subjects  were  at  3mg/kg  qw  at  data  cut-off.  The  Applicant 
considered  that  a  treatment  with  1  mg/g  qw  would  be  enough,  whereas  questions  were  initially 
raised to the applicant whether starting on 3 m/kg qw and down titrating if good response could be 
a  better  approach  based  on  rapid  deterioration  in  physical  state  of  Wolman  patients.  Further 
rationale provided by the applicant, justified the recommendation for 1 mg/kg qw as starting dose 
based  on  safety  related  to  the  rapids  free  lipid  spike  seen  at  treatment  start,  and  the  fact  that 
despite  the  rapidly  progressing  nature  of  Wolman  syndrome,  there  would  be  enough  time  to  up-
titrate  to  higher  doses  if  efficacy  would  be  unsatisfactory.  This  is  considered  acceptable  by  the 
CHMP and adequately addressed in the SmPC in the posology section.  
There  were  no  renally  impaired  patients  amongst  the  trial  subjects,  thus  influence  of  dose, 
clearance and other parameters on efficacy endpoints could not be assessed. Since sebelipase alfa 
is  a  recombinant  human  LAL  enzyme  of  relatively  high-MW  (55  kDa),  renal  excretion  is  not 
expected to play an important role in its elimination. Therefore, variability in renal function would 
not  have  a  relevant  effect  on  the  exposure  to  sebelipase  alfa,  as  also  indicated  by  covariate 
analysis during development of the population PK model for sebelipase alfa. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
The treatment with sebelipase has shown to be efficacious in the treatment of LAL deficiency, with 
very positive results seen in Wolman-infants in term of survival.  
LAL deficiency is a serious and potential life-threatening disease without an effective treatment and 
the data provided in this application despite their limitations are considered adequate. 
The Applicant provided efficacy data in all age groups of patients with LAL deficiency justifying an 
indication in patients of all age. The efficacy data support a full Marketing authorisation approval in 
term  of  complete  data  package,  although collection  of    long  term  efficacy  and  safety  data  will  be 
done  in  the  post  authorisation  setting through  the  disease  registry  and  with  the  ongoing  study  in 
infants (LAL-CL-08) . 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Clinical  safety  was  evaluated  in  a  total  of  6  studies,  with  4  (LAL-CL01/04  in  adults,  LAL-CL02  in 
adults and children and LAL-CL03 in infants with Wolman disease), while the two remaining studies 
LAL-CL06  in  adults  and  children  and  LAL-CL08  in  infants  with  Wolman  disease  only  contributed 
data  about  deaths,  SAEs,  withdrawals  due to  TEAEs  and  moderate  or  severe IARs.  The  latter two 
studies safety data were provided at D120 of the procedure. 
In  the  D120  safety  update  provided  during  the  procedure,  a  total  of  106  subjects  with  LAL 
deficiency  have  received  treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa,  including  14  infants  (<2  years),  57 
children (24 ≥2years and <12 years, 23 ≥12 years and <18 years), and 33 adults. 
A  pooled  safety  assessment  was  conducted  to  look  at  safety  signals  that  were  not  otherwise 
evident in the individual clinical studies. However, this approach had limitations due to differences 
in  the  rate  of  disease  progression  according  to  age,  in  study  designs  and  populations  and  due  to 
the low number of subjects available inherent with orphan disease. 
Included in this updated pooled safety set were patients from study LAL-CL06, but the following 
should be noted:  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 67/87 
  
  
 
•  2 Subjects from the LAL-CL06 study were not included in the total for subjects ongoing 
treatment because these subjects were rescreened and included in the study after initially being 
marked as screen failures. Therefore, the number of subjects treated with sebelipase alfa is 
recorded in the database as 17 and not 19.  
•  Adverse events for which the first date of active dose or the event start date were missing were 
included in the subject listing of adverse events. However, they were not flagged as TEAEs, and 
were therefore not included in the tables of TEAEs. Two of the 19 subjects dosed in LAL-CL06 were 
affected in this way. 
Subjects with known egg hypersensitivity were excluded from the clinical studies. 
Patient exposure 
The exposure in subjects in the safety data set is summarized in table 3 below. 
The extent of exposure across all trials was: 
< 04 weeks:  
104 subjects 
≥ 04-12 weeks: 
94 subjects 
≥ 12-26 weeks: 
88 subjects 
≥ 26-38 weeks: 
80 subjects 
≥ 38-52 weeks:  
66 subjects 
≥ 52-78 weeks: 
48 subjects 
≥ 87–104 weeks: 
16 subjects 
≥ 104-130 weeks: 
9 subjects 
≥ 130-156 weeks: 
9 subjects 
≥ 156-182 weeks: 
7 subjects 
≥ 182 weeks: 
1 subject 
The majority of patients exposed in the 6 trials were Caucasian and the number of non-Caucasians 
was still too low as to allow drawing conclusions. 
The  majority  of  subjects  had  either  homo-  or  heterozygous  c.849G>A  common  exon  8  splice 
junction  mutation,  with  the  latter  making  up  slightly  over  half  of  the  pooled  safety  set,  while  16 
were  classified  under  the  ‘other  mutation’  state.  Of  these  16  subjects  more  than  one  third  were 
infants  treated  in  the  LAL-CL03  trial,  by  matter  of which  the  median  treatment  duration  of  ‘other 
mutation’ state patients was generally lower, and this mutation group had a higher administration 
of 3mg/kg qw dosing regimens.  
Nevertheless, even in the in the current safety update the data are currently too sparse as to allow 
assessment of exposure stratified according to mutation status. 
Subjects with known egg hypersensitivity were excluded from the clinical studies. 
Adverse events 
Overall,  84%  (89/106)  of  sebelipase  alfa-treated  subjects  reported  a  TEAE,  with  the  majority 
being judged not related to sebelipase alfa treatment and mild or moderate in severity. In total 31 
(29%) subjects experienced treatment-related (as judged by the investigators) TEAEs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 68/87 
  
  
 
Nineteen subjects (17.9%) reported treatment-emergent SAEs, the majority of which were also 
not considered related to sebelipase alfa treatment, except for four. A total of 16 subjects (15.1%) 
reported events assessed by the Investigators as infusion associated reactions (IAR). 
Infusion  associated  reactions  were  defined  as  any  TEAE  that  occurred  during  or  within  4  hours  of 
completion  of  the  infusion  that  were  considered  by  the  Investigator  to  be  related  to  study 
treatment. 
In  LAL-CL03  4  infants  presented  with  mild  IARs.  One  subject  had  severe  IARs  which  however 
occurred  concurrently  with  significant  non-treatment-related  infections.  All  IARs  were  successfully 
managed by infusion interruption, infusion rate reduction, conventional treatment with antipyretics 
and  antihistamines,  and/or  other  supportive  treatment,  and  no  cases  of  anaphylaxis  were  noted. 
There were also no treatment discontinuations due to IARs (or other TEAEs). 
In  LAL-CL02,  4  sebelipase  alfa  treated  subjects  experienced  an  IAR,  of  which  3  had  only  mild 
events, but one had a serious IAR. 
In LAL-CL01/CL04 two subjects, whom were siblings, experienced the majority of IARs, which were 
generally  mild  of  nature.  One  IAR  by  one  of  the  subjects  was  considered  a  hypersensitivity-type 
reaction, but the person was able to continue treatment once symptoms had subsided. 
An  analysis  of  all  TEAEs  regardless  of  causality  was  performed  to  identify  potential  immune-
mediated hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis. Events identified by the SMQ analysis 
were  analysed  in  the  context  of  other  information  and  the  National  Institute  of  Allergy  and 
Infectious  Diseases/Food  Allergy  and  Anaphylaxis  Network  2006  criteria  for  anaphylaxis  were 
applied  to  identify  cases  of  suspected  anaphylaxis,  with  a  comprehensive  review  of  a  subject’s 
clinical  course.  The  placebo-controlled  clinical  study  LAL-CL02  also  was  used  to  help  to  evaluate 
potential relatedness of these events. 
Hypersensitivity  reactions,  generally  mild  to  moderate  in  severity,  proved  to  be  more  common  in 
infants  and  proved  to  be  manageable  by  decreasing  the  infusion  rate,  temporarily  stopping  the 
infusion,  or  administering  antihistamines  and/or  antipyretics.  Reported  signs  and  symptoms 
occurring  in  2  or  more  subjects  were  gastrointestinal  disorders,  general  disorders  (pyrexia/body 
temperature  increased/hyperthermia,  chills)  and  skin  reaction,  as  well  as  tachycardia,  pallor  and 
laryngeal  oedema.  The  majority  of  events  occurred  during  or  within  4  hours  of  completion  of  the 
infusion and no subject had a permanent dose reduction due to poor tolerability. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 69/87 
  
  
 
 
Table 3: exposure in safety context 
LAL-CL01 
dose-
escalating 
LAL-
CL04 
open-
label 
LAL-CL02 
LAL-CL03 
LAL-CL006 
LAL-CL08 
Pooled safety set 
RCT  +  open-
label 
open-label 
open-label 
open-label 
18-65 
18-65 
≥ 4 
< 6 months 
> 8 months 
< 8 months 
design 
age 
(years) 
hepatomegaly 
Inclusion 
or 
Extension  
criteria 
ALT  or  AST 
LAL-CL01 
≥1.5 ULN 
ALT ≥1.5 ULN 
growth failure 
Clinical disease presentations not prior 
Infants less than 8 months of age 
studied, subjects < 4 yo not included in LAL-
CL03, subjects with severe liver disease, 
subjects with a previous liver or 
hematopoietic stem cell transplant, and 
subjects with an atypical or underappreciated 
presentation of LAL deficiency. 
with 
rapidly  progressive  LAL 
deficiency. 
Study 
duration  
4 week 
on-going 
RCT: 
OL: on-going 
on-going 
on-going 
on-going 
Nb 
of 
subjects:  
9 
0.35 
mg/kg 
3 
[qw] 
1  mg/kg 
[qow] 
1  mg/kg 
[qw] 
3  mg/kg 
[qow] 
3  mg/kg 
[qw] 
5  mg/kg 
[qw] 
5 
3 
3 
3 
- 
8 
66 
- 
66 
- 
- 
1 
- 
9 
8 
- 
7 
1 
6 
1 
17 
- 
17 
- 
- 
- 
- 
5 
- 
- 
5 
- 
2 
1 
106 
11 
88 
15 
5 
11 
2 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 70/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nb 
of 
infusions: 
0.35  mg/kg 
[qw] 
1 
mg/kg 
[qow] 
1 
mg/kg 
[qw] 
3 
mg/kg 
[qow] 
3 
mg/kg 
[qw] 
5 
mg/kg 
[qw] 
Other 
68 
447 
735 
462 
1,712 (100%) 
24 
343 
20 
215 
24 
0 
- 
89 
- 
1786 
- 
2 
- 
- 
- 
14 
- 
141 
17 
417 
41 
4 
54 
35 
15 
38 (10.4%) 
2218 (83%) 
215 (14.2%) 
234 (4.7%) 
476(10.4%) 
56 (1.9%) 
4 (0.9%) 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 71/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  D120  safety  update,  one  subject  with  temporally  associated  component  signs  and/or 
symptoms  that  met  the  NIAID/FAAN  2006  criteria  for  anaphylaxis  was  identified  in  Study  LAL-
CL08, with symptoms occurring within approximately 15 minutes from the start of the 6th infusion 
of sebelipase alfa at a dose of 1 mg/kg qw. Skin-prick testing with sebelipase alfa concluded with 
negative results and with premedication and a lower initial infusion rate, this subject continues to 
receive sebelipase alfa. 
In the D120 updated safety report updates for potential hypersensitivity reactions that occurred 
in the original Pooled Safety Set since the analysis cut-off dates, in addition to data obtained from 
recently  initiated  studies  LAL-CL06  and  LAL-CL08.  Five  subjects  were  removed  from  the  listing  as 
they  experienced  singular  events  which  were  assessed  as  either  unlikely  or  not  related  to 
treatment. The updated analysis updates the number of potential hypersensitivity reactions to 119 
events in 21 subjects. 
Overall, in the pooled safety set provided at D120, 21 subjects (19.8%), representing 5 new cases 
since  the  initial  safety  report  cut-off,  experienced  signs  and  symptoms  either  consistent  with  or 
potentially  related  to  a  hypersensitivity  reactions.  This  number  breaks  down  to  9  of  14  infants 
(64.3%) and 12 of 92 children and adults (13.0%). 
Out of the 16 subjects included in the original submission, most of the patients showed resolution 
of the events, though only 2 of these subjects continue to experience hypersensitivity events, both 
infants from LAL-CL03.  
Of the 5 cases reported in the answer to the D120, 2 were assessed as serious; one is a 4 month-
old  male  infant  in  LAL-CL08  whom  recovered  after  adequate  treatment  and  continued  Kanuma 
treatment.  The  other  case  involved  a  44-year  old  male  in  LAL-CL06,  whom  had  a  severe 
anaphylactic reaction judged as related to treatment, but continued Kanuma administration under 
a desensitization protocol. 
During  the  late  breaking  period  of  the  D120  update  one  more  subject  in  study  LAL-CL02  was 
reported to have an event consistent with anaphylaxis which is currently under assessment. The 
patient  was  on  a  1  mg/kg,  IV,  qow  dose  schedule when  symptoms  occurred,  starting  10  minutes 
after routine infusion. All the events were assessed to be related to study drug by the Investigator, 
and this subject has paused treatment with sebelipase alfa pending further evaluation. 
No evidence for cumulative toxicity presented amongst the various trials. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Across  all  trials  of  the  pooled  safety  assessment,  3  deaths  were  reported  in  the  sebelipase  alfa 
clinical programme and all three occurred in the LAL-CL03 Wolman infant trial. All fatal events were 
assessed as unrelated to sebelipase alfa treatment by the Investigators, and an overview is given 
in the following table: 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 72/87 
  
  
 
Deaths Occurring in the Sebelipase Alfa Clinical Programme 
In addition one subject in LAL-CL03 died at 15 months of age (but after data cut-off), and cause of 
death was not yet determined at dossier submission. 
In the D120 report the number of deaths has been updated to 6, in order to include the three late-
breaking reports received after the initial MAA safety data cut-off. All 6 deaths occurred in infants 
(≤2  years  of  age)  with  rapidly  progressive  disease,  and  all  deaths  were  assessed  by  the 
Investigator as unrelated or unlikely related to sebelipase alfa treatment. 
Serious  adverse  events,  the  majority  of  which  were  considered  unrelated  to  treatment,  were 
reported  in  19  (17.9%)  of  the  106  subjects  and  were  most  frequent  in  Wolman  infants  as  these 
compromised 8 of the subjects presenting with one  or more SAE(s). In 4 infants, catheter site or 
device-related  infection  were  reported  early  in  treatment  (within  8  months)  likely  due  to 
compromised state of these infants at study entry. Two subjects (1 each in studies LAL-CL02 and 
LAL-CL03) reported treatment-related SAEs, which  were also considered potential hypersensitivity 
reactions. 
In adults and infants all SAEs occurred in subjects on sebelipase alfa treatment, except for a Road 
traffic accident occurring to one of the subjects who was at that time part of the placebo group in 
the  double-blind  phase.  On  subject  in  the  double-blind  sebelipase  group  experienced  an  SAE  that 
was  considered  an  IAR  after  the  second  study  drug  infusion,  after  which  treatment  was 
discontinued  for  the  remainder  of  the  double-blind  study  phase  although  the  subject  in  question 
could  enter  the  open-label  phase  after  negative  rechallenge.  Finally,  one  subject  in  the 
placebo/sebelipase  alfa  group  experienced  an  SAE  during  the  open-label  period  but  this  was 
considered unrelated to study drug. 
In  LAL-CL04  one  subject  had  multiple  SAEs,  all  of  which  were  IARs.  They  occurred  with  a  single 
infusion on Week 12 (3 mg/kg qw) and resolved the same day following infusion interruption and 
administration of antihistamine, antipyretic, and IV sodium chloride. 
In  the  recently  initiated  Wolman  infant  study  LAL-CL08  2  subjects  already  had  treatment-related 
SAEs which were also considered potential hypersensitivity reactions. 
In the D120 safety update 28 new serious events were reported, of which 27 occurred in infants. 
Half of the newly reported serious TEAEs were considered moderate in intensity, 12 as severe and 
1 as mild (compared to all being considered severe in the original safety report.) 
Two  events  led  to  deaths  (already  reported  in  the  previous  report’s  late  breaking  information 
section),  10  events  had  resolved  at  data  cut-off.  The  majority  of  newly  reported  serious  events 
were not related to treatment, with only 4 in 2 subjects being judged so and which concerned the 
anaphylaxis cases mentioned earlier. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 73/87 
  
  
 
 
Overall,  despite  the  additional  deaths  reported,  the  updated  D120  safety  data  provided  during 
assessment did not change the initial safety profile. 
Laboratory findings 
No safety signals were observed based on a thorough evaluation of clinical laboratory data. Initial 
treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa  is  associated  with  a  transient  and  reversible  increase  in  blood 
cholesterol  and  triglycerides  consistent  with  mobilisation  of  accumulated  lysosomal  lipid  from  the 
tissues as a result of correcting the pathophysiology of reduced lysosomal acid lipase activity. The 
increase  in  lipids  was  not  associated  with  any  clinical  sequelae.  From  baseline  to  the  last 
assessment,  total  cholesterol,  LDL-C,  and  triglyceride  values  decreased  and  HDL-C  values 
increased.  
A  thorough  review  of  haematology,  renal  function,  liver  function,  and  electrolytes,  including 
descriptive statistics over time, shift analyses, and assessment of clinically significant changes from 
Baseline, showed no deleterious effect of sebelipase alfa on any of these parameters.  
Treatment  with  sebelipase  alfa  is  associated  with  an  improvement  in  both  hepatic  function  and 
dyslipidaemia.  Reductions  in  serum  transaminase  levels  were  observed  and,  after  an  initial 
transient  increase,  reductions  in  LDL-c,  non-HDL-c,  and  triglycerides,  with  an  increase  in  HDL-c 
were noted. 
Safety in special populations 
There were no clinically meaningful differences noted in the safety profile of sebelipase alfa based 
on gender, race, or use of LLMs. 
The incidence of related TEAEs and SAEs was higher in the <2 year old age group which included 
infants with rapidly progressive LAL deficiency, but review of clinical laboratory data and vital signs 
data did not suggest any meaningful differences across age group. 
Clinical  studies  did  not  include  subjects  aged  65  years  and  older.  It  is  not  known  whether  they 
respond differently than younger subjects.  
As analyses of TEAEs by mutation category are confounded by study and population, no meaningful 
conclusions can be drawn for safety parameters by mutation status. 
It has to be noted however that just like all other safety endpoints, statistically sound conclusions 
are not possible given the small study populations and heterogeneous study designs. 
Findings  for  TEAEs  by  age  provided in  the  Day 120 Safety  Update  were  consistent  with the  initial 
safety data provided. 
Immunological events 
In the D120 safety update, overall 12 of the 106 subjects (thus 2 more compared to the initial data 
submitted) were tested ADA positive during at least 1 assessment with six of them testing positive 
for ADAs at more than 1 time point. 
The  proportion  of  subjects  ADA  positive  at  more  than  1  time  point  (N=8,  66.7%)  was  more 
common  among  infants  compared  with  children  and  adults  and  the  median  time  to  first  ADA 
positive  result  increased  to  approximately  70.5  days  compared  to  57  in  the  initial  report.  All  of 
these  subjects  were  able  to  continue  treatment  without  interruption.  The  age  group  with  the 
highest proportion of ADA positive subjects was infants <2 years of age (35.7% positive). 
Given  the  small  numbers  involved,  direct  comparison  of  the  AE  profile  between  ADA  positive  and 
ADA  negative  subjects  across  AEs  was  limited  and  no  clear  relationship  between  the  presence  of 
ADAs  and  IARs  was  apparent.  Furthermore,  the  TEAE  profile  seen  among  ADA-positive  subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 74/87 
  
  
 
 
was  consistent  with  that  in  the  study  population  as  a  whole,  and  no  ADA-positive  subject  died  or 
reported a TEAE that led to study drug discontinuation. 
Of note in the initial data, there was a relatively high incidence of anti-drug antibodies, 4 (57%) of 
the  7  subjects  for  whom  testing  was  performed  (2  other  subjects  died  prior  to  the  first  ADA 
assessment on treatment), in the Wolman infant LAL-CL03 trial. Persistence of ADA positivity (>1 
assessment) was observed for 3 subjects, 1 of whom remained ADA positive through the data cut-
off date and 2 who had ADA negative results at the last assessment prior to the data cut-off date. 
Moreover,  2  ADA-positive  subjects  also  tested  positive  for  neutralising  antibodies  that  inhibited 
both LAL enzyme activity and LAL cellular uptake. Serum tryptase in one of these two subjects was 
below the normal range in the 1 subject tested to date. 
In the D120 safety update, overall five subjects had tested positive for neutralizing antibodies. Two 
subjects in Study LAL-CL02 tested positive for neutralizing antibodies to cellular uptake but not to 
enzyme activity, and 2 subjects in Study LAL-CL03 and 1 subject in Study LAL-CL08 tested positive 
for  neutralizing  antibodies  to  both  enzyme  activity  and  cellular  uptake.  However,  the  presence  of 
neutralizing antibodies was not anticipated to impact the safety profile of sebelipase alfa. 
While differences in the frequency of TEAEs by ADA status were noted, including a higher frequency 
of  serious  TEAEs  and  treatment-related  TEAEs  in  ADA-positive  subjects  compared  with  ADA-
negative  subjects,  interpretation  of  these  findings  is  limited  due  to  the  small  number  of  subjects 
who were ADA positive (N=12) and the fluctuations in ADA positivity in these subjects over time, 
as well as by the higher proportion of infants in the ADA-positive group (5 of 12 subjects [41.7%]) 
compared with the ADA-negative group (9 of 104 subjects [8.7%])  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Overall,  a  review  of  TEAE  incidence,  clinical  laboratory,  and  vital  signs  data  did  not  suggest  any 
meaningful differences by LLM use based on review of the data from Study LAL-CL02 during which 
subjects  who  were  on  LLMs  were  to  remain  on  a  stable  dose  of  LLM  through  at  least  the  first  32 
weeks of treatment. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
One subject in study LAL-CL02 was discontinued during the double-blind period after experiencing 
IARs after the first and second infusions of sebelipase alfa; the event was reported as a treatment-
related SAE. The subject may enter the open-label period upon rechallenge.  
One  infant  in  study  LAL-CL03  was  discontinued  from  treatment  after  the  first  infusion  due  to 
bradycardia that was assessed as unrelated to study treatment; the subject died later that day of 
hepatic failure prior to the next scheduled infusion. 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The Applicant provided further safety data in the D120 procedure leading to a total of 106 subjects 
with LAL deficiency have received treatment with sebelipase alfa, including 14 infants (<2 years), 
57 children (24 ≥2years and <12 years, 23 ≥12 years and <18 years), and 33 adults. 
The  pooled  safety  assessment  is  limited  due  to  the  orphan  disease    thus  a  small  number  of 
subjects  included  in  studies,  differences  in  disease  progression  according  to  age,  the  relatively 
short  period  of  follow  up  (in  relation  to  the  expected  duration  of  treatment)  and  the  design  of 
studies, only one study being placebo-controlled. 
The expected safety concerns, linked to enzyme replacement therapy which were hypersensitivity, 
transient hyperlipidemia and ADAs, have been confirmed in the updated safety data provided.  
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 75/87 
  
  
 
The clinical significance of transient hyperlipidemia is limited and longer term results are in favour 
of clinical improvement.  
Hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reactions and Infusion Adverse Reactions were observed in the vast 
majority  of  patients.  Nine of 14  (64%)  infants  and  12 of 92  (13%)  children  and  adults  patients 
experienced signs and symptoms either consistent with or that may be related to a hypersensitivity 
reaction. 
Three  patients  of  106  (3%)  patients  treated  with  KANUMA,  including  1 of 14  (7%)  infants  and 
2 of 92  (2%)  children  and  adults,  in  clinical  studies  experienced  signs  and  symptoms  consistent 
with anaphylaxis. 
Events related to hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylaxis is more frequent in infants and should be 
further monitored in different age groups and on the long term. Similarly, the identification of two 
subjects with neutralising antibodies is questioning and the possible explanations remain at present 
unclear and need to be monitored in the post authorisation setting.  
The sudden free lipid surge, presumably liver-stored lipids that are suddenly released in bulk, that 
is seen at treatment start remains to be further characterised. Although this effect is transient this 
may  negatively  affect  patients  with  cardiovascular  co  morbidities.  At  present  this  is  a  theoretical 
issue.  
The  proportion  of  subjects  ADA  positive  at  more  than  1  time  point  was  more  common  among 
infants  compared  with  children  and  adults  and  the  median  time  to  first  ADA  positive  result 
increased  to  approximately  70.5  days  compared  to  57  in  the  initial  report.  All  of  these  subjects 
were able to continue treatment without interruption. The age group with the highest proportion of 
ADA positive subjects was infants <2 years of age (35.7% positive). 
The  occurrence  of  ADA  should  therefore  be  monitored  in  the  post  authorisation  setting  in  infants 
and in older population. A warning has also been introduced in the SmPC. 
In  the  clinical  trials  there were  cases  of  bradycardia  noted,  but  given  the  limited  populations  and 
the  significant  amount  of  co-morbidities  seen  in  the  affected  subjects  it  remains  unclear  whether 
these  observations  might  be  indicative  of  a  CV  risk  signal  or  not,  and  further  monitoring  is  thus 
recommended through the registry. 
Since  no  pregnant  subjects  were  amongst  the  study  populations  the  effect  on  clinical  safety  for 
both mother and foetus are not known at this time. 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
In general the treatment has proven to be safe and serious issues were rare. The safety exposure 
remains limited due to the orphan disease, especially in Wolman infants. 
However, it is considered that the safety data provided for this application (initial submission and 
D120  safety  update)  constitute  a  comprehensive  safety  package  justifying  a  full  marketing 
authorisation as data are provided on all ages groups in various stage of the disease or not.  
Nevertheless  there  is  a  need  to  further  monitor  the  long  term  safety  in  the  post  authorisation 
setting  in  relation  to  hypersensitivity  reactions,  anaphylaxis  and  ADAs  in  all  patients.  This  will  be 
done through a disease registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency. 
Additionally  the  ongoing  clinical  study  in  infants  (LAL-CL06)  is  considered  key  to  benefit  risk  to 
further monitor the efficacy and safety profile in infants with Wolman disease. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 76/87 
  
  
 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1 is acceptable. In addition, minor 
revisions were recommended to be taken into account with the next RMP update. The PRAC 
endorsed PRAC Rapporteur assessment report is attached. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice with the following changes: 
•  Addition in the Pharmacovigilance plan of the following studies:  
- Clinical study LAL-CL06 (category 3) to assess the safety and efficacy in a paediatric population 
2-4 years of age and ADA development impacting response to drug 
- Clinical study LAL-CL08 (category 1) to assess the safety and efficacy and ADA development 
impacting response to drug 
These studies were requested to provide more accurate information on the role of the anti-drug 
antibodies on the safety and efficacy of the product. In fact, the clinical trials ensure more 
systematic and scheduled data collection on ADA development, whereas in the registry healthcare 
professional might collect such information only on the basis of the requirements contained in the 
product information. 
•  Additional risk minimisation measure (i.e. educational material for healthcare professionals) 
aimed to: 
-  Reinforce the information on the risk of hypersensitivity including anaphylaxis and ADA 
development impacting response to drug  
-  Encourage healthcare professionals to enrol patients in the prospective disease and clinical 
outcome registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase (LAL) Deficiency to monitor for efficacy 
and safety of Kanuma (LAL deficiency Registry) 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by the CHMP.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1 submitted on 24 June 2015 with the 
following content: 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 77/87 
  
  
 
Safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis 
Important potential risks 
ADA development impacting response to drug 
Use in patients with egg allergy 
Missing information 
Safety and efficacy in patients older than 65 years of age 
Safety and efficacy in paediatric population 2-4 years of age 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Long-term safety and efficacy data 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
  Study/activity 
  Objectives 
  Safety concerns 
  Status 
  Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
(planned, 
started)  
submission of 
interim or final 
LAL-CL06, 
category 3 
LAL-CL08, 
category 1 
reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
Efficacy and 
  Safety and efficacy 
  Ongoing 
June 2017 
safety; PK 
in a paediatric 
population 2-4 
years of age  
  ADA development 
impacting 
response to drug 
Efficacy and 
Long-term safety 
  Ongoing 
  December 2018                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
safety; PK 
and efficacy data  
  ADA development 
impacting 
response to drug  
  Non-
The objective of 
  Hypersensitivity 
Planned 
interventional, 
the LAL eficiency 
reactions including 
imposed PASS, 
Registry is to use 
anaphylaxis 
category 1 
uniform 
methodology to 
  ADA development 
  An Observational 
collect 
Disease and 
Clinical Outcomes 
Registry of 
Patients with 
Lysosomal Acid 
longitudinal data 
over an extended 
period to provide 
information to: 
Lipase (LAL) 
Further 
Deficiency 
understand the 
(Wolman Disease 
disease, its 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
impacting 
response to drug 
  Safety and efficacy 
in patients older 
than 65 years of 
age 
  Safety and efficacy 
Interim reports 
will be aligned 
with PSUR 
submissions. 
The registry is 
scheduled to run 
10 years; the 
final report will 
be submitted 12 
months after 
completion of the 
registry period. 
Page 78/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Study/activity 
  Objectives 
  Safety concerns 
  Status 
  Date for 
Type, title and 
category (1-3) 
addressed 
(planned, 
started)  
submission of 
interim or final 
reports 
(planned or 
actual) 
and Cholesteryl 
progression and 
in a paediatric 
Ester Storage 
any associated 
population 2-4 
Disease) and 
complication. 
years of age 
Carriers of the 
Disorder 
Evaluate the 
  Use in pregnant or 
lactating women 
Long-term safety 
and efficacy data 
long-term 
efficacy and 
safety of 
sebelipase alfa. 
Evaluate the 
long-term 
effectiveness of 
other potential 
therapeutic and 
supportive 
interventions. 
Improve care 
through 
evidence-based 
patient 
management. 
  Understand the 
relationship 
between LAL 
deficiency and 
access to care. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 79/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
IMPORTANT IDENTIFIED RISKS 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Special  warnings  and  precautions 
Educational 
materials 
including anaphylaxis 
for 
use 
relevant 
for 
reinforcing 
the 
risk  of 
hypersensitivity 
reactions 
hypersensitivity 
including 
including 
anaphylaxis 
are 
anaphylaxis  as  described 
summarised in section 4.4.   
in 
the  SmPC 
to  be 
Undesirable  effects 
related 
to 
hypersensitivity 
reactions 
including  anaphylaxis  are  listed  in 
section 4.8. 
provided 
to  prescribers. 
This 
will 
provide 
consideration  for  antibody 
testing  to  be  facilitated  by 
the MAH. 
IMPORTANT POTENTIAL RISKS 
ADA development impacting 
A  special  warning  to  test  for  the 
Educational 
materials 
response to drug 
presence  of  antibodies  in  cases  of 
reinforcing 
the  potential 
severe infusion reactions or lack or 
risk  of  ADA  development 
loss  of  effect 
is  described 
in 
impacting 
response 
to 
section 4.4.  
Described  in  section  4.8  with  the 
additional  information  about  the 
undesirable effects.   
drug  to  be  provided  to 
prescribers. 
This 
will 
provide  consideration  for 
antibody 
testing 
to  be 
facilitated by the MAH. 
Use in patients with egg allergy 
None 
Table 1.  Section  2.  Qualitative 
and quantitative composition. 
Described 
in 
Section 
4.3 
Contraindications 
Section  4.4  Special  warnings  and 
precautions for use 
MISSING INFORMATION 
Safety and efficacy in patients 
Section  4.2  Posology  and  method 
None 
older than 65 years of age 
of  administration  informs  about 
the  missing  data.  The  absence  of 
data  is  also  described  in  section 
5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties. 
Safety and efficacy in paediatric 
The  absence  of  data 
is  also 
None 
population 2-4 years of age 
described 
in 
Section 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 80/87 
  
  
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk 
measures 
minimisation measures 
Use in pregnant and lactating 
Lack  of  the  clinical  data  during 
None 
women 
pregnancy  and  lactation  is  stated 
in  section  4.6  Fertility,  pregnancy 
and lactation.   
Preclinical safety data pertinent for 
the  use  in  this  population  are 
summarised in section 5.3.   
Long-term safety and efficacy 
KANUMA is only to be 
None 
data 
administered by healthcare 
professionals experienced in the 
management of patients with LAL 
deficiency, other metabolic 
disorders, or chronic liver 
diseases.   
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by 
the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
The  Applicant  submitted  four  studies  to  assess  efficacy  and  safety  of  sebelipase  alfa  ERT  in 
treatment  of  LAL  deficiency,  both  in  typical  exon  8  splice-junction  mutation  c.849G>A  patients 
(mainly  children  and  adults)  and  Wolman  disease  sufferers  (infants  with  the  rapidly  progressing 
form of LAL deficiency, not living past the age of 6 months),  
-  LAL-CL01/04; a dose-escalation and associated extension study in adults 
-  LAL-CL02: A PII/PIII placebo controlled study in adults and children 
-  LAL-CL03: A PII study in infants with Wolman disease 
As  there  was  no  ethical  possibility  to  have  a  placebo-controlled  trial  in  Wolman  disease,  the 
Applicant  also  ran  a  natural  history  study  by  collecting  historical  data  on  prior  Wolman  sufferers 
(LAL-1-NH01) in order to provide supportive arguments that sebelipase alfa has a positive efficacy 
on the disease. 
Generally the results observed in the pivotal trials were positive, with significant improvements in 
survival for infants, in molecular markers of LAL deficiency and in makers such as hepato-histology, 
growth, liver size and QOL. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 81/87 
  
  
 
 
 
The molecular markers for efficacy across all trials included transaminases and serum lipids, all of 
which  were  expected  to  decrease  as  treatment  took  effect.  This  was  indeed  observed  in  all  trials 
and in the majority of subjects receiving ERT, to reach near normal levels with treatment relative 
to  baseline.  Additionally,  reversibility  of  the  effects on  the  molecular  markers  was  apparent  when 
treatment  was  stopped  as  seen  in  study  LAL-CL02  and  in  subjects  enrolled  in  LAL-CL01  and  its 
extension phase LAL-CL04. 
Due  to  the  inherent  nature  of  the  disease  intra-study  analysis  was  limited  to  side-by-side 
comparisons  between  trials,  the  same  trends  and  observations  were  seen  in  efficacy  outcomes 
between the studies.  
Data  from  adults  and  children  from  study  LAL-CL02,  (liver  volume,  histopathology  and  spleen  fat 
content analysis) showed marked improvements compared to their status at study enrolment. 
Additional  confirmation  on  the  efficacy  of  sebelipase  alfa  as  ERT  is  provided  from  the  open-label 
phase  in  LAL-CL02  where  participants  receiving  placebo  during  the  double  blind  phase  were 
switched to active treatment. The efficacy seen in these patients was similar to the efficacy shown 
in subjects receiving the active treatment arm during the former phase. 
In  infants  with  Wolman  disease  enrolled  in  LAL-CL03  similar  improvements  were  seen,  but  more 
impressive was the improvement in survival of infants with LAL deficiency for which no treatment 
was available up until now. In this study 6 of the 9 subjects attained the primary efficacy endpoint 
of surviving to 12 months of age, with one child living to almost three years of age at data cut-off.  
Furthermore, the majority of patients saw marked improvements in their growth indicators, which 
is  also  of  clinical  relevance,  as  Wolman  disease  is  associated  with  stunted  growth  and  failure  to 
thrive.  Other  beneficial  efficacy  effects  seen  throughout  the  various  trials  are  marked 
improvements in various QOL indicators, as well as laboratory values. 
The  results  seen  in  infants  with  Wolman  disease  are  of  clinical  importance  is  corroborated  by  the 
results  of  the  natural  history  study,  in  which  Wolman  patients  in  general  die  before  the  age  of  6 
months, even when experimental and inherently high-risk treatments like hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation are attempted. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
LAL  deficiency  is  a  rare  disease,  thus  the  efficacy  data  provided  is  rather  limited  in  quantity  and 
duration.  
In this respect, dosing decisions were based on the limited data set. Thus the starting dose in the 
infants  trial  was  selected  based  on  the  established  minimally  effective  dose  in  nonclinical  studies 
(0.35 mg/kg qw), to be up-titrated to 1 mg/kg in order to allow rapid further dose escalation if the 
response would be suboptimal.  
In  infants  with  Wolman  disease  a  1  mg/kg  qw  dosing  is  currently  recommended.  However,  most 
children  in  the  LAL-CL03  trial  were  on  a  3  mg/kg  qw  dose  at  data  cut-off.  Nevertheless,  it  was 
finally considered to recommend 1 mg/kg qw dose, with possibility of up titration to a 3 mg/kg qw 
dosing, when necessary based on clinical response. This dose can also be de-escalated to 1 mg/kg 
qw once the child is stable or if adverse events would occur.  
Due  to  the  high  medial  need  of  an  effective  treatment,  an  accelerated  procedure,  was  granted 
while  trials  are  ongoing.  The  study  LAL-CL06  in  infants  with  Wolman  disease  will  provide  further 
insight in the long term efficacy and related posology.  
Due  to the  limited population  numbers  inherent  to  the  orphan  disease,  coupled  with  the  fact that 
the  underlying  genetic  cause  is  not  yet  fully  understood  (particularly  in  the  aspect  of  whether 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 82/87 
  
  
 
different  mutations  might  have  disease  characteristic  differences),  there  is  a  need  to  continue 
gathering long term efficacy information in all patients, particularly in infants.  
In Wolman infants, around 30% (n=3) of the subjects did not reach the primary efficacy endpoint 
of living to or past 12 months of age. The causes of death were considered not directly due to the 
ERT,  as  two  of  the  subjects’  deaths  implicated  possible  liver  function.  Given  that  LAL  deficiency 
does often lead to liver issues and failure, it remains an open question whether these deaths might 
have  possibly  been  due  to  lack  of  sufficient  efficacy.  Autopsy  and  medical  data  revealed  however 
that  the  patients  had  severe  comorbidities  that  were  more  likely  to be  implicated  in  the  subjects’ 
deaths. 
There is a lack of certainty is the immunogenic response of the body to the ERT treatment and the 
possible  effects  on  efficacy.  In  LAL-CL02  5  of  the  33  subjects  developed  ADAs  in  response  to 
treatment,  with  one  subject  also  testing  positive  for  cellular  uptake  neutralizing  antibodies. 
Nevertheless,  none  of  the  subjects  showed  signs  of  diminished  efficacy,  but  given  the  extremely 
limited  amount  of  subjects  it  is  not  possible  to  draw  definite  conclusions  on  the  impact  of  the 
immunogenic responses.  
In  children  about  half  of  the  subjects  developed  persistent  ADAs,  with  two  subjects  developing 
neutralizing antibodies. In general subjects continued to show efficacy at doses of 3 mg/kg, except 
for one of the subjects with neutralizing ABs whom needed an up-titration to 5 mg/kg due to signs 
of growth retardation. 
Finally, there is also limited data in children especially between 2 and 4 years of age, however the 
study LAL-CL06 ongoing has completed enrolment and will provide further efficacy data in children 
in the post authorisation setting. 
In summary, long-term efficacy and long-term impact of factors such as immunogenic responses, 
impact on  the  underlying gene  mutation  origin of  the  disease  remains  to  be  further  characterised 
inthe post-approval setting. 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
The  safety  profile  is  based  on  a  total  of  106  subjects  with  LAL  deficiency  that  have  received 
treatment with sebelipase alfa, including 14 infants (<2 years), 57 children (24 ≥2years and <12 
years, 23 ≥12 years and <18 years), and 33 adults. 
The safety exposure remains limited due to the orphan disease, especially in Wolman infants.  
In general the treatment has proven to be safe and serious safety issues were rare or manageable. 
A number of reactions to sebelipase alfa were observed, among which a transient hyperlipidaemia, 
which occurred across all trials after starting treatment and which is more than likely a result of the 
mobilisation of, accumulated cellular fat content.  
Hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reactions and Infusion Adverse Reactions were also observed in the 
vast majority of patients. Nine of 14 (64%) infants and 12 of 92 (13%) children and adults patients 
experienced signs and symptoms either consistent with or that may be related to a hypersensitivity 
reaction. 
In clinical studies, three patients of 106 (3%) patients treated, including 1 of 14 (7%) infants and 
2 of 92 (2%) children and adults experienced signs and symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis. 
ADA  positive  tests  were  observed  in  all  age  groups.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  ADA  positive 
was more common among infants compared with children and adults and the median time to first 
ADA  positive  result  increased  to  approximately  70.5  days.  All  subjects  were  able  to  continue 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 83/87 
  
  
 
treatment without interruption. The age group with the highest proportion of ADA positive subjects 
was infants < 2 years of age (35.7% positive). 
No  apparent  trend  was  observed  with  most  of  the  AEs  being  mild  to  moderate  and  transient  or 
manageable with adequate care.  
The incidence was higher in but no differences across age groups were noted in laboratory data nor 
vital signs. 
Three subjects died before data cut-off, all infants in LAL-CL03, but none of the deaths was judged 
as being directly related to treatment related adverse events. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The number of patients across the trials from the safety analysis remains very low and that long-
term safety data relative to a lifelong treatment is also available at this moment. 
Therefore it is currently not possible to ascertain effects of mutation status and other demographic 
factors such as ethnicity on safety parameters. 
Similarly,  the  effects  of  immunogenic  responses  to  recombinant  enzyme  infusion  in  regards  to 
safety and PK and especially on long term basis are currently unknown. 
No specific studies have been performed to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of sebelipase in patients 
with decreased renal function. Because sebelipase alfa is a recombinant human LAL enzyme, renal 
excretion is not expected to represent major elimination route. 
No drug-drug PK interaction studies have been undertaken, but patients were allowed to continue 
using  LLM  treatments  during  their  participation  and  no  impact  on  neither  efficacy  nor  safety  was 
observed. 
In the clinical trials there were cases of bradycardia, however given the limited populations and the 
significant amount of co-morbidities seen in the affected subjects it remains unclear whether these 
observations  might  be  indicative  of  a  CV  risk  signal  or  not,  and  further  monitoring  is  thus 
recommended through the registry. 
Since  no  pregnant  subjects  were  amongst  the  study  populations  the  effect  on  clinical  safety  for 
both mother and foetus are not known at this time. 
Overall, there is a need to further monitor the long term safety in the post authorisation setting in 
relation  to  hypersensitivity  reactions,  anaphylaxis  and  antidrug  antibodies  in  all  patients.  This  will 
be done through a disease registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency. 
Additionally  the  ongoing  clinical  study  in  infants  (LAL-CL06)  is  considered  key  to  benefit  risk  to 
further monitor the efficacy and safety profile in infants with Wolman disease. 
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
There  is  currently  no  known  effective  treatment  for  the  debilitating  and  severely  QOL  impacting 
effects of LAL deficiency, especially for patients with the rapid progressing form of the disease (also 
known  as  Wolman  disease).  These  patients  have  a  life  expectancy  of  less  than  6  months  of  age 
therefore there is a clear and urgent need for an effective and safe treatment for patients with LAL 
deficiency. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Due to the inherent nature of this orphan disease the number of eligible subjects for clinical trials, 
is  reflected  in  the  low  number  of  subjects  and  limited  data  provided  for  efficacy  and  safety 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 84/87 
  
  
 
 
assessment. The urgent medical need for treatment, together with promising results, was granted 
an accelerated assessment by the CHMP.  
It  is  considered  that  the  efficacy  and  safety  data  provided  constitute  a  comprehensive  safety 
package  justifying  a  full  marketing  authorisation  as  information  are  provided  on  all  ages  groups 
and in various stage of the disease.  
In  conclusion,  sebelipase  alfa  treatment  gave  rise  to  positive  results  on  the  main  efficacy 
endpoints,  consistent  across  different  trials,  with  impressive  results  in  survival  in  infants  with 
Wolman disease. 
In general the treatment has proven to be safe and serious issues were rare. The safety exposure 
remains limited due to the orphan disease, especially in Wolman infants. 
Nevertheless,  there  is  a  need  to  further  monitor  the  long  term  efficacy  and  safety  in  the  post 
authorisation setting in particular assessment of liver function (efficacy), hypersensitivity reactions, 
anaphylaxis  and  antidrug  antibodies  (safety)  in  all  patients.  This  will  be  done  through  a  disease 
registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency. 
Additionally  the  ongoing  clinical  study  in  infants  (LAL-CL06)  is  considered  key  to  benefit  risk  to 
further characterise the long term efficacy and safety profile in infants with Wolman disease. 
Thus  the  combination  of  the  urgent  medical  need  for  treatment  and  the  positive  efficacy  results 
observed,  together  with  post-approval  study  monitoring  of  long  term  efficacy  and  safety,  allows 
concluding  that  the  data  package  is  sufficient  to  demonstrate  a  positive  benefit-risk  balance  is  in 
patients with LAL deficiency in all age groups. 
Conclusions 
The overall Benefit risk of Kanuma is positive in patients of all ages diagnosed with LAL deficiency.  
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Kanuma for long-term enzyme replacement therapy 
(ERT) in patients of all ages with lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency is favourable and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic safety update reports  
• 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are 
set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 85/87 
  
  
 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Kanuma in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational material including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The educational material is aimed to encourage healthcare professionals to enrol patients in the 
prospective disease and clinical outcome registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase (LAL) 
Deficiency to monitor for efficacy and safety of Kanuma (LAL deficiency Registry), with particular 
regard to hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, and anti-drug antibodies (ADA) 
development impacting response to drug. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Kanuma is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to use Kanuma have access to the educational material. The 
educational material should contain: 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics  
•  Guide for healthcare professionals   
The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Warning and precautions on the the risk of hypersensitivity including anaphylaxis or ADA 
development, with particular reference to symptoms, time to onset and severity.  
Information on how to manage patients experiencing severe hypersensitivity reactions including 
• 
anaphylaxis. 
•  Details on how to monitor for potential ADA formation following initiation of treatment with 
Kanuma, particularly in patients on Kanuma who experience clinically important hypersensitivity 
reactions or potential loss of clinical response. 
Information to healthcare professionals that it is the responsibility of the MAH to provide the 
• 
test for the monitoring of ADA positive patients including the modalities for requesting the test. 
Information on the ongoing LAL deficiency Registry, including the importance of enrolling 
• 
patients, also those not treated with Kanuma, and the modalities for participation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 86/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures  
The MAH shall complete, the measures described below:  
Description  
Due date 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS) : LAL deficiency 
Interim reports 
Registry: Non-interventional, multicentre, prospective disease and clinical 
expected yearly 
outcome registry of patients with Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency to further 
within PSURs 
understand the disease, its progression and any associated complication, and 
to evaluate the long-term efficacy  (normalisation of hepatic function)  and 
Final study 
safety of Kanuma (in particular hypersensitivity reactions, including 
report expected 
anaphylaxis, and anti-drug antibodies development potentially impacting 
in Jan 2027 
response to drug) according to agreed protocol.  
Study LAL-CL08: an open-label, Phase 2 study in infants with rapidly 
Final study 
progressive LAL deficiency to explore long-term safety and efficacy data. The 
report expected 
efficacy objectives are assessment of hepatic function over time up to 3 years 
in December 
and survival at 12 months.  The safety objectives should focus to 
2018 
hypersensitivity reactions, particularly anti-drug antibodies development 
impacting response to drug. 
4.1.  Proposed list of post-authorisation measures 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality properties of the active substance, the CHMP 
considers that sebelipase alfa is qualified as a new active substance. 
Paediatric Data 
Furthermore, the CHMP reviewed the available paediatric data of studies subject to the agreed 
Paediatric Investigation Plan P/0179/2014 and the results of these studies are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/514387/2015 
Page 87/87 
  
  
 
 
 
 
