EMA/514301/2015  
EMEA/H/C/004004 
EPAR summary for the public 
Kanuma 
sebelipase alfa 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Kanuma. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Kanuma. 
For practical information about using Kanuma, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Kanuma and what is it used for? 
Kanuma is a medicine used to treat patients of all ages with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency. This is an 
inherited disease caused by the lack of an enzyme called lysosomal acid lipase, which is needed to 
break down fats within cells. When the enzyme is absent or present only in low levels, fats accumulate 
in the body’s cells, causing symptoms such as growth failure and liver damage. 
Because the number of patients with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency is low, the disease is considered 
‘rare’, and Kanuma was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 17 
December 2010. 
Kanuma contains the active substance sebelipase alfa. 
How is Kanuma used? 
Treatment with Kanuma should be supervised by a doctor experienced in the treatment of lysosomal 
acid lipase deficiency, other metabolic diseases or liver diseases. Treatment should be given by a 
trained healthcare professional who can manage medical emergencies (such as a severe allergy).  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Kanuma is available as a concentrate to be made into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein.  
The recommended dose is 1 mg per kilogram body weight given once every other week. The infusion 
should last around 1 to 2 hours.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In patients who have rapidly progressing disease before 6 months of age, a dose of 1 mg/kg is given 
once a week instead of once every other week; in these patients the dose can be increased to 3 mg/kg 
once a week depending on the response to treatment.  
Kanuma should be started as early as possible after diagnosis and is intended for long-term use. 
How does Kanuma work? 
The active substance in Kanuma, sebelipase alfa, is a copy of the enzyme that is lacking in patients 
with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency. Sebelipase alfa replaces the missing enzyme, helping to break 
down fats and stopping them building up in the body’s cells. 
What benefits of Kanuma have been shown in studies? 
Kanuma has been studied in 2 main studies in patients with lysosomal acid lipase deficiency. The first 
study involved 9 infants with growth failure or other evidence of rapidly progressing disease in their 
first 6 months of life. The study showed that 6 out of the 9 infants given Kanuma survived to 1 year of 
age. Growth improvements were also observed in all 6 surviving infants. 
The second study involved 66 patients (children and adults) and compared Kanuma with placebo  
(a dummy treatment). The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients who achieved 
normal levels of a liver enzyme called ALT after 5 months of treatment. High levels of ALT enzymes are 
a sign of liver damage. In this study, 31% of the patients given Kanuma (11 out of 36) achieved 
normal levels of ALT enzymes, compared with 7% of the patients given placebo (2 out of 30). 
What are the risks associated with Kanuma? 
The most serious side effects with Kanuma (seen in around 3 patients in 100) are signs and symptoms 
of severe allergic reactions. These include chest discomfort, red eyes, eyelid swelling, difficulty 
breathing, itchy rash, hives, flushing, runny nose, rapid heartbeat and rapid breathing. Development of 
antibodies against the medicine has also been reported especially in infants. If antibodies develop, 
Kanuma may not work effectively. For the full list of all side effects reported with Kanuma, see the 
package leaflet. 
Kanuma must not be used in patients who have had a life-threatening allergic reaction to the active 
substance which re-occurred after stopping and starting treatment again. It must also not be used in 
patients with life-threatening allergy to eggs or any of Kanuma’s ingredients. 
Why is Kanuma approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Kanuma’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Committee 
noted the lack of any effective treatments for lysosomal acid lipase deficiency and the high mortality in 
infants with rapidly progressing disease. The CHMP considered that Kanuma led to significant 
improvements in survival in infants, and was effective at improving symptoms of the disease in 
patients of all ages. Regarding safety, no major issues have been identified and serious side effects 
were rare or manageable. However, further data are needed on the long-term benefits and safety of 
the medicine. 
Kanuma  
EMA/514301/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kanuma? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Kanuma is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Kanuma, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Kanuma is carrying out a study in infants with rapidly 
progressing disease and will set-up a registry of patients of all ages to obtain further information on 
the long-term benefits and safety of Kanuma, in particular on the risk of allergic reactions and the 
development of antibodies against the medicine. The company will also provide educational material to 
all doctors expected to prescribe Kanuma, encouraging them to enroll patients in the registry and 
informing them of how to monitor patients for antibodies and manage patients who develop severe 
allergic reactions. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Kanuma 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Kanuma on 28 August 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Kanuma can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Kanuma, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Kanuma can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2015. 
Kanuma  
EMA/514301/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
