Summary of Risk Management Plan for Kapruvia (difelikefalin) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Kapruvia. The RMP details 
important risks of Kapruvia, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about Kapruvia’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).  
Kapruvia’s  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  Package  Leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Kapruvia should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for Kapruvia should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Kapruvia's RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Kapruvia  is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  moderate-to-severe  pruritus  associated  with 
CKD in adult patients on haemodialysis. It contains difelikefalin as the active substance 
and is given as 50 micrograms/ml solution for injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Kapruvia’s benefits can be found in Kapruvia’s 
European  Public  Assessment  Report  (EPAR),  including  in  its  plain-language  summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kapruvia 
II.  Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important  risks  of  Kapruvia,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the 
proposed studies for learning more information about Kapruvia’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
Package Leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and in an enhanced manner using specific follow-up Target Questionnaires, and regularly 
analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment, so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that can affect the safe use of Kapruvia is not yet available, it is 
listed under missing information below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Kapruvia are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Kapruvia.  Potential  risks  are 
concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on 
available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.,  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac failure and arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation in 
haemodialysis patients with a medical history of atrial fibrillation 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Use in patients with impaired blood brain barrier 
Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important Potential Risk: Cardiac failure and arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation in 
haemodialysis patients with a medical history of atrial fibrillation 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
There is currently insufficient evidence to conclude a causal association between 
cardiac events (including AF in haemodialysis patient with a medical history of 
AF) and difelikefalin administration. Data from Phase 3 interventional studies 
showed small numerical differences in serious events of cardiac failure and 
cardiac arrhythmias and numerically increased relative risk of TEAEs in the 
Cardiac Disorders SOC in subjects with a medical history of atrial fibrillation that 
disfavoured difelikefalin compared to placebo. 
CKD patients undergoing HD have a markedly increased CV risk, which is likely 
to be further impacted by CKD-aP. Clinical data shows that there is inadequate 
evidence of an association with difelikefalin and an increased risk of cardiac 
related events in subjects with CKD-aP undergoing HD, including HD subjects 
with a medical history of AF. Based on a quantitative analysis, there was a 
numerically increased relative risk (difelikefalin versus placebo) of TEAEs in the 
Cardiac Disorders SOC in subjects with a medical history of AF. There was no 
other subgroup of subjects identified with increased susceptibility to serious 
cardiac TEAEs with difelikefalin use. No other clinically important pre-existing 
risk factors (e.g. age, gender, race and medical history of cardiac failure, 
hypertension, or hyperkalaemia) were identified from the clinical trial population. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.4; PIL Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medication 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Missing Information: Use in pregnant or lactating women 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.6; PIL Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Missing Information: Use in patients with impaired blood brain barrier 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.4; PIL Section 2 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Missing Information: Use in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
•  SmPC Section 4.2; PIL Section 3 
•  Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Notes:  CKD=Chronic kidney disease; CKD-aP=Chronic kidney disease–associated pruritus; CV=Cardiovascular; 
HD=Haemodialysis; PIL=Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC=Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C  Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1  Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  that  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  a  specific 
obligation for Kapruvia. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
CR845-310301 
A Multicentre, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled 12-Week Study to Evaluate 
the Safety and Efficacy of Oral Difelikefalin in Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Subjects 
with Moderate-to-Severe Pruritus and not on Dialysis with an up to 52-Week Long-term 
Extension. 
CR845-310302  
A Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled 12-Week Study to Evaluate 
the Safety and Efficacy of Oral Difelikefalin in Advanced Chronic Kidney Disease Subjects 
with Moderate-to-Severe Pruritus and not on Dialysis with an up to 52-Week Long-term 
Extension. 
Phase  3:  A  Two-part,  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Double-blind  Study  to  Evaluate  the 
Efficacy and Safety of Oral Difelikefalin as Adjunct Therapy to a Topical Corticosteroid 
for Moderate-to-Severe Pruritus in Adult Subjects with Atopic Dermatitis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
