EMA/428490/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000221 
EPAR summary for the public 
Karvezide 
irbesartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Karvezide. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Karvezide. 
What is Karvezide? 
Karvezide is a medicine that contains two active substances, irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. It is 
available as tablets (150 mg or 300 mg irbesartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide; 300 mg 
irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide). 
What is Karvezide used for? 
Karvezide is used in adults who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not 
adequately controlled by irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide alone. ‘Essential’ means that the 
hypertension has no obvious cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Karvezide used? 
The dose of Karvezide to be used depends on the dose of irbesartan or hydrochlorothiazide that the 
patient was taking before. Doses higher than 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide once a 
day are not recommended. Karvezide may be added to some other treatments for hypertension. 
How does Karvezide work? 
Karvezide contains two active substances, irbesartan and hydrochlorothiazide. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Irbesartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a 
hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance 
that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, 
irbesartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic, which is another type of treatment for hypertension. It works by 
increasing urine output, reducing the amount of fluid in the blood and lowering the blood pressure. 
The combination of the two active substances has an additive effect, reducing the blood pressure more 
than either medicine alone. By lowering the blood pressure, the risks associated with high blood 
pressure, such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
How has Karvezide been studied? 
Irbesartan on its own has been approved in the European Union (EU) since 1997 under the names 
Karvea and Aprovel. It can be used with hydrochlorothiazide to treat hypertension. The studies of 
Karvea/Aprovel used with hydrochlorothiazide as separate tablets were used to support the use of 
Karvezide. Further studies were also carried out with doses of 300 mg irbesartan in combination with 
25 mg hydrochlorothiazide. The main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in diastolic blood 
pressure (the blood pressure measured between two heartbeats). 
What benefit has Karvezide shown during the studies? 
Karvezide was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) and than hydrochlorothiazide alone 
in reducing diastolic blood pressure. Increasing the dose to 300 mg irbesartan and 25 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide may give a further decrease in blood pressure. 
What is the risk associated with Karvezide? 
The most common side effects with Karvezide (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
dizziness, nausea (feeling sick) or vomiting, abnormal urination, fatigue (tiredness), and increases in 
blood urea nitrogen (BUN, a breakdown product of protein), creatinine (a breakdown product of 
muscle) and creatine kinase (an enzyme found in muscles). For the full list of all side effects reported 
with Karvezide, see the package leaflet. 
Karvezide must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to irbesartan, 
hydrochlorothiazide, sulfonamides, or any of the other ingredients. It must not be used in women who 
are more than three months pregnant. Its use during the first three months of pregnancy is not 
recommended. Karvezide must also not be used in patients who have severe liver, kidney or bile 
problems, blood potassium levels that are too low or blood calcium levels that are too high. 
Karvezide in combination with aliskiren-containing medicines (used to treat essential hypertension) 
must not be used in patients with diabetes, or moderate or severe kidney impairment. Care must be 
taken when using Karvezide with other medicines that have an effect on blood potassium levels. The 
full list of these medicines is given in the package leaflet. 
Why has Karvezide been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Karvezide’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Karvezide  
EMA/428490/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Karvezide 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Karvezide on 
16 October 1998.  
The full EPAR for Karvezide can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Karvezide, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2013. 
Karvezide  
EMA/428490/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
