ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kauliv 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection  
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each dose of 80 microliters contains 20 micrograms of teriparatide*. 
Each cartridge of 3 mL of solution contains 750 micrograms of teriparatide (corresponding to 
250 micrograms per mL).  
*Teriparatide, rhPTH (1-34), produced in E. coli, using recombinant DNA technology, is identical to 
the 34-N-terminal amino acid sequence of endogenous human parathyroid hormone. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection.  
Colourless, clear solution for injection. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1.  Therapeutic indications 
Kauliv is indicated in adults. 
Treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased risk of fracture (see 
section 5.1). In postmenopausal women, a significant reduction in the incidence of vertebral and non-
vertebral fractures but not hip fractures has been demonstrated. 
Treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and 
men at increased risk for fracture (see section 5.1). 
4.2.  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Kauliv is 20 micrograms administered once daily. 
Patients should receive supplemental calcium and vitamin D supplements if dietary intake is 
inadequate. 
The maximum total duration of treatment with teriparatide should be 24 months (see section 4.4). The 
24-month course of teriparatide should not be repeated over a patient’s lifetime. 
Following cessation of teriparatide therapy, patients may be continued on other osteoporosis therapies. 
Special populations 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
Dose adjustment based on age is not required (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Teriparatide must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (see section 4.3). In patients 
with moderate renal impairment, teriparatide should be used with caution. No special caution is 
required for patients with mild renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
No data are available in patients with impaired hepatic function (see section 5.3). Therefore, 
teriparatide should be used with caution. 
Paediatric population and young adults with open epiphyses 
The safety and efficacy of teriparatide in children and adolescents less than 18 years have not been 
established. Teriparatide should not be used in paediatric patients (less than 18 years), or young adults 
with open epiphyses. 
Method of administration 
Kauliv should be administered once daily by subcutaneous injection in the thigh or abdomen. 
Patients must be trained to use the proper injection techniques (see section 6.6). For instructions of the 
medicinal product before administration (see section 6.6). Instructions for use which is included in the 
carton of the pen are also available to instruct patients on the correct use of the pen. 
4.3.  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). 
Pre-existing hypercalcaemia. 
Severe renal impairment. 
Metabolic bone diseases (including hyperparathyroidism and Paget’s disease of the bone) other 
than primary osteoporosis or glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. 
Unexplained elevations of alkaline phosphatase. 
Prior external beam or implant radiation therapy to the skeleton. 
Patients with skeletal malignancies or bone metastases should be excluded from treatment with 
teriparatide. 
4.4.  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered medicinal product should be clearly recorded. 
Serum and urine calcium 
In normocalcaemic patients, slight and transient elevations of serum calcium concentrations have been 
observed following teriparatide injection. Serum calcium concentrations reach a maximum between 
4 and 6 hours and return to baseline by 16 to 24 hours after each dose of teriparatide. Therefore, if 
blood samples for serum calcium measurements are taken, this should be done at least 16 hours after 
the most recent teriparatide injection. Routine calcium monitoring during therapy is not required. 
Teriparatide may cause small increases in urinary calcium excretion, but the incidence of 
hypercalciuria did not differ from that in the placebo-treated patients in clinical trials. 
Urolithiasis 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teriparatide has not been studied in patients with active urolithiasis. Teriparatide should be used with 
caution in patients with active or recent urolithiasis because of the potential to exacerbate this 
condition. 
Orthostatic hypotension 
In short-term clinical  
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
4.5.  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
In a study of 15 healthy subjects administered digoxin daily to steady state, a single teriparatide dose 
did not alter the cardiac effect of digoxin. However, sporadic case reports have suggested that 
hypercalcaemia may predispose patients to digitalis toxicity. Because teriparatide transiently increases 
serum calcium, teriparatide should be used with caution in patients taking digitalis. 
Teriparatide has been evaluated in pharmacodynamic interaction studies with hydrochlorothiazide. No 
clinically significant interactions were noted. 
Co-administration of raloxifene or hormone replacement therapy with teriparatide did not alter the 
effects of teriparatide on serum or urine calcium or on clinical adverse events. 
4.6.  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in females  
Women of childbearing potential should use effective methods of contraception during use of 
teriparatide. If pregnancy occurs, Kauliv should be discontinued. 
Pregnancy 
Kauliv is contraindicated for use during pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breast-feeding  
Kauliv is contraindicated for use during breast-feeding. It is not known whether teriparatide is 
excreted in human milk. 
Fertility 
Studies in rabbits have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The effect of teriparatide on 
human foetal development has not been studied. The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
4.7.  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Kauliv has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Transient, orthostatic 
hypotension or dizziness was observed in some patients. These patients should refrain from driving or 
the use of machines until symptoms have subsided. 
4.8.  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients treated with teriparatide are nausea, pain in 
limbs, headache and dizziness. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Of patients in the teriparatide trials, 82.8% of the teriparatide patients and 84.5% of the placebo 
patients reported at least 1 adverse event. 
The adverse reactions associated with the use of teriparatide in osteoporosis clinical trials and post-
marketing exposure are summarised in the table below. 
The following convention has been used for the classification of the adverse reactions: very common 
(≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100), and rare (≥1/10 000 to 
<1/1 000). 
Table 1. Adverse reactions 
MedDRA system organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reactions 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders  Common 
Anaemia 
Immune system disorders 
Rare 
Anaphylaxis 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common 
Hypercholesterolaemia 
Uncommon 
Hypercalcaemia greater than  
2.76 mmol/L, hyperuricaemia 
Rare 
Hypercalcaemia greater than  
3.25 mmol/L 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Depression 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Dizziness, headache, sciatica, syncope 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Common 
Vertigo 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Palpitations 
Uncommon 
Tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Hypotension 
Respiratory, thoracic and  
mediastinal disorders 
Common 
Dyspnoea 
Uncommon 
Emphysema 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Nausea, vomiting, hiatus hernia, 
gastro-oesophageal reflux disease 
Uncommon 
Haemorrhoids 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  Common 
Sweating increased 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Very common  Pain in limb 
Common 
Muscle cramps 
Uncommon 
Myalgia, arthralgia, back cramp/pain* 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
Urinary incontinence, polyuria, 
micturition urgency, nephrolithiasis 
Rare 
Renal failure/impairment 
Common 
Fatigue, chest pain, asthenia, 
mild and transient injection site events, 
including pain, swelling, erythema, 
localised bruising, pruritus and 
minor bleeding at injection site 
General disorders and  
administration site condition 
Uncommon 
Injection site erythema,  
injection site reaction 
Rare 
Possible allergic events soon after injection: 
acute dyspnoea, oro/facial oedema, 
generalised urticaria, chest pain,  
oedema (mainly peripheral) 
Investigations 
Uncommon 
Weight increased, 
cardiac murmur, 
alkaline phosphatase increased 
*Serious cases of back cramp or pain have been reported within minutes of the injection. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In clinical trials the following reactions were reported at a ≥1% difference in frequency from placebo: 
vertigo, nausea, pain in limb, dizziness, depression, dyspnoea. 
Teriparatide increases serum uric acid concentrations. In clinical trials, 2.8% of teriparatide patients 
had serum uric acid concentrations above the upper limit of normal compared with 0.7% of placebo 
patients. However, the hyperuricaemia did not result in an increase in gout, arthralgia, or urolithiasis. 
Anti-drug antibodies if any are likely to be observed in line with other teriparatide containing 
medicinal products. There was no evidence of hypersensitivity reactions, allergic reactions, effects on 
serum calcium, or effects on Bone Mineral Density (BMD) response. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9.  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Teriparatide has been administered in single doses of up to 100 micrograms and in repeated doses of 
up to 60 micrograms/day for 6 weeks. 
The effects of overdose that might be expected include delayed hypercalcaemia and risk of orthostatic 
hypotension. Nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and headache can also occur. 
Overdose experience based on post-marketing spontaneous reports 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In post-marketing spontaneous reports, there have been cases of medication error where the entire 
contents (up to 750 micrograms) of a teriparatide pen have been administered as a single dose. 
Transient events reported have included nausea, weakness/lethargy and hypotension. In some cases, 
no adverse events occurred as a result of the overdose. No fatalities associated with overdose have 
been reported. 
Overdose management 
There is no specific antidote for teriparatide. Treatment of suspected overdose should include 
transitory discontinuation of teriparatide, monitoring of serum calcium, and implementation of 
appropriate supportive measures, such as hydration. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1.  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Calcium homeostasis, parathyroid hormones and analogues, ATC code: 
H05AA02 
Kauliv is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the 
European Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Endogenous 84-amino -acid parathyroid hormone (PTH) is the primary regulator of calcium and 
phosphate metabolism in bone and kidney. Teriparatide (rh PTH (1-34)) is the active fragment (1-34) 
of endogenous human parathyroid hormone. Physiological actions of PTH include stimulation of bone 
formation by direct effects on bone forming cells (osteoblasts) indirectly increasing the intestinal 
absorption of calcium and increasing the tubular re-absorption of calcium and excretion of phosphate 
by the kidney. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Teriparatide is a bone formation agent to treat osteoporosis. The skeletal effects of teriparatide depend 
upon the pattern of systemic exposure. Once-daily administration of teriparatide increases apposition 
of new bone on trabecular and cortical bone surfaces by preferential stimulation of osteoblastic 
activity over osteoclastic activity. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Risk factors 
Independent risk factors, for example, low BMD, age, the existence of previous fracture, family 
history of hip fractures, high bone turnover and low body mass index should be considered in order to 
identify women and men at increased risk of osteoporotic fractures who could benefit from treatment. 
Premenopausal women with glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis should be considered at high risk for 
fracture if they have a prevalent fracture or a combination of risk factors that place them at high risk 
for fracture (e.g., low bone density [e.g., T-score ≤−2], sustained high dose glucocorticoid therapy 
[e.g., ≥7.5 mg/day for at least 6 months], high underlying disease activity, low sex steroid levels). 
Postmenopausal osteoporosis 
The pivotal study included 1  637 postmenopausal women (mean age 69.5 years). At baseline, ninety 
percent of the patients had one or more vertebral fractures, and on average, vertebral BMD was 
0.82 g/cm2 (equivalent to a T-score = - 2.6). All patients were offered 1 000 mg calcium per day and 
at least  400 IU vitamin D per day. Results from up to 24 months (median:19 months) treatment with 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
teriparatide demonstrate statistically significant fracture reduction (Table 2). To prevent one or more 
new vertebral fractures, 11 women had to be treated for a median of 19 months. 
Table 2. Fracture incidence in postmenopausal women 
New vertebral fracture (≥1)a 
Multiple vertebral fractures (≥1)a 
Non-vertebral fragility fracturesc 
Major non-vertebral fragility fracturesc 
(hip, radius, humerus, ribs and pelvis) 
Placebo 
(N = 544) (%) 
Teriparatide  
(N = 541) (%) 
14.3 
4.9 
5.5% 
3.9% 
5.0b 
1.1b 
2.6%b 
1.5%b 
Relative risk  
(95 % CI) 
Vs. placebo 
0.35 
(0.22, 0.55) 
0.23 
(0.09, 0.60) 
0.47 
(0.25, 0.87) 
0.38 
(0.17, 0.86) 
Abbreviations: N = number of patients randomly assigned to each treatment group; CI = confidence 
interval. 
a  The incidence of vertebral fractures was assessed in 448 placebo and 444 teriparatide patients who 
had baseline and follow-up spine radiographs. 
b  p≤0.001 compared with placebo. 
c  A significant reduction in the incidence of hip fractures has not been demonstrated. 
p≤0.025 compared with placebo. 
After 19 months (median) treatment, BMD had increased in the lumbar spine and total hip, 
respectively, by 9% and 4% compared with placebo (p<0.001). 
Post-treatment management: Following treatment with teriparatide, 1 262 postmenopausal women 
from the pivotal trial enrolled in a post-treatment follow-up study. The primary objective of the study 
was to collect safety data of teriparatide. During this observational period, other osteoporosis 
treatments were allowed, and additional assessment of vertebral fractures was performed. 
During a median of 18 months following discontinuation of teriparatide, there was a 41% reduction 
(p=0.004) compared with placebo in the number of patients with a minimum of one new vertebral 
fracture. 
In an open-label study, 503 postmenopausal women with severe osteoporosis and a fragility fracture 
within the previous 3 years (83% had received previous osteoporosis therapy) were treated with 
teriparatide for up to 24 months. At 24 months, the mean increase from baseline in lumbar spine, total 
hip and femoral neck BMD was 10.5%, 2.6 % and 3.9% respectively. The mean increase in BMD 
from 18 to 24 months was 1.4%, 1.2%, and 1.6% at the lumbar spine, total hip and femoral neck, 
respectively. 
A 24-month, randomised, double-blind, comparator-controlled phase 4 study included 1 360 
postmenopausal women with established osteoporosis. 680 subjects were randomised to teriparatide 
and 680 subjects were randomised to oral risedronate 35 mg/week. At baseline, the women had a mean 
age of 72.1 years and a median of 2 prevalent vertebral fractures; 57.9% of patients had received 
previous bisphosphonate therapy and 18.8% took concomitant glucocorticoids during the study. 1 013 
(74.5%) patients completed the 24-month follow-up. The mean (median) cumulative dose of 
glucocorticoid was 474.3 (66.2) mg in the teriparatide arm and 898.0 (100.0) mg in the risedronate 
arm. The mean (median) vitamin D intake for the teriparatide arm was 1 433 IU/day (1,400 IU/day) 
and for the risedronate arm was 1 191 IU/day ( 900 IU/day). For those subjects who had baseline and 
follow-up spine radiographs, the incidence of new vertebral fractures was 28/516 (5.4%) in 
teriparatide- and 64/533 (12.0%) in risedronate-treated patients, relative risk (95% CI) = 0.44 
(0.29-0.68), p<0.0001. The cumulative incidence of pooled clinical fractures (clinical vertebral and 
non-vertebral fractures) was 4.8% in teriparatide and 9.8% in risedronate-treated patients, hazard ratio 
(95% CI) = 0.48 (0.32-0.74), p = 0.0009. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Male osteoporosis 
437 patients (mean age 58.7 years) were enrolled in a clinical trial for men with hypogonadal (defined 
as low morning free testosterone or an elevated FSH or LH) or idiopathic osteoporosis. Baseline spinal 
and femoral neck BMD mean T-scores were -2.2 and -2.1, respectively. At baseline, 35% of patients 
had a vertebral fracture and 59% had a non-vertebral fracture. 
All patients were offered 1 000 mg calcium per day and at least 400 IU vitamin D per day. Lumbar 
spine BMD significantly increased by 3 months. After 12 months, BMD had increased in the lumbar 
spine and total hip by 5% and 1%, respectively, compared with placebo. However, no significant 
effect on fracture rates was demonstrated. 
Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis 
The efficacy of teriparatide in men and women (N=428) receiving sustained systemic glucocorticoid 
therapy (equivalent to 5 mg or greater of prednisone for at least 3 months) was demonstrated in the 
18-month primary phase of a 36-month, randomised, double-blind, comparator -controlled study 
(alendronate 10 mg/day). Twenty-eight percent of patients had one or more radiographic vertebral 
fractures at baseline. All patients were offered 1 000 mg calcium per day and  800 IU vitamin D per 
day. 
This study included postmenopausal women (N=277), premenopausal women (N=67), and men 
(N=83). At baseline, the postmenopausal women had a mean age of 61 years, mean lumbar spine 
BMD T score of −2.7, median prednisone equivalent dose of 7.5 mg/day, and 34% had one or more 
radiographic vertebral fractures; premenopausal women had a mean age of 37 years, mean lumbar 
spine BMD T score of −2.5, median prednisone equivalent dose of 10 mg/day, and 9% had one or 
more radiographic vertebral fractures; and men had a mean age of 57 years, mean lumbar spine BMD 
T score of −2.2, median prednisone equivalent dose of 10 mg/day, and 24% had one or more 
radiographic vertebral fractures. 
Sixty-nine percent of patients completed the 18-month primary phase. At the 18 month endpoint, 
teriparatide significantly increased lumbar spine BMD (7.2%) compared with alendronate (3.4%) 
(p<0.001). Teriparatide increased BMD at the total hip (3.6%) compared with alendronate (2.2%) 
(p<0.01), as well as at the femoral neck (3.7%) compared with alendronate (2.1%) (p<0.05). In 
patients treated with teriparatide, lumbar spine, total hip and femoral neck BMD increased between 
18 and 24 months by an additional 1.7%, 0.9%, and 0.4%, respectively. 
At 36 months, analysis of spinal X-rays from 169 alendronate patients and 173 teriparatide patients 
showed that 13 patients in the alendronate group (7.7%) had experienced a new vertebral fracture 
compared with 3 patients in the teriparatide group (1.7%) (p=0.01). In addition, 15 of 214 patients in 
the alendronate group (7.0%) had experienced a non-vertebral fracture compared with 16 of 214 
patients in the teriparatide group (7.5%) (p=0.84). 
In premenopausal women, the increase in BMD from baseline to 18 month endpoint was significantly 
greater in the teriparatide group compared with the alendronate group at the lumbar spine (4.2% versus 
−1.9%; p<0.001) and total hip (3.8% versus 0.9%; p=0.005). However, no significant effect on 
fracture rates was demonstrated. 
5.2.  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution is approximately 1.7 L/kg. The half-life of teriparatide is approximately 
1 hour when administered subcutaneously, which reflects the time required for absorption from the 
injection site. 
Biotransformation 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No metabolism or excretion studies have been performed with teriparatide but the peripheral 
metabolism of parathyroid hormone is believed to occur predominantly in liver and kidney. 
Elimination 
Teriparatide is eliminated through hepatic and extra-hepatic clearance (approximately 62 L/hr in 
women and 94 L/hr in men). 
Elderly 
No differences in teriparatide pharmacokinetics were detected with regard to age (range 31 to 
85 years). Dose adjustment based on age is not required. 
5.3.  Preclinical safety data 
Teriparatide was not genotoxic in a standard battery of tests. It produced no teratogenic effects in rats, 
mice or rabbits. There were no important effects observed in pregnant rats or mice administered 
teriparatide at daily doses of 30 to 1 000 micrograms/kg. However, foetal resorption and reduced litter 
size occurred in pregnant rabbits administered daily doses of 3 to 100 micrograms/kg. The 
embryotoxicity observed in rabbits may be related to their much greater sensitivity to the effects of 
PTH on blood ionised calcium compared with rodents. 
Rats treated with near-life time daily injections had dose-dependent exaggerated bone formation and 
increased incidence of osteosarcoma most probably due to an epigenetic mechanism. Teriparatide did 
not increase the incidence of any other type of neoplasia in rats. Due to the differences in bone 
physiology in rats and humans, the clinical relevance of these findings is probably minor. No bone 
tumours were observed in ovariectomised monkeys treated for 18 months or during a 3-year follow-up 
period after treatment cessation. In addition, no osteosarcomas have been observed in clinical trials or 
during the post treatment follow-up study. 
Animal studies have shown that severely reduced hepatic blood flow decreases exposure of PTH to the 
principal cleavage system (Kupffer cells) and consequently clearance of PTH(1-84). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1.  List of excipients 
Glacial acetic acid 
Mannitol 
Metacresol 
Anhydrous sodium acetate 
Diluted hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2.  Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3.  Shelf life 
24 months  
Chemical, physical and microbiological in-use stability has been demonstrated for 28 days at 2 – 8°C. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Once opened, the medicinal product may be stored for a maximum of 28 days within its shelf life at 
2°C to 8°C. After insertion of the cartridge into the pen, the combined pen and cartridge should be 
returned to the refrigerator immediately after use. Do not store the pen with the needle attached. Do 
not remove the cartridge from the pen after first use. The cartridge within the pen can additionally be 
placed in the pouch supplied with the pen in order to protect from light.  
Other in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
6.4.  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).  
Do not freeze. Keep the cartridge in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5.  Nature and contents of container 
3 mL cartridge (USP type-1 glass cartridge), with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl) and disc seal 
(aluminium and rubber liner seals), packed in a plastic tray sealed with lid foil and supplied in a 
carton. 
Each cartridge contains 3 mL solution for injection corresponding to 28 doses of 20 micrograms (per 
80 microliters). 
Pack sizes:  
Kauliv 1 cartridge or 3 cartridges.  
Kauliv cartridge and pen pack: 
1 inner carton of Kauliv cartridge (containing 1 cartridge) and 1 inner carton of Kauliv Pen (containing 
1 pen). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6.  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Handling 
Kauliv cartridges should be used exclusively within Kauliv reusable, multidose pen. No needles are 
supplied with this medicinal product. 
Each cartridge and pen should be used by only one patient. The pen can be used with 32 G 4 mm 
single-use pen needles.  
A new, sterile needle must be used for every injection. 
The expiry date on the cartridge label must always be checked before inserting the cartridge into 
Kauliv pen. To avoid medication errors, make sure that the date when starting to use a new cartridge is 
at least 28 days before its expiry date. 
Before using the pen for the first time, the patient should read and understand the instructions on how 
to use the pen, which are provided with the pen. 
After each injection, the pen should be returned to the refrigerator. After the first use, the cartridge 
should not be removed from the pen during the 28 days of usage. Do not use Kauliv if it is, or has been 
frozen. 
Kauliv must not be transferred to a syringe. Empty cartridges must not be refilled. 
11 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kauliv should not be used if the solution is cloudy, coloured or contains visible particles. 
The date of first injection should be written on the outer carton of Kauliv cartridge (see the provided 
space on the box: “First use“). 
The Kauliv reusable pen features a dose selector with audible clicks and visual indicators to ensure 
correct dose is set for priming (P) and for setting the dose (D). 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Strides Pharma (Cyprus) Ltd. 
Themistokli Dervi, 3 
Julia House, 1st Floor, 
1066, Nicosia,  
Cyprus 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1710/001 [1 cartridge] 
EU/1/22/1710/002 [3 cartridges] 
EU/1/22/1710/003 [cartridge and pen pack] 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION / RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Stelis Biopharma Ltd. (Unit-1) 
Plot no.293 Bommasandra Jigani link Road,  
Jigani Industrial area,  
Anekal Taluk, Bengaluru – 560 105,  
India 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Fairmed Healthcare GmbH 
Maria-Goeppert-Strasse 3 
23562 Luebeck 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR CARTRIDGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kauliv 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection 
teriparatide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dose of 80 microliters contains 20 micrograms of teriparatide. 
Each cartridge contains 28 doses of 20 micrograms (per 80 microliters). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Glacial acetic acid, anhydrous sodium acetate, mannitol, metacresol, water for injections, diluted 
hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) and sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment). See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 cartridge 
3 cartridges 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Use only with Kauliv pen.  
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discard the cartridge 28 days after the first use. Do not remove the cartridge from the pen during the 
28 days of use. The cartridge within the pen can additionally be placed in the pouch supplied with the 
pen in order to protect from light.    
First use: ......................./......................../........................ 
Cartridge 1. ......................./......................../........................ 
Cartridge 2. ......................./......................../........................ 
Cartridge 3. ......................./......................../........................ 
{the grey-shaded text refers to the 3x  pack size} 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the cartridge in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Strides Pharma (Cyprus) Limited 
Themistokli Dervi, 3 
Julia House, 1st Floor, 
1066, Nicosia, 
Cyprus 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1710/001 [1 cartridge] 
EU/1/22/1710/002 [3 cartridges] 
EU/1/22/1710/003 [cartridge and pen pack] 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kauliv 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier to be included 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR CARTRIDGE AND PEN PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kauliv 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection 
teriparatide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dose of 80 microliters contains 20 micrograms of teriparatide. 
Each cartridge contains 28 doses of 20 micrograms (per 80 microliters). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Glacial acetic acid, anhydrous sodium acetate, mannitol, metacresol, water for injections, diluted 
hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) and sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment). See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 Kauliv cartridge 
1 Kauliv pen 
28 doses 
Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
The cartridge and pen pack should be used for treatment initiation.  
Read both the package leaflet of Kauliv cartridge and the instructions for use of the Kauliv Pen before 
use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard the cartridge 28 days after the first use. Do not remove the cartridge from the pen during the 
28 days of use.  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Strides Pharma (Cyprus) Limited 
Themistokli Dervi, 3 
Julia House, 1st Floor, 
1066, Nicosia, 
Cyprus 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1710/003 [cartridge and pen pack] 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Kauliv cartridge and pen 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier to be included 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
LID FOIL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kauliv 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection 
teriparatide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Strides Pharma (Cyprus) Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Subcutaneous use {1X} 
SC use   
   {3X}  
Store in refrigerator 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Kauliv 20 mcg/80 mcL solution for injection 
teriparatide 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
3 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
Store in refrigerator 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Kauliv 20 micrograms/80 microliters solution for injection 
teriparatide 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side affects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.  
-  
-  
-  
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.  
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Kauliv is and what it is used for 
2.   What you need to know before you use Kauliv? 
3.   How to use Kauliv 
4.   Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Kauliv? 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
1.  What Kauliv is and what it is used for  
Kauliv contains the active substance teriparatide that is used to make the bones stronger, and to reduce 
the risk of fractures by stimulating bone formation.  
Kauliv is used to treat osteoporosis in adults. Osteoporosis is a disease that causes your bones to 
become thin and fragile. This disease is especially common in women after the menopause, but it can 
also occur in men. Osteoporosis is also common in patients receiving medicines called corticosteroids.  
2.  What you need to know before you use Kauliv 
Do not use Kauliv 
•  
if you are allergic to teriparatide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in      
section  6). 
if you have high levels of calcium in your blood (pre-existing hypercalcaemia).  
 if you suffer from serious kidney problems.  
if you have ever had bone cancer or if other cancers have spread (metastasised) to your bones.  
if you have certain bone diseases. If you have a bone disease, tell your doctor.  
if you have unexplained high levels of alkaline phosphatase in your blood, which means you 
might have Paget’s disease of bone (disease with abnormal bone changes). If you are not sure, 
ask your doctor. 
if you have had radiation therapy involving your bones.  
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.  
•  
• 
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
Warnings and precautions 
Kauliv may cause an increase in the amount of calcium in your blood or urine.  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor before or while using Kauliv:  
•  
if you have continuing nausea, vomiting, constipation, low energy, or muscle weakness. These 
may be signs there is too much calcium in your blood.  
if you suffer from kidney stones or have had kidney stones.  
if you suffer from kidney problems (moderate renal impairment).  
•  
•  
Some patients get dizzy or get a fast heartbeat after the first few doses of Kauliv. For the first doses, 
inject Kauliv in a place where you can sit or lie down right away if you get dizzy.  
The recommended treatment time of 24 months should not be exceeded.  
Before inserting a cartridge in Kauliv pen write down the batch (Lot) number of the cartridge and its 
first injection date on a calendar and provide this information when reporting any side effects. The 
date of first injection should also be recorded on the outer carton of Kauliv cartridge (see the provided 
space on the box: “First use”) (see section 3.).  
Kauliv should not be used in growing adults.  
Children and adolescents  
Kauliv should not be used in children and adolescents (aged less than 18 years).  
Other medicines and Kauliv  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
This is important, because some medicines (e.g. digoxin/digitalis, a medicine used to treat heart 
disease) may interact with teriparatide. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
Do not use Kauliv if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. If you are a woman of child-bearing potential, 
you should use effective methods of contraception during use of Kauliv. If you become pregnant while 
using Kauliv, Kauliv should be discontinued. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking 
this medicine.  
Driving and using machines  
Some patients may feel dizzy after injecting Kauliv. If you feel dizzy you should not drive or use 
machines until you feel better.  
Kauliv contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”.  
3. 
How to use Kauliv  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is 20 micrograms (corresponding to 80 microliters) given once a day by 
injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection) in the thigh or abdomen.  
To help you remember to use your medicine, inject it at about the same time each day. Kauliv can be 
injected at meal time. Inject Kauliv each day for as long as your doctor prescribes it for you. The total 
duration of treatment with Kauliv should not exceed 24 months. You should not receive more than one 
treatment course of 24 months over your lifetime.  
Your doctor may advise you to use Kauliv with calcium and vitamin D. Your doctor will tell you how 
much you should take each day.  
Kauliv can be given with or without food.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Kauliv cartridges are designed to be used only with the Kauliv multidose pen and compatible pen 
needles. The pen and injection needles are not included with Kauliv cartridge.  
Before the first use, insert the cartridge into the pen. For the correct use of this medicine it is very 
important to closely follow the detailed Instructions for Use (IFU) of your pen which are provided 
with the pen.  
Use a new injection needle for each injection to prevent contamination and safely dispose of the 
needle after use.  
Never store your pen with the needle attached.  
Never share your pen with others.  
Do not use your Kauliv pen to inject any other medicine (e.g. insulin).  
The pen is customised for use with Kauliv only.  
Do not refill the cartridge.  
Do not transfer the medicine into a syringe.  
You should inject Kauliv shortly after you take the pen with inserted cartridge out of the refrigerator. 
Put the pen with inserted cartridge back into the refrigerator immediately after you have used it. Do 
not remove the cartridge from the pen after each use. The cartridge within the pen can additionally be 
placed in the pouch supplied with the pen in order to protect from light during the whole 28-day 
treatment period.  
Preparing the pen for use 
-
To ensure the correct administration of Kauliv always read the IFU of Kauliv pen, which is
included in the carton of the pen.
Wash your hands before handling the cartridge or pen.
Check the expiry date on the cartridge label before inserting the cartridge into the pen. Make
sure that there are at least 28 days remaining before its expiry date. Insert the cartridge into the
pen before the first use as detailed in the pen instructions. Write down the batch (Lot) number of
each cartridge and its first injection date on a calendar. The date of first injection should also be
recorded on the outer carton of Kauliv cartridge (see the provided space on the box: “First use“).
After inserting a new cartridge and before the first injection from this cartridge, prime the pen
according to the instructions which are provided with the pen IFU. Please ensure to prime
before each dose as per the instructions given in pen IFU.
Injecting Kauliv 
-
Before you inject Kauliv, clean your skin where you intend to inject (thigh or abdomen) as
instructed by your doctor.
Gently hold a fold of cleansed skin and insert the needle straight into the skin. Press the push
button and hold it pressed in until the dose indication has returned to the start position.
After your injection, leave the needle in the skin for ten seconds to make sure that you receive
the whole dose.
As soon as you have finished the injection, attach the outer needle protective cap on the pen
needle and screw the cap anti-clockwise to remove the pen needle.
Replace the cap on your pen. Leave the cartridge in the pen.
If you use more Kauliv than you should  
If, by mistake, you have used more Kauliv than you should, contact your doctor or pharmacist. The 
expected effects of overdose include nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and headache.  
If you forget to use Kauliv 
If you forget an injection or cannot use your medicine at your usual time, inject it as soon as possible 
on that day. Do not use a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Do not take more than one 
injection in the same day. 
28 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
If you stop using Kauliv 
If you are considering stopping Kauliv treatment, please discuss this with your doctor. Your doctor 
will advise you and decide how long you should be treated with Kauliv. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
Kauliv is not recommended for use by the blind or visually impaired persons without the assistance 
from a person trained in the proper use of the pen. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
The most common side effects are pain in limb (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people). Other 
common side effects (affecting up to 1 in 10 people) include feeling sick, headache and dizziness. If 
you become dizzy (light-headed) after your injection, you should sit or lie down until you feel better. 
If you do not feel better, you should call a doctor before you continue treatment. Cases of fainting 
have occurred after teriparatide use.  
If you have discomfort around the area of the injection such as redness of the skin, pain, swelling, 
itching, bruising or minor bleeding (which can occur commonly), this should clear up in a few days or 
weeks. Otherwise tell your doctor.  
Rarely (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people), patients may suffer allergic reactions consisting of 
breathlessness, swelling of the face, rash and chest pain. These reactions usually occur soon after 
injection. In rare cases, serious and potentially life-threatening allergic reactions including anaphylaxis 
can occur.  
Other side effects include:  
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
increase in blood cholesterol levels  
•  
depression  
•  
nerve pain in the leg  
•  
feeling faint  
•  
spinning sensation  
•  
irregular heartbeats  
•  
breathlessness  
•  
increased sweating  
•  
muscle cramps  
•  
loss of energy  
•  
tiredness  
•  
chest pain  
•  
low blood pressure  
•  
heartburn (painful or burning sensation just below the breast bone)  
•  
being sick (vomiting)  
•  
a hernia of the tube that carries food to your stomach (hiatus hernia)  
•  
low haemoglobin or red blood cell count (anaemia).  
•  
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
increased heart rate  
abnormal heart sound  
shortness of breath  
piles (haemorrhoids)  
leakage of urine  
increased need to pass water  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
weight increase  
kidney stones  
pain in the muscles and pain in the joints. Some patients have had severe back cramps or pain 
which led to admission into hospital.  
increase in blood calcium level  
increase in blood uric acid level  
increase in an enzyme called alkaline phosphatase.  
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
•  
•  
reduced kidney function, including renal failure  
swelling, mainly in the hands, feet and legs.  
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine.  
5. 
How to store Kauliv 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the cartridge after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the cartridge in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
You can use Kauliv for up to 28 days after the first injection, as long as the cartridge/pen with the 
cartridge inserted is stored in a refrigerator (2 °C to 8 °C). The cartridge/pen can additionally be placed 
in the pouch supplied with the pen in order to protect from light. 
Avoid placing the cartridge close to the ice compartment of the refrigerator to prevent freezing. Do not 
use Kauliv if it is, or has been, frozen.  
Each cartridge should be properly disposed of after 28 days of first use, even if it is not completely 
empty.  
Kauliv contains a clear and colourless solution. Do not use Kauliv if solid particles appear or if the 
solution is cloudy or coloured.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Kauliv contains  
-  
The active substance is teriparatide. Each dose of 80 microliters contains 20 micrograms of 
teriparatide. Each cartridge of 3 mL contains 750 micrograms of teriparatide (corresponding to 
250 micrograms per mL).  
The other ingredients are: anhydrous sodium acetate, glacial acetic acid, mannitol, metacresol, 
diluted hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment), sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment), water for 
injections. See section 2. “Kauliv contains sodium”. 
-  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Kauliv looks like and contents of the pack  
Kauliv is a colourless and clear solution for injection. It is supplied in a cartridge. Each cartridge 
contains 3 mL of solution, adequate for 28 doses.  
Pack sizes: 
1 cartridge or 3 cartridges packed in a plastic tray sealed with lid foil and packed in a carton. 
Kauliv cartridge and pen pack:  
1 inner carton of Kauliv cartridge (containing 1 cartridge) and 1 inner carton of Kauliv Pen (containing 1 
pen). 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Strides Pharma (Cyprus) Limited 
Themistokli Dervi, 3 
Julia House, 1st Floor, 
1066, Nicosia, Cyprus 
Manufacturer 
Fairmed Healthcare GmbH 
Maria-Goeppert-Strasse 3 
23562 Luebeck 
Germany 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: http://
www.ema.europa.eu
31 
Instructions for Use 
Kauliv Pen 
Please follow these step-by-step instructions carefully before using Kauliv pen. 
The Kauliv pen should not be used for any other purpose than that advised by your healthcare 
professional. 
Kauliv pen parts 
INDICATIONS FOR USE 
Kauliv pen is a reusable injection pen for self-administering subcutaneous injections of teriparatide. 
For further information, please refer to “What Kauliv is and what it is used for” in the package leaflet 
for Kauliv. The Kauliv pen must only be used with Kauliv cartridge and 32 G 4 mm single-use pen 
needles. 
32 
Each cartridge contains 28 doses of teriparatide. Inject a single dose (D) of 20 micrograms 
(corresponding to 80 microliters) every day. 
You need to load a new cartridge at the start of each new 28 day period. 
Patients and caregivers who administer Kauliv should receive appropriate training and instruction on 
the proper use of the Kauliv pen from a qualified health professional and read the package leaflet for 
Kauliv cartridge before the first use. It is important to read, understand, and follow the instructions for 
using the pen as given in the Instructions for Use for Kauliv pen 
PEN PREPARATION: FIRST USE AND CHANGING CARTRIDGES 
Write down the first injection date of each new cartridge in the space provided on the carton box. This 
helps you to know when the 28 daily doses per cartridge are used (see section 2 “Warnings and 
precautions” and section 3 “How to use Kauliv” in the Package leaflet of Kauliv). Follow the 
instructions every time you insert a new Kauliv cartridge into your Kauliv pen.  
LOAD A CARTRIDGE  
Pull off the pen cap. 
Unscrew by turning the pen body from the cartridge holder (fig. 1). 
Check to ensure that the internal plunger is fully retracted (fig. 2). If the internal plunger is extended, 
please refer to fig. 12 to see how to wind it back in. 
Check the teriparatide cartridge. If the solution appears cloudy, then use a new cartridge. Load the 
Kauliv cartridge into the cartridge holder, metal cap in first (fig. 3). 
33 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Screw the cartridge holder and pen body firmly together (fig. 4). 
ATTACH A NEW NEEDLE 
 Peel the protective paper from a new pen needle (Size: 32G 4mm). 
Screw the pen needle straight onto the cartridge holder (fig. 5a). The pen needle must be changed for 
every injection. 
Pull off the outer needle  
cap and save it. 
Pull out the inner needle shield and dispose of it (fig. 5b). 
PRIME THE PEN  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is important to prime the Kauliv pen before every daily use to remove any air that may be inside the 
needle and cartridge. (fig. 6a) 
Dial the dose selector to P to prime the Kauliv pen (fig. 6b). If you over-dial, proceed to fig. 7. 
Hold the Kauliv pen with the needle pointing up. Push and hold the release button towards the needle 
until the arrow on the dose selector points to 0. Keep dialling to P and releasing until a drop of 
teriparatide appears at the needle tip (fig. 7). The Kauliv pen is now ready for use. (If the arrow does 
not return to 0 after pushing the release button, refer to the priming advice given above.) 
INJECT A DOSE 
Make sure the arrow points to 0 on the dose selector (fig. 8a). Now dial up to D (fig. 8b).  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Using the technique recommended by your healthcare professional gently insert the needle of the 
Kauliv pen into the injection site. Push the release button towards the pen needle and hold it in place 
until the arrow on the dose selector points to 0 and continue holding the release button down for 
10 seconds, then remove the needle from the skin (fig. 9). 
REMOVE THE NEEDLE 
Reattach the outer pen needle cap and unscrew the pen needle (fig. 10). Always check your pen needle 
has been removed. Dispose of used pen needles carefully into an approved sharps container in 
accordance with the advice given by your healthcare professional or local regulations. Replace the pen 
cap on to the Kauliv pen and return it to the fridge for storage.  
CHANGE THE CARTRIDGE (EVERY 28 DAYS)  
Each cartridge contains enough teriparatide for 28 doses. After 28 days, dispose of the used cartridge 
and insert a new cartridge (fig. 1 to fig. 4.). Dispose of the used cartridge in accordance with the 
advice given by your healthcare professional/local regulations.  
To change the cartridge, ensure the pen needle is removed. Unscrew the cartridge holder from the pen 
body and remove the cartridge (fig. 11). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rewind the internal plunger by holding the grey rewind collar of the pen body between the thumb and 
finger (fig. 12). Turn the pen body until the internal plunger is fully retracted (fig. 2). Then return to 
step 3 to load the next cartridge. 
PRIMING ADVICE 
If during fig. 7 the arrow does not point to 0 (after pushing the release button) and no teriparatide 
appears, this may indicate one of two possibilities: 
A. The pen needle that you are using could be blocked. If so, remove the pen needle from the pen and 
replace with a new one. Then return to fig. 5, fig. 6 and fig. 7. 
B. The cartridge bung may require releasing. If so, follow these steps: 
a. Replace the outer pen needle cap onto the needle. 
b. Unscrew the cartridge holder. 
c. Push and hold down the release button towards the internal plunger until the arrow points to 
0 on the dose selector. 
d. Dial up to D without screwing the pen back together. Push and hold down the release 
button towards the internal plunger until the arrow points to 0. 
e. Without rewinding the internal plunger, screw the cartridge holder and body firmly 
together. This will release the cartridge bung and expel some teriparatide, however, the pen 
will not be primed. 
f. Repeat fig. 6 and fig. 7 to prime the pen fully. 
SAFETY PRECAUTIONS 
•  Wash hands thoroughly before use. 
•  When a Kauliv cartridge is loaded, the Kauliv pen should be stored in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C) 
in between injections until 28 days of use from the date of first use. The cartridge/pen can 
additionally be placed in the pouch supplied with the pen in order to protect from light. 
•  The Kauliv pen should be stored with the arrow on the pen body pointing to 0 to avoid damage to 
the pen. 
•  Check the Kauliv cartridge. If the solution appears cloudy, then use a new cartridge. 
•  Always ensure the Kauliv pen has been primed before every use, in accordance with the 
instructions detailed in steps 6 and 7. Failure to follow the exact priming procedures could result 
in an inaccurate dose being delivered. 
•  Never attempt to dial back the dose selector as doing so may damage the Kauliv pen. Expel the 
incorrect dose into the air. 
•  Do not inject more than one dose (D) per day. 
• 
If when removing the pen needle any leakage of teriparatide is found, it is possible that you may 
not have injected the full teriparatide dose. Do not try to make up for the shortfall in your 
teriparatide dose by giving a second injection. 
•  The needle should be removed and safely disposed of immediately after each injection. If the 
needle is left on the pen, it can get blocked and affect the next dose. 
•  Choking hazard – small parts. Keep away from children under 3. 
STORAGE AND CLEANING 
•  To clean the Kauliv pen wipe with a damp cloth. Do not immerse in water. Do not use any other 
solutions to clean the pen, e.g. chemicals, alcohol wipes. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The Kauliv pen should always be stored or carried with the pen needle removed and the pen cap 
on. 
•  Discard cartridge 28 days after the date of first use. 
•  Before disposing of the pen injector, be sure to remove the pen needle. 
•  Dispose of used pen needles carefully into a sharps container or in accordance with the advice 
given by your healthcare professional/local regulations. 
•  Do not throw needles directly into your household waste. 
•  Do not recycle the filled sharps container. 
38 
 
 
 
