Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan      
Summary of risk management plan for Teriparatide (Teriparatide)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Teriparatide. The RMP details important risks of 
Teriparatide,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Teriparatide’s identified risks, potential risks and missing information.  
Teriparatide’s  proposed  SmPC  and  its  package  leaflet  provide  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals and subjects on how Teriparatide should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Teriparatide should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
I.  The medicine and what it is used for  
Osteoporosis is a disease that makes bones fragile. Osteoporosis happens when not enough new bone 
grows to replace the bone that is naturally broken down. Gradually, the bones become thin and fragile, 
and are more likely to break. Osteoporosis is possible in both men and women. In women, osteoporosis is 
more  common  after  menopause,  when  the  levels  of  the  female  hormone  oestrogen  become  lower. 
Glucocorticoids  are  frequently  prescribed  in  patients  with  a  wide  variety  of  chronic  diseases,  such  as 
rheumatoid arthritis, polymyalgia rheumatic, inflammatory bowel disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease etc. Osteoporosis can occur in both men and women as a side effect of taking glucocorticoids.  
Teriparatide is proposed for treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and in men at increased 
risk of fracture; treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy in 
women and men at increased risk for fracture. It contains Teriparatide as the active substance and it is 
given by subcutaneous injection in the thigh or abdomen.   
Further information about the evaluation of Teriparatide’s benefits can be found in Teriparatide’s EPAR, 
including in its  plain-language  summary, available on the EMA website, under the  medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kauliv    
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or  further 
characterise the risks   
Important risks of Teriparatide, together with measures to minimise such risks for learning more about 
Teriparatide’s risks, are outlined below.  
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
• 
• 
• 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct  use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to subjects and healthcare professionals.  
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging.  
The  authorised  pack  size  -  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly.  
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the subject (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks.  
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  will  be  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.   
If important information that may affect the safe use of Teriparatide is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Teriparatide are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise  the  risk,  so that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with  the  use  of Teriparatide.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association with  the  use  of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine):  
Based  on  the  PRAC  Rapporteur  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  Assessment  Report,  there  are  no  safety 
concerns in terms of important identified risks and potential risks. An assessment was done to evaluate 
whether immunogenicity should be  considered as a missing  information. The  data available  for clinical 
studies  of  teriparatide  was  reviewed  in  this  regard.  Based  on  the  review  of  the  clinical  data, 
immunogenicity is not being considered as a missing information. Thus, there are no safety concerns for 
the product.  
II.B Summary of important risks  
Important identified risk   
None  
Important potential risk   
None  
Missing information  
None  
 
  
  
  
  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or which is a specific obligation 
of Teriparatide.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan  
There are no studies required for Teriparatide.  
 
