EMA/883316/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004932 
Kauliv (teriparatide) 
An overview of Kauliv and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kauliv and what is it used for? 
Kauliv is used for the treatment of osteoporosis (a disease that makes bones fragile) in the following 
groups: 
•  women who have been through the menopause; 
•  men who are at an increased risk of fractures; 
•  men and women who are at an increased risk of fractures due to long-term treatment with 
glucocorticoids (a type of steroid). 
Kauliv is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Kauliv is highly similar to another biological medicine 
(the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Kauliv is 
Forsteo. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Kauliv contains the active substance teriparatide. 
How is Kauliv used? 
Kauliv can only be obtained with a prescription. The medicine is available as a pre-filled pen and 
patients may inject themselves once they have been trained. The recommended dose is 20 
micrograms given once a day as an injection under the skin of the thigh or abdomen (belly).  
The medicine can be used for up to two years. Only one two-year course of Kauliv should be given to a 
patient in their lifetime. Patients should receive calcium and vitamin D supplements if they do not get 
enough from their diet.  
For more information about using Kauliv, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Kauliv work? 
Bones are made of a tissue that is constantly being broken down and replaced. Osteoporosis happens 
when growth of new bone is not enough to replace the bone that is broken down. In people with 
osteoporosis, bones become thin and fragile over time and are more likely to break.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In women, osteoporosis is more common after the menopause, when the levels of the female hormone 
oestrogen fall. Osteoporosis can also occur in both sexes as a side effect of prolonged treatment with 
glucocorticoid medications and due to other risk factors, such as low bone mass density, age or high 
bone turnover. 
The active substance in Kauliv, teriparatide, is identical to part of the human parathyroid hormone. It 
acts like the hormone to stimulate bone formation by acting on osteoblasts (bone-forming cells). It 
also increases the absorption of calcium from food and prevents too much calcium being lost in the 
urine. 
What benefits of Kauliv have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Kauliv with Forsteo have shown that the active substance in Kauliv is 
highly similar to that in Forsteo in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Kauliv produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving Forsteo. 
Because Kauliv is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of teriparatide carried 
out with Forsteo do not all need to be repeated for Kauliv. 
What are the risks associated with Kauliv? 
The safety of Kauliv has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out, the side effects 
of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Forsteo.  
The most common side effects with Kauliv (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick), pain in the arms and legs, headache and dizziness. For the full list of side effects of 
Kauliv, see the package leaflet.  
Kauliv must not be used in patients who have other bone diseases such as Paget’s disease, bone 
cancer or bone metastases (cancer that has spread to the bone), patients who have had radiation 
therapy of the skeleton, or patients who have hypercalcaemia (high blood calcium levels), unexplained 
high levels of alkaline phosphatase (an enzyme) or severe kidney disease. Kauliv must also not be 
used during pregnancy or breastfeeding.  
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kauliv authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Kauliv has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Forsteo and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Kauliv will behave in the same way as 
Forsteo in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was 
that, as for Forsteo, the benefits of Kauliv outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kauliv? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kauliv have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Kauliv (teriparatide)  
EMA/883316/2022  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kauliv are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Kauliv are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kauliv 
Kauliv received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 12 January 2023. 
Further information on Kauliv can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kauliv.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2023.  
Kauliv (teriparatide)  
EMA/883316/2022  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
