SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects 
For information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
initial  scientific  discussion 
the 
for 
the  approval  of  Kentera.  
1.  
Introduction 
Urge  incontinence  involves  a  strong,  sudden  need  to  urinate  immediately  followed  by  a  bladder 
contraction, resulting in an involuntary loss of urine. 
The ability to hold urine and maintain continence is dependent on normal function of the lower urinary 
tract,  the  kidneys,  and  the  nervous  system.  The  bladder's  ability  to  fill  and  store  urine  requires  a 
functional sphincter and a stable bladder wall muscle (detrusor). 
Two phases are involved in  the  process of urination: the filling and storage phase and the emptying 
phase. 
Urge  incontinence  is  basically  a  storage  problem  in  which  the  bladder  muscle  contracts 
inappropriately. Often these contractions occur regardless of the amount of urine that is in the bladder. 
Urge  incontinence  may  result  from  neurological  injuries  (such  as  spinal  cord  injury  or  stroke), 
neurological  diseases  (such  as  multiple  sclerosis),  infection,  bladder  cancer,  bladder  stones,  bladder 
inflammation, or bladder outlet obstruction. The majority of cases are classified as idiopathic. 
Although  urge  incontinence  may  occur  in  anyone  at any  age, it is more common  in women and the 
elderly.  It  is  second  only  to  stress  incontinence  as  the  most  common  cause  of  urinary  incontinence 
(involuntary  loss  of  urine).  Approximately  1%  to  2%  of  adult  females  are  affected  by  urge 
incontinence. 
In  men,  urge  incontinence  may  be  due  to  secondary  bladder  injuries  caused  by  benign  prostatic 
hypertrophy (BPH) or bladder outlet obstruction from an enlarged prostate. 
Symptoms  include  sudden  and  urgent  need  to  urinate  (urinary  urgency),  frequent  urination,  in  the 
daytime  and  at  night,  abdominal  distension  or  discomfort,  involuntary  loss  of  urine  (urinary 
incontinence). 
Kentera  is  a  transdermal  system  delivering  3.9 mg  oxybutynin per  24 hours and is proposed for the 
treatment  of  overactive  bladder  with  symptoms  of  urge  urinary  incontinence,  urgency,  and/or 
frequency. 
The proposed posology is one patch applied twice weekly (every 3 to 4 days). 
Studies  have  not  been  performed  in  children,  therefore  oxybutynin  3.9 mg  per  24 hours  transdermal 
patch  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  children.  The  development  of  Kentera  was  based  on  the 
rationalethat  a  patch  could  ease  the  compliance,  and  that  the  dose  delivery  by  the  transdermal route 
would reduce undesirable side effects of the oral administration. 
Oxybutynin,  an  anticholinergic  agent,  is  a  well  known active substance for which  there is extensive 
experience in the European Union for the treatment of overactive bladder. 
This is a full marketing authorisation application. The provided data cover all aspects of the clinical 
characterization of safety and efficacy of oxybutynin. The applicant has submitted the results of non-
clinical and clinical studies carried out by the applicant, and bibliographic references. The submission 
of bibliographical data is justified with reference to Art. 8 (3) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended., 
and to Part II.7 of Annex 1 to Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended by Directive 2003/63/EC. 
2.   Quality aspects 
Composition 
Kentera  is  presented  as  a  39cm2  transdermal  patch  containing  36  mg  oxybutynin  base,  designed  to 
release 3.9 mg oxybutynin per day during the 3 to 4 day treatment period.  
It is a thin flexible patch with rounded corners and consists of three layers: a non-removable polyester 
protective  film  (backing  layer),  the  adhesive  matrix  containing  the  active  substance  and  a  polyester 
removable protective layer (release liner). 
1/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  backing  film  is  made  of  polyethylene  terephthalate  (PET)  /  ethylene-vinyl  acetate  (EVA).  
The  matrix  adhesive  layer  is  laminated  on  the  PET  side.  The  matrix  layer  contains  Oxybutynin, 
glycerol triacetate as penetration enhancer and an acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive. The release liner 
consists of silicone-coated PET. 
Each transdermal patch is packed in a heat sealed sachet. 
Active substance 
The  chemical  name  of  oxybutynin  base  is  4-(diethylamino)-but-2-ynyl  (RS)-2-cyclohexyl-2-
phenylacetate. It is a white crystalline powder freely soluble in ethanol 96%, methylene chloride and 
acetone and practically insoluble  in water. The active  substance  is  a racemic mixture of (R) and (S) 
isomers and exhibits no optical rotation or polymorphism. 
Oxybutynin base is not described in PhEur Information about the active substance has been submitted 
via an EDMF. 
As starting material for the synthesis of the active substance is used oxybutynin hydrochloride, which 
is  covered  by  a  certificate  of  suitability  from  the  PhEur.    Oxybutynin  hydrochloride  is  transformed 
into oxybutynin base by treatment with sodium bicarbonate. The product is then crystallised. 
Two  potential  impurities  (oxybutacide  and  oxybumethyl)  can  be  found  in  the  starting  material,  but 
have never been observed in the active substance. The only known degradation product of oxybutynin 
base is oxybutacide, but it does not  appear if the active substance is stored in plastic bags and fiber 
drums at room temperature and protected from humidity. The limits of the residual solvents used for 
the manufacture of the active are in accordance with the ICH guidelines. 
Active substance specification 
The specification of the active substance includes tests for description, identification (IR), colour and 
clarity  of  solution,  assay  (potentiometric  titration),  melting  point,  loss  on  drying,  inorganic  and 
organic impurities (HPLC) and residual solvents (GC).  
 Batch analysis data have been provided for 3 batches of oxybutynin base. The analytical results for 
these batches comply with the proposed specification. 
In  conclusion  it  has  been  proven  that  the  tests  and  limits  in  the  specification  are  appropriate  for 
controlling the quality of the active substance. 
Stability 
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  3  batches  of  oxybutynin  base  in  accordance  with  ICH 
guidelines.  Samples  were  stored  at  controlled  room  temperature  (25  oC/  60%  RH)  for  5  years,  and 
accelerated conditions (40 oC/ 75% RH) for 6 months.  
The  parameters  tested  were  description,  assay,  impurity  profile  (HPLC),  loss  on  drying,  colour  of 
solution.  The  methods  used  were  the  same  as  those used for the release of oxybutynin base and are 
stability indicating. 
All parameters evaluated comply with the active substance specification. The stability data presented 
support  the  proposed  re-test  period  for  oxybutynin  base,  when  stored  in  a  double  polythethyl  liner 
inside an aluminium foil lined fibreboard drum under the specified conditions. 
Other ingredients 
Other ingredients include an acrylic adhesive solution and glycerol triacetate (PhEur). Nitrogen NF is 
used as a processing aid. All materials used are of non-animal origin. 
The  adhesive  is  a  pressure  sensitive  adhesive  with  2-ethylhexyl  acrylate,  N-vinyl  pyrrolidone  and 
hexamethyleneglycol  dimethacrylate  polymer  domain  and  has  been  previously  used  in  transdermal 
patches. 
The backing film of the transdermal patch is a PET/EVA transparent, thin, flexible film that provides 
the patch with occlusivity and physical integrity. The release liner consists of silicone-coated PET. 
Kentera  transdermal  patches  are  packaged  in  resin/  aluminium  /  low-density  polyethylene  /  paper 
laminate pouches. 
2/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
Orally  administered  oxybutynin  has  been  utilised  in  the  treatment  of  urge  incontinence  for  several 
years  and  is  generally  dosed  at  2.5  to  5  mg  two  or  three  times  daily.  Oxybutynin  is  extensively 
metabolised in the liver upon oral absorption. The principle metabolite, N-desethyl oxybutynin, is also 
a potent antagonist of the action of acetylcholine at the receptor level and it is primarily responsible 
for  the  most  common  anticholinergic  effect  of  oxybutynin  referred  to  as  “dry  mouth”.  Hence 
transdermal  administration  was  chosen  in  order  to  reduce  the  formation  of  this  active  metabolite  by 
avoiding pre-systemic metabolism, as well as the dosing frequency and the blood levels variation.  
Kentera  is  a  matrix  type  transdermal  patch.  In  this  type  of  patch  the  active  substance  is 
dissolved directly in the adhesive, which is kept in contact with the intact skin. The matrix formulation 
is  designed  specifically  to  present  a  sufficiently  high  concentration  of  the  active  substance  to  the 
stratum corneum, which is the primary absorption controlling factor.  
The following critical parameters were investigated during the development of Kentera: active 
ingredient concentration, adhesive quality and skin tolerability, skin permeability, skin flux enhancer 
compatibility- concentration and skin tolerability as well as stability. Particle size and physical form of 
the active substance were not considered critical since oxybutynin is dissolved in the adhesive. 
As  it  is  known,  typical  acid  based  salts  of  an  active  ingredient  do  not  penetrate  the  stratum 
corneum satisfactorily. Therefore the free base of oxybutynin has been utilised as an active substance. 
The strength of the dosage form was based on the known efficacious doses administered orally, taking 
into account the effects of the first pass metabolism associated with oral administration.  
In  vitro  skin  permeability  studies  in  human  cadaver  skin,  combined  with  previous  good 
experience,  have  indicated  the  adhesive  as  the  most  appropriate  from  a  range  of  adhesives  tested.  
A number of potential penetration enhancers were also examined for their effect on steady state flux of 
oxybutynin from matrix formulations using the adhesive at the same concentrations of oxybutynin and 
enhancer. Based on these studies and the fact that glycerol triacetate is a known compedial excipient, 
this compound was selected as the preferred skin permeation enhancer.  
The rate and extent of skin permeation is fundamentally associated with the concentration of 
the active ingredient in the matrix composition. The selected concentration of oxybutynin is based on 
results  from  in  vitro  skin  permeation  studies  of  formulations  containing  variable  concentrations  of 
oxybutynin free base utilizing the selected adhesive and penetration enhancer, as well as on studies on 
the physical stability of the formulations with respect to crystal formation.  
The  labelled  delivery  rate  was  derived  from  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  the  developed 
formulation where used patches were recovered and analysed for residual drug content. The in vitro/in 
vivo  analysis  showed  that  the  in  vitro  transport  of  oxybutynin  through  human  epidermis  closely 
reflects the apparent delivery rate in vivo, determined from residual analysis of worn patches 
The patches used in clinical trials were the same composition as those intended for marketing. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  established  in  accordance  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practices 
and  with  internal  standard  procedures.  The  finished  product  is  manufactured  in  3  steps:  mixing, 
coating/drying/laminating and die cutting/ pouching. Oxybutynin, glyceryl triacetate and the adhesive 
solution are mixed. The solution is coated, dried, and the two film are laminated.   
Regarding the manufacturing process development the following steps have been studied and 
optimised: mixing step, the metering pump speed, which delivers the oxybutynin casting solution onto 
the film and the speed and air temperature of the drying step. The heat sealing parameters were also 
investigated to guarantee the heat seal quality and integrity.  
  The three major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated in three industrial batches. 
Among the parameters tested were the mixing time and speed, the temperature and speed of the dryer 
and the sealing conditions. 
Product specification 
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for the appearance, content uniformity, 
assay,  identification  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (UV,  HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  glycerol 
triacetate content (GC), drug release (dissolution testing), adhesion to steel and release liner peel.  
3/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The specification and control tests applied for the finished product at time of release and throughout 
the life of the product are in compliance with pharmacopoeial standards (including Ph Eur) and ICH 
guidelines. The limits for each specification test are supported by stability data. 
Batch analysis data from 12 batches of the finished product have been provided. All batches met the 
test  limits  as  defined  in  the  release  specification  and  test  methodology  valid  at  the  time  of  batch 
release and indicated that patches of consistent quality are obtained.  
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  have  been  conducted  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines  on  2  pilot-scale 
batches  of  the  finished  product.  The  samples  were  stored  at  controlled  room  temperature  conditions 
(25°C/60%RH) for up to 24 months and at accelerated conditions (40°C/75%RH) for up to 6 months. 
Additional  stability  data  have  been  presented  on  2  small-scale  batches  stored  under  the  same 
conditions and for the same period of time. 
The  parameters  studied  were  oxybutynin  assay  and  release,  glycerol  triacetate  content, 
degradation products, adhesion to steel, release liner peel. The tests performed are the same as those 
used for the release of Kentera and are stability indicating. 
Based on the results of the above-mentioned studies it has been concluded that the proposed 
shelf  life  for  the  commercially  packaged  product  under  the  conditions  specified  in  the  SPC  is 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects. 
The quality of Kentera is adequately established. In general, satisfactory chemical and pharmaceutical 
documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorization.  There  are  no  major  deviations  from 
EU  and  ICH  requirements.  The  active  substance  is  stable,  well  characterised  and  documented.  
All  critical  aspects  of  the  development  of  the  transdermal  patch  formulation  have  been  studied 
resulting  in  a  manufacturing  process  that  consistently  produces  patches  which  meet  the  predefined 
quality criteria. The packaging materials are commonly used and well documented.  
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
3.   Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Kentera  is  a  formulation  for  percutaneous  delivery  of  the  active  substance  oxybutynin,  intended  for 
symptomatic treatment of urge incontinence and/or increased urinary frequency and urgency as may 
occur in patients with unstable bladder. Oxybutynin  is  currently  used in  several countries as an oral 
drug. 
The Non-clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology Section of this application are covered by a different 
number  of  sources.  In  addition  to  bibliographic  scientific  published  data,  it includes supportive data 
from  investigations  carried  out  in  Japan,  plus  two  GLP-controlled  dermal irritation  and sensitisation 
studies which examined the effects of patch formulations relevant to Kentera. The provided data cover 
all aspects of the non-clinical requirements for oxybutynin. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
 The active substance of Kentera transdermal patch is oxybutynin, a racemic mixture, which acts as a 
competitive  antagonist  of  acetylcholine  at  post-ganglionic  parasympathetic  muscarinic  receptors  
(M1,  M2,  M3),  resulting  in  relaxation  of  bladder  smooth  muscle.  The  R-isomer  seems  to  be 
responsible for the pharmacological response. The relaxant effect of oxybutynin in the urinary bladder 
seems  to  be  related  to  more  than  one  mechanism:  an  anticholinergic  effect,  a  direct  anti-spasmodic 
effect and a local anaesthetic effect. In in vitro studies, oxybutynin has been found to be slightly more 
selective  for  M1  muscarinic  receptors  located  in  the  cerebral  cortex  and  parotid  gland  and  M3 
muscarinic receptors located in the smooth muscle of the ileum or bladder.  In in vivo animal models 
4/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(rats,  pigs  and  dogs),  oxybutynin  administered  intravenously,  subcutaneously  or  intravesically  has 
been  demonstrated  to  have  beneficial  urodynamic  effects,  such  as  reducing  maximum  intravesical 
pressure, increasing bladder threshold volume and increasing bladder capacity. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Antimuscarinic  drugs  have  known  adverse  effects  such  as  accommodation  paralysis,  constipation, 
tachycardia,  and  dryness  of  mouth.  The  secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects  observed  with 
oxybutynin result from a lack of selectivity for the bladder, resulting in actions at other organ systems, 
such as the iris, intestine, and salivary gland 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
(rapid-activating)  28.7  µM 
No effects were observed on the respiratory and cardiovascular systems (respiration, blood pressure, 
heart  rate  and  femoral  artery  blood  flow  rate)  in  rat  and  dog  models  under  subcutaneous 
administration. In guinea pig and rabbit ventricular cells oxybutynin reduced the L-type Ca2+ current, 
inward-rectifier K+ current and delayed-rectifier K+ current by one-half at concentrations, respectively, 
of  16.1  µM,  18.2  µM,  and  11.4  µM 
(slow  activating).   
It  was  concluded  that  the  drug  is  unlikely  to  have  adverse  effects  on  cardiac  electrical  activity.  
Studies using HERG channels were not available. 
In the gastro-intestinal system, inhibition of carbon transport in mice from 6.25 mg/kg s.c., decrease of 
gastric  secretion  in  rat  from  0.39  mg/kg  s.c,  and  decreased  salivary  secretion  in  rabbits  from  
25 mg/kg s.c.were observed. 
No effects were observed on water and electrolyte excretion in rats with doses up to 6.25 mg/kg s.c, 
but a tendency for Na+ and Cl- excretion decrease was observed from 100 mg/kg s.c.. 
No  effects  were  observed  on  platelet  aggregation  or  hemolysis  in  rabbits  with  concentrations  up  to  
10-5g/ml and prolonged prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time were obtained in 
rats treated with 400mg/kg but not with 100 mg/kg. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No formal studies on pharmacodynamic drug interactions were submitted. Kentera is used as a single 
agent  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  overactive  bladder.  Published  literature  concerning  potential 
additive  affects  of  concomitantly  administered  medications  that  possess  antimuscarinic activity  have 
been  reviewed  and  appropriate  warnings  incorporated  into  the  product  information.  No  specific 
commonly used medications have been identified that pose a risk to patients undergoing treatment for 
overactive bladder with Kentera. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
in 
the  use  of  Oxybutynin 
is  accumulated  experience  with 
There 
No  new  preclinical  pharmacodynamic  study  have  been  carried  out  to  investigate  the  efficacy  of 
Kentera  Transdermal  Patch,  while  the  data  attained  from  the  bibliographical  sources  submitted 
properly  describe  the  pharmacodynamic  properties  with  sufficient  detail.  In  addition,  the  clinical 
utility  of  oxybutynin  has  already  been  demonstrated  in  clinical  trials  and  in  clinical  practice,  and 
transdermal application does not seem to alter the pharmacological activity profile of oxybutynin. 
The  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  oxybutynin  was  summarised  in  the  application,  addressing  in 
particular, and confirming the effects on the urinary bladder contractility.  
The general pharmacology and the safety pharmacology information forwarded for oxybutynin reflect 
the anticholinergic properties of the compound.  
the  European  Union.   
5/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
After single intravenous administration of 5 mg/Kg 14C oxybutynin to male rats the radioactivity half-
life  in  plasma  was  ~40  hours.  Following  single  percutaneous  administration  of  oxybutynin 
preparations  into  rats  or  dogs,  the  plasma  levels  of  the  compound  increased  dose  dependently  and 
decreased rapidly in the 24 hours following the preparation removal. In general, the terminal half-life 
was around 40 hours. 
When  10  mg/kg  of  oxybutynin  was  administered  subcutaneously  to  rats  once  a  day  for  14  days  the 
radioactivity  in  plasma  at  24  hours  post-dose  increased  steadily  after  each  dose and reached  steady-
state  concentrations  by  6  days,  remaining  at  that  level  until  dosing  was  discontinued.  After  the  last 
administration  a  Cmax  of  1.09  µg  eq/ml  at  4  hours  was  observed  which  then  disappeared  gradually 
with a half-life of 3.4 hours. 
• 
Distribution 
In male rats, after single administration of 12 mg/body of 14C oxybutynin, the radioactivity levels in 
tissues at Tmax was the highest (excluding at the application site) in the white adipose tissue followed 
by  liver,  harderian  gland,  adrenal  gland,  kidney  and  lung.  The  disappearance  of  radioactivity  from 
tissues  was  similar,  or  faster  than,  that  of  plasma  until  216  hours,  indicating  that  no  residual 
radioactivity remained in the tissues. 
After subcutaneous application of [14C]-oxybutynin, associated radioactivity was found to transfer into 
rat  milk,  generating  a  radioactivity  10-fold  higher  than  in  plasma  after  4  hours,  indicating  that 
oxybutynin or its metabolite is transferred into milk. By 24 hours post-dose the milk and plasma levels 
were  similar.    Likewise,  transplacental  distribution  of  14C  from  oxybutynin  was  observed.    Foetal 
blood and tissue radioactivity was generally lower than that of maternal plasma, except for the liver, 
which was 2.5 times higher. The major organs were exposed to oxybutynin or metabolites. Transfer of 
radioactivity into the fetus was 0.01% of the administered dose. 
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
The metabolism of oxybutynin following oral administration was shown to occur primarily in the liver 
of  both  rats  and  dogs.  The  metabolism  of  oxybutynin  following  percutaneous  administration  was 
poorly  characterized.  Following  oral  administration,  oxybutynin  is  predominantly  metabolised  by 
CYP3A4  and CYP3A5  in the human liver.  Since CYP3A  has been reported to be expressed in skin 
keratinocytes,  it  seems  likely  that  this  enzyme  is  capable  of  metabolizing  and  eliminating  topically 
applied oxybutyunin. However, involvement of cutaneous CYPs in the metabolisation of oxybutynin 
after transdermal application has not been investigated in animal models or in humans.  
Enterohepatic circulation in rats after subcutaneous administration was observed.   
Since  unmetabolised  oxybutynin  reaches  the  liver  via  systemic  circulation,  pharmacokinetic 
interactions  with  drugs  that  are  potentially  going  to  be  co-administered  in  the  clinical  situation  and 
which are CYP3A4 substrates/inhibitors/inducers are possible. This issue is pointed out in the SPC. 
Oxybutynin is widely distribution into tissues, breast milk and across the placenta observed in rats and 
is consistent with the large volume of distribution in man. In humans, oxybutynin is also known to be 
85% bound to serum albumin. 
• 
Excretion 
Excretion  following  percutaneous  administration  of  radiolabelled  oxybutynin  occurred  primarily  by 
the faecal route in rats, with approximately equals amounts in faeces and urine in dogs. 
6/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters (in different species) 
Following  percutaneous  administration  of  radiolabelled  oxybutynin  patch  in  rats,  radioactivity  in 
plasma  increased  with  time  until  the  dermal  patch  was  removed  at  48  hours.  The  radioactivity  was 
highest  (excluding  at  the  application  site)  in  white  adipose  tissue  followed  by  the  liver,  harderian 
gland,  adrenal  gland,  kidney  and  lung.    The  metabolism  of  oxybutynin  following  percutaneous 
administration was poorly characterized. Following oral administration, oxybutynin is predominantly 
metabolised by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 in the human liver. 
Sex differences have been observed in oxybutynin pharmacokinetics in rats. This is not reflected in the 
clinical  studies,  where  the  gender-related  differences  were  minor  and  not  considered  clinically 
significant. 
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  information  on  the  application  included  reports  from  studies  available  to  the 
applicant  and  published  scientific  literature.  Additional  Local  Tolerance  studies  to  test  for  dermal 
irritation and sensitisation were sponsored to provide data relevant to Kentera Transdermal Patch - the 
patch delivery system containing oxybutynin, which is the subject of this marketing application. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
In acute toxicity, major findings in rats and dogs after subcutaneous or percutaneous administration of 
oxybutynin  are  in  relation  with  the  expected  pharmacological  effects,  such  as  anticholinergic  and 
smooth muscle relaxation effects 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  pharmacological  effects  and  secondary  effects  such  as  mydriasis, 
increased  water  intake  and  urine  volume  increase  were  observed.  At  high  doses,  the  observed 
symptoms  are  the  classical  adverse  effects  of  anticholinergics,  but  manifested  in  extreme  forms: 
effects  on  the  CNS  and  on  the  respiratory  system  occur.  Non-specific  toxicological  effects,  such  as 
inhibition of weight gain and decreased food intake, suggest deterioration of general health. No other 
specific effects or sex differences were reported 
The  toxicokinetic  data  generated  for  the  repeat-dose  studies  show  that  the  subcutaneous  route  of 
administration  does  result  in  systemic  exposure  to  oxybutynin  and  that  this  exposure  increases  with 
the  increase  in  dose  applied  to  the  skin  and  with  duration  of  repeated  administration.  The  systemic 
exposures  reached  by  the  animals  in  the  reported  toxicology  studies  exceeded  those  expected  in 
humans under the therapeutic conditions of Kentera. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
The genotoxicity of oxybutynin has been investigated with respect to gene mutations in bacteria and 
chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  in  non-GLP  compliant  studies.  The  standard  3-test 
battery  (tests  for  gene  mutations  in  bacteria  and  chromosomal  aberrations  in  vitro  and  in  vivo) 
revealed no concerns over the safety of administration of oxybutynin. In addition, information on the 
genotoxic  potential  of  the  patch  components  (the  backing  film,  adhesive  and  enhancer)  has  been 
provided by the applicant. 
• 
Carcinogenicity  
No  formal  carcinogenicity  studies  have  been  submitted.  The  Applicant  has  considered  published 
investigations  on  preclinical  and  clinical  safety  of  oxybutynin.  The  literature  search  looked for both 
preclinical  and  clinical  evidence  of  carcinogenicity,  and  revealed  no  information  on  the  potential  of 
oxybutynin  to  increase  tumour  incidence  or  produce  any  effect  that  might  be  regarded  as  ‘pre-
cancerous’  in  animal  models.  Post-marketing  experience  gained  by  widespread  clinical  use  of  oral 
oxybutynin in man reveal no suspicion of a carcinogenic potential  
7/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Reproduction  studies  with  oxybutynin  hydrochloride  were  reported  in  the  mouse,  rat,  hamster  and 
rabbit.  In the subcutaneous fertility study in rats, while no effects were reported in males, in females, 
however, fertility was impaired and a NOAEL of 5 mg/kg was identified. In the embryotoxicity study 
in  the  rabbit,  the  occurrence  of  organ  anomalies  is  significantly  increased  at  a  concentration  of  
0.4  mg/kg/day  oxybutynin  administered  subcutaneously.  Oxybutynin  exposure  is  not  recommended 
during pregnancy, however, no reports of fetal or embryotoxicity are known. 
• 
Local tolerance  
Dermal irritation studies in rabbits  and Guinea pigs indicate that the Oxybutynin Transdermal Patch 
has  low  irritant  potential.  No  dermal  toxicity  was  observed following application of the transdermal 
patch  to  guinea  pigs  for  24  hours  together  with  ultraviolet  radiation.  Although  no  delayed  contact 
sensitisation  has  been  observed  in  the  clinical  safety  studies,  discrepancy  in  the  conclusions  are 
obtained from the preclinical dermal sensitisation studies performed in Japan and the additional tests 
performed  in  the  US.  This  discrepancy  is  due  to  subjective  observations  where  it  is  difficult  to 
differentiate between sensitization and irritation. 
Various  in  vivo  investigations  of  the  components  themselves,  as  well  as  standard  tests  of  extract 
injections,  were  performed  to  demonstrate  the  safety  of  the  inert  film  components,  acrylic  adhesive, 
and  permeation  enhancer  of  the  Oxybutynin  Patch.    Preclinical  investigations  of  these  materials 
revealed no significant toxicity.   
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Various  in  vivo  investigations  of  the  components  themselves,  as  well  as  standard  tests  of  extract 
injections,  were  performed  to  demonstrate  the  safety  of  the  inert  film  components,  acrylic  adhesive, 
and  permeation  enhancer  of  the  Oxybutynin  Patch.    Preclinical  investigations  of  these  materials 
revealed no significant toxicity.   
From the environmental risk assessment included, it seems unlikely that the transdermal patch would 
present a risk to the environment. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
In  acute  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies,  major  findings  in  rats  and  dogs  are  in  relation  with  the 
expected  pharmacological  effects  and  secondary  effects  of  anticholinergics,  such  as  effects  on  the 
CNS and on the respiratory system, mydriasis, increased water intake, urine volume increase. 
No concern over the safety of administration of oxybutynin is raised with regard to Genotoxicity and 
Carcinogenicity 
Based on the results of local tolerance tests it has been concluded that the non-clinical Local Tolerance 
testing  of  all  formulations  of  possible  relevance  to  Kentera  assessment  revealed  no  adverse  effects 
serious enough to prevent the development of a Transdermal Patch for human use. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Adequate scientific publications, that are relevant to the proposed indication, as well as formal study 
data have been submitted, and cover all non-clinical aspects of the application 
The pharmacodynamic profile of oxybutynin, and its anticholinergic properties, have been adequately 
presented in the application, referring in particular to the effects on the urinary bladder contractility.  
Pharmacokinetic  properties  of  oxybutynin  have  been  described  and  show  the  highest  distribution  in 
white  adipose  tissue,  followed  by  the  liver,  harderian  gland,  adrenal  gland,  kidney  and  lung. 
Metabolism of oxybutynin occurs primarily in the liver of both rats and dogs. 
The  non-clinical  information  for  oxybutynin  revealed  that  in  principle  the  toxicological  profile  of 
oxybutynin in Kentera transdermal patch will be similar to that observed by oral route, possibly with 
the  advantage  of  lower  and more persistent exposures being reached with the patch.   A non-clinical 
8/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety assessment of the pharmacologically inert components of the Transdermal Patch did not reveal 
special concerns for local or systemic effects in human medicinal use. 
4.   Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Kentera  is  a  transdermal  system  delivering  3.9  mg  oxybutynin  per  24  hours  and  is  proposed  for 
symptomatic treatment of urge incontinence and/or increased urinary frequency and urgency as may 
occur in patients with unstable bladder. 
The proposed posology is one patch applied twice weekly (every 3 to 4 days). 
Studies  have  not  been  performed  in  children,  therefore  oxybutynin  3.9 mg  per  24 hours  transdermal 
patch is not recommended for use in children. 
According  to  the  applicant,  all  US  studies  were  performed  in  accordance  with  guidelines  on  Good 
Clinical Practice and in accordance with the World Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki and 
its amendments.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Studies in this pharmacokinetics section include comparison of absorption from the transdermal patch 
and oral administration of immediate release and extended release oxybutynin tablets in both single-
dose  and  steady-state  and  in  healthy  volunteers  as  well  as  in  patients; bioequivalence  between three 
sites  of  application  (abdomen,  hip  and  buttocks);  a  dose  proportionality  study;  and  population 
pharmacokinetic studies to assess the effect of different demographic and other factors, such as, age, 
weight, race, gender, tobacco use, and concurrent drug or disease states. 
Other  pharmacokinetics-related  issues,  such  as  protein  binding,  biotransformation,  drug  interactions, 
kinetics  in  special  populations,  etc.,  were  not  specifically  evaluated  as  part  of  the  development 
program.    Information  on  these  issues  are  summarised  and  reported  from  the  literature.  Plasma 
samples  were  analysed  for  racemic  Oxybutynin  and  DEO  concentrations  using  high  performance 
liquid chromatography (HPLC) with mass spectrometric (MS) or tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) 
detection following solid-phase extraction. 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
The  absorption  kinetics  of oxybutynin following a single application of  Kentera  to the abdomen for  
4 days has been investigated in a crossover comparison with a single dose of oral oxybutynin 5 mg in 
healthy subjects . 
The average dose of oxybutynin delivered from the 39 cm2 oxybutynin transdermal patch (Kentera) is 
3.9 mg per 24 hours 
Oxybutynin from Kentera is absorbed across intact skin and into the systemic circulation by passive 
diffusion across the stratum corneum. Following application of the Oxybutynin 3.9 mg per 24 hours 
transdermal  patch,  oxybutynin  plasma  concentration  increases  for  approximately  24  to  48  hours, 
reaching average maximum concentrations of 3 to 4 ng/mL. 
Steady-state is reached during the second application. Thereafter, steady concentrations are maintained 
for  up  to  96  hours.  The  relative  plasma  concentrations  and  AUC  of  oxybutynin,  achieved  during 
transdermal  compared  to  oral  administration  indicate  that  therapeutic  levels  are  achieved  during 
transdermal treatment. 
9/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Bioequivalence 
A  bioequivalence  study  involving  three  sites  of  application  (abdomen,  hip  and  buttock)  was 
performed. Transdermal patch application to the buttock and hip resulted in bioequivalent oxybutynin 
delivery compared to the abdomen, the application site used in the pivotal Phase III clinical trial 
• 
Distribution  
In  the  blood,  oxybutynin  is  approximately  85%  bound  to  human  serum  albumin  (Shinozaki  et  al 
1986).  
After intravenous administration in man, the apparent volume of distribution of oxybutynin is 193 L 
(Douchamps  et  al  1988).  This  is  consistent  with  wide  distribution  to  the  tissues  and  this  has  been 
confirmed in animal studies, which also found that oxybutynin is distributed to breast milk and across 
the placenta.  
• 
Metabolism and Elimination 
in 
found  mostly 
Oxybutynin  administered  orally  is  metabolised  primarily  by  the  cytochrome  P450  enzyme  systems, 
particularly  CYP3A4, 
include 
the 
phenylcyclohexylglycolic  acid,  which  is  pharmacologically  inactive,  and  N-desethyloxybutynin, 
which is pharmacologically active. 
Transdermal  administration  of  oxybutynin  bypasses  the  first-pass  gastrointestinal  and  hepatic 
metabolism,  reducing  the  formation  of  the  N-desethyl  metabolite.  Oxybutynin  is  extensively 
metabolised  by  the  liver,  with  less  than  0.1%  of  the  administered  dose  excreted  unchanged  in  the 
urine.  Also, 
the  metabolite  
N-desethyloxybutynin. 
liver  and  gut  wall.  Metabolites 
the  administered  dose 
is  excreted  as 
than  0.1%  of 
less 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The dose-related pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N-desethyloxybutynin following the application 
of oxybutynin patches have been investigated during a steady state in healthy subjects and in a Phase 
III trial in patients with overactive bladder (OAB). 
The oxybutynin patches used in both studies all used the same formulation as proposed for Kentera, 
with the exception that in addition to the actual Kentera patch of 39 cm2, smaller patches of 26 cm2 
and 13 cm2 were also investigated. 
Plasma  levels  of  the  active  agents  were  measured  until  24  hours  after  removal  of  the  last  patch. 
Measurement  of  AUCs  over  the  96  hours  of  the  final  application  showed  that  the  pharmacokinetics 
were dose-proportional for both active agents (oxybutynin and N-desethyloxybutynin metabolite) 
The steady-state pharmacokinetics of oxybutynin and N-desethyloxybutynin following the application 
of Kentera have been investigated in two studies in healthy subjects and two clinical trials in patients 
with OAB . 
The results from  these  studies show that steady-state plasma levels of both active agents do not rise 
during long-term treatment, confirming the lack of accumulation of drug found in healthy subjects. In 
addition, it can be seen that steady-state plasma levels of both active agents are comparable in healthy 
subjects and patients. 
• 
Special populations 
Since  very  little  oxybutynin  and  N-desethyloxybutynin  are  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine,  it  is 
believed unlikely that renal impairment will significantly affect their pharmacokinetics. 
Since  oxybutynin  is  extensively  hepatically  metabolised,  it  is  possible  that  its  metabolism  will  be 
influenced in patients with impaired hepatic function.  
10/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of Kentera in patients with liver impairment should be carefully monitored. 
Analysis of pharmacokinetic data from Phase I studies indicates that females exhibit a slightly greater 
metabolism of oxybutynin than males. This is consistent with the known higher cytochrome CYP 3A4 
activity in females (Beirle et al 1999). However, gender differences were not detected in the analysis 
of steady-state levels of oxybutynin and N-desethyloxybutynin in OAB patients in clinical trials and 
are probably of little clinical significance. 
Similarly, age, weight, race, tobacco use and concurrent illness were not found to have a significant 
effect on steady-state levels of oxybutynin and N-desethyloxybutynin in patients with OAB, including 
in patients up to the age of 88 years. 
The use of Kentera has not been studied in children. Kentera is not recommended for use in children. 
• 
Interaction studies 
The  interaction  profile  for  oxybutynin  is  well  documented  and  supported  by  the  submitted  data  and 
literature. 
The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic medicinal products or with other agents 
that compete for CYP3A4 enzyme metabolism may increase the frequency or severity of dry mouth, 
constipation, and drowsiness. 
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs 
due  to  anticholinergic  effects  on  gastrointestinal  motility.  As  oxybutynin  is  metabolised  by 
cytochrome P 450 isoenzyme CYP 3A4, interactions with drugs that inhibits this isoenzyme cannot be 
ruled out. This should be borne in mind when using azole antifungals (e.g. ketoconasole) or macrolide 
antibiotics (e.g. erythromycin) concurrently with oxybutynin. 
The anticholinergic activity of oxybutynin is increased by concurrent use of other anticholinergics or 
drugs  with  anticholinergic  activity,  such  as  amantadine  and  other  anticholinergic  antiparkinsonian 
drugs (e.g. biperiden, levodopa), antihistamines, antipsychotics (e.g. phenothiazines, butyrophenones, 
clozapine),  quinidine,  tricyclic  antidepressants,  atropine  and  related  compounds  like  atropinic 
antispasmodics, dipyridamole. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Oxybutynin  is  a  competitive  antagonist  of  acetylcholine  at  post-ganglionic  muscarinic  receptors, 
resulting in relaxation of bladder smooth muscle. 
Furthermore,  the  binding  of  oxybutynin  to  muscarinic  receptors  on  human  detrusor  muscle  samples 
has been confirmed. 
From  in  vitro  animal  data,  the  anticholinergic  activity  of  oxybutynin  is  mostly  due  to  the  R-
enantiomer, which shows greater selectivity for the M1 and M3 subtypes of muscarinic receptor than 
the M2 receptor. Although the M2 receptor is the predominant subtype in human detrusor muscle, it is 
probable that the M3 receptor is most important in mediating bladder contraction. 
Oxybutynin  also  has  a  direct  muscle-relaxing  effect  on  isolated  animal  detrusor  muscle  and  whole 
bladder preparations (Yarker et al 1995). However, this effect is approximately 500 times weaker than 
the anticholinergic effect and so it is unlikely to have any clinical significance. Oxybutynin also has 
local  anaesthetic  actions  in  animal  models  (Yarker  et  al  1995),  although  the  clinical  significance  of 
this effect is unknown.  
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
and 
The pharmacological activity of Kentera is due in part to the parent compound oxybutynin, but also 
due to its active metabolite N-desethyloxybutynin. Kentera results in different concentrations of parent 
administration.  
compound 
This  lower  N-desethyloxybutynin  plasma  concentration  does  not  substantially  influence  the  clinical 
efficacy. It is also possible that less adverse effects (dry mouth) are reported. 
The pharmacodynamic effects of oxybutynin patches on the human detrusor muscle in vivo have been 
investigated  in  a  Phase  II  dose-titration  study  on  patients  with  OAB  who  were  treated  with  either 
11/22
metabolite 
versus 
active 
oral 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oxybutynin  patches  (n  =  38)  or  oral  immediate-release  oxybutynin  (n  =  38).  In  this  study,  92%  of 
patients were females, 95% were Caucasian and the mean age was 63-64 years. The diagnosis of OAB 
was  based  on  a  history  of  urge  incontinence,  with  or  without  evidence  of  a  neurogenic  cause,  but 
which  had  previously  been  confirmed  cystometrically.  The  trial  was  a  randomised,  double-blinding, 
and  placebo-controlled.  All  patients  had  to  have  been  responding  to  oral  oxybutynin  at  study  entry. 
Patches were applied to the abdomen twice weekly for up to 6 weeks. The initial dose was based on 
the previous dose of oxybutynin and the dose was then titrated, according to tolerability, in the range 
one  to  four  13  cm2  patches  per  application.The  main  pharmacodynamic  measures  employed  in  this 
trial were bladder volume at first detrusor contraction and maximum bladder capacity, both measured 
by  cystometry.  These  volumes  are  decreased  in  patients  with  detrusor  instability  or  detrusor 
hyperreflexia,  and  antispasmodic  agents  are  known  to  increase  both  of  them.  The  results  from  this 
study,  demonstrate  that  in  patients  with  overactive  bladder,  characterised  by  detrusor  muscle 
instability or hyperreflexia, oxybutynin increases maximum urinary bladder capacity and increases the 
volume to first detrusor contraction. Oxybutynin decreases urinary urgency and the frequency of both 
incontinence episodes and voluntary urination. 
Oxybutynin  is  a  racemic  (50:50)  mixture  of  R-  and  S-isomers.  Antimuscarinic  activity  resides 
predominantly in the R-isomer. The R-isomer of oxybutynin shows greater selectivity for the M1 and 
M3 muscarinic subtypes (predominant in bladder detrusor muscle and parotid gland) compared to the 
M2  subtype  (predominant  in  cardiac  tissue).  The  active  metabolite,  N-desethyloxybutynin,  has 
pharmacological activity on the human detrusor muscle that is similar to that of oxybutynin in in vitro 
studies, but has a greater binding affinity for parotid tissue than oxybutynin.. It is therefore expected 
that Kentera will act on the salivary glands, which, in the human, contain predominantly M3 receptors 
and some M1 receptors (Giraldo et al 1988). 
The  secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  Kentera  on  saliva  production  have  been  examined  in,a 
Phase  I  study  in  13  healthy  subjects.  It  was  a  randomised,  open-label,  crossover  study  in  subjects 
adequately pharmacokinetically representative of patients. Findings from this study are consistent with 
the relatively higher levels of N-desethyloxybutynin following oral oxybutynin, and therefore causing 
a  greater  inhibition  of  saliva  production  than  following  Kentera.  These  results  are  consistent  with 
findings  in  the  literature  that  high  levels  of  N-desethyloxybutynin  seem  to  contribute  to  the  high 
incidence of anticholinergic adverse effects observed following oral dosing of oxybutynin (Buyse et al 
1998). 
There  is  no  evidence  that  oxybutynin  has  significant  effect  on  the  heart.  This  is  consistent  with  the 
finding that oxybutynin is less selective for the M2 muscarinic receptor than other subtypes and that is 
the M2 muscarinic receptor is the predominant subtype in the human heart (Oxybutynin 1999). 
Clinical efficacy  
One  phase  II  (dose  tolerabilithy)  and  two  phase  III  were  performed  in  patients  suffering  from 
overactive bladder. The original clinical results have been supplemented by appropriate literature. 
• 
Phase II Dose titration/tolerability  study 
The dose titration study was a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, active controlled, forced dose-
titration  Phase  II  study.  Eligible  participants  were  patients  diagnosed  with  urge  incontinence 
associated  with  detrusor  instability  or  detrusor  hyperreflexia  who  had  symptomatic  improvement  on 
prior treatment with oral oxybutynin. 
The primary objective was to compare the efficacy in treatment of urge urinary incontinence between 
transdermal  delivery of oxybutynin and oral administration of oxybutynin. Evaluation was based on 
the percentage of responders in each treatment group. Patients were categorized as responders or non-
responders to treatment based on the difference in the number of incontinent episodes reported prior to 
and during treatment. 
A total of 70 evaluable patients were expected to complete the study. Four dose levels of each of the 
two treatments were used during this study: oxybutynin transdermal patches of 13, 26, 39 or 52 cm2 
(equivalent  to  1.3  to  5.2  mg/day)  applied  twice  weekly  (every  3.5  days)  and  over-encapsulated 
12/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ditropan®  tablets  oral  capsules,  (each  containing  2.5 mg  Oxybutynin),  5,  10,  15  or  22.5 mg/day  in 
divided doses. Each treatment included matching placebo and active formulations. 
After 2 weeks treatment, the dose was titrated to the next higher dose level in patients who had none, 
or  only  mild,  side  effects,  left  at  the  same  level  in  those  patients  who had tolerable  side effects and 
reduced to the next lowest level in those who had intolerable side effects. The same titration procedure 
was employed after 4 weeks treatment, and the study concluded after 6 weeks treatment. 
Transdermal treatment achieved comparable efficacy to oral treatment which included overall patient 
response  to  treatment,  number  of  incontinent  episodes,  and  influence  of  treatment  on  urinary 
cystometry  parameters.  The  incidence  and  severity  of  dry  mouth,  the  primary  anticholinergic  side 
effect  associated  with  treatment,  were  significantly  improved  compared  to  treatment  with  the  oral, 
immediate-release product. 
The distribution of dose levels during the study were as follows: 
At Baseline 
2 
Oxybutynin patches 
1 
½ 
Variable 
Treatment 
level 
Dose 
regime* 
Number 
patients 
*Twice weekly for patches, per day for oral dosing 
39 
cm2 
9 
13 
cm2 
0 
52 
cm2 
2 
26 
cm2 
27 
3 
After 6 Weeks Treatment 
3 
2 
Oxybutynin patches 
1 
½ 
Variable 
Treatment 
level 
Dose 
regime* 
Number 
patients 
Mean dose* 
*Twice weekly for patches, per day for oral dosing 
39 
cm2 
10 
13 
cm2 
0 
52 
cm2 
26 
26 
cm2 
2 
47 cm2 
Oral Oxybutynin 
2 
1 
½ 
5 mg 
0 
10 
mg 
28 
15 mg 
9 
Oral Oxybutynin 
2 
1 
½ 
5 mg 
1 
10 
mg 
12 
15 mg 
11 
15 mg/day 
3 
22.5 
mg 
1 
3 
22.5 
mg 
11 
Patients  in  the  transdermal  group  generally  had  milder  and  fewer  side  effects  leading  to  more  dose 
levels increases than the oral group. 
• 
Main studies 
Two phase III studies were performed.  
Phase III Placebo Controlled Dose Escalation Trial 
This  study  was  a  12-week  multi-center,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  with  a 
12-week open-label, dose-titration safety period and a 28-week open-label safety extension. 
This study consisted of three periods for total study duration of 1 year:  
-12-week,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  period  evaluating  three  doses  of  oxybutynin  transdermal 
delivery system (TDS), followed by  
-12-week, open-label, dose-titration safety period, and  
- Subsequent 28-week, fixed-dose, open-label safety extension. 
13/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The double-blind period was a multi-center, randomized study in patients with a history of overactive 
bladder  with  symptoms  of  urgency,  urge  urinary  incontinence,  and  urinary  frequency  that  was  not 
related to chronic illness, anatomical weakness or abnormalities, or medication use. 
It consisted of a screening period of 3 to 4 weeks and a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
treatment period (12 weeks). The screening period included a 2-week period for washout from current 
pharmacological treatment and up to 2-week baseline evaluations. 
The  study  enrolled  520  patients  at  40  centers  in  the  double-blind  period  to  provide  447  patients 
evaluable for efficacy at the end of the 12 weeks of treatment. They were primarily elderly Caucasian 
women (mean age = 63 yrs, 91% Caucasian, 92% female). Patients who completed the double-blind 
period  were  eligible  to  enter  the  12-week  open-label,  dose-titration  safety  period.  In  the  open-label 
safety period, all patients began treatment with a single 13 cm2 oxybutynin TDS applied twice weekly. 
The dose of medication was titrated by the investigator after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment based on the 
patient’s symptoms and remained fixed for the last 8 weeks. 
Patients  who  completed  the  12-week  open-label  safety  period  had  the  option  to  continue  into  a  
28-week,  open-label,  fixed-dose  safety  extension.  Participation  was  limited  to  approximately  
150 patients from the top-performing sites to ensure exposure in 100 patients. 
Number of Patients (Planned and Analyzed):   
Planned 
Study Period 
to 
enroll/complete 
450/400 
Double-blind 
Enrolled 
Completed 
520 & 447 
open-
300/300 
411 & 358 
& 
Analyzed 
Efficacy 
515 (mITT1) 
385 
150/100 
142 & 115 
-- 
12-Week 
label 
28-Week 
extension 
1 
Safety 
520 
411 
142 
Six  patients  were  misrandomized  during  the  double-blind  treatment  period.    They  were 
included in the mITT cohort by the treatment actually received.  The ITT cohort includes these 
patients by randomized treatment assignment.  
Treatments 
Patients who met the eligibility criteria during the screening and baseline evaluations were randomized 
to one of the following treatment groups: 13 cm2 Oxybutynin TDS, 26 cm2 Oxybutynin TDS, 39 cm2 
Oxybutynin  TDS,  or  placebo  TDS.  Doses  were  obtained  using  combinations  of  active  and  placebo 
13 cm2  and  26 cm2  systems.  All  patients  applied  two  systems,  twice  weekly  (approximately  every 
3.5 days),  to  the  abdomen  for  12  weeks.  The  active  TDS  delivered  a  nominal  dose  of  0.1  mg 
Oxybutynin/cm2 surface area per day. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the double-blind period of the study was to compare the safety and efficacy 
of three doses of oxybutynin transdermal delivery system with placebo during 12 weeks of treatment. 
The objectives of the 12-week open-label safety period included characterization of the distribution of 
doses used by the patients in the study, confirmation of continued efficacy using both objective and 
subjective  measures,  and  continued  treatment  safety  in  approximately  300 patients.  Changes  in  QoL 
scores  over the 12-week open-label safety  period were also evaluated, and  plasma concentrations of 
Oxybutynin and its primary active metabolite were measured. 
14/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  objective  of  the  28-week  open-label  safety  extension  was  to  demonstrate  continued  treatment 
safety in approximately 100 patients who had been exposed to the Oxybutynin TDS for 1 year. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change from baseline to endpoint in the number of incontinent 
episodes recorded in the 7-day urinary diary. 
The secondary endpoints of the double-blind period included comparisons of daily urinary frequency, 
urinary volume per void, quality of life (QoL) scores, Global Assessment of Disease State, and safety 
assessments. In addition, plasma concentrations of Oxybutynin and its primary active metabolite were 
measured to evaluate population pharmacokinetics. 
Statistical methods 
Four patient populations were defined for statistical analysis and data tabulation:  the Safety cohort, 
the  modified  Intent-To-Treat  (mITT)  cohort,  the  Intent-To-Treat  (ITT)  cohort,  and  the  Evaluable 
cohort.  Two  datasets  were  defined  as  observed  cases  (OC)  and  last  observation  carried  forward 
(LOCF).  Patient  demographics,  physical  characteristics,  and  safety  data  were  summarized  for  each 
analysis cohort and treatment group. 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  compared  the  change  in  number  of  urinary  incontinence  episodes  per 
week from baseline to endpoint using LOCF imputation for patients who did not complete the double-
blind period. The number of episodes was obtained from the 7-day urinary diary and was normalized 
to  a  7-day  value  for  patients  with  <  7  days  of  recorded  data.  This  parameter  was  analyzed  by  an 
analysis of covariance (ANCOVA). 
Supporting  efficacy analyses  compared the mean change  in average daily urinary frequency and the 
mean change in average urinary volume per void from baseline to endpoint using LOCF imputation 
for  patients  who  did  not  complete  the  double-blind  period.  Additional  supporting  efficacy  analyses 
compared the mean Global Assessment of Disease State at baseline to endpoint and the mean change 
in the Global Assessment of Disease State at baseline to endpoint.  Average daily urinary frequency 
was calculated by dividing the total number of events recorded in the 7-day urinary diary by the total 
number of days. Average urinary volume per void was calculated by dividing the sum of the voided 
volumes by the total number of voids recorded in the 2-day urine volume documentation. Quality of 
life  was  assessed  using  three  validated  questionnaires:  the  Short  Form  36  (SF-36),  the  Incontinence 
Impact Questionnaire (IIQ), and the Urogenital Distress Inventory (UDI). 
RESULTS 
Outcomes and estimation 
In  the  double-blind  period,  the  number  of  urinary  incontinence  episodes  from  baseline  to  endpoint 
decreased in patients treated with the 39 cm2 TDS. The decrease was statistically significant compared 
with  placebo  (p  =  0.0265).  The  median  number  of  incontinence  episodes  in  the  39  cm2  group 
decreased by 19 (61.3%) episodes per week, or nearly 3 episodes per day, compared with the median 
decrease  of  15 episodes  per  week  in  the  placebo  group.  Statistically  significant  improvements  were 
also  observed  in  the  average  daily  urinary  frequency  (median  decrease  of  2  episodes  per  day,  
p = 0.0313) and the average urinary volume per void (median increase of 26 mL per void, p = 0.0009) 
in the 39 cm2 group compared with placebo. 
Patients treated with the 26 cm2 TDS also showed significant improvements in the volume of urine per 
void,  a  trend  toward  improvement  in  the  number  of  urinary  incontinence  episodes  per  week,  and  in 
average daily urinary frequency compared with placebo 
The third supporting endpoint, the Global Assessment of Disease State, proved unable to distinguish 
among the different treatments. The incontinence-specific quality of life measure, the IIQ, indicated a 
significant positive effect of the 39 cm2 treatment on IIQ total score at all study visits in comparison 
with placebo. This effect was also demonstrated for several IIQ subscales at various post-baseline time 
points.  In  general,  treatment  with  the  13  cm2  and  26  cm2  systems  showed  similar  trends  as  the  
15/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
39 cm2 systems in most parameters, but the magnitude of change was frequently not significant when 
compared  with  placebo.  The  substantial  placebo  response  (50%)  may  have  obscured  any  changes 
experienced in the 13 cm² and 26 cm² treatment groups. 
Response to TDS treatment continued in the 12-week open-label safety period, with patients choosing 
final treatment levels that allowed them to attain roughly similar levels of response across final dose 
groups. The dose titration in the open-label safety period is supportive to the efficacy of the 39 cm2 
Oxybutynin TDS. 
The choice of  a final treatment  dose was not obviously influenced by the assigned dose level in the 
double-blind period. 
Phase III Placebo Controlled Active Comparator Trial 
This  study  was  a  multi-center,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  comparing 
oxybutynin  transdermal  systems  versus  Tolterodine  long-acting  capsules  in  patients  with  overactive 
bladder. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The  study  considered  patients  with  overactive  bladder  symptoms  of  urge  urinary  incontinence  and 
urinary frequency with a beneficial response to current pharmacological treatment. 
Patients  participating  in  the  study  were  primarily  Caucasian  women  with  a  lengthy  history  of 
overactive bladder, although the overall study population included both men and women of Caucasian, 
Black,  Asian/Pacific  Islander  and  Hispanic  ethnicity.  The  median  duration  of  pharmacological 
treatment  for  overactive  bladder  was  approximately  1  year.  Patient  age  ranged  from  18  to  89  years 
with an average age of 63 years. 
The  study  included  a  Screening  Period  of  3  to  4  weeks  duration  and  a  12-week  Treatment  Period. 
Screening  consisted  of  a  2-week  washout  from  current  overactive  bladder  treatment,  practice  of 
bladder and fluid management techniques, and completion of a 3-day urinary diary at the end of the  
2-week period. A repeat urinary diary was allowed if patients failed to accurately complete the diary. 
Treatments 
A total of 361 patients who met the eligibility criteria received one of 3 randomized treatments: 
-121 patients received 39 cm2 oxybutynin TDS (3.9 mg/day) plus placebo capsules, 
-123 received 4 mg tolterodine long-acting capsules plus placebo TDS, 
-117 received placebo treatment (capsules and TDS) 
Transdermal systems were applied twice weekly (approximately every 3.5 days) to the abdomen and 
capsules taken orally once daily throughout the 12-week treatment period. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  compare  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  transdermal  Oxybutynin  versus 
active  and  placebo  controls  in  patients  who  had  achieved  a  beneficial  response  from  current 
pharmacological treatment for overactive bladder. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in average number of urinary incontinence episodes per 
day from baseline to end of treatment as recorded on the 3-day urinary diary. 
Secondary  endpoints  included  change  from  baseline  in  average  daily  urinary  frequency  and  average 
urinary  volume  per  void;  mean  scores  and  changes  from baseline for  Global Assessment  of Disease 
16/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State and two QoL instruments: the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ) and the Urinary Distress 
Inventory (UDI). 
Statistical methods 
Four  patient  cohorts  were  defined  a  priori:  Intent-to-Treat  (ITT),  modified  Intent-to-Treat  (mITT), 
Evaluable, and Safety. The two datasets were observed cases (OC) and LOCF. Patient demographics, 
physical  characteristics,  and  safety  data  were  summarized  by  descriptive  statistics  for  each  analysis 
cohort and treatment group. 
Efficacy variables were analyzed by analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) following rank transformation 
for non-normal data sets with adjustment for unequal slopes as required. Baseline episodes were used 
as the covariate. Daily mean urinary diary parameters were rounded to the nearest integer. 
RESULTS 
Outcomes and estimation 
Oxybutynin  TDS  treatment  resulted  in  a  significant  decrease  in  urinary  incontinence  episodes  from 
baseline  to  endpoint  compared  with  placebo  (p  =  0.0137).  Median  daily  incontinence  episodes 
decreased by 3 for Oxybutynin TDS, compared with a decrease of 2 in the placebo group. Oxybutynin 
TDS  and  tolterodine  were  comparably  effective,  both  treatments  decreasing  episodes  by  3  per  day, 
based on the 95% confidence interval for change in episodes (-1.0 to 0.0) [predefined interval -1.5 to 
1.5; 95% CI]. 
Daily  urinary  frequency  decreased  by  a  median  of  2  micturitions/day  during  Oxybutynin  TDS 
treatment  (p  =  0.1010  at  covariate  mean  of  12.3/day).  Improvement  was  statistically  significant 
compared  with  placebo  at  the  baseline  3rd  quartile  value  of  14 micturitions/day  (p  =  0.0036). 
Tolterodine also decreased episodes by 2 micturitions/day (p = 0.0025). 
Average urinary void volume median increase was 24 mL during Oxybutynin treatment (p = 0.0010). 
Void  volume  also  increased  during  tolterodine  treatment  (29  mL,  p  =  0.0017).  Patient  Global 
Assessment of Disease State also improved during Oxybutynin treatment (p = 0.0106). 
Patient  QoL  was  improved  during  Oxybutynin  TDS  treatment,  indicated  by  total  IIQ  score  
(p = 0.0271) and trends in UDI. Individual IIQ subscales (travel, social relationships, emotional health, 
and physical activity) improved in general, but the magnitude of change was significant only for travel 
(p = 0.0018). 
• 
Analysis performed across trials  
No pooled analyses or meta-analysis were performed 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In  all  three  clinical  trials  in  overactive  bladder  (OAB),  the  patients  recruited  were  representative  of 
patients seeking treatment of OAB in the EU, both in terms of their demographic characteristics and 
presentation of the condition. 
The patients all had urge incontinence and so they represented the more severe end of the spectrum of 
OAB (Wein 2000). However, since less severe presentations of OAB, namely urgency and frequency, 
have has the same underlying pathophysiology (detrusor overactivity), it is reasonable to expect that 
the results from these studies can be applied to these presentations as well. 
17/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Phase II trial established that the transdermal dose of oxybutynin provided by Kentera produces 
an adequate level of efficacy in the vast majority of patients. This dose was used in the two Phase III 
trials  where  Kentera  showed  statistically  significantly  improved  urge  incontinence  compared  with 
placebo,  and  improved  frequency,  symptoms  and  quality  of  life,  but  not  always  statistically 
significantly 
over  
6 months of treatment. 
The original clinical results have been supplemented by appropriate literature. 
was  maintained 
compared 
placebo. 
efficacy 
This 
with 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
A total of 1076 people have been exposed to oxybutynin patches using the same delivery system as 
found  in  Kentera,  but  including  people  who  were  exposed  to  systems  of  different  sizes  to  Kentera 
and/or the earlier (but similar) formulation. Amongst the total population exposed, 663 were patients 
with OAB and 413 were healthy subjects. 
A total of 758 subjects (580 with OAB and 178 healthy subjects) have been exposed to at least one 
administration of the final formulation of oxybutynin patches totalling 39 cm2 in area. 
• 
Adverse events  
Application site adverse events were the most common treatment-related adverse events and occurred 
in  23.1%  of  patients  treated  with  active  patches.    Application  site  adverse  events  tended  to  increase 
with  increasing  patch  dose  and  occurred  most  frequently  in  patients  treated  with  39  cm2  patch.  
Pruritus was the most common application site adverse event at all dose levels and occurred in 14.5% 
of  patients  receiving  active  treatment.  The  greatest  incidence  of  application  site  reactions  occurred 
within the first 12 weeks of treatment, followed by a decline with continued treatment. 
The incidences of treatment-related adverse events with the 39 cm2 dose of oxybutynin patches during 
any phase of the three clinical trials in OAB (n = 454) are shown in the table below. 
Incidence  of  treatment-emergent,  treatment-related  adverse  events  during  any  phase  of  the  Phase  II 
and III clinical trials with oxybutynin patches in those patients on the 39 cm2 dose at onset (n = 454) 
18/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
preferred 
Adverse event 
(WHO-ART 
term) 
Application site pruritus 
Mouth dry 
Application site erythema 
Constipation 
Application site reaction 
Application site rash 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Diarrhoea 
Vision abnormal 
Abdominal pain 
Dysuria 
Somnolence 
Nausea 
Back pain 
Urinary tract infections 
Inflicted injury 
Rhinitis 
Palpitation 
Hot flushes 
Any event 
Number (%) patients 
47 
24 
22 
10 
10 
10 
7 
7 
6 
5 
4 
4 
4 
3 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
148 
(10.4) 
(5.3) 
(4.8) 
(2.2) 
(2.2) 
(2.2) 
(1.5) 
(1.5) 
(1.3) 
(1.1) 
(0.9) 
(0.9) 
(0.9) 
(0.7) 
(0.4) 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
(0.2) 
(32.6) 
There is evidence of a dose-relationship for application site pruritus and erythema, and dry mouth. 
There  were  no  important  differences  in  the  incidence  or  profile  of,  or  discontinuations  due  to, 
treatment-related  adverse  events  in  elderly  (≥  65  years)  compared  with  younger  patients  taking 
oxybutynin  patches  in  these  trials,  except  that  dizziness  seemed  to  be  more  common  in  the  elderly 
(3.6% of elderly patients vs 0.3% of younger patients). 
The  profile  of  treatment-related  adverse  events  reported  during  the  open-label  extension  study  was 
comparable  with  that  during  the  double-blind  period,  i.e.  predominantly  application  site  reactions. 
Therefore, there is no evidence that adverse reactions to oxybutynin patches become more frequent or 
more severe, or change in nature, during long-term administration; in fact, the incidence and severity 
seems to decline. This could be due to patients becoming more tolerant to the adverse effects over time 
and/or because intolerant patients discontinue therapy. 
Certain  other  adverse  effects  have  been  attributed  to  oxybutynin  in  the  literature.  These  include 
mydriasis,  hallucinations,  confusion,  agitation  and  skin  reactions.  Others  have  also  been  described, 
include  anorexia,  vomiting,  dyspepsia,  gastroesophageal  reflux,  esophagitis,  decreased 
and 
lagrimation, 
intraocular 
fatigue,  nightmares, 
hypertension and induction of glaucoma, urinary retention and erectile dysfunction.  Heat stroke has 
been  reported  in  a  patient  taking  oxybutynin  in  a  high  ambient temperature. Such effects have  been 
seen  with  other  anticholinergic  agents  and  are  due  to  inhibition  of  sweating,  although  were  not 
observed during the development of Kentera. 
tachycardia,  arrhythmia, 
restlessnes,  anxiety, 
19/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No serious adverse events were reported. No death was reported. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
No  clinically  significant  adverse  trends  with  oxybutynin  patches  were  identified  in  terms  of  vital 
signs, clinical laboratory variables, ECGs, or post-micturition residual urine volume during the clinical 
trials in patients (including during the open-label extension of Study O99009).  
The ECG effects of oxybutynin have also been considered in a very elderly group of 21 patients (mean 
age 75), as reported in the literature (Hussain et al 1996). After 4 weeks of treatment at a mean daily 
dose of 7.6 mg, there were no adverse effects on the ECGs. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Particular  care  should  be  put  in  the  evaluation  of  the  benefit  risk  evaluation  in  the  elderly.  Elderly 
people  are  possibly  more  sensitive  to  centrally  acting  anticholinergics.  Also,  differences  in 
pharmacokinetics have been observed in the frail elderly nevertheless, in the clinical trials programme, 
elderly  subjects  up  to  the  age of  88 years had  a similar tolerability profile to oxybutynin patches as 
younger subjects, except perhaps for a slightly greater incidence of dizziness in the elderly. This is in 
contrast  to  the  tolerability  profile  with  oral  oxybutynin,  which  was  notably  worse  in  the  elderly 
particularly in terms of the high incidence of abnormal vision. This difference is presumably because 
Kentera produces much lower plasma levels of N-desethyloxybutynin than recommended doses or oral 
oxybutynin. 
Since  very  little  oxybutynin  and  N-desethyloxybutynin  are  excreted  unchanged  in  the  urine,  it  is 
unlikely  that  renal  impairment  will  significantly  affect  their  pharmacokinetics.  However,  it  is 
appropriate that Kentera be used with caution in patients with renal impairment. 
Kentera is to be administered with caution to hepatically impaired patients. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic medicinal products or with other agents 
that compete for CYP3A4 enzyme metabolism may increase the frequency or severity of dry mouth, 
constipation, and drowsiness. 
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered drugs 
due  to  anticholinergic  effects  on  gastrointestinal  motility.  As  oxybutynin  is  metabolised  by 
cytochrome P 450 isoenzyme CYP 3A4, interactions with drugs that inhibits this isoenzyme cannot be 
ruled out. This should be borne in mind when using azole antifungals (e.g. ketoconasole) or macrolide 
antibiotics (e.g. erythromycin) concurrently with oxybutynin. 
The anticholinergic activity of oxybutynin is increased by concurrent use of other anticholinergics or 
drugs  with  anticholinergic  activity,  such  as  amantadine  and  other  anticholinergic  antiparkinsonian 
drugs (e.g. biperiden, levodopa), antihistamines, antipsychotics (e.g. phenothiazines, butyrophenones, 
clozapine),  quinidine,  tricyclic  antidepressants,  atropine  and  related  compounds  like  atropinic 
antispasmodics, dipyridamole. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In patients treated with any dose of oxybutynin patch in any phases of the three clinical trials on OAB 
(n  =  663),  none  of  the  treatment-related  adverse  events  were  serious.  However,  treatment-related 
adverse events did lead to discontinuation of study medication in 8.4% patients on oxybutynin patches 
39 cm2. This was almost entirely due to application site effects, with the remaining few cases (0.7% of 
patients) being due to dry mouth. 
The  information  presented  in  the  following  table  is  a  compilation  of  the  relevant  study  reports. 
Additional statistical analyses indicate that the discontinuation rates in the active treatment groups of 
the Phase III Dose Escalation Trial  were greater than the placebo rate, and that during the Phase III 
20/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Comparitor Trial, the TDS group exhibited a statistically greater discontinuation rate than the 
placebo  group.  Kentera  also  led  to  significantly  greater  discontinuation  than  the  tolterodine  group. 
This  could  be  explained  based  on  the  patients  enrolled  into  the  study  were  previously  on  beneficial 
antimuscarinic  treatment,  selectively  excluding  patients  that  experienced  significant  intolerability  to 
oral medications. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
Oral oxybutynin is marketed in several Member States and in the USA. 
The  Applicant  presents  reference  from  the  UK  national  Agency  as  well  as  from  the  literature.  
The  most  common  adverse  effects  of  oxybutynin  (dry  mouth,  nausea,  rash,  dizziness,  headache, 
dyspepsia and diarrhoea) are all typical of anticholinergic agents. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
is 
The results of the clinical trials programme with oxybutynin patches indicate that the most clinically 
significant  adverse  effects  of  Kentera  are  application  site  reactions  and  dry  mouth.  Other 
anticholinergic  effects  occur  at  low  rate  and  there  is  evidence  that  the  overall  incidence  of  adverse 
immediate-release  oral  oxybutynin.  
events 
levels  of  
that  plasma 
The 
N-desethyloxybutynin are much lower following administration of Kentera than are found following 
usual doses of oral oxybutynin, and that N-desethyloxybutynin is associated with anticholinergic side-
effects. 
that  with  recommend  doses  of 
the  pharmacological  finding 
is  consistent  with 
latter  finding 
lower 
than 
5.   Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
21/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The pharmacodynamic profile of oxybutynin has been well described in the application, addressing in 
particular and confirming, the effects on the urinary bladder contractility. The general pharmacology 
and the safety pharmacology information reflect the anticolinergic properties of the compound. 
The applicant has given an adequate pharmacokinetic overview. Rats and dogs were the most relevant 
species  referred.  All  pharmacokinetic  findings  with  Kentera  in  healthy  subjects  can  reasonably  be 
applied to patients with overactive bladder. 
The non-clinical information for this application revealed that in principle, the toxicological profile of 
oxybutynin in Kentera transdermal patch will be similar to that observed by oral route, possibly with 
the advantage of lower and more persistent exposures being reached with the patch. 
Efficacy 
The 39 cm2 Oxybutynin TDS is effective, as demonstrated by the statistical significant reductions in 
the number of incontinence episodes and urinary frequency. However this reduction has a small effect 
size.  The  impact  of  a  small  decrease  in  incontinence  episodes  on  the  quality  of  life  is  questionable. 
However  some  of  the  subjective  measures  used  as  a  secondary  end-point  do  show  a  statistically 
relevant difference in favour of oxybutynin. 
Efficacy  results  obtained  with  the  patch  are  absolutely  in  line  with  what  is  established  for  the 
oxybutynin in the oral form, which is already on the market. Clinical trials in this dossier almost only 
enrolled women. 
Safety 
Clinical  safety  does  not  raise  particular  concerns.  The  profile  of  adverse  events  seen  in  the  clinical 
studies  is  in  line  with  what  is  known  for  anticholinergic  drugs  and  acceptable.  The  most  clinically 
significant  adverse  effects  of  Kentera  are  application  site  reactions  and  dry  mouth.  Other 
anticholinergic  effects  occur  at  low  rate  and  there  is  evidence  that  the  overall  incidence  of  adverse 
events is lower than that with recommend doses of immediate-release oral oxybutynin. 
Particular care should be put in the evaluation of the benefit risk evaluation in the elderly. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The data submitted demonstrate the efficacy of 3.9 mg of oxybutynin transdermal patch, administered 
every 3 to 4 days, for symptomatic treatment of overactive bladder, including urgency, frequency and 
incontinence. In addition, the data submitted indicates that the treatment is safe at the indicated dose 
and  has  an  acceptable  margin  of  tolerability.  Taking  this  into  account,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
benefit/risk for this product is positive. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk ratio of Kentera in the treatment of symptomatic treatment of urge incontinence 
and/or  increased  urinary  frequency  and  urgency  as  may  occur  in  patients  with  unstable  bladder  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
22/22
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
