ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kentera 3.9 mg / 24 hours transdermal patch 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each transdermal patch contains 36 mg of oxybutynin. The area of the patch is 39 cm2, releasing a 
nominal 3.9 mg of oxybutynin per 24 hours. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Transdermal patch 
The patch is a clear plastic with an adhesive backing, protected by a release liner that is to be removed 
prior to application. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Symptomatic treatment of urge incontinence and/or increased urinary frequency and urgency as may 
occur in adult patients with unstable bladder. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is one 3.9 mg transdermal patch applied twice weekly (every 3 to 4 days). 
Elderly 
Based on clinical trial experience no dose adjustment is considered necessary in this population. 
Nonetheless Kentera should be used with caution in elderly patients, who may be more sensitive to the 
effects of centrally acting anticholinergics and exhibit differences in pharmacokinetics (see section 
4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Kentera in the paediatric population has not been established. Kentera is not 
recommended for use in the paediatric population. Currently available data are described in section 4.8 
but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Method of administration 
The patch should be applied to dry, intact skin on the abdomen, hip, or buttock immediately after 
removal from the protective sachet. A new application site should be selected with each new patch to 
avoid reapplication to the same site within 7 days. The patch must not be divided or cut into pieces. 
Patches that are damaged should not be used. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kentera is contraindicated in patients with urinary retention, severe gastro-intestinal condition, 
myasthenia gravis or narrow-angle glaucoma and in patients who are at risk for these conditions. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Kentera should be used with caution in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. The use of Kentera 
in patients with hepatic impairment should be carefully monitored. Other causes of frequent urination 
(heart failure or renal disease) should be assessed before treatment with Kentera. If urinary tract 
infection is present, an appropriate antibacterial therapy should be started. 
Urinary retention: Anticholinergic products should be administered with caution to patients with 
clinically significant bladder outflow obstruction because of the risk of urinary retention. 
Kentera should be used with caution in elderly patients, who may be more sensitive to the effects of 
centrally acting anticholinergics and exhibit differences in pharmacokinetics. 
In total 496 patients were exposed to Kentera in the randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
12-week and the 14-week safety extension studies. Of these 188 patients (38%) were 65 years of age 
and older and exhibited no overall differences in safety or effectiveness compared to younger patients. 
Thus based on current clinical evidence no need for dose adjustment in elderly patients is considered 
necessary. 
Psychiatric and central nervous system (CNS) anticholinergic events like sleep disorders (e.g. 
insomnia) and cognitive disorders have been associated with oxybutynin use, especially in elderly 
patients. Caution should be exercised when oxybutynin is administrated concomitantly with other 
anticholinergic medicinal products (see also section 4.5). If a patient experiences such events, drug 
discontinuation should be considered. 
Other psychiatric events implying an anticholinergic mechanism have been reported during post-
marketing use (see section 4.8). 
Oral administration of oxybutynin may warrant the following cautionary statements, but these events 
were not observed during clinical trials with Kentera: 
Gastrointestinal disorders: Anticholinergic medicinal products may decrease gastrointestinal motility 
and should be used with caution in patients with gastrointestinal obstructive disorders because of the 
risk of gastric retention. Also in conditions such as ulcerative colitis, and intestinal atony. 
Anticholinergic medicinal products should be used with caution in patients who have hiatus 
hernia/gastro-oesophageal reflux and/or who are concurrently taking medicinal products (such as 
bisphosphonates) that can cause or exacerbate oesophagitis. 
Anticholinergic medicinal products should be used with caution in patients who have autonomic 
neuropathy, cognitive impairment or Parkinson's disease. 
Patients should be informed that heat prostration (fever and heat stroke due to decreased sweating) can 
occur when anticholinergics such as oxybutynin are used in a hot environment. 
Oxybutynin may exacerbate the symptoms of hyperthyroidism, coronary heart disease, congestive 
heart failure, cardiac arrhythmias, tachycardia, hypertension and prostatic hypertrophy. 
Oxybutynin may lead to suppressed salivary secretions which could result in dental caries, 
parodontosis or oral candidiasis. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The concomitant use of oxybutynin with other anticholinergic medicinal products or with other agents 
that compete for CYP3A4 enzyme metabolism may increase the frequency or severity of dry mouth, 
constipation, and drowsiness. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anticholinergic agents may potentially alter the absorption of some concomitantly administered 
medicinal products due to anticholinergic effects on gastrointestinal motility. As oxybutynin is 
metabolised by cytochrome P 450 isoenzyme CYP3A4, interactions with medicinal products that 
inhibit this isoenzyme cannot be ruled out. This should be borne in mind when using azole antifungals 
(e.g. ketoconazole) or macrolide antibiotics (e.g. erythromycin) concurrently with oxybutynin. 
The anticholinergic activity of oxybutynin is increased by concurrent use of other anticholinergics or 
medicinal products with anticholinergic activity, such as amantadine and other anticholinergic 
antiparkinsonian medicinal products (e.g. biperiden, levodopa), antihistamines, antipsychotics (e.g. 
phenothiazines, butyrophenones, clozapine), quinidine, tricyclic antidepressants, atropine and related 
compounds like atropinic antispasmodics, dipyridamole. 
Patients should be informed that alcohol may enhance the drowsiness caused by anticholinergic agents 
such as oxybutynin (see section 4.7). 
Oxybutynin may antagonize prokinetic therapies. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data on the use of oxybutynin transdermal patch in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown minor reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Kentera should not be 
used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Breast-feeding 
When oxybutynin is used during breast-feeding, a small amount is excreted in the mother’s milk. Use 
of oxybutynin while breast-feeding is therefore not recommended. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. 
Because Kentera may produce drowsiness, somnolence, or blurred vision, patients should be advised 
to exercise caution when driving or using machinery (see section 4.5). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse drug reactions were application site reactions, occurring in 
23.1% of patients. Other commonly occurring adverse drug reactions reported were dry mouth (8.6%), 
constipation (3.9%), diarrhoea (3.2%), headache (3.0%), dizziness (2.3%) and blurred vision (2.3%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions from phase 3 and 4 clinical studies are listed below by system organ class and 
frequency grouping. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); 
uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000). Within each 
frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Post-
marketing adverse reactions not seen in clinical trials are also included. 
System Organ Class 
(MedDRA) 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and 
infestations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon 
Urinary tract infection 
Upper respiratory tract infection, fungal 
infection 
Anxiety, confusion, nervousness, agitation, 
insomnia 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare 
Common 
Rare 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Panic reaction#, delirium#, hallucinations#, 
disorientation# 
Headache, somnolence 
Memory impairment#, amnesia#, lethargy#, 
disturbance in attention# 
Blurred vision 
Dizziness 
Palpitations 
Urticaria, hot flushes 
Rhinitis 
Dry mouth, constipation, diarrhoea, nausea, 
abdominal pain 
Abdominal discomfort, dyspepsia 
Back pain 
Uncommon 
Urinary retention, dysuria 
Very common 
Common 
Application site pruritis 
Application site erythema, application site 
reaction, application site rash 
Uncommon 
Inflicted injury 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
# post-marketing adverse reactions from post-marketing reports only (not seen in clinical trials), with 
the frequency category estimated from clinical trial safety data, and reported in association with 
oxybutynin topical use (anticholinergic class effects). 
Adverse reactions considered associated with anticholinergic therapy, in general or observed with oral 
administration of oxybutynin, but as of yet not with Kentera in clinical trials or post-marketing, are: 
anorexia, vomiting, reflux oesophagitis, decreased sweating, heat stroke, decreased lacrimation, 
mydriasis, tachycardia, arrhythmia, nightmares, restlessness, convulsion, intraocular hypertension and 
induction of glaucoma, paranoia, photosensitivity, erectile dysfunction. 
Paediatric population 
During post-marketing use in this age group, cases of hallucinations (associated with anxiety 
manifestations) and sleep disorders correlated with oxybutynin have been reported. Children may be 
more sensitive to the effects of the product, particularly the CNS and psychiatric adverse reactions. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Plasma concentration of oxybutynin declines within 1 to 2 hours after removal of transdermal 
system(s). Patients should be monitored until symptoms resolve. Overdosage with oxybutynin has 
been associated with anticholinergic effects including CNS excitation, flushing, fever, dehydration, 
cardiac arrhythmia, vomiting, and urinary retention. Ingestion of 100 mg oral oxybutynin chloride in 
association with alcohol has been reported in a 13 year old boy who experienced memory loss, and in 
a 34 year old woman who developed stupor, followed by disorientation and agitation on awakening, 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
dilated pupils, dry skin, cardiac arrhythmia, and retention of urine. Both patients recovered fully with 
symptomatic treatment. 
No cases of overdose have been reported with Kentera. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: urinary antispasmodic, ATC code: G04B D04. 
Mechanism of action 
Oxybutynin acts as a competitive antagonist of acetylcholine at post-ganglionic muscarinic receptors, 
resulting in relaxation of bladder smooth muscle. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In patients with overactive bladder, characterised by detrusor muscle instability or hyperreflexia, 
cystometric studies have demonstrated that oxybutynin increases maximum urinary bladder capacity 
and increases the volume to first detrusor contraction. Oxybutynin thus decreases urinary urgency and 
the frequency of both incontinence episodes and voluntary urination. 
Oxybutynin is a racemic (50:50) mixture of R- and S-isomers. Antimuscarinic activity resides 
predominantly in the R-isomer. The R-isomer of oxybutynin shows greater selectivity for the M1 and 
M3 muscarinic subtypes (predominant in bladder detrusor muscle and parotid gland) compared to the 
M2 subtype (predominant in cardiac tissue). The active metabolite, N-desethyloxybutynin, has 
pharmacological activity on the human detrusor muscle that is similar to that of oxybutynin in vitro 
studies, but has a greater binding affinity for parotid tissue than oxybutynin. The free base form of 
oxybutynin is pharmacologically equivalent to oxybutynin hydrochloride. 
Clinical efficacy 
A total of 957 patients with urge urinary incontinence were evaluated in three controlled studies 
comparing Kentera to either placebo, oral oxybutynin and/or tolterodine long acting capsules. 
Reductions in weekly incontinence episodes, urinary frequency, and urinary void volume were 
evaluated. Kentera led to consistent improvements in overactive bladder symptoms compared with 
placebo. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Kentera has a concentration of oxybutynin sufficient to maintain continuous transport over the 3 to 
4 day dosing interval. Oxybutynin is transported across intact skin and into the systemic circulation by 
passive diffusion across the stratum corneum. Following the application of Kentera, oxybutynin 
plasma concentration increases for approximately 24 to 48 hours, reaching average maximum 
concentrations of 3 to 4 ng/ml. Steady-state conditions are reached during the second application of 
the transdermal patch. Thereafter, steady concentrations are maintained for up to 96 hours. The 
difference in AUC and Cmax of oxybutynin and the active metabolite N-desethyloxybutynin following 
transdermal administration of Kentera on either the abdomen, buttocks or hip is not clinically relevant. 
Distribution 
Oxybutynin is widely distributed in body tissues following systemic absorption. The volume of 
distribution was estimated to be 193 l after intravenous administration of 5 mg oxybutynin 
hydrochloride. 
Biotransformation 
Oxybutynin administered orally is metabolised primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzyme systems, 
particularly CYP3A4, found mostly in the liver and gut wall. Metabolites include 
phenylcyclohexylglycolic acid, which is pharmacologically inactive, and N-desethyloxybutynin, 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which is pharmacologically active. Transdermal administration of oxybutynin bypasses the first-pass 
gastrointestinal and hepatic metabolism, reducing the formation of the N-desethyl metabolite. 
Elimination 
Oxybutynin is extensively metabolised by the liver, see above with less than 0.1% of the administered 
dose excreted unchanged in the urine. Also, less than 0.1% of the administered dose is excreted as the 
metabolite N-desethyloxybutynin. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Pre-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies for acute toxicology, repeat 
dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and local toxicity. At a concentration of 
0.4 mg/kg/day oxybutynin administered subcutaneously, the occurrence of organ anomalies is 
significantly increased, but is observed only in the presence of maternal toxicity. Kentera delivers 
approximately 0.08 mg/kg/day. However, in the absence of understanding the association between 
maternal toxicity and developmental effect, the relevance to human safety cannot be addressed. In the 
subcutaneous fertility study in rats, while no effects were reported in males, in females, fertility was 
impaired and a NOAEL (no observed adverse effect level) of 5 mg/kg was identified. 
Environmental risk assessment (ERA) 
The active substance oxybutynin is persistent in the environment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Backing film 
Clear polyester/ethylene-vinyl acetate (PET/EVA) 
Middle layer 
Triacetin 
Acrylic copolymer adhesive solution containing 2-ethylhexyl acrylate N-vinyl pyrrolidone and 
hexamethyleneglycol dimethacrylate polymer domains 
Release Liner 
Siliconised polyester 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
The transdermal patches are individually contained in LDPE/paper laminate sachets and supplied in 
patient calendar boxes of 2, 8 or 24 patches. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Apply immediately upon removal from the protective sachet. After use the patch still contains 
substantial quantities of active ingredients. Remaining active ingredients of the patch may have 
harmful effects if reaching the aquatic environment. Hence, after removal, the used patch should be 
folded in half, adhesive side inwards so that the release membrane is not exposed, placed in the 
original sachet and then discarded safely out of reach of children. Any used or unused patches should 
be disposed of according with local requirements or returned to the pharmacy. Used patches should 
not be flushed down the toilet nor placed in liquid waste disposal systems. 
Activities that may lead to excessive sweating, or exposure to water or extreme temperature may 
contribute to adhesion problems. Do not expose the patch to the sun. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/03/270/001 
EU/1/03/270/002 
EU/1/03/270/003 
8 transdermal patches 
24 transdermal patches 
2 transdermal patches 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 15 June 2004 
Date of latest renewal: 30 April 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) http://www.ema.europa.eu 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Merckle GmbH 
Ludwig-Merckle-Straße 3 
89143 Blaubeuren 
Germany 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Europe B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
Not applicable. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kentera 3.9 mg / 24 hours transdermal patch 
oxybutynin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each transdermal patch releases 3.9 mg of oxybutynin per 24 hours. Each patch of 39 cm2 contains 
36 mg of oxybutynin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: triacetin; acrylic adhesive (containing 2-ethylhexyl acrylate; N-vinyl pyrrolidone and 
hexamethyleneglycol dimethacrylate polymer domains). 
Backing: polyester/ethylene-vinyl acetate film; siliconised polyester film. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
2 transdermal patches 
8 transdermal patches 
24 transdermal patches 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For transdermal use only. 
Do not use if seal on sachet is broken 
Apply immediately upon removal from sachet. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Sun/Wed 
Mon/Thu 
Tue/Fri 
Wed/Sat 
Thu/Sun 
Fri/Mon 
Sat/Tue 
Apply a new Kentera patch twice weekly (every 3 to 4 days). 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER (S) 
EU/1/03/270/001 
EU/1/03/270/002 
EU/1/03/270/003 
8 transdermal patches 
24 transdermal patches 
2 transdermal patches 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Kentera 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SACHET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Kentera 3.9 mg / 24 hours transdermal patch 
oxybutynin 
For transdermal use only. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Apply immediately upon removal from sachet. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
Contains 1 transdermal patch. 
6. 
OTHER 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Kentera 3.9 mg / 24 hours transdermal patch 
oxybutynin 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Kentera is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Kentera 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Kentera 
Possible side effects 
How to store Kentera 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Kentera is and what it is used for 
Kentera is used in adults to control the symptoms of urge incontinence and/or increased urinary 
frequency and urgency. 
Kentera works by allowing the bladder to expand and accommodate more urine. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Kentera 
Do not use Kentera 
- 
if you are allergic to oxybutynin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you have a rare condition called myasthenia gravis that makes the muscles in the body 
become weak and tire easily. 
if you experience incomplete bladder emptying during urination, the use of oxybutynin may 
increase this problem. You should discuss this problem with your doctor before using Kentera. 
if you have digestion problems caused by reduced emptying of the stomach after a meal you 
should consult your doctor before using Kentera. 
if you have glaucoma or a family history of glaucoma, tell your doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Kentera if you have any of the following. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Liver problems 
Kidney problems 
Difficulty urinating 
Intestinal blockage 
Bloody stools 
Generalized muscle weakness 
Painful swallowing 
Since treatment with oxybutynin may cause decreased perspiration, there is an increased risk of fever 
and heat stroke if you are exposed to high environmental temperatures. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Kentera is not recommended for use in children or adolescents. 
Other medicines and Kentera 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Applying the Kentera patch at the same time as taking other medicines that have similar side effects 
such as dry mouth, constipation and drowsiness, may increase how often and how severe these side 
effects are experienced. 
Oxybutynin may slow the digestive tract and thereby influence the adsorption of other oral medicines, 
or the use of this medicine together with other medicines may increase the effect of oxybutynin, 
especially: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ketoconazole, itraconazole or fluconazole (used for the treatment of fungal infections). 
Erythromycin a macrolide antibiotic (used to treat bacterial infections). 
Biperiden, levodopa, or amantadine (used to treat Parkinson’s disease). 
Antihistamines (used in the treatment of allergies such as hay fever). 
Phenothiazines or clozapine (used to treat mental illness). 
Tricyclic antidepressants (used to treat depression). 
Dipyridamole (used to treat blood clotting problems). 
Atropine and other anticholinergic medicines (used for treatment in stomach disorders such as 
irritable bowel syndrome). 
Kentera with alcohol 
Oxybutynin may cause drowsiness or blurred vision. Drowsiness may be increased by consumption of 
alcohol. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. 
Kentera should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
When oxybutynin is used during breast-feeding, a small amount is excreted in the mother’s milk. Use 
of oxybutynin while breast-feeding is therefore not recommended. 
Driving and using machines 
Because Kentera may produce drowsiness, somnolence, or blurred vision, patients should be advised 
to exercise caution when driving or using machinery. 
3. 
How to use Kentera 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
Apply a new Kentera patch twice weekly (every 3 to 4 days) according to the instructions for use. 
Change the patch on the same two days every week, for example, every Sunday and Wednesday or 
Monday and Thursday. 
Printed on the inside flap of your Kentera package, you will find a Kentera calendar checklist that will 
help you to remember your dosing schedule. Mark the schedule you plan to follow and remember 
always to change your patch on the same two days of the week you have chosen on your calendar. 
Make sure to wear only one patch at a time and wear your patch continuously, until it is time to apply 
a new one. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where to apply 
Apply the patch to a clean, dry, smooth area of skin on your abdomen, hips or buttocks. Avoid placing 
the patch in the waistline area to prevent tight clothing from rubbing against the patch. Do not expose 
the patch to the sun. Place the patch underneath your clothing. Rotate application sites with each new 
application. Do not apply a patch to the same place on your body for at least 1 week. 
How to apply 
Each patch is individually sealed in a protective sachet. Please read all the information below before 
you begin to apply Kentera. 
To apply Kentera 
Step 1: Choose a spot for the patch that is: 
- 
- 
- 
Freshly washed, but dry and cool (wait a few minutes after taking a hot bath or shower). 
Free of body powder, lotion, and oil. 
Free of cuts, rashes or any other skin irritation. 
Step 2: Open the sachet that contains the patch. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tear open along arrows marked on the right side of the sachet as shown in drawing below. 
Do not cut the sachet with scissors, which might damage the patch inside. 
Pull the patch out. 
Do not cut or divide the patch, do not use damaged patches. 
Apply immediately to your skin; do not keep or store the patch outside the sealed sachet. 
Step 3: Apply one half of the patch to your skin. 
- 
- 
Gently bend the patch and remove the first piece of protective liner, which covers the sticky 
surface of the patch. 
Without touching the sticky surface, firmly press the patch, adhesive face down, onto the part of 
the abdomen, hips or buttocks you have selected for application. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 4: Apply the second half of the patch to your skin. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Bend the patch back over itself. Press down on the liner firmly. 
Push the liner forward a little to loosen the edge. 
Grab the loose edge at either corner and peel off the second piece of the liner. Try not to touch 
the sticky surface of the patch. 
Press the entire patch firmly onto the skin with your fingertips. Press for at least 10 seconds to 
make sure the patch will stay in place. Be sure all of it sticks to your skin, even around the 
edges. 
Discard the protective liners. 
Bathing, showering, swimming and exercise 
You should wear each patch all the time until you apply a new one. Baths, showers, swimming and 
exercise should not affect the patch as long as you don’t rub the patch as you wash. Avoid soaking in a 
hot bath for a long period of time, which can make the patch come off. 
If the patch comes off 
If the patch starts to lift off your skin, apply a little bit of pressure using your fingertips. The patch is 
designed to re-stick. Very rarely will the patch come off completely. If it does, try putting the same 
patch back on the same spot. If it sticks firmly all over, leave it on. If not, take it off and put a new 
patch on a new spot. No matter what day this happens, continue with the twice-a-week schedule that 
you have marked on your patch box. 
If you forget to change the patch after 3-4 days 
As soon as you remember, remove the old patch and apply a new one to a new spot on your abdomen, 
hips or buttocks. No matter what day this happens, continue with the same twice-a-week schedule for 
your next patch, even if it means changing the new patch before 3 to 4 days have elapsed. 
How to remove 
When changing the patch, remove the old patch slowly. Fold it in half (sticky sides together) and 
throw it away to keep out of the reach of children and pets. Mild redness may be present at the 
application site. This redness should disappear within several hours after removal of the patch. If 
irritation persists, please contact your doctor. 
Gently washing the application site with warm water and a mild soap should remove any adhesive that 
remains on your skin after removal of the patch. A small amount of baby oil may also be used to 
remove any excess residue. Rings of adhesive that become soiled may require a medical adhesive 
removal pad that should be available from your pharmacist. Alcohol or other strong solvents may 
cause skin irritation and should not be used. 
After use the patch still contains substantial quantities of active ingredients. Remaining active 
ingredients of the patch may have harmful effects if reaching the aquatic environment. Hence, after 
removal, the used patch should be folded in half, adhesive side inwards so that the release membrane 
is not exposed, placed in the original sachet and then discarded safely out of reach of children. Any 
used or unused patches should be discarded according to local requirements or returned to the 
pharmacy. Used patches should not be flushed down the toilet nor placed in liquid waste disposal 
systems. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you use more Kentera than you should 
Do not apply more than one patch at a time. 
If you forget to use Kentera 
Apply a Kentera patch as soon as you realise your patch is missing, or you have missed a scheduled 
day of application. 
If you stop using Kentera 
Your urge incontinence may return and you may have increased urinary frequency if you decide to 
stop using the patch. Continue to use Kentera as long as your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Very common side effect (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
itching around the site of patch application 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
redness or rash at the site of patch application 
dry mouth 
constipation 
diarrhoea 
upset stomach 
stomach pain 
headache or sleepiness 
urinary tract infections 
blurred vision 
dizziness 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
upper respiratory tract or fungal infections 
anxiety 
confusion 
nervousness 
agitation 
difficulty in sleeping 
palpitations 
hot flushes 
back pain 
urinary retention 
difficulty urinating 
common cold 
accidental injury 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
panic reaction 
mental confusion 
hallucinations 
disorientation 
memory impairment 
loss of memory 
abnormal tiredness 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
poor concentration 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Kentera 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the sachet and the carton. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
The used patches should be folded in half, adhesive side inwards so that the release membrane is not 
exposed, placed in the original sachet and then discarded safely out of the reach of children. Any used 
or unused patches should be discarded according to local requirements or returned to the pharmacy. 
Used patches should not be flushed down the toilet nor placed in liquid waste disposal systems. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Kentera contains 
- 
The active substance is oxybutynin. 
Each transdermal patch releases 3.9 mg of oxybutynin per 24 hours. Each patch of 39 cm2 
contains 36 mg of oxybutynin. 
The other ingredients are: Each patch contains triacetin, and acrylic adhesive solution. The 
oxybutynin, triacetin and acrylic adhesive are coated on clear PET/EVA backing film and 
covered with a siliconised polyester release liner. 
- 
What Kentera looks like and contents of the pack 
Kentera is a transdermal patch and it is packaged in cartons containing 2, 8, and 24 patches. 
Each patch consists of a clear backing film that has the pharmaceutical ingredients coated on the side 
containing the protective backing film. The backing film is to be removed prior to patch application. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Teva B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Merckle GmbH 
Ludwig-Merckle-Straße 3 
89143 Blaubeuren 
Germany 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Europe B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Тел: +359 24899585 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140202 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
España 
Laboratorios Gebro Pharma, S.A. 
Tel: +34 932058686 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Accord Healthcare Ireland Ltd. 
Ireland 
Tel: +353 214619040 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S) 
ANNEX IV 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for oxybutynin, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Oral formulation 
In view of available data on risk of palpitations from spontaneous reports including in some cases a 
close temporal relationship, a positive de-challenge and/or re-challenge, the PRAC considers a 
causal relationship between Oxybutynin as per EURD list and Palpitation is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of oral formulations containing 
oxybutynin should be amended accordingly. 
Transdermal formulation 
In view of available data on medication errors concerning patients cutting the patches into smaller 
pieces, the PRAC considers that, in the current SmPC and PIL, it is not clear enough that the 
transdermal patches should not be cut or divided in any way. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of the transdermal formulation containing oxybutynin should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for oxybutynin the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing oxybutynin is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
27 
 
