15 September 2016 
EMA/677040/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): levetiracetam 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001846/201511 
Period covered by the PSUR: 01 December 2012-30 November 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for levetiracetam, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Acute kidney injury  
Following the review of the signal assessment report (SSAR), the Innovator MAH confirmed the possible 
association between levetiracetam and acute kidney injury. Therefore the undesirable effect “Acute 
kidney injury” should be added under the MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC) Renal and urinary 
disorders (frequency ‘rare’) as well as a warning in the Product Information of all 
levetiracetam-containing products. 
Rhabdomyolysis/Blood creatine phosphokinase increased  
Four case reports (2 published) with very suggestive causal association were issued during the reporting 
period regarding rhabdomyolysis in association with levetiracetam use. The statistical analysis in 
Eudravigilance based in proportional reporting ratio (PRR) was significant for a signal. Therefore, the 
MAHs should add the undesirable effect “Rhabdomyolysis” under the SOC Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders (frequency ‘rare’) in the Product Information of all levetiracetam-containing 
products. Moreover, as it is associated with rhabdomyolysis, the undesirable effect “Blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased” should also be added to the Product Information under the SOC 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (frequency ‘rare’). 
Encephalopathy 
The safety report prepared by the Innovator MAH contained several cases very suggestive of a causal 
association between levetiracetam and encephalopathy. The statistical disproportionality analysis 
performed by the Innovator MAH in its own database was suggestive of a safety signal for 
‘encephalopathy’ associated with levetiracetam. This statistical signal was also confirmed in 
Eudravigilance, based on PRR analysis. Based on the above, it is considered justified to document that 
cases of “encephalopathy” have been observed rarely in the Product Information of all 
levetiracetam-containing products.  
Therefore in view of the data presented in the PSURs the PRAC considers that changes to the product 
Information of medicinal products containing levetiracetam were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for levetiracetam the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing levetiracetam is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied.  
EMA/677040/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
