17 March 2011 
EMA/163062/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Keppra 
(levetiracetam) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000277/P46 62 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. RECOMMENDATION ................................................................................. 4 
2. INTRODUCTION ....................................................................................... 4 
3. STUDY DESIGN ........................................................................................ 4 
4. OBJECTIVES............................................................................................. 6 
5. IN- & EXCLUSION CRITERIA .................................................................... 6 
6. POPULATION ........................................................................................... 7 
7. STATISTICAL METHODS ........................................................................... 7 
8. POPULATION RESULTS ............................................................................ 7 
9. SAFETY RESULTS ................................................................................... 10 
10. CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY RESULTS ................................................... 12 
11. DISCUSSION AND OVERALL CONCLUSIONS ......................................... 12 
12. COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM OTHER MEMBER STATES ......................... 13 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 2/16 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
AE 
AED 
ALP 
ALT 
AST 
BID 
BMI 
BP 
CDMS 
CFR 
CRF 
adverse event 
antiepileptic drug 
alkaline phosphatase 
alanine aminotransferase 
aspartate aminotransferase 
bis in die (twice daily) 
body mass index 
blood pressure 
clinical data management system 
Code of Federal Regulation 
case report form 
CV(%) 
coefficient of variation 
DBP 
ECG 
EDV 
FDA 
GCP 
GGT 
HR 
ICH 
IEC 
IRB 
IGE 
ITT 
IV 
JME 
LEV 
MCH 
MCHC 
MCV 
diastolic blood pressure 
electrocardiogram 
Early Discontinuation Visit 
Food and Drug Administration 
Good Clinical Practice 
gamma-glutamyl transferase 
heart rate 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Independent Ethics Committee 
Institutional Review Board 
Idiopathic Generalized Epilepsy 
intent-to-treat 
intravenous 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy 
levetiracetam 
mean corpuscular hemoglobin 
mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration 
mean corpuscular volume 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
PGTC 
PK 
PK-ITT 
Q1 
Q3 
SAE 
SBP 
SD 
SDV 
SGOT 
SGPT 
SOC 
TEAE 
WHO 
XR 
primary generalized tonic-clonic 
pharmacokinetic(s) 
pharmacokinetic intent-to-treat 
25th percentile 
75th percentile 
serious adverse event 
systolic blood pressure 
standard deviation 
source data verification 
serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase 
serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase 
system organ class 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
World Health Organization 
extended release 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 3/16 
 
 
 
 
1.  RECOMMENDATION 
The CHMP endorsed the MAH’s conclusions. No further action was required. 
2.  INTRODUCTION 
Levetiracetam  (LEV)  is  an  antiepileptic  consisting  of  the  S-enantiomer  of  α-ethyl-2-oxo-1-pyrrolidine 
acetamide. The tablet formulation of the drug has been approved in Europe since 2000 and has since 
then been joined by oral solution, injection, and extended release (XR) tablet formulations. 
Approved indications in the EU consist of: 
Monotherapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary 
generalization in patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
Adjunctive therapy in: 
• 
• 
• 
treatment  of  partial  onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalization  in  adults, 
children and infants from 1 month of age with epilepsy, except for the IV formulation which 
is limited to patients from 4 years of age and older. 
treatment  of  myoclonic  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12  years  of  age  with 
Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy. 
treatment  of  primary  generalized  tonic-clonic  seizures  in  adults  and  adolescents  from  12 
years of age with Idiopathic Generalized Epilepsy. 
Prior  to  US  FDA  approval  of  Keppra  injection,  UCB  committed  to  conduct  a  post-approval  study  to 
assess the pharmacokinetics (PK), safety, and tolerability of the IV formulation of LEV in children aged 
1  month  to  <4  years  and  in  children  aged  4  to  16  years.  The  study  discussed  here  concerns  the 
former. 
3.  STUDY DESIGN 
This  trial  was  a  Phase  2,  open-label,  single-arm,  multicenter  study  evaluating  the  safety,  tolerability, 
and  PK  of  the  LEV  IV  15-minute infusion in  children  (1  month  to  <4 years  old)  with  epilepsy  (except 
status epilepticus). 
Subjects  were  hospitalized  and  had  received  LEV  oral  solution  at  a  stable,  twice-daily  (bid)  dose 
regimen for at least 5 days prior to the first LEV IV infusion and had presented with medical conditions 
that  required  temporary  IV  administration  of  LEV,  or  required  LEV  IV  treatment  for  a  short  period  of 
time prior to considering continuing AED treatment with LEV oral solution. A screening period of 1 to 7 
days was used during which the subject’s eligibility was confirmed. 
The planned evaluation period for a subject consisted of a minimum of 1 complete set of PK sampling 
over a maximum of 4 days while the subject was inpatient and receiving a LEV IV 15-minute infusion 
every 12 hours. The first IV infusion was to be administered 12 hours after the final oral dose of LEV. 
IV dosing, equivalent to oral dosing or calculated on age and weight, was as follows: 
•  ≥1 month to <6 months age: 7mg/kg bid to 21mg/kg bid 
•  ≥6 months to <4 years: 10mg/kg bid to 30mg/kg bid 
The LEV IV dose had to be stable during the PK sampling period no wash out period was foreseen, and 
when necessary for the safety of the subject or when the investigator deemed it appropriate, the LEV 
IV  dose  could  be  modified  once  the  PK  samples  were  taken.  In  case  an  infant  was  preterm,  the 
corrected gestational age had to be used when calculating the dose. 
Plasma samples were taken for LEV determination on Day 1 (optionally on Day 2, Day 3, and Day 4) at 
the following time points around the morning infusion: 
•  3 to 10 minutes after the start of infusion 
•  15 minutes (at the end of the LEV IV infusion) 
•  Between 40 and 60 minutes post infusion 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 4/16 
 
 
 
 
•  Between 5 and 8 hours post infusion 
A Final Visit was scheduled between 1 and 2 weeks following the final LEV IV infusion. 
A schematic representation of the schedule is given below: 
Table 1: Study schedule of assessments 
AED=antiepileptic drug; D=day; ECG=electrocardiogram; EDV=Early Discontinuation Visit; IV=intravenous; LEV=levetiracetam; 
PK=pharmacokinetic(s) 
a End of Treatment exams were performed in the morning of the last infusion day. 
b When deemed necessary, Screening, Baseline (Day 0), and first IV infusion (Day 1) may have occurred on the same day. All 
Screening procedures and results of examinations must have been available to allow verification of subject’s eligibility. 
c D4 stands for Day 4 or last infusion day. 
d Inclusion/exclusion criteria were assessed at Screening and re-assessed at Baseline to ensure that subjects met the required 
criteria before starting any LEV IV infusion. 
e Vital signs included measurements of blood pressure and heart rate. 
f Height was measured only at Screening. 
g Results of the 12-lead ECG and the blood laboratory tests performed at Screening should have been available at Baseline to 
confirm that the subject met all required criteria before starting any LEV IV infusion. 
h The ECG should have been performed on the day of the first infusion (Day 0 or Day 1 as applicable), prior to any procedure needed 
to set the infusion. If the ECG at Screening was performed less than 2 days prior to the first infusion and was normal, the ECG at 
Day 0 or Day1 should not be repeated. 
i Safety blood laboratory tests included hematology and biochemistry. 
j For subjects who need to start LEV IV infusion in the afternoon/evening of Day 0, collection of blood samples for PK assessments 
started the following morning with the second IV infusion (Day 1). The following blood samples for PK assessments were optional: 
those taken on Day 2, Day 3, and Day 4, with the following morning IV infusion. 
k Subjects should have been hospitalized for the duration of the LEV IV treatment. Admission to the hospital should have taken place 
at least the day prior to the start of the first LEV IV infusion. However, when necessary for the wellbeing of the subject or when 
investigator deemed it appropriate, the hospitalization could have started on the same day as the first IV infusion. Discharge 
occurred as soon as the investigator deemed it appropriate (ie, the subject is in good medical condition). 
l First LEV IV infusion preferably should have taken place in the morning. If needed, LEV IV infusions could have been started the 
afternoon of Day 0. 
In  total  6  protocol  amendments  were  made  of  which  the  most  important  resulting  changes  were 
exclusion of subjects being treated with Vigabatrin in Germany, revision of the age categories to have 
more balanced age groups and the requirement that at least one third of the subjects should be in the 
high-dose range 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 5/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  OBJECTIVES 
Primary 
Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of the LEV IV 15-minute infusion administered every 12 hours, 
either  as  adjunctive  treatment  or  monotherapy  in  children  (1  month  to  <4  years  old)  with  epilepsy 
(except status epilepticus), either after switching from the equivalent LEV oral dose administration or 
as a new antiepileptic treatment. 
Secondary 
Assessment  of  the  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  the  LEV  IV  15-minute  infusion  administered  every  12 
hours in children with epilepsy in the age range of 1 month to <4 years. 
5.  IN- & EXCLUSION CRITERIA 
Inclusion 
−  Signed and dated informed consent 
−  Suffering from epilepsy 
−  Male or female between 1 month to <4 years of age 
−  Body weight at Screening was at least 3kg (amended to 8 at one site) 
−  Acute need of a short treatment with LEV IV 
− 
− 
If on LEV oral treatment: a stable dose regimen for at least 5 days prior the first LEV IV infusion. 
Inpatient 
−  Subject/legally acceptable representative considered reliable and capable of adhering to the 
protocol 
−  Concomitant enzyme inducing AEDs had to be stable over the 4 weeks prior to the first LEV IV 
infusion. A change of dose or new introduction was: 
o  Acceptable at any time if a one single-dose administration 
o  Accepted if repeated administration occurred ≤24 hours prior to the first LEV IV infusion 
o  Not accepted if repeated administration occurred ≥72 hours prior to the first LEV IV 
infusion 
o  Considered on a case-by-case basis (depending on the AED and its dosage) if repeated 
administration occurred between these 2 limits: >24 hours and <72 hours prior to the first 
LEV IV infusion 
Exclusion 
−  Difficult venous accessibility. 
−  History of status epilepticus during the 3 months prior to screening. 
−  Allergy to pyrrolidone derivatives or a history of multiple drug allergies. 
−  Clinically significant acute or chronic illness  
−  Any medical condition that might interfere with his/her study participation 
−  Terminal illness. 
−  Depressive symptoms and/or suicidal ideation and/or behavior. 
−  Clinically significant ECG abnormalities 
−  Clinically significant abnormal blood pressure and/or heart rate 
−  Clinically significant deviations from reference range values for laboratory parameters 
−  Subject received any investigational drug or device within the 30 days prior to screening.  
−  Use of felbamate with less than 18 months continuous exposure before screening. 
−  Ketogenic diet (currently or within 30 days prior to Screening). 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 6/16 
 
 
 
 
−  Previously allocation or received study treatment during this study. 
− 
− 
− 
Investigator’s, co-investigator’s or any study collaborator’s children were not to participate 
Included as subjects in the study. 
In Germany subjects currently on vigabatrin were excluded 
6.  POPULATION 
As per the FDA request it was planned to include 18 subjects in the trial whom had to complete the PK 
assessments. They should have 4 post-dose PK samples over 1 infusion day available or alternatively 
at  least  5  PK  samples  in  case  of  LEV  IV  treatment  lasted  more  than  1  day.  The  approximate 
distribution throughout the age brackets was planned as follows: 
−  6 subjects: ≥1 month to <6 months 
−  6 subjects: ≥6 months to <2 years 
−  6 subjects: ≥2 years to <4 years 
One half of the subjects were to be exposed to at least 3 consecutive IV doses and at least one third of 
the  subjects  had  to  receive  a  high-dose  range  (≥28mg/kg/day  for  subjects  ≥1  month  to  <6  months 
and ≥40mg/kg/day for subjects ≥6 month to <4 years). 
7.  STATISTICAL METHODS 
Categorical  data  were  summarized  using  frequency  tables,  while  descriptive  statistics  were  used  for 
continuous data. Plasma concentrations were described by way of calculation of both geometric mean 
and geometric coefficient of variation. 
With  regards  to  safety  analysis  the  adverse  events,  physical  abnormalities,  the  indication  of  the 
medications, medical history, and medical procedures were coded according to the latest version of the 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). Unresolved  
8.  POPULATION RESULTS 
In total 19 persons out of 23 volunteers were enrolled in the study. 6 in the ≥1 month to <6 months 
group, 6 in the ≥6 months to <2 years group, and 7 in the ≥2 years to <4 years group. Of these 19, 
sixteen  completed  the  study.  All  subjects  who  completed  the  study  received  study  drug  according  to 
the protocol 
Subject disposition is given in table 2 below: 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 7/16 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Subject disposition 
ITT=intent-to-treat; PK=pharmacokinetic 
a All subjects received at least 1 IV infusion. 
Overall,  17  subjects  (90%)  had  at  least  1  important  protocol  deviation:  5 (83%)  in  the  ≥1  month  to 
<6 months years group, 5 (83%) in the ≥6 months to <2 years group and 7 (100%) in the ≥2 years 
to <4 years group. The most frequent important protocol deviation was procedure noncompliance (16 
subjects, 94% overall). Within this category, the most frequent deviations were deviation in timing of 
vital  signs  (12  subjects  overall)  and  deviation  in  timing  of  PK  sampling  (6  subjects  overall).  None  of 
these important deviations had an impact on the safety or PK results however. 
Study population demographic breakdown is given in table 3. Differences among age groups in weight, 
height, and BMI were noted, but were also expected. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 8/16 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Demographic and other Baseline characteristics 
BMI=body mass index; ITT=intent-to-treat; max=maximum; min=minimum; SD=standard deviation 
Baseline epilepsy etiology for the study population was as follows: 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 9/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  subjects  had  at  least  1  concomitant  disease,  which  were  most  frequently  reported  in  the  nervous 
system disorders SOC (11 subjects; 58%), followed by the SOCs gastrointestinal disorders (9 subjects; 
47%);  congenital,  familial,  and  genetic  disorders  (8  subjects;  42%);  and  surgical  and  medical 
procedures (8 subjects; 42%). 
The majority of subjects (12 subjects; 63% overall) in the ITT population took at least 1 prior AED: 4 
subjects (67%) in the ≥1 month to <6 months group, 4 subjects (67%) in the ≥6 months to <2 years 
group,  and  4  subjects  (57%)  in  the  ≥2  years  to  <4  years  group.  The  most  frequently  reported  prior 
AED  was  valproic  acid  (4  subjects;  21%  overall):  no  subjects  (0%)  in  the  ≥1  month  to  <6  months 
group, 2 subjects (33%) in the ≥6 months to <2 years group, and 2 subjects (29%) in the ≥2 years to 
<4 years group. 
Use of concomitant AEDs was as follows: 
9.  SAFETY RESULTS 
ITT population analysis 
During the trial 6 subjects (32%) received high-dose LEV IV: 1 subject (17%) in the ≥1 month to <6 
months group, 3 subjects (50%) in the ≥6 months to <2 years group and 2 subjects (29%) in the ≥2 
years  to  <4  years  group.  In  general,  the  number  of  IV  doses  received  ranged  from  1  to  6,  and  the 
duration of exposure ranged from 1 to 4 days. Twelve subjects received 3 or more consecutive doses 
of LEV IV. 
There  was  only  one  case  of  a  pretreatment  AE  in  the  whole  ITT  population,  which  concerned  a 
moderate, non-serious case of candidemia. 
Table 4 below gives an overview of the treatment-emergent adverse events. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 10/16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Summary of Treatment-Emergent Events 
As can be seen, a higher percentage of subjects in the ≥6 months to <2 years group had drug-related 
TEAEs, but no severe TEAEs occurred in this group. 
There was one SAE which was considered drug related and this occurred in the ≥2 years to <4 years 
group.  Three deaths were reported: 2 subjects in the ≥1 month to <6 months group and 1 subject in 
the ≥2 years to <4 years group. The onset of these events in 2 of the subjects occurred within 30 days 
of the final IV infusion, and none of the 3 subjects were taking study drug at the time of death. 
In total of 33 TEAEs were reported for 12 subjects (63%). Treatment-emergent adverse  events were 
most  frequently  of  the  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  (5  subjects;  26%)  SOC, 
followed by cardiac disorders and nervous system disorders (each 4 subjects; 21%). 
The  most  frequently  reported  TEAE  was  pyrexia  (3  subjects;  16%),  followed  by  bradycardia, 
pneumonia, metabolic acidosis, and hypotension (each 2 subjects; 11%). One TEAE was related to the 
IV infusion site (puncture site pain). No trend in the incidence of TEAEs by age group was identified. 
The  33  TEAEs  occurred  in  5  high-dose  category  subjects  (83%)  and  in  7  subjects  (54%)  in  the  low-
dose category. In the former, the most frequently reported TEAE was pyrexia. In the latter category, 
the most frequently reported were bradycardia and pneumonia. 
When stratified according to previous LEV (non-)use, 6 subjects with and 6 without prior use suffered 
from  TEAEs.  For  the  former  the  most  common  one  was  pyrexia,  while  bradycardia  and  pneumonia 
occurred the most frequent in the latter group. 
Three of the TEAEs which occurred could be categorized as severe. Pneumonia, abdominal sepsis, and 
metabolic acidosis occurred in 1 subject in the ≥1 month to <6 months group, respiratory failure in 1 
subject in the ≥1 month to <6 months group and cardiac arrest and metabolic acidosis in 1 subject in 
the ≥2 years to <4 years group. 
Four drug-related TEAEs manifested in three subjects. 2 subjects (33%) in the ≥6 months to <2 years 
group  experienced  EEG  AE  +  hypotension  and  solomnolence.  reported  for  1  subject  (14%)  in  the  ≥2 
years to <4 years group. ECG QT prolonged was reported for 1 subject (14%) in the ≥2 years to <4 
years group. 
During the study three deaths were reported: 2 subjects in the ≥1 month to <6 months group and 1 
subject  in  the  ≥2  years  to  <4  years  group.  In  the  former  age  group  one  subject  died  of  pneumonia, 
abdominal  sepsis,  bradycardia,  and  metabolic  acidosis,  and  the  other  due  to  respiratory  failure.  The 
subject in the ≥2 years to <4 years group died of cardiac arrest and metabolic acidosis. All three had 
significant  co-morbidities.  All  these  events  were  considered  not  related  to  study  medication,  as  the 
onset of these events in 2 of the subjects occurred within 30 days of the final IV infusion, and none of 
the 3 subjects were taking study drug at the time of death. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 11/16 
 
 
 
 
 
There was one more incident of SAE in the ≥2 years to <4 years group, were a subject had an SAE of 
moderate QT interval prolonged. The event resolved and was considered possibly related to study drug. 
One subject (17%) in the ≥6 months to <2 years group had a moderate AE of relative activation of the 
EEG  (verbatim  term)  which  led  to  discontinuation  of  study  drug.  The  event  was  considered  possibly 
related to study drug. 
Laboratory Analysis 
Mean  values for all hematology and clinical chemistry parameters were within normal limits at each 
measured time point, and no AEs were linked to these laboratory findings. 
The majority of subjects had normal ECG findings at Baseline; approximately half of the subjects (47%) 
had a normal ECG at End of Treatment/Early Discontinuation. 
There  were  no  clinically  relevant  findings  other  than  those  already  mentioned  in  laboratory  analyses, 
vital sign measurements, ECG measurements, or physical examinations 
10.  CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY RESULTS 
The  applicant  claims  that  observed  LEV  plasma  concentrations  were  in  the  expected  range,  but  that 
details of the PK analysis will be provided in a separate population PK report. 
11.  DISCUSSION AND OVERALL CONCLUSIONS 
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the LEV IV 15-minute 
infusion  administered  every  12  hours,  either  as  adjunctive  treatment  or  monotherapy  in  children  (1 
month to <4 years) with epilepsy (except status epilepticus), either after switching from the equivalent 
LEV oral dose administration or as a new antiepileptic treatment. 
This was an inpatient study, with majority of subjects being hospitalized for reasons related to seizures. 
Other subjects were temporarily unable to take oral LEV for medical reasons or hospitalized for surgery. 
Overall, a total of 33 TEAEs were reported for 12 subjects. Treatment-emergent adverse events were 
most frequently reported general disorders and administration site conditions SOC, followed by cardiac 
disorders and nervous system disorders. 
The  most  frequently  reported  preferred  term  was  pyrexia,  followed  by  bradycardia,  pneumonia, 
metabolic acidosis, and hypotension (each 11% of subjects overall). One subject in the ≥2 years to <4 
years group had puncture site pain. 
No trend in the incidence of TEAEs by age group, dose category, or previous LEV could be identified. 
Three deaths were reported. The onset of these events in 2 of the subjects occurred within 30 days of 
the final IV infusion, and none of the 3 subjects were taking study drug at the time of death and had 
severe co morbidities. 
Apart from these three there was only one more subject with an STEAE. The patient resided in the ≥2 
years to <4 years group and suffered an SAE of moderate QT interval prolonged. The event resolved 
and  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  possibly  related  to  study  drug.  Finally,  one  subject 
discontinued prematurely from the study due to an AE. 
There  were  no  clinically  relevant  findings  in  laboratory  analyses,  vital  sign  measurements,  ECG 
measurements, or physical examinations. 
The observed LEV plasma concentrations were in the expected range, but a full PK analysis report will 
follow later. 
Conclusion 
Overall, analysis of the data showed that the LEV IV 15-minute infusion administered every 12 hours is 
a safe alternative and was well tolerated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of seizures in infants 
and children 1 month to <4 years with epilepsy when the oral administration is temporarily not feasible. 
Nevertheless,  even  thought  the  data  presented  in  the  Clinical  Study  Report  may  be  considered  to 
support the use of Keppra IV in children aged 1 month to <4 years old. However, the CHMP considered 
that  these  results,  whilst  promising,  report  only  safety  experience  in  just  18  patients  and  are  thus 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 12/16 
 
 
 
 
insufficient  to  warrant  an  extension  of  Keppra  IV  into  a  younger  patient  population.  Therefore,  the 
CHMP did not request any change to the approved Product Information for Keppra. 
12.  COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM OTHER MEMBER STATES 
(MS) 
One of the MS did not agree with the conclusion that: LEV IV 15-minute infusion administered every 12 
hours is a safe alternative and was well tolerated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of seizures in 
infants and children 1 month to <4 years with epilepsy when the oral administration is temporarily not 
feasible. 
It is accepted that the babies and infants were likely to have been seriously ill with multiple treatment; 
however a closer scrutiny of the safety data is warranted as follows:  
It is not clear from the assessment report whether for example levetiracetam could have contributed to 
the 3 deaths:  
•  Were post-mortems performed?  
•  What were the findings?  
•  Was the levetiracetam well tolerated whilst they were on it?  
•  Were the ECGs of these infants/babies normal whilst on leviracetum?  
•  Were their LFTs normal?  
•  What events led to their demise? 
• 
The  QT  prolongation  does  not  appear  to  have  been  previously  a  problem  with  levetiracetum  but 
there appears to be a positive challenge and dechallenge. Was this infant on any other medication 
that could have explained this? How many babies and infants had baseline and on treatment ECGs? 
What happened to their QT intervals?  
•  Generally how do the observed AEs relate to the AEs observed in adults and how to the AEs noted 
in children in studies with the oral formulations? Further data regarding this should be provided by 
the MAH. 
Committee’s view: 
Please find below the narrative summaries of the three deaths that occurred: 
•  One subject experienced serious adverse events (SAEs) of cardiac arrest and metabolic acidosis 8 
days after study drug initiation, but no longer taking the study drug at time of SAE onset. 
She had a previous medical history consisting of: 
o  Glycogen storage disease type I, 2006-ongoing 
o  Sickle cell trait, 2006-ongoing 
o  Gastrostomy tube insertion, 2007-ongoing 
When  the  subject  arrived  at  the  hospital  she  was  hypothermic,  bradycardiac,  hypotensive  with 
shallow  breathing,  and  she  rapidly  progressed  into  cardiopulmonary  arrest  with  heart  rate  in  the 
30s. Chest X-ray revealed a bilateral airspace consolidation with air bronchograms consistent with 
pulmonary  edema.  Abdominal  ultrasound  showed  mild  ascites  of  unknown  etiology  and  an 
abnormal  thickened  and  collapsed  gallbladder  wall  with  pericholecystic  fluid  (gallstone-free).  The 
spleen was fairly small.  An infection or inflammatory etiology could however not be concluded.  
Laboratory culture tests indicated a moderate amount of white blood cells and rare Gram positive 
cocci. A respiratory culture grew normal colonizing flora of Corynebacterium, while a blood culture 
did  not  reveal  any  growth.  Lab  values  denoted  a  severe  lactic  bicarbonate  refractory  acidosis, 
which worsened the complete heart block experienced by the subject. 
Video electroencephalograph was abnormal with little activity. No seizures were apparent and the 
subject was considered to have organ failure.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 13/16 
 
 
 
 
 
She  received  norephinephrine,  potassium  chloride,  liothyronine,  and  levothyroxine  sodium  for 
cardiovascular  support;  sodium  bicarbonate  for  the  treatment  of  metabolic  acidosis;  calcium 
gluconate,  dopamine,  epinephrine,  vasopressin,  and  atropine  for  resuscitation,  morphine  for  the 
management  of  pain  and  hydrocortisone  for  the  treatment  of  multiorgan  failure.  Despite  the 
intervention  the  subject  died  due  to  the  events  of  cardiac  arrest  and  metabolic  acidosis  two  days 
after onset of the SAE. 
The  subject’s  electrocardiogram  evaluation  at  study  entry  and  at  the  end  of  study  treatment 
showed  an  abnormal  profile,  as  at  both  times  she  showed  signs  of  sinus  tachycardia.  She  also 
discontinued from the study prematurely, but the reason for this is unknown. 
At  the  time  of  SAE  onset  she  was  taking  oral  commercial  levetiracetam  1400mg/day,  midazolam 
0.75mg (frequency not known) and allopurinol. 
•  One  subject  experienced  pyrexia,  pneumonia  and  convulsions  in  the  post-treatment  period,  15 
days after drug initiation. Twenty days later he experienced another episode of pneumonia, which 
was in turn followed 7 days later by an event of abdominal sepsis. A further five days later, at 47 
days after study drug initiation, the patient experienced mild bradycardia followed by a metabolic 
acidosis  one  day  later,  for  which  he  was  administered  cefotaxime,  metronidazole,  furosemide, 
buprenorphine,  insulin,  midazolam,  and  bicarbonate.  The  same  day  the  subject  the  event  led  to 
cardioresperatory arrest and death. 
This patient’s prior medical history was as follows: 
o  Sepsis neonatal, Sep 2009-Oct 2009 
o  Neurological infection, Sep 2009-Nov 2009 
o  Quadriparesis, Sep 2009-ongoing 
o  Anaemia, Oct 2009 
o  Encephalitis, Oct 2009-Nov 2009 
o  Cerebral atrophy (cortical cerebral atrophy), Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Gastrooesophageal reflux disease, Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Hypoxia, Unknown 
The patient was taking phenobarbital 25mg/day, oral LEV 200mg/day, cefotaxime, iron, ranitidine 
and cispraside. 
He had been diagnosed with right ventricular hypertrophy at study screening, end of treatment and 
8 days after EOT. 
The  events  of  pneumonia  (second  event),  abdominal  sepsis,  bradycardia  and  metabolic  acidosis 
were considered fatal. 
•  One subject was a patient with an extensive medical history at the time of death: 
Inhalation therapy, Sep 2009-ongoing 
o  Premature labour, Aug 2009 
o  Respiratory failure, Aug 2009-Sep 2009 
o  Aspiration bronchial (bronchoaspiration), Sep 2009 
o  Atelectasis, Sep 2009 
o  Cardiac arrest, Sep 2009 
o 
o  Parenteral nutrition, Sep 2009-ongoing 
o  Cardiac arrest, Oct 2009 
o  Cardiac arrest, Oct 2009 
o  Pneumonia, Oct 2009 
o  Upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage, Oct 2009 
o  Whole blood transfusion, Oct 2009 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 14/16 
 
 
 
 
o  Whole blood transfusion, Oct 2009 
o  Cerebral atrophy, Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Gastro esophageal reflux disease, Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Hypotonia, Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Nervous system disorder (mesencefalic necrosis), Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Pyramidal tract syndrome, Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Thalamic infarction, Oct 2009-ongoing 
o  Sepsis, Nov 2009 
o  Aspiration bronchial (intermitent bronchoaspiration), Nov 2009-ongoing 
o  Dysphagia, Nov 2009-ongoing 
o  Visual disturbance, Nov 2009-ongoing 
o  Asphyxia, Unknown 
He experienced a mild event of pneumonia in the post-treatment period, 16 days after study drug 
administration. Thirteen days later he had a respiratory failure with fatal outcome. 
At  the  time  of  the  pneumonia  event  the  subject  was  admitted  to  the  ER  due  to  acute  respiratory 
failure caused by bronchoaspiration with a consolidation in the apical region of the right lung. The 
patient was given vancomycin, ciprofloxacin, amikacin, ceftriaxone, and dicloxacillin as treatment. 
He  took  LEV  via  gastrostomy  for  11  days  (9  days  100  mg/day,  2  days  64  mg/day).  The  subject 
was discharged with an aspirator device 10 days after this admittal. 
Two  days  later  he  was  admitted  to  the  ER  with  respiratory  failure  and  tonic  seizures,  where  he 
received diazepam 2mg/day, midazolam 2μg/day, and phenytoin (dose unknown). In the afternoon 
his condition worsened and he developed cardiorespiratory arrest and died. The cause of death was 
respiratory failure. 
Like  the  previous  subject  he  had  been  diagnosed  with  right  ventricular  hypertrophy  at  study 
screening and at end of treatment. 
Concomitant drugs at the time of the SAEs of pneumonia and respiratory failure included valproic 
acid 45mg/day and chloramphenicol. 
Based  on  the  data  there  was  no  causal  effect  to  be  found  between  study  drug  and 
pneumonia/respiratory failure. 
Thus,  based  on  the  data  provided,  the  MAH’s  view  that  the  deaths  that  occurred  are  likely  not 
causally connected to the administration of IV LEV, is not endorsed. 
The data on concomitant medical conditions and drug use at the time of death is too confounded to 
properly  investigate  the  role  of  IV  LEV  in  the  subjects’  demise.  But,  based  on  the  timing  of  the 
events it seems unlikely that IV LEV contributed to their fatal condition. Furthermore, the patients’ 
extensive comorbidities seem to indicate that it is far more likely that their deaths are affiliated to 
their poor prior health conditions than to a specific problem with IV LEV itself. 
Concerning  the  ECG  readings,  there  was  only  one  subject  which  exhibited  a  shift  from  a  normal 
ECG  reading  at  baseline  to  an  abnormal  one  at  end  of  treatment.  This  subject  exhibited  a 
prolongation of the QT interval approximately 1 hour post IV LEV administration. The child was in 
sinus  rhythm  at  95bpm.  An  ECG  performed  3  days  later  showed  the  QT  interval  had  returned  to 
the Baseline value. His prior medical history consisted of Reflux oesophagitis (Jan 2006-Aug 2006), 
Phimosis  (Aug  2006),  Food  allergy  (2006-ongoing),  Neurodermatitis  (2006-ongoing)  and 
Gastrointestinal infection (Feb 2009). The only concomitant drug he took at the time of SAE onset 
was oxcarbazepine 480mg/day. 
It  was  considered  possible  that  the  QT  prolongation  was  causally  linked  to  the  study  drug.  It  is 
agreed  that  there  might  perhaps  be  a  causal  connection  given  the  temporal  association  of  study 
drug  administration  and  the  SAE  onset.  Also,  there  is  no  indication  in  the  data  available  that  this 
event would probably have been caused by another medicinal product. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 15/16 
 
 
 
 
Nevertheless,  given  that  this  was  the  only  subject  to  display  a  worsening  of  their  ECG  reading 
during the study window and combined with the fact that cardiologic issues are known already to 
have rarely occurred during LEV treatment, this single event is not believed to be a cause for alarm. 
There  is  no  necessity  of  a  comparison  of  the  observed  AEs  to  the  AEs  observed  in  adults  and  in 
children  noted  in  studies  with  the  oral  formulations.  Given  the  extremely  small  patient  population  in 
this study, this would likely only lead to nice-to-know but clinically not very meaningful results. 
Conclusion 
Overall, the CHMP agree with the MAH’s conclusions. None of the data suggested that the use of LEV 
IV in epileptic infants and children aged 1 month to <4 years, to temporarily offset unfeasibility of the 
oral administration, was a cause for concern. 
Although  three  deaths  occurred,  the  timing  and  presence  of  existing  serious  co-morbidities  were 
considerd by the Committee to make it seem doubtful that the mortalities were due to LEV IV use. One 
more SAE and one discontinuation also occurred, and these were assessed to be possibly drug related. 
However, the CHMP was of the opinion that the fact that this study only included 18 patients makes it 
difficult to draw any definitive conclusions from the data presented. Therefore the outcomes can only 
be seen as informative rather than conclusive. This is also fully recognised by the MAH and no changes 
to the SmPC are proposed. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/163062/2013 
Page 16/16 
 
 
 
 
