14 October 2016 
EMA/668736/2016 
EMA recommends measures to ensure safe use of Keppra 
oral solution 
Medicine should only be used with dosing syringe included in the package 
Several measures have been put in place to ensure that the correct dosing syringe is used to measure 
Keppra oral solution, and thus avoid medication errors. Keppra (levetiracetam) is a medicine used to 
treat epilepsy in adults and children. 
In children, the dose of Keppra depends on the child’s bodyweight and age, and the oral solution is the 
preferred formulation for use in children less than 6 years of age. The medicine is available as a 
100 mg/ml solution in either a 150 or 300 ml size bottle, and it comes with a 1, 3 or 10 ml syringe.  
Cases of accidental overdose have been reported with levetiracetam oral solution; the majority of 
cases occurred in children aged between 6 months and 11 years. Most of the cases occurred when the 
medicine was used with a wrong dosing syringe (e.g. a 10 ml syringe was used instead of a 1 ml one, 
leading to a 10-fold overdose), or because of a misunderstanding of the caregiver about how to 
properly measure the dose. Levetiracetam overdose often has no symptoms, but it may cause 
sleepiness, agitation, difficulty breathing and coma. 
To avoid medication errors and the risk of overdose, parents and carers are advised that only the 
syringe provided with the package should be used to measure the dose of Keppra. The different 
medicine’s cartons and labels will be coloured differently and clearly indicate the volume of the bottle, 
the volume of the dosing syringe, and the age range of the child that the medicine should be used for:  
The package leaflet will also include clearer instructions for parents and carers in order to minimise the 
risk of using an incorrect dose. Parents and carers are advised always to discard the syringe once the 
medicine’s bottle is empty. 
Information for parents and carers 
•  Keppra is a medicine used to treat epilepsy in adults and children. It contains the active substance 
levetiracetam. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The preferred formulation of Keppra for use in children less than 6 years of age is an oral solution 
to be given by mouth, using the dosing syringe included in the medicine’s package. Depending on 
the age of the child, this can be a 1, 3 or 10 ml syringe. 
There have been cases where the wrong dosing syringe was used to measure the dose of the oral 
solution (e.g. a 10 ml syringe was used instead of a 1 ml one), or the dose was not measured 
properly, resulting in patients taking a higher dose of the medicine. In some cases, overdose can 
cause sleepiness, agitation, difficulty breathing and coma. 
The carton and label on the bottle of Keppra oral solution will clearly indicate using different 
colours the volume of the bottle, the volume of the dosing syringe, and the age range for whom 
the medicine is intended. 
Parents and carers will be advised by their doctor or pharmacist on how to measure the correct 
dose of Keppra. 
•  When measuring the dose of Keppra oral solution, parents and carers should use only the dosing 
syringe included in the package. Once the bottle is empty, the syringe should be thrown away and 
not kept. 
• 
Parents and carers who have any concerns about the medicine should speak to their doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
Cases of an up to 10-fold accidental overdose with levetiracetam oral solution have been reported, 
with the majority of cases occurring in children aged between 6 months and 11 years. In the cases 
where the cause of the reported accidental overdosing could be retrieved, it was either due to the use 
of an inappropriate syringe or the misunderstanding of the caregiver about how to properly measure 
the dose.  
The outer packaging and bottle labels of Keppra 100 mg/ml oral solution will use colours to better 
differentiate each presentation: (i) blue for the 150 ml bottle with 1 ml syringe; (ii) green for the 
150 ml bottle with 3 ml syringe; (iii) orange for the 300 ml bottle with 10 ml syringe.  
Healthcare professionals should follow these recommendations: 
•  Doctors should ensure that the age-appropriate presentation of Keppra is prescribed. 
•  Doctors should always prescribe the dose in mg with ml equivalence based on the correct age of 
the patient. 
• 
Pharmacists should ensure that the appropriate presentation of Keppra is dispensed. 
•  With every prescription, healthcare professionals should advise the patient and/or caregiver on 
how to measure the prescribed dose.  
•  With every prescription, healthcare professionals should remind patients or caregivers to use only 
the syringe included in the medicine’s package. Once the bottle is empty, the syringe should be 
discarded. 
EMA recommends measures to ensure safe use of Keppra oral solution  
EMA/668736/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More about the medicine 
Keppra (levetiracetam) is a medicine for the treatment of epilepsy. It can be used on its own in 
patients from 16 years of age with newly diagnosed epilepsy, to treat partial-onset seizures with or 
without secondary generalisation. It can also be used as an add-on to other anti-epileptic medicines to 
treat partial-onset seizures with or without generalisation in patients from one month of age; 
myoclonic seizures in patients from 12 years of age with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy; primary 
generalised tonic-clonic seizures in patients from 12 years of age with idiopathic generalised epilepsy. 
Keppra is available as an oral solution, as tablets and as a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. More 
information on Keppra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine. 
Several generics of Keppra are marketed in the European Union. Companies that market generic 
levetiracetam oral solutions are also expected to use colours to differentiate one presentation from 
another, and to clearly indicate on the package and the label the age range of the child that the 
presentation should be used for, and which dosing device should be used.  
More about the procedure 
The cases of overdose with levetiracetam oral solution were reviewed in the context of a safety signal 
evaluation. A safety signal is information on a new or incompletely documented adverse event that is 
potentially caused by a medicine and that warrants further investigation. 
The review of this safety signal was carried out by the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC), the Committee responsible for the evaluation of safety issues for human medicines. The PRAC 
recommendations were sent to the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), 
responsible for questions concerning medicines for human use, which endorsed them. The company 
that markets Keppra is expected to take action according to the recommendations. 
Contact our press officer 
Monika Benstetter 
Tel. +44 (0)20 3660 8427 
E-mail: press@ema.europa.eu 
EMA recommends measures to ensure safe use of Keppra oral solution  
EMA/668736/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
