SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Keppra.  This  scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 December 2003. For information on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Levetiracetam  is  a  new  chemical  entity,  chemically  related  to  piracetam,  a  nootropic  drug.  Initial 
research  was  directed  primarily  towards  indications  where  piracetam  and  piracetam-like  compounds 
had proved to be of benefit (cognition, anxiety disorders). When the particular antiepileptic profile of 
the drug was recognised, its development was oriented towards epilepsy as a new indication in 1991. 
The precise mechanism of action by which levetiracetam induces seizure protection is unknown, but it 
appears to be unrelated to the mechanisms identified for current drugs. 
Levetiracetam, also known as ucb L059, is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial 
onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation in patients with epilepsy. The daily dose is to 
be  administered  in  two  equally  divided  doses.  As  adjunctive  therapy,  the  initial  therapeutic 
recommended  dose  is  500  mg  twice  daily.  Depending  upon  the  clinical  response  and  tolerance,  the 
daily dose can be increased up to 1500 mg twice daily. 
Epilepsy  is  a  chronic  disease  with  a  prevalence  of  approximately  0.35  to  1.02  %  and  an  annual 
incidence of 20-80 / 100 000. It is more common in children, elderly, and  black people. Epilepsy is 
defined  as  repeated  seizures.  Approximately  30-40%  of  patients  (adults  and  children)  with  partial 
onset  seizures,  are  refractory  to  treatment  with  a  single  antiepileptic  drug  and  cannot  be  adequately 
controlled with existing antiepileptic drugs, either because of lack of efficacy or toxicity. 
Most of the antiepileptic drugs currently used reduce neurone membrane excitability. The most recent 
drugs  increase  GABAergic  inhibition  by  either  decreasing  the  effects  of  excitatory  amino  acids  or 
modulating the ionic channels involved in epileptogenesis. Currently, the first line anti-epileptic drugs 
are carbamazepine and valproate. Second line drugs include phenytoin, barbiturates and ethosuximide. 
New  antiepileptic  drugs  have  been  approved  recently  (e.g.,  gabapentin,  tiagabin,  vigabatrin, 
lamotrigine,  felbamate,  topiramate).  Most  of  them  are  used  as  adjunct  therapy  when  first  line  drugs 
have failed. 
The  goal  of  antiepileptic  drug  treatment  is  to  free  the  patient  from  seizures.  However,  it  should  be 
mentioned  that  the  main  endpoint  used  in  clinical  trials  is  usually  a  50%  or  greater  reduction  in  the 
frequency of seizures, or the absolute decrease in seizure rate. There is controversy as to the criteria, 
which should be used to define treatment failure. Nevertheless, from a practical standpoint, treatment 
failure  could  be  defined  as  inadequate  efficacy  at  the  highest  tolerated  dose.  The  ideal  treatment 
should be with a single substance devoid of adverse effects. Due to monotherapy failure, anti-epileptic 
drug treatment is often used in combination. Drug-drug interactions are known to occur and therefore, 
the drug potential for interaction is of major importance. 
2.  Quality 
Composition 
The  first  pharmaceutical  form  of  Keppra  to  be  authorised  was  film-coated  tablets.  Subsequently,  an 
oral  solution  has  been  authorised.  (See:  Steps  taken  after  authorisation).  Both  pharmaceutical  forms 
contain the same active substance: levetiracetam. 
- Keppra film-coated tablets contain 250, 500, 750 or 1000 mg of levetiracetam and are presented in 
PVC/Aluminium  blisters.  Excipients  and  pack  sizes  are  defined  in  the  SPC,  sections  6.1  and  6.5, 
respectively. 
1/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Keppra oral solution contains 100 mg/ml of levetiracetam and  is presented in amber glass bottles of 
300 ml with a polypropylene white child-resistant closure. The product is delivered with a graduated 
syringe. Excipients and pack sizes are defined in the SPC, sections 6.1 and 6.5, respectively. 
Active substance 
Levetiracetam  is  a  white  to  off-white  crystalline  powder.  It  has  one  chiral  center  and  is  the  S-
enantiomer of the pair of stereoisomers. Levetiracetam is synthesised by a route in seven stages. The 
synthesis and the in-process controls are satisfactorily described. The solubility, at room temperature, 
in  several  solvents,  has  been  determined  according  to  the  criterion  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia. 
Levetiracetam  is  very  soluble  in  water  and  freely  soluble  in  chloroform,  methanol  and  ethanol; 
polymorphism has not been observed in induction studies. 
Spectroscopic and other investigations confirm that levetiracetam as routinely produced by the defined 
method of synthesis is indeed the S-isomer Potential impurities are the R-isomer of levetiracetam and 
the deaminated product formed by hydrolysis of the amide group of levetiracetam. Qualification of the 
latter  is  supported  by  a  kinetic  study  demonstrating  that  it  is  the  major  metabolite  of  levetiracetam. 
Other  potential  impurities  evaluated  during  development  are  a  residual  reagent,  impurityA, 
intermediate of step 3, impurity B, intermediate of step 4 and impurity C. The levels of impurity B and 
Care  below  0.2  %  and  the  level  of  impurity  A  is  below  0.05  %  detected  by  TLC.  When  using  the 
HPLC  method  the  results  are  below  the  limit  of  detection,  200  ppm.  Therefore,  in  the  absence  of 
specific toxicity concerns, these impurities are considered to be not significant in the amounts found, 
and are not controlled in the active substance specification. Also potentially present as impurities are 
the residual solvents used in the last 2 steps of the synthesis. 
Information on the manufacturing process has been updated according to the experience gained since 
the  authorisation  of  the  film-coated  tablets,  including  an  alternative  route  of  synthesis  with  a  chiral 
Multicolumn  Continuous  Chromatography  (MCC)  separation  step.  The  capacity  of  this  alternative 
route  has  been  increased  by  a  change  in  the  manufacturing  process.  All  of  these  updates  have  been 
evaluated and approved as variation procedures. 
Batch  analysis  results  of  the  active  substance  confirm  the  proposed  specifications.  In  the  long-term, 
accelerated  and  heat-stress  studies  there  were  no  significant  changes  in  any  of  the  evaluated 
parameters. Therefore, the stability data support the retest period proposed by the manufacturer. 
Other ingredients 
The excipients for each pharmaceutical form are listed in the relevant SPC sections 6.1.  Each one has 
been justified with reference to its established use and special function, and is of PhEur quality where 
applicable. Other in-house specifications where no PhEur monographs exist have been justified. 
There is no significant risk of transmission of TSE arising from the use of these excipients 
Film coated tabletsProduct development and Finished product 
Keppra film-coated tablets are immediate release tablets intended for a twice-daily oral administration. 
The  tablets  are  oblong  and  embossed  with  a  strength-specific  identification  code  on  one  side.  The 
different strengths are identified also by their respective colour. The formulation of the cores is dose-
proportional, that is to say the ratio of the ingredients is the same regardless of strength. Due to the 
bitter  taste  and  the  high  solubility  of  the  active  substance  it  was  decided  to  coat  the  tablets.  During 
development  a  number  of  different  finished  product  formulations  have  been  used  for  oral 
administration  of  levetiracetam;  these  include  tablets,  capsules  and  an  oral  solution.  In  addition, 
several  strengths  of  a  parenteral  formulation  (in  an  ampoule)  were  also  developed  for  use  in  early 
studies  to  evaluate  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  levetiracetam.  Oral  bioavailability  of  capsules  and 
oral solution relative to intravenous dose is assessed to be close to 100 %. The tablets are described as 
bioequivalent to capsules comparing extent and rate of absorption, so it is unlikely that small changes 
in the pharmaceutical variables (formulation and processing) of these tablets will significantly affect 
clinical performance, due to the high solubility and very high bioavailability of the active substance. 
The manufacturing process and the validation of the process are satisfactorily described. The dossier 
includes a GMP certificate for the manufacturer of the finished product. 
2/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relevant  control  tests  are  applied  at  batch  release,  including  assay  of  active  substance  (nonchiral,), 
non-chiral  and  chiral  related  substances,  average  mass  and  uniformity  of  mass,  dissolution  (PhEur 
paddle method), microbial contamination, etc. Dissolution comparison tests have been performed on 
tablets of development batches. The conclusion is that the in-vitro dissolution profiles are similar for 
the different tablet strengths and the different coating colours and are not influenced by the nature of 
the  dissolution  media  used.  Batch  analysis  results  according  to  the  specifications  are  presented  on 
three  industrial-scale  batches  for  each  strength  and  on  pilot  scale  batches.  The  results  are  consistent 
between the batches and satisfy the specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Several  large  pilot-scale  batches  representing  a  selection  of  strengths  and  colours  have  been  studied 
under  the  recommended  ICH  conditions  for  24  months  at  25ºC/60%RH  and  for  6  months  at 
40ºC/75%RH.  Additionally,  12  months  results  at  25ºC/60%RH  and  6  months  results  for  industrial 
batches  of  the  250-mg,  500-mg  and  750-mg  strengths  are  available.  Under  these  conditions  the 
product appears to be stable with no significant physical changes or chemical degradation observed.  
Impurity  analysis  revealed  no  new  impurities,  and  known  impurities  are  all  below  the  batch  release 
limit imposed at the time of manufacture. In general the results endorse the shelf life as proposed in 
the  SPC.  Additional  stability  data  submitted  post  authorisation  endorsed  the  storage  condition:  “Do 
not store above 25 ºC”. 
Oral Solution 
Product  development  and  Finished  productKeppra  Oral  Solution  was  developed  to  provide  a 
conventional dosage form for patients who have difficulty in swallowing Keppra film-coated tablets. 
The  development  of  an  oral  levetiracetam  solution  was  facilitated  by  its  high  solubility  in  water.  A 
sugar  free  formulation  was  produced.  Adequate  excipients  guarantee  a  sufficient  viscosity  to  aid 
palatability. Flavour addition was carried out to further mask the bitter taste of the drug substance . A  
buffer was used to ease manufacturing, ensure pH stability and protect the product from degradation. 
Methylparaben  and  propylparaben  were  chosen  as  preservatives  as  they  are  commonly  used  for  this 
purpose in oral liquid solutions. Efficacy of the preservative system has been demonstrated according 
to  the  Ph  Eur.  No  incompatibilities  have  been  observed  between  levetiracetam  and  the  individual 
excipients.  
Product Specification 
The  specification includes relevant tests and justified limits for appearance, pH, deliverable volume, 
identification  (2  HPLC  methods),  assay  of  the  drug  substance,  assay  of  preservatives,  chiral  and 
achiral impurities (HPLC) and microbial quality (Ph Eur).   
Batch analysis data are presented for three pilot-scale batches and three full-scale batches.  
Batch  analytical  data  indicate  satisfactory  compliance  with  specification  and  uniformity  of  the 
product. 
Stability 
18-month long-term stability data were presented for three recent pilot-scale batches and filled in the 
proposed commercial packaging. The samples were stored under ICH conditions 25°C/60%RH, 30°C, 
and 40°C. An ICH photostability conditions test was also performed. Samples are tested according to 
the  specifications,  which  include  validated  stability  indicating  methods.  Moreover,  microbial 
contamination and preservative efficacy tests are performed at different test points for the long-term 
storage  conditions.  Results  indicated  satisfactory  chemical  stability,  althrough  the  preservation 
characteristics  during  storage  could  be  further  optimized.  These  results  support  the  shelf  life  and 
storage conditions stated in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substance has been manufactured, characterised and controlled in an acceptable way. 
3/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The individual pharmaceutical forms have been developed in a rational way and are also manufactured 
and controlled by validated methods relevant to their final use. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro studies  
Levetiracetam did not induce a significant displacement of radioligands bound to 55 different binding 
sites, including GABAA, GABAB, glycine and glutamate (AMPA, kainic acid, NMDA) receptors.  
Levetiracetam  did  not  modulate  muscimol-induced  chloride  flux.  It  had  no  effect  on  the  basic 
electrophysiological properties of rat hippocampal CA3 neurons in vitro, but, at 10 µM, it produced a 
two-fold reduction of the increase in firing induced either by NMDA or by bicuculline.  
Levetiracetam had no effect on glutamate decarboxylase and GABA transaminase in vitro. 
Using  3H-levetiracetam,  specific  binding  sites  were  detected  in  synaptic  membranes  from  the  rat 
central  nervous  system,  but  not  in  peripheral  tissues.  The  KD  characterising  the  affinity  for  this  site 
was about 1 µM, whereas the affinity of the D-isomer was more than 1000-fold lower.  
Since  these  studies,  carried  out  for  the  film-coated  tablets,  new  data  has  become  available,  derived 
from an in vitro study using Caco-2 cells. 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to  characterise  the  permeation  of  levetiracetam  through  Caco-2  cell 
monolayers, in the presence and absence of the excipients contained in the 100 mg/ml oral solution.  
No difference was observed in the levetiracetam transport under the two conditions, meaning that the 
excipients  contained  in  the  oral  solution  do  not  affect  the  levetiracetam  permeation  through  Caco-2 
cell monolayers. 
• 
In vivo studies 
At  a  dose  of  170  mg/kg  i.p.,  levetiracetam  had  a  significant  effect  on  the  level  of  GABA  and  the 
enzymatic  activities  in  specific  regions  of  the  brain,  especially  the  striatum,  where  GABA  and 
glutamate  decarboxylase  levels  were  decreased,  while  the  GABA  transaminase  level  was  increased. 
Levetiracetam  also  decreased the firing  rate of  non-dopaminergic (presumably GABAergic)  neurons 
in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR).  
Anticonvulsant activity 
Levetiracetam  was  inactive  in  classical  models  for  the  detection  of  anticonvulsant  activity.  In 
particular, it did not protect rats and mice against convulsions induced by maximum electroshocks and 
high-dose pentylenetetrazol. On the contrary, it was effective in kindling models. 
However,  there  was  not  always  a  clear-cut  dichotomy  between  models  in  which  levetiracetam  was 
active  and  others  in  which  it  was  ineffective.  Levetiracetam  was  ineffective  against  the  seizures 
induced by intracerebroventricular infusion of kainic acid in mice, whereas it decreased the severity of 
seizures  induced  by  s.c.  kainic  acid  in  rats.  In  mice,  levetiracetam  did  not  prevent  clonic  seizures 
induced  by  a  maximally  effective  dose  of  bicuculline,  but  caused  up  to  100%  protection  against 
submaximal  doses.  In  rats,  levetiracetam  did  not  prevent  clonic  convulsions,  but  reduced  their 
severity. 
The  discrepancy  between  the  activity  of  levetiracetam  in  kindling  models  and  its  inactivity  against 
seizures  induced  by  maximal  electrical  or  chemical  stimuli  differentiates  levetiracetam  from  many 
antiepileptic drugs. 
Experiments  were  also  performed  to  determine  if  the  protection  afforded  by  a  single  dose  of 
levetiracetam was maintained during chronic treatment. In mice, levetiracetam increased the threshold 
dose for i.v. DMCM to induce clonic convulsions. This effect had the same amplitude after the first 
4/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose  and  after  2  weeks  of  twice  daily  administrations,  whereas  the  action  of  diazepam  was  clearly 
decreased after repeated doses.  
Similarly  the  partial  protection  against  bicuculline  in  rats  (no  effect  on  the  incidence  of  clonic 
convulsions  but  reduction  of  severity)  was  maintained  after  13  days  of  treatment.  The  feasibility  of 
chronic treatment was also evaluated in kindling models (see next section).  
Antiepileptogenic activity 
In rats, levetiracetam exhibited antiepileptic activity both in the amygdala and PTZ kindling models. 
Daily  amygdala  stimulation  led  to  seizures  of  progressively  increasing  severity  score  and  duration. 
Chronic  treatment  with  levetiracetam  (54  mg/kg/day  i.p.)  delayed  the  increase  in  severity,  but 
following discontinuation of the drug the severity finally reached the same level in animals treated or 
untreated during the kindling process. Measurement of seizure duration or of after-discharge duration 
led to more conclusive results. The duration remained shorter in levetiracetam-treated animals even 2 
weeks after drug discontinuation. From the literature it seems that this effect of levetiracetam is rather 
unique. Valproate and phenobarbital delayed the increase in severity and duration during kindling, but 
both parameters rapidly reached control values after treatment termination. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
Central nervous system 
In mice, levetiracetam produced dose-dependent decreases in spontaneous activity and muscular tone. 
In rats, performance in the rotarod test was not decreased at doses up to 1700 mg/kg, whereas chimney 
climbing was impaired in the 540-1700 mg/kg range. In rats the pentobarbital induced sleeping time 
was  not  affected  by  levetiracetam  up  to  1800  mg/kg  orally.  The  doses  required  for  protection  of 
seizures  (ED50)  were  compared  with  the  doses  inducing  rotarod  performance  impairment  (TD50)  in 
corneally kindled mice. The safety margins (TD50/ED50 ratio) for various antiepileptic agents were as 
follows: Levetiracetam 148, phenytoin 17, gabapentin 16, vigabatrin 7, lamotrigine 7, carbamazepine 
6, clonazepam 3, valproate 3 and phenobarbital 2. In a related study in rats, the TD50 characterising the 
impairment of rotarod performance were similar and comparable in kindled and non-kindled animals. 
Levetiracetam  had  no  detectable  analgesic  action.  At  300  mg/kg  p.o.  it  slightly  decreased  the  body 
temperature  of  rats.  No  sign  of  physical  dependence  was  detectable  in  rats  after  stopping  repeated 
administrations of levetiracetam after 40 days at doses up to 1800 mg/kg/day. 
Cardiovascular system 
In anaesthetised dogs, an i.v. bolus of levetiracetam, above a threshold dose of 100 mg/kg, produced a 
rapid  and  transient  decrease  in  blood  pressure  and  aortic  blood  flow  as  well  as  an  increase  in  heart 
rate.  Tachycardia  and  atrioventricular  block  were  observed  at  doses  above  1  g/kg  and  lethality 
occurred at 3.2 g/kg. In conscious dogs, levetiracetam induced short-lasting increases in heart rate and 
diastolic blood pressure. An increase in pulmonary artery pressure was observed after i.v. injection of 
50-450 mg/kg doses. 
Gastrointestinal system 
Levetiracetam had no effect on the guinea pig ileum contraction induced by electrical stimulation or 
by  various  mediators.  Levetiracetam  had  no  effect  on  gastric  secretion  in  rats,  nor  on  intestinal 
motility in mice. 
Immune function 
Levetiracetam  (  50-1800  mg/kg/day  p.o.)  did  not  have  any  effects  on  immune  function  in  a  4-week 
study  in  rats.  No  evidence  of  sensitisation  was  obtained  in  various  tests  in  guinea  pigs  (systemic 
anaphylaxis, passive cutaneous anaphylaxis). 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption of oral levetiracetam was rapid (Tmax<1 hour) and complete. The absolute bioavailability 
was  close  to  100%  in  all  species  investigated.  Tissue  distribution  was  rapid.  After  1  hour,  the 
concentrations  in  most  organs  were  close  to  the  blood  concentrations.  After  24  hours,  the  residual 
organ concentrations were in general higher than the blood level, especially in the brain.  
5/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  pregnant  rabbits,  levetiracetam  crossed  the  placenta.  In  pregnant  rats,  foetal  levels  reached  the 
plasma  level  after  3  hours.  A  study  in  lactating  rats  showed  that  levetiracetam  is  excreted  in  milk, 
where its concentration was close to that in blood. In vitro binding to plasma proteins was low. The 
volume of distribution varied between 0.5 and 0.7 l/kg among the various species investigated. 
Levetiracetam  is  metabolised  by  hydroxilation,  acetamide  hydrolysis  and  pyrrolidine  opening.  The 
acetamide  hydrolysis  pathway  (ucb  L057  production)  has  been  evidenced  in  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and 
dogs; it is also the major human pathway (24% of the dose). Available data indicate that hydrolysis of 
levetiracetam  occurs  by  serine  esterase(s)  but  not  the  cholinesterase  and  carboxylesterase  enzymes. 
The reaction has a broad tissue distribution.  
Levetiracetam and its metabolites were almost exclusively excreted in urine, with roughly 60% of the 
dose being excreted as the parent compound. In mice and dogs, similar amounts of ucb L057 and ucb 
K115  were  excreted,  as  well  as  other  metabolites.  In  man,  ucb  L057  clearly  predominated  over  the 
others. Elimination half-life of levetiracetam is from 1.3 to 3.9 h in the various species studied and 7.7 
h in man. 
No inhibition of CYP isoforms by levetiracetam has been detected in human or rat liver microsomes. 
Further, it did not induce liver enzymes in rat or human hepatocytes. In the in vivo/ex vivo study in rat 
liver  levetiracetam  did  not  have  any  effect  on  the  liver  parameters  or  microsomal  activities  and  no 
induction of liver enzymes was observed. However, long-term administration of L059 (> 6 months) in 
the rat induced signs of enzyme induction (centrilobular hypertrophy) at doses ≥ 50 mg/kg/day.  
When  co-administered  in  mice  with  clinically  relevant  AEDs,  brain  penetration  of  neither 
levetiracetam nor the AEDs (valproate, clonazepam, diazepam, phenobarbital, vigabatrin, phenytoin, 
carbamazepine  and  lamotrigine)  was  altered.  However,  there  was  a  50%  decrease  in  levetiracetam 
plasma concentrations when co-administered with vigabatrin (ip 413-722 mg/kg) and a 33% reduction 
in valproate concentrations when co-administered at doses of 166 mg/kg 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity: 
Acute toxicity of levetiracetam is low. It was not lethal after i.v. injection of doses of up to 750 mg/kg 
(mice),  1000  mg/kg  (rats)  or  1200  mg/kg  (dogs)  or  after  oral  administration  of  doses  of  up  to  5000 
mg/kg  (rodents)  or  2000  mg/kg  (dog,  monkey).  In  rodents,  the  main  observations  were  decreased 
locomotor  activity,  ataxia,  dyspnea,  and  clonic  convulsions.  Dogs  exhibited  salivation,  vomiting, 
tachycardia and restlessness. In monkeys, nausea, vomiting and CNS depression were the most salient 
findings. These signs and symptoms were reversible within 24 hours. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity: 
In rats, oral studies were performed at doses up to 4800 mg/kg (2 weeks) or 1800 mg/kg (4, 13, 26, 52 
and 104 weeks). 
The following target organs were identified in the rat in the repeat dose studies: 
CNS 
Signs of CNS disturbances were observed in the rat at high dose levels. After repeated administration 
by oral gavage dose dependent lethargy, rigid tail and paddling movements of the front legs were seen. 
The margins to clinical exposure were about 6 (Cmax) and 3 (AUC). 
Liver 
Centrilobular  hypertrophy, 
increased  vacuolation  and  fat  deposition  were  seen  after  oral 
administration. Proliferation of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum was demonstrated in the rat at high 
dose  levels  (1800  mg/kg/day)  by  electron  microscopy.    Long-term  administration  (>  6  months) 
induced  signs  of  enzyme  induction  (centrilobular  hypertrophy)  at  doses  ≥  50  mg/kg/day.  This  dose 
level is similar to the clinical dose (20-60 mg/kg/day). In addition, increased serum enzymes (ASAT, 
ALAT and ALP), indicating liver toxicity were seen at high dose levels (1800 mg/kg/day) in the rat. 
No  signs  of  acute  cell  toxicity  were  observed  in  vitro  on  primary  cultures  of  rat  hepatocytes  with 
levetiracetam.  
6/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kidneys 
In  male  rats,  treatment-related  accumulation  of  hyaline  droplets  in  the  proximal  part  of  the  kidneys 
was observed. Immunocytochemical investigation using a PAP technique demonstrated an increase in 
α2-microglobulin.  This  accumulation  is  specific  for  the  male  rat  and  is  considered  to  have  no 
relevance for man. 
In the dog, levetiracetam was administered in capsules up to 1200 mg/kg/day in the 13 and 52 – week 
studies. Transient restlessness and tremor were observed as well as centrally mediated salivation and 
vomiting.  Furthermore,  increased  liver  weights  were  found  in  the  dog.  Despite  the  increased  liver 
weights, no histopathological changes were found in the liver, when levetiracetam was administered 
up to 1200 mg/kg/day during 52 weeks divided in two equal doses.  
• 
Genotoxicity 
A standard battery of genotoxicity tests was performed. These tests showed no genotoxic potential. 
• 
Carcinogenicity: 
Levetiracetam was not carcinogenic in two studies, an 80-week study in mice and a 104-week study in 
rats.  However,  the  treatment  regimen  in  the  mouse  study  was  not  optimal,  and  the  rat  study  was 
flawed by the lack of a valid control group.  
• 
Reproduction Toxicity:  
No effect on fertility was found in conventional studies performed in the rat. 
The  possible  teratogenic  effects  of  ucb  L059  have  been  investigated  in  several  studies  in  the  rat, 
rabbit, and mouse. 
In the rat, embryotoxicity/foetotoxicity were observed in the form of reduced skeletal ossification and 
skeletal  anomalies  (at  and  above  350  mg/kg/day),  unossified  and  reduced  sternebrae  (at  1800 
mg/kg/day), and reduced litter and foetal weight (at 1800 mg/kg/day). The NOEL was 70 mg/kg/day 
giving an approximate exposure level similar to the clinical exposure.  
In  the  rabbit  ucb  L059  induced  foetal  effects  (embryonic  death,  increased  skeletal  anomalies, 
increased malformation rate) at maternally toxic doses. The NOAEL was 200 mg/kg/day. No systemic 
exposure  data  after  repeated  administration  are  available  for  the  rabbit.  A  rough  comparison  with 
single dose data gives a margin to clinical exposure at about 4 (AUC) and 5 (Cmax) to the NOAEL. 
In the mice, when co-administered with valproate, levetiracetam did not increase the valproate induced 
neural tube defects in the offspring. 
In peri/post natal studies performed in the rat, no effects were seen in maternal and foetal parameters 
including peri - postnatal survival and development. 
• 
Local Tolerance: 
No studies have been submitted. 
• 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental Risk Assessment: 
The  predicted  environmental  concentrations  are  0.3  µg/l  in  surface  water,  1  ng/kg  in  soil  and 
insignificant in the air. 
• 
Impurities/Metabolites: 
Ucb L057, the major metabolite  of levetiracetam, was well tolerated after repeated dosing (14  days) 
both in the rat  and the  dog. Ucb  L057  did  not  show any mutagenic  potential  in  the Ames  or  mouse 
lymphoma assays. Of the impurities, Ucb L060, the enantiomer of levetiracetam was qualified in a 4-
week  repeat  dose  study  in  the  rat.  Ucb  L060  did  not  show  any  mutagenic  potential  in  the  Ames  or 
mouse lymphoma tests. No in vivo conversion to ucb L060 occurs. 
• 
As  oral  tablets  and  oral  solution  are  bioequivalent  in  man,  single  and  repeated  dose  toxicity, 
reproduction toxicology, mutagenicity or carcinogenicity were adequate for both formulations. 
7/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The anticonvulsant activity of levetiracetam was demonstrated in a number of relevant animal models 
of  seizure  disorders,  mimicking  complex  partial  and  generalised  tonic-clonic  seizures.  However,  no 
direct interactions of levetiracetam with known receptors, re-uptake sites or second messenger systems 
were identified. Levetiracetam binds with an affinity, which is low but consistent with its therapeutic 
concentrations, to a binding site detectable only in the central nervous system; the activity associated 
with  this  site  remains  unknown.  Overall,  the  high  dose  of  levetiracetam  needed  to  achieve 
anticonvulsant activity in man suggests a fairly unspecific mechanism of action. 
The  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  levetiracetam  are  similar  in  the  various  species  investigated, 
including man. The absolute bioavailability is nearly 100% and the volume of distribution is close to 
total  water,  which  is  consistent  with  a  low  binding  to  plasma  proteins  and  a  low  accumulation  in 
adipose tissue. Levetiracetam is the subject of several metabolic transformations, the major one being 
the  hydrolysis  of  the  amide  group  by  a  non-CYP  enzyme.  Unchanged  levetiracetam  and  its 
metabolites are almost exclusively eliminated in urine. 
Acute toxicity of levetiracetam is low. The repeated dose studies revealed liver effects in both rodents 
and the dog. In the dog, hepatomegaly was evident, and at high doses, indications of mild degenerative 
changes (fatty infiltration) were seen. In the rat, liver changes indicative of an adaptive response such 
as  increased  weight,  centrilobular  hypertrophy,  fatty  infiltration  and  increased  liver  serum  enzymes 
were observed. As the clinical relevance of this finding is unknown this information is reflected in the 
SPC. 
In addition, kidney toxicity caused by an accumulation of α2-microglobulin was observed in the male 
rat. This mechanism is not considered relevant for humans.  
In  reproductive  toxicity  studies  in  the  rat,  levetiracetam  induced  developmental  toxicity  at  systemic 
exposure  levels  similar  to  or  greater  than  the  human  exposure.  In  the  rabbit,  foetal  effects  were 
observed in the presence of maternal toxicity. The systemic exposure at the NOEL in the rabbit, was 
about 4 to 5 times the human exposure. As the clinical relevance of these findings are unknown this 
information is reflected in the SPC.  
A standard  battery of genotoxicity tests showed  no  evidence  of  genotoxic  potential.  Carcinogenicity 
studies did not indicate a tumourigenic response. However, a full evaluation could not be performed 
due  to  some  shortcomings  in  the  studies.  An  additional  mouse  carcinogenicity  study  is  therefore 
requested,  but  since  the  available  data  do  not  raise  a  cause  for  major  concern,  this  study  can  be 
performed as a post approval commitment. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Single  and  multiple  doses  (up  to  21  days)  up  to  5000  and  3000  mg/day,  respectively,  have  been 
administered  to  healthy  volunteers.  Adverse  events  associated  with  levetiracetam  were  primarily 
related to the central nervous system (CNS). In young healthy volunteers, the most frequently reported 
treatment-related  adverse  events  after  single  doses  were  somnolence  (28.3  %  for  doses  <  500  mg 
increasing to 65 % > 2500 mg, overall 40.8 %); asthenia (15.1 %, 65.0 % and 36.7 %, respectively) 
and  dizziness  (7.5  %,  60.0  %  and  28.3  %,  respectively).  The  incidence  of  CNS  adverse  events  was 
thus dose-dependent. 
With regard to vital signs, slight decreases in systolic blood pressure (5-10 %) without changes in the 
heart  rate  were  observed.  No  ECG  abnormalities,  which  could  be  ascribed  to  drug  treatment,  were 
observed. During these short studies, there were no deviations in blood chemistry values. The adverse 
event profile in elderly patients (500 mg bid) as evaluated in one study was qualitatively similar to that 
observed in young volunteers. The number of elderly individuals evaluated was small, however, and it 
is  not  possible  to  draw  any  conclusions  from  the  influence  of  age  on  the  severity  or  incidence  of 
adverse events from this study. 
8/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial clinical data concerning epilepsy were derived from three studies that investigated the efficacy 
of  levetiracetam  in  suppressing  the  photoparoxysmal  response  on  the  EEG  induced  by  photic 
stimulation  in  a  total  of  12  patients  with  photosensitive  epilepsy.  This  human  epilepsy  model  is 
regarded  as  predictive  of  generalised  epilepsy.  A  long-lasting  reduction  in  the  photoparoxysmal 
response was observed in some patients after oral single doses of 250 to 500 mg. At doses of 1000 mg 
the photoparoxysmal response was either significantly reduced or abolished in all patients. There was 
also  a  marked  reduction  in  the  frequency  of  myoclonic  jerks  in  those  patients  (n=2)  who  presented 
them at baseline. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Levetiracetam is a highly soluble compound (solubility in water at room temperature is 1.04 g/ml). 
Levetiracetam  is  rapidly  absorbed  after  oral  doses  ranging  from  250  to  5000  mg.  Peak  plasma 
concentrations (Cmax) are reached overall at 1.3 ± 0.7 hours after dosing. Cmax is typically 31 and 43 
µg/ml following  a  single  1000  mg  dose and  repeated 1000  mg  bid dose, respectively. Absolute oral 
bioavailability is close to 100%. The extent of absorption was dose-independent (D002, N201). When 
taken with food, the extent of absorption of levetiracetam was not affected (N203, N206), although the 
rate of absorption was slowed. Steady-state is achieved after two days of b.i.d. treatment. 
No  tissue  distribution  data  are  available  in  humans.  Data  available  in  animals  have  shown  a  rapid 
tissue  distribution  with  concentrations  close  to  those  in  blood,  except  in  lens  and  adipose  tissue 
(lower)  and  kidneys  (higher).  In  man,  neither  levetiracetam  nor  its  major  metabolite  are  bound 
significantly  to  plasma  proteins  (N046,  RRLE98K1501),  and  the  volume  of  distribution  is 
approximately 0.5 to 0.7 l/kg, a value close to the  volume of distribution of intra-cellular and extra-
cellular fluid. 
Two  major  components,  levetiracetam  (66  %  of  the  radioactive  dose)  and  an  acidic  metabolite  ucb 
L057 (24 % of the dose) were identified in the urine (N046). In addition, two minor metabolites (1.6% 
and  0.9%  of  the  dose)  and  other  unknown  components  (0.6%  of  the  dose)  were  found.  These 
metabolic  pathways  were  also  identified  in  animal  species.  No  enantiomeric  interconversion  was 
evidenced for either levetiracetam or its major metabolite ucb L057. 
The  plasma  half-life  in  adults  is  7  ±  1  hours  and  does  not  vary  with  either  the  dose,  route  of 
administration  or  repeated  administration.  The  mean  apparent  total  body  clearance  is  0.96  ±  0.14 
ml/min/kg. Pharmacokinetics are comparable in subjects of 18-39 and 40-60 years, and in Caucasians 
and Asians. There is no evidence of circadian variability (N128, N150). 
The  major  route  of  excretion  is  via  urine,  accounting  for  on  average  95%  of  the  dose  (N046).  The 
renal  clearance  of  levetiracetam  is  approximately  0.6  ml/min/kg  indicating  excretion  by  glomerular 
filtration and partial subsequent tubular reabsorption. The renal clearance of the metabolite ucb L057 
is approximately  4.2  ml/min/kg (N150) indicating active  tubular secretion,  in addition to glomerular 
filtration. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  levetiracetam  administered  following  intravenous  infusion,  oral 
tablets, oral capsules and oral solution was established in the evaluation of the original Keppra film-
coated  tablets.  The  oral  solution  is  bioequivalent  to  the  other  oral  formulations,  which  have  been 
extensively used in clinical trials (250 mg capsules and 500 mg tablets) and tablet formulations used in 
clinical trials are representative of the marketed tablet formulations. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Adult Patients 
Pharmacokinetic  data  following  repeated  administration  are  available  from  84  adult  patients  with 
epilepsy receiving 250 to 1500 mg bid doses (N015, N017, N018, N047, N053/123 and N143). Values 
for Cmax, tmax, AUC, half-life and clearance are comparable to those reported in healthy volunteers. 
Children with Epilepsy 
Pharmacokinetic  data  are  available  for  single  oral  dose  administration  (N151)  in  24  patients  (6-12 
years.  Values  for  Cmax  and  AUC  adjusted  to  body  weight  (one  mg/kg  dose)  are  approximately  30-
40%  lower  than  in  adults.  The  half-life  is  6.0  ±  1.1  hours  and  is  gender  independent.  The  apparent 
body clearance is 1.43 ± 0.6 ml/min/kg (n=24). 
9/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
In elderly subjects (n=16), there was an increase in half-life up to 10-11 h following a single dose of 
500 mg or multiple doses of 500 mg bid given for 10 days (N083). The longer half-life in the elderly is 
partly due to the decline in renal function. As levetiracetam is eliminated almost exclusively by renal 
excretion,  the  dose  of  levetiracetam  should  be  adjusted  for  elderly  patients  with  compromised  renal 
function. 
Renal Impairment 
The  apparent total  body  clearance of levetiracetam was  decreased in  subjects  with  renal impairment 
(N137,  N145  and  N152).  The  renal  clearance  of  both  levetiracetam  and  ucb  L057  was  directly 
proportional to the creatinine clearance. Based on this evidence, a reduction in daily maintenance dose 
is recommended for patients  with  moderate  and  severe  renal impairment.  In anuric subjects (N152), 
the  half-life  of  levetiracetam  was  approximately  25  and  3.1  hours  during  inter-  and  intra-dialytic 
periods,  respectively.  Both  levetiracetam  and  ucb  L057  were  readily  removed  from  plasma  during 
haemodialysis. Therefore, an initial loading dose equivalent to 1.5 times the daily maintenance dose is 
recommended  in  anuric  subjects,  whereas  on  dialysis  days,  30  to  50%  of  the  daily  dose  should  be 
supplemented after dialysis. 
Hepatic Impairment 
In subjects with mild and moderate impairment, there was no relevant modification of the clearances 
of levetiracetam and ucb L057 (N139). This is consistent with the limited role, if any, of the liver in 
the  metabolism  of  levetiracetam.  However,  in  most  subjects  with  severe  hepatic  impairment,  the 
clearance  of  levetiracetam  was  reduced  by  more  than  50%,  probably  due  to  a  concomitant  renal 
impairment (hepato-renal syndrome). No dose adjustment is required in patients with isolated hepatic 
impairment. Monitoring of renal function in patients with severe hepatic impairment is recommended 
before dose selection. 
Interactions 
The findings from studies conducted both in vitro, in healthy volunteers and in patients with epilepsy 
suggest, that drug interactions are in general unlikely. Levetiracetam is highly soluble and permeable, 
and  has  a  high  pH-independent  intrinsic  dissolution  rate.  Neither  levetiracetam  nor  its  major 
metabolite  are  significantly  protein  bound  (<10%)  (N046,  RRLE98K1501),  and  the  drug  is  not 
metabolised extensively in the liver. Interactions at the level of protein binding or hepatic metabolism 
would therefore not be expected. However, it has been shown that drugs excreted by tubular secretion 
can inhibit the urinary excretion of the acidic major metabolite ucb L057, but not that of levetiracetam. 
In Vitro Studies 
An in vitro programme has been conducted to assess the inhibition potential of levetiracetam and its 
metabolite  with  major  human  liver  CYP450  (CYP3A4,  2A6,  2C8/9/10,  2C19,  2D6,  2E1,  1A2), 
glucuronyl  transferase  (UGT1*6,  UGT*1,  UGT  [pI6.2])  and  with  epoxide  hydrolase.  All  results 
showed  no  inhibition,  even  at  high  concentrations (=170  µg/ml). In addition,  levetiracetam does  not 
affect the in vitro glucuronidation of valproic acid. In human hepatocytes in culture, levetiracetam did 
not cause enzyme induction. 
In Vivo Interactions with Antiepileptic Drugs (AED) 
An  exploratory  study  in  epilepsy  patients  (N017)  suggested  a  possible  interaction  of  levetiracetam 
with  phenytoin.  However,  in  two  further  studies  (N143  and  N047),  no  consistent  changes  in  the 
pharmacokinetic parameters of phenytoin were observed when levetiracetam was added to phenytoin 
therapy. In four randomised, placebo-controlled studies (N051, N052, N132, N138), levetiracetam did 
not  alter  the  mean  plasma  concentrations  of  carbamazepine,  phenytoin,  valproate,  lamotrigine, 
phenobarbital,  primidone  or  gabapentin  in  patients  with  stable  doses  of  AEDs.  The  evaluation  was 
inconclusive  for  vigabatrin  only,  due  to  paucity  of  data.  However,  the  AUC  of  levetiracetam  was 
increased by 24% in patients taking valproate only. The relevance of this finding is not clear, and the 
data available do not suggest that a dose adjustment of levetiracetam is needed when valproate is taken 
concomitantly. 
10/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Vivo Interactions with Other Drugs 
No  interactions  between  levetiracetam  and  R  or  S-warfarin  (N146),  digoxin  (N144)  or  the  oral 
contraceptives  ethinylestradiol  and  levonorgestrel  (N135)  have  been  demonstrated.  In  addition, 
endocrine parameters (LH and progesterone) (N135) and prothrombin times (N146) were not modified 
by the co-administration of levetiracetam. Levetiracetam and its major metabolite are excreted in urine 
by  glomerular  filtration  and  active  tubular  secretion,  respectively.  The  renal  clearance  of  the 
metabolite  ucb  L057  was  reduced  by  probenecid  (N150).  The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of 
levetiracetam were not affected. 
Clinical efficacy  
A total  of 904 patients were randomised to the 3 pivotal studies. All patients were to be on a stable 
dose  of  maximum  2  (N051  and  N132)  or  1  (N138)  classic  anti  epileptic  drugs  (AED)  before 
randomisation. The inclusion criteria stipulated a baseline seizure frequency of at least 1 partial onset 
seizure per week for studies N051 and N132, whereas N138 required patients with at least 1 complex 
partial  seizure  per  fortnight.  Demographic  characteristics  were  comparable  across  these  studies. 
Studies  N132  and  N138  were  parallel  group  studies.  Study  N138  had  an  initial  parallel  group 
evaluation  period  (part  I).  The  standard  AED  was  then  down  titrated  to  provide  a  monotherapy 
evaluation period (part II). Study N051 was a crossover trial designed as a double blind, two-period 
and  three-treatment  crossover.  The  first  study  period  (period  A)  was  powered  to  be  evaluated  as  a 
parallel  group  study  with  3  treatment  arms  receiving  either  placebo,  1000  or  2000  mg/day  of 
levetiracetam for 12 weeks. A b.i.d. regimen was used in all pivotal studies. 
All  efficacy  analysis  was  performed  on  the  Intent-To-Treat  population  defined  as  all  patients 
randomised to treatment who had at least 1 seizure count available during the evaluation period. The 
primary efficacy parameter was the weekly partial onset seizure frequency calculated over the entire 
evaluation  period.  Among  secondary  efficacy  parameters  were  [1]  responder  rate  (patients 
experiencing a 50 % reduction in partial onset frequency); [2] the proportion of seizure-free patients; 
[3] response to treatment (percent reduction in partial onset seizure frequency during evaluation period 
compared to baseline period graded in six improvement classes); [4] percentage reduction in seizure 
frequency from baseline. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
• 
Dose response studies 
The evaluation of a dose-effect relationship was not the primary objective of the three pivotal studies. 
Two  of  the  studies  had,  however,  parallel  groups  randomised  to  placebo  and  different  doses  of 
levetiracetam; 1000 and 2000 mg/day; and 1000 and 3000 mg/day, respectively. The results therefore 
give an indication of a dose-effect relationship. 
• 
Main studies 
Study N051 
Design: This  trial was performed as a double blind, two-period and three-treatment crossover study. 
The study drug was given as add-on to a stable antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment. The study began 
with  a  baseline  period  of  12  weeks.  Patients  who  were  found  eligible  after  this  period  were 
randomised. Study treatment began by a 4-week transition period A (week 13-16), during which the 
study drug was titrated to the dose required for evaluation period A. Evaluation period A had duration 
of  12  weeks  (week  17-28).  During  evaluation  period  A,  two  doses  of  levetiracetam,  1  g/day  and  2 
g/day,  were  evaluated  against  placebo.  After  completion  of  period  A,  the  patients  entered  period  B. 
There was a 4-week transition period B (week 29-32) during which there was a gradual transfer from 
the evaluation period A treatment to evaluation period B treatment. During evaluation period B, two 
doses of levetiracetam, 1 g/day and 2 g/day, were again evaluated against placebo.  
After completion of evaluation period B, the patients could either enter a study drug withdrawal period 
(week 45 - 48) or enter follow-up study N133. 
Inclusion  criteria:  Patients  (male  or  female)  with  refractory  epilepsy,  experiencing  only  or 
predominantly partial onset seizures for at least two years. Patients were on a stable dose regimen of a 
11/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maximum of two AEDs. Patients had at laest four partial onset seizures per each four weeks during the 
baseline period. Age 16-65 years. 
Efficacy  variables:  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  partial  seizure  frequency  per  week  over 
evaluation period A and B. Secondary efficacy variables were  
[1] Responder rate (patents experiencing a 50 % reduction in partial onset frequency)   
[2]  Response  to  treatment  (percent  reduction  in  partial  onset  seizure  frequency  during  evaluation 
period compared to baseline period graded in six improvement classes) 
[3] Percentage reduction in seizure frequency from baseline 
[4] Seizure frequency by seizure subtype 
[5] The proportion of seizure-free patients 
[6] Quality of life assessments 
Treatment: Of 324 patients randomised at baseline, 278 (86 %) completed the evaluation period A. In 
period  A,  more  patients  prematurely  terminated  the  study  in  the  levetiracetam  2  g  group  (18%) 
compared to the placebo (13 %) and the levetiracetam 1 g group (11 %). The number of patients that 
completed evaluation period B was 232 (83 % of 278). 
Efficacy results: For the primary efficacy variable (partial seizure frequency per week over evaluation 
period A and B), there was a statistically significant reduction in the active groups (least squares mean 
percentage reduction over placebo was 16.9 % for levetiracetam 1 g and 18.5 % for 2 g, p<0.001 for 
both  dose  groups  compared  to  placebo).  No  significant  differences  were  seen  between  the  two 
levetiracetam groups. The responder rate was 26.2 % for the 1-g/day group and 34.3 % for the 2-g/day 
group (placebo 12.2 %). 
When  partial  onset  seizure  frequency  was  analysed  during  evaluation  period  A  only,  similar  results 
were obtained. During the entire evaluation period A, five patients (5.0 %) on levetiracetam 1 g and 
two  patients  (2.0  %)  on  2  g  were  completely  seizure-free  compared  to  one  patient  (0.9  %)  in  the 
placebo group. Comparable proportions of seizure-free patients were reported during evaluation phase 
B, five patients (5.4%) on levetiracetam 1 g and eight patients (8.8 %) on 2 g compared to one patient 
on  placebo  (1.2  %).  With  regard  to  quality  of  life  scores,  no  statistically  significant  changes  were 
found in the levetiracetam groups compared to placebo. The difference in efficacy estimates between 
levetiracetam 1 g  and  2g reached statistical significance  only for the  responder rate in the crossover 
analysis. 
Study N132 
Design: A multicentre, randomised, add-on, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group study in 
adult patients with partial seizures that were refractory to standard AED therapy. 
Inclusion  criteria:  Patients  with  epilepsy  who  had  experienced  uncontrolled  simple  and/or  complex 
partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation for at least 2 years, who had been exposed to 
at least two classical AEDs either simultaneously or consecutively, were eligible for study. 
Treatment:  Eligible  patients  entered  a  12-week  baseline  period  taking  a  maximum  of  two  classical 
AEDs  and  single  blind  placebo.  A  total  of  294  patients  (178  male,  116  female,  aged  from  16  to  70 
years)  were  randomised  to  treatment.  Data  from  294  patients  were  used  for  intent-to-treat  (ITT) 
analysis and data from 243 patients were used for per-protocol (PP) analysis. 26 patients discontinued 
the  study  prematurely  and  titrated  off  study  medication.  268  patients  completed  the  study,  266  of 
whom enrolled directly in the follow-up study (N140). Treatment groups were balanced with respect 
to age, sex, and ethnicity and also with respect to medical history and concurrent disorders. Patients 
who  continued  to  qualify  at  the  end  of  the  baseline  period  were  then  randomised  into  one  of  three 
treatment groups: levetiracetam 1 g/day (n = 98), levetiracetam 3 g/day (n = 101), or placebo (n = 95). 
Treatment  duration  was  18  weeks  and  included  a  6-week  titration  period  and  a  12-week  evaluation 
period. The last 2 weeks of the titration period were included in the efficacy data analysis. 
Efficacy  variables:  The  primary  variable  was  the  mean  number  of  partial  onset  seizures  per  week 
(seizure  frequency)  over  the  entire  14-week  evaluation  period  adjusted  for  baseline.  The  following 
secondary parameters were evaluated: Responder rate (the incidence of patients with ≥ 50% reduction 
12/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from baseline in partial onset seizure frequency), response to treatment (the percentage of reductions 
in  the  mean  number  of  partial  onset  seizures  during  the  evaluation  period  compared  to  the  baseline 
period), the incidence of seizure-free patients, absolute and percentage change in partial onset seizure 
frequency during the evaluation period compared to the baseline period, mean number of seizures per 
week  at  each  visit  during  the  evaluation  period,  by  type  (simple  partial,  complex  partial,  partial 
secondarily generalised, simple + complex partial, and generalised), and quality of life assessments. 
Efficacy results: For the primary efficacy variable, significantly lower seizure frequencies were shown 
for  the  two  levetiracetam  groups  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (p<0.001  for  both  active  groups). 
There was a trend towards a lower seizure frequency in the 3000 mg group compared to the 1000 mg 
group, but no statistically significant difference between the two doses was observed. The percentage 
of  responders  (≥  50  %  reduction  in  partial  onset  seizure  frequency)  was  33  %  in  the  levetiracetam 
1000  mg group  and  39.8  % in  the  3000  mg  group compared to  10.8 % for the  placebo  group. Both 
differences  were  statistically  significant  for  the  ITT  population.  11/199  patients  on  active  treatment 
and  none  of  95  patients  on  placebo  were  seizure  free  during  the  entire  14-week  evaluation  period. 
Health-related QOL was not improved in the active groups. 
Study N 138 
Design:  The  study  had  a  monotherapy  outpatient  withdrawal  design.  The  study  was  multicentre, 
double  blind,  placebo-controlled  and  with  parallel  groups  (part  I:  add-on  treatment;  part  II: 
monotherapy). 
Inclusion criteria: Male or female patients, aged 18-60 years who had experienced uncontrolled partial 
onset  seizures  (classifiable  according  to  the  International  Classification  of  Epileptic  Seizures)  for  at 
least 1 year, despite medical treatment with at least one standard AED, were included. Only patients 
who  experienced  at  least  two  complex  partial  seizures  (whether  or  not  secondarily  generalised)  per 
every 4 weeks during the 12-week baseline were eligible. Patients had to be taking one standard AED 
at stable, optimal dose for at least 4 weeks preceding study entry. 
Treatment: A total of 343 patients were enrolled and 286 patients were randomised in a 1:2 ratio to 
either placebo or to 3000 mg/day levetiracetam. Up-titration occurred at increments of 1000 mg. The 
evaluation period for efficacy of levetiracetam as adjunctive treatment lasted 14 weeks (part I). Only 
patients  who  responded  to  levetiracetam  or  placebo  (according  to  specified  responder  selection 
criteria) entered the monotherapy part of the study (part II). A subsequent down-titration of standard 
AEDs occurred over a transition period of 12 weeks, and efficacy was then evaluated as monotherapy 
in  a  further  evaluation  period  of  12  weeks  (part  II).  239  patients  completed  part  I,  and  46  patients 
completed part II. Levetiracetam was administered in a dose of 1500 mg b.i.d. The treatment duration 
for  part  I  (all  patients)  was:  30  weeks  (12  weeks  baseline,  4  weeks  up-titration,  12  weeks  add-on 
evaluation, 2 weeks responder selection).  
The primary efficacy variable was defined separately for the two parts of the trial. 
- 
- 
Part I: weekly mean number of partial onset seizures during the add-on evaluation period. 
Whole  study  (part  I  +  part  II):  proportion  of  patients  who  completed  the  monotherapy  period 
compared to the number of patients randomised to part I (ITT population) 
The secondary efficacy variables were:  
Part I:   Type of seizures; seizure severity; visual analogue scale measures 
Part II:  Number  of  seizures  per  month  (change  from  baseline  and  change  from  add-on  period)  for 
patients  having  completed  the  monotherapy  evaluation  period;  types  of  seizures;  seizure  severity; 
visual analogue scale measures. 
Efficacy results:  
Part  I  +  Part  II:  36/181  patients  (19.9  %)  randomised  to  levetiracetam  completed  the  whole  study 
compared to 10/105 (9.5 %) placebo patients (p=0.029). 
Part  I,  add-on:  The  frequency  of  partial  onset  seizures  was  statistically  significantly  lower  in  the 
levetiracetam  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (p<0.001).  The  median  percent  reduction  in  partial 
13/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
onset  seizure  frequency  from  baseline  to  add-on  evaluation  was  7.2  %  for  placebo  and  39.9  %  for 
levetiracetam. The responder rate in the levetiracetam group was 42.1 % compared to 16.7 % in the 
placebo group (p<0.001). Response to treatment (using six classes of improvement) was statistically 
significantly greater in the levetiracetam 3-g group than in the placebo group (p<0.001).  
The  mean  absolute  change  in  visual  analogue  scores  for  everyday  life  from  baseline  to  the  add-on 
evaluation period was 0.30 for the placebo group and 0.72 for the levetiracetam group (p=0.051). 
Part  II,  monotherapy:  During  the  monotherapy  evaluation  period,  the  median  percent  reduction  in 
seizure  frequency from  baseline was  73.8 % for the  levetiracetam 3 g/day group (n=49), which was 
statistically  significant.  The  responder  rate  (≥  50  %  reduction  in  partial  seizure  frequency  from 
baseline) during the monotherapy evaluation period was 59.2 % in the levetiracetam 3 g/day group. 
Nine of 36 patients (25 %) in the levetiracetam 3-g group who completed part II of the study remained 
seizure-free throughout the monotherapy evaluation period (12 weeks). The mean absolute change in 
scores from baseline to the monotherapy evaluation period was 1.37 for everyday life scores and 2.33 
for  seizure  control  (n=48).  These  changes  were  statistically  significant  (p=0.004  for  everyday  life 
scores  and  p<0.01  for  seizure  control).  An  overview  of  the  primary  efficacy  variable  and  some 
secondary variables in pivotal studies is shown in Table 1.  
Table 1. Overview of primary efficacy variable and some secondary variables in pivotal studies 
Placebo  1000 mg 
2000 mg 
3000 mg 
N051  
Seizure Frequency at Baseline*  
Seizure Frequency Evaluation** 
LSM^ 
% reduction from Baseline# 
Response rate (%)$ 
N132 
Seizure Frequency at Baseline*  
Seizure Frequency Evaluation** 
LSM^ 
% reduction from Baseline # 
Response rate (%)$ 
N138  
Seizure Frequency at Baseline*  
Seizure Frequency Evaluation** 
LSM^ 
% reduction from Baseline # 
Response rate (%)$ 
2.5 
2.58 
1.453 
6.1 
10.4 
1.77 
1.73 
1.366 
6.8 
10.8 
1.75 
1.75 
1.150 
7.2 
16.7 
2.58 
1.85 
1.258 
26.5 
31.6 
2.82 
2.00 
1.274 
17.7 
22.8 
2.53 
1.77 
1.131 
32.5 
33.0 
2.08 
1.29 
1.041 
37.1 
39.8 
1.69 
1.06 
0.899 
39.9 
42.1 
*   Median seizure frequency, ITT population 
**   Median seizure frequency, inferential ITT population   
^  
LSM:  least  square  mean  of  the  log  transformed  seizure  frequency,  derived  from  analysis  of 
covariance.  p  value  for  comparison  with  placebo  group:  p<  0.001  for  both  doses  in  N132  and  for  3 
gram in N138; p = 0.006 and 0.003 for the 1 and 2 gram group in N051, respectively. 
#   Median  reduction  from  baseline  including  patients  with  data  both  at  baseline  and  during 
$  
evaluation period 
p value for comparison with placebo: p<0.001 for N132 (both doses), N138 and 2 gram group in 
N051; p= 0.019 in N051 for the 1 gram group. 
The pooled analysis was performed also by age, gender and concomitant AED. In all these analyses, 
levetiracetam was superior to placebo. A trend towards a higher response rate in males was observed. 
With regard to seizure-free patients, 1 of 276 (0.4 %) patients on placebo who completed the studies 
became completely seizure-free, whereas 32 out of 509 (6.3 %) patients on levetiracetam became free 
of seizures. 
14/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Magnitude of effect 
The  relative  risk, i.e. the relative probability  to be a responder (a responder  is a patient  with a  ≥  50 
reduction from baseline in partial seizure frequency) and number needed to treat for the responder rate 
have  been  computed  for  the  three  pivotal  studies  (N051  period  A,  N132  and  N138).  In  the  N051, 
N132  and  N138  studies,  the  placebo  responses  were  similar,  excepted  for  the  N138:  the  placebo 
responder rate was respectively of 10.4 %, 10.8 % and 16.7 %.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
Supportive study 
Study N052 
Design:  A  multi-centre,  double  blind,  parallel  group,  add-on  study  to  compare  the  tolerability  and 
efficacy  of  2  daily  doses  of  levetiracetam  (2  g  and  4  g  daily)  with  placebo  as  add-on  treatment  in 
refractory epilepsy. The two doses of levetiracetam were evaluated against placebo treatment followed 
by a 24 weeks open-label active treatment.  
Study: A total of 119 patients were randomised to receive double-blind treatment (39 patients in the 
placebo  group,  42  patients  in  the  levetiracetam  2g  group,  and  38  patients  in  the  levetiracetam  4  g 
group).  There  were  17  screening  failures,  and  51  patients  dropped  out  after  randomisation.  The 
patients first had a Screening Visit and then followed a 4 week Baseline Period. If the patients met the 
entry  criteria  at  the  Baseline  Visit  they  were  randomised  into  3  parallel  groups  and  entered  the  24 
week double-blind Randomised Treatment Period. 
Inclusion  criteria:  Well-characterised  refractory  epilepsy  presenting  any  type  of  seizure,  which  was 
classifiable  according  to  the  International  Classification  of  Epileptic  Seizures.  Patients  were  on  1-3 
AEDs and experienced at least 4 seizures in the 24 weeks prior to entry into the study. During the 4-
week  Baseline  Period,  16  patients  (13.4  %)  of  the  ITT  population  were  seizure  free  (6  placebo;  4 
levetiracetam  2  g  and  6  patients  levetiracetam  4  g).  Of  those  patients  who  had  at  least  one  seizure 
reported  over  the  baseline  period,  58  (48.7  %)  had  partial  onset  seizures,  and  50  (42.0  %)  had 
generalised seizures. 
Efficacy  variables:  The  protocol  originally  defined  the  responder  rate  and  the  CGI  severity  as  the 
primary efficacy variables. However, the analysis focused on one primary endpoint, the responder rate 
up to 24 weeks of treatment. A responder was defined by a decrease from the baseline visit of at least 
50% of the weekly seizure frequency. Among the secondary efficacy variables were: 1)Responder rate 
over the overall double-blind period, 2)Responder rate up to 4 and 12 weeks of treatment, 3)Clinical 
Global  Impression  (CGI)  score  (restricted  to  Severity  of  Illness,  7  scores  from  normal  to  extremely 
ill), 4)Seizure frequency by seizure type, 5)Seizure-free intervals and 6)QOL score. 
Efficacy results: The results for the primary efficacy variable showed that the responder rate (for all 
seizures, after 24 weeks of treatment) was 16.1 % in the placebo group, 48.1% in the 2 g group, and 
28.6 % in the 4 g group. The difference between placebo and the 2 g group was statistically significant 
(p=0.011), whereas the difference between placebo and the 4 g group was not (p=0.27). With regard to 
the  CGI  for  the  overall  double-blind  period  18.4%  of  the  patients  in  the  placebo  group  improved 
versus 29.3% in the levetiracetam 2g/day group, and 29.7% in the levetiracetam 4 g/day group. The 
differences were not statistically significant relative to  placebo (p=0.264 and p=0.252, respectively). 
For the overall open-label period, the responder rates were 44.0%, 46.2%, and 39.3% for patients who 
had  been randomised to placebo,  levetiracetam  2 g/day,  and levetiracetam  4 g/day while on double-
blind  treatment,  respectively.  The  proportion  of  patients  with  an  improvement  in  severity  of  illness 
was 34.6%, 42.9%, and 46.4%, respectively. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure: 
The safety database of levetiracetam covers a total of 1231 patients included in epilepsy studies (short- 
and long-term). Of these 1231 patients, 1023 patients (772 levetiracetam, 351 placebo) participated in 
15/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the 4  placebo-controlled epilepsy studies. Safety data from  studies in other indications  include 1577 
additional patients exposed to levetiracetam.  
Only events considered serious, deaths, pregnancies and laboratory evaluations, are discussed for these 
patients, since dose and duration of exposure, use of concomitant medication, age of patients, methods 
for collection of data, and other parameters are different from the studies in epilepsy. 
With  regard  to  duration  of  exposure,  780  patients  were  treated  with  levetiracetam  for  more  than  6 
months, 592 for more than 1 year, 366 for more than 2 years and 185 for more than 3 years. A high 
percentage of patients completed the studies (86.0 % in the levetiracetam group versus 88.8 % in the 
placebo group).  
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths: 
(a) 
Deaths 
The  overall  mortality  rate  (expressed  as  number  per  1000  patient-years  of  exposure,  ‰)  in  epilepsy 
and non-epilepsy studies was 13.3 ‰, 13.4 ‰ for levetiracetam and 12.5‰ for placebo. The mortality 
rate in all epilepsy studies was 10.8 ‰ (n=20) in levetiracetam-treated patients and 13.5 ‰ (n=2) in 
placebo-treated  patients.  Ten  cases  of  sudden  unexpected  death  in  epilepsy  (SUDEP)  were  reported 
(nine being treatment-emergent), which makes SUDEP the most common cause of death in the clinical 
studies.  The  overall  SUDEP  rate  was  4.5‰  for  all  epilepsy  studies,  and  3.6  ‰  and  7  ‰  for 
levetiracetam  and  placebo,  respectively,  in  the  controlled  studies.  These  rates  are  similar  to  those 
reported in the literature among patients with severe epilepsy. 
(b) 
Serious adverse events 
Most SAEs occurred during open label extension studies on longer-term treatment. The much longer 
exposure  explains  the  difference  in  frequency  of  SAEs  in  the  placebo  and  levetiracetam-treated 
patients in the “all epilepsy studies” group.  
(c) 
Other clinical adverse events 
The most affected body systems in the placebo-controlled studies in epilepsy (n=672) were Body as a 
Whole  and  the  Nervous  System.  For  Body  as  a  Whole,  the  incidence  of  AEs  for  levetiracetam  was 
49% versus 49.3% for placebo. AEs in the Nervous System were more frequent in the levetiracetam 
group  (45.4%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (35.3%).  Of  the  other  body  systems,  only  the  Respiratory 
System displayed a clinically relevantly higher incidence of AEs (13.8% vs 10.5% on placebo). This 
difference was due to a slightly higher incidence of Pharyngitis (5.7% vs 3.7%), Rhinitis (4.3 vs 2.6 
%)  and  Sinusitis  (2.1  vs.  0.9%)  in  the  levetiracetam  group.  Table  2  shows  treatment-emergent  AEs 
occurring in at least 3% of the patients and with a difference in incidence between the levetiracetam 
group and the placebo group of at least 3%. Treatment-emergent AEs (TAES) were defined as those 
with onset dates on or after the first day of investigational treatment. 
Table  2.  Treatment-emergent  AEs  occurring  in  at  least  3%  of  the  patients  and  with  a  difference  in 
incidence between the levetiracetam group and the placebo group of at least 3%. 
Adverse events 
Levetiracetam 
1g/day 
(n=204) 
2g/day 
(n=148) 
3g/day 
(n=282) 
4g/day 
(n=38) 
Overall 
(n=672) 
Accidental injury 
Asthenia 
Infection 
Dizziness 
Somnolence 
16.2% 
12.3% 
17.6% 
10.8% 
14.7% 
9.5% 
18.2% 
5.4% 
6.1% 
15.5% 
6.0% 
13.5% 
13.8% 
9.6% 
10.6% 
13.2% 
13.2% 
15.8% 
10.5% 
44.7% 
10.3% 
14.1% 
13.2% 
9.2% 
14.9% 
Placebo 
(n=351) 
16.5% 
9.7% 
7.4% 
4.3% 
9.7% 
The most frequent CNS-related AEs were asthenia, somnolence and dizziness. The use of smaller dose 
increments  (333  mg  in  the  1000  mg  group  of  study  N132)  only  to  a  limited  extent  reduced  the 
frequency of these AEs compared to studies where 1000 mg increments were used. 
16/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  higher  incidence  of  infections  was  observed  in  the  active  group.  In  93  %  of  the  cases,  this  term 
comprises the investigator reports of common colds and upper respiratory tract infections.  
No  increases  in  the  incidence  of  other  infections  were  observed,  and  there  was  no  correlation  to 
changes in white blood cell and neutrophil counts. 
The proportion of patients terminating the treatment prematurely or reducing the dose due to AEs was 
15.0 % for levetiracetam and 11.6 % for patients on placebo. 
The adverse event profile in all epilepsy studies, controlled and uncontrolled (n=1162), did not differ 
from  that  observed  in  the  placebo-controlled  studies.  Events  that  caused  a  dose  reduction  or 
discontinuation were recorded in 349 (30%) of patients. The most frequently reported adverse events 
that  resulted  in  a  dose  reduction  or  discontinuation  were  convulsion  (6.5%),  somnolence  (6%), 
asthenia  (2.9%),  dizziness  (2.7%),  nervousness  (1.5%),  ataxia  (1.5%),  headache  (1.4%),  depression 
(1.3%) and accidental injuries (1.1%). 
Laboratory findings 
For clinical laboratory data, a descriptive analysis of change from baseline to final visit is provided for 
the placebo-controlled epilepsy studies (all studies pooled, all durations, n=769 for the levetiracetam 
group and n=439 for the placebo group). P-values are provided for the changes from baseline to final 
visit in the active and placebo groups, and for the change between groups. No statistically significant 
differences  were  observed  between  treatment  groups,  except  for  a  slight  reduction  in  haemoglobin, 
haematocrit  and  red  blood  cells.  The  differences  were  small,  however,  and  are  not  likely  to  be  of 
clinical  significance.  For  haemoglobin,  there  was  a  reduction  in  mean  concentration  from  13.97  to 
13.87  g/dl  for  the  active  group,  versus  a  reduction  from  13.87  to  13.86  g/dl  for  the  placebo  group 
[p=0.0092 for the difference between groups]. In some of the open extension studies, abnormal values 
were  reported  for  haematology  parameters  with  slight  decreases  in  haematocrit  and  haemoglobin 
levels, decreases in WBC counts and increases in eosinophil counts. For blood chemistry, elevations in 
GGT were common, as well as increases in potassium levels and cholesterol levels. 
Postmarketing 
During  post-marketing  surveillance  cases  of  pancytopenia,  thrombocytopenia,  and  neutropenia  have 
been  reported.  The  assessment  of  the  cumulative  reports  concluded  that  as  levetiracetam  is  used  as 
adjunct  therapy,  it  is  not  possible  to  reliably  establish  a  causal  relationship.  However,  the  cases 
showed a temporal association with the introduction of levetiracetam and the product information was 
updated  through  a  Type  II  variation  to  include  the  terms  neutropenia,  pancytopenia  and 
thrombocytopenia."  In  order  to  adequately  reflect  the  safety  profile,  the  SPC  was  also  amended  to 
include  ‘abnormal  behaviour’,  ‘aggression’,  ‘anger’,  ‘anxiety’,  ‘confusion’,  ‘hallucination’, 
‘irritability’ and ‘psychiatric disorders’. 
New data showing that levetiracetam is excreted in human breast milk have become available and the 
“Lactation”  section  of  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  of  both  the  oral  solution  and  film-
coated tablets (update  through a  type II variation) has become “Levetiracetam  is excreted in  human 
breast milk. Therefore, breast-feeding is not recommended.” 
5. 
Overall Conclusion and benefit/risk assessment 
Keppra 250, 500, 750 or 1000 mg film coated tablets 
• 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
17/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  levetiracetam  has 
anticonvulsant activity in  a large  number  of relevant animal  models  of seizure disorders,  mimicking 
complex  partial  and  generalised  tonic-clonic  seizures.  The  high  dose  of  levetiracetam  needed  to 
achieve  anticonvulsant  activity  in  man  suggests  a  fairly  unspecific  mechanism  of  action.  The 
pharmacokinetic properties of levetiracetam are similar in the various species investigated, including 
man. 
Overall, the toxicology programme revealed that the acute toxicity of levetiracetam is low.  
In  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies,  liver  effects  were  observed  in  both  rodents  and  dogs.  In  the  dog, 
hepatomegaly  was  evident  and  at  high  dose-levels,  indications  of  mild  degenerative  changes  (fatty 
infiltration)  were  seen.  In  the  rat,  signs  of  liver  changes  (increased  liver  weights,  centrilobular 
hypertrophy, fatty infiltration, increased liver enzymes in serum) were observed. Similar effects, but to 
a  lesser  extent,  were  observed  in  the  mouse.  Proliferation  of  smooth  endoplasmic  reticulum  was 
confirmed in the rat. The cause for this has not been established. After long-term repeat dosing in the 
rat,  effects  were  observed  at  dose/exposure  levels  similar  to  the  clinical  exposure  and  dose.  The 
possible relevance of the observed liver changes for man is unknown and is therefore reflected in the 
SPC. 
Levetiracetam induced developmental toxicity at exposure levels similar to or greater than in humans. 
In the rat and mouse, signs of developmental toxicity without maternal effects were observed in spite 
of  a  discontinuous  drug  exposure.  In  the  rabbit,  an  increased  incidence  of  malformations  was 
observed. This was only observed in one strain and at a dose level inducing marked maternal toxicity. 
However,  different  strain  sensitivities  are  well  known  for  anticonvulsants  such  as  phenytoin, 
phenobarbital and valproic acid for which the effects have been shown to be relevant for humans. The 
developmental effects of levetiracetam observed in the available studies are reflected in the SPC.  
The  carcinogenic potential of levetiracetam can not be fully assessed since the treatment regimen in 
the mouse study does was not optimal, and the rat study is flawed by the lack of a valid control group. 
However,  levetiracetam  is  not  genotoxic  and  did  not  elicit  a  tumourigenic  response  in  the  two 
submitted  carcinogenicity studies. An additional  mouse carcinogenicity study is requested, but since 
the  available  data  do  not  raise  a  cause  for  major  concern,  this  study  could  be  performed  as  a  post 
approval commitment. The Applicant is planning this additional carcinogenicity study and is currently 
in preparation of a dose-range finding study in mice. 
In  conclusion,  the  Applicant  should  be  required  to  conduct  a  new  mouse  carcinogenicity  study  as  a 
post approval commitment follow-up measure. 
• 
Efficacy 
The clinical studies in the application have demonstrated efficacy of levetiracetam as add-on treatment 
in refractory partial epilepsy. Levetiracetam as add-on medication in daily doses of 1000 to 3000 mg 
significantly reduces seizure frequency in patients with refractory partial epilepsy when compared to 
placebo. In the three pivotal studies, doses of 1000 to 3000 mg/day resulted in a reduction of seizure 
frequency of approximately 17 to 40% from baseline compared to 6-7% for placebo. The response rate 
in the active groups (all doses) varied from 22% to 42% (placebo 10 to 16%). Higher doses did not 
increase  efficacy  but  increased  the  rate  of  side  effects.  Although  the  clinical  data  are  judged  to  be 
adequate to permit the use of levetiracetam as add-on treatment in partial seizures, data are insufficient 
to justify the use of levetiracetam as monotherapy.  
• 
Safety 
The safety profile of levetiracetam is in accordance with that expected from pre-clinical studies. The 
most  frequent  adverse  events  were  CNS-related.  No  major  safety  concerns  have  emerged  in  the 
clinical studies. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Keppra  used  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset 
18/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation  in  patients  with  epilepsy  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Keppra 100 mg/ml Oral Solution 
• 
Quality 
The important quality characteristics of the active substance are well-defined and controlled, and the 
product  is  formulated,  manufactured  and  controlled  in  a  way  that  is  characteristic  for  this  new 
pharmaceutical form application. The specifications and batch analytical results indicate a consistent 
product with uniform clinical performance from batch to batch. At the time of the CPMP Opinion on 
the  application  for  Marketing  Authorisation,  there  were  some  outstanding  quality  issues,  which, 
however,  did  not  have  a  negative  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  balance.  The  applicant  therefore 
committed to provide the necessary information (as follow up measures) within an agreed timeframe, 
and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of this additional information. The MAH 
committed not to market the product until resolution of the outstanding issues. . 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
• 
The  pharmacological  and  toxicological  profile  of  levetiracetam  has  already  been  established  and 
therefore no additional data have been submitted or considered necessary for Keppra Oral solution by 
the CPMP. 
• 
Efficacy 
No  new  information  has  been  submitted  since  assessment  of  the  original  marketing  authorisation 
application  dossier  for  Keppra  film-coated  tablets.  These  data  were  acceptable  to  CPMP,  and  no 
additional information is considered necessary for Keppra Oral Solution by the CPMP. 
• 
Safety 
There is no known risk of therapeutic inequivalence. 
6. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is considered to be positive considering that 
-  no  new  indication  or  population  is  claimed,  reference  is  made  to  the  original  Keppra  film-coated 
tablets  application  for  the  benefits  and  risks  of  levetiracetam  indicated  as  adjunctive  therapy  the 
treatment of partial onset seizures with or without generalization, in adult patients with epilepsy.  
- specifically to this new pharmaceutical form, benefits include the availability of levetiracetam as a 
liquid  form  for  patients  with  swallowing  difficulties.  Keppra  100  mg/ml  oral  solution  has  also  been 
developed for clinical studies in children and future pediatric application. 
-  in  the  opinion  of  CPMP,  there  are  no  specific  efficacy  or  safety  issues  related  to  this  new  oral 
pharmaceutical form, bioequivalent to the already approved Keppra film-coated tablets. 
Based on the review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered that the benefit/risk 
profile  of  Keppra  100  mg/ml  Oral  Solution  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  the  treatment  of  partial  onset 
seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation  in  patients  with  epilepsy  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation for the Oral Solution. 
19/19 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
