27 June 2013 
EMA/573970/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Keppra 
levetiracetam 
Procedure no. EMEA/H/C/000277/PSUV/0140 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the Marketing Authorisations  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for Keppra, the scientific conclusions 
of PRAC are as follows:  
Post-marketing data including two cases with positive de- and rechallenge, collected during the PSUR 
reporting period, revealed an interaction between levetiracetam and macrogol-containing laxatives, 
whereby the efficacy of levetiracetam was reduced when both drugs were administered at the same 
time. As this interaction may result in loss of seizure control and hospitalisation, the PRAC 
recommended the update of SmPC section 4.5 of levetiracetam to inform healthcare professionals 
accordingly. Furthermore, based on the review of clinical, pre-clinical, post-marketing and literature 
data, the PRAC concluded that agranulocytosis should be considered a rare adverse reaction to 
levetiracetam. While there were no cases detected in clinical trials, several post marketing 
spontaneous reports of agranulocytosis had been reported as suggestive of a causal association due to 
a compatible temporal relationship of drug exposure and occurrence of the events. The PRAC therefore 
recommended to update SmPC section 4.8 accordingly. Finally, the PRAC considered that it was 
important to include in SmPC section 4.6 cumulative information on the exposure to levetiracetam of 
pregnant women and the fact that a teratogenic effect of levetiracetam cannot be excluded as well as 
information on the increased risk of congenital malformations with antiepileptic polytherapy as 
compared to levetiracetam monotherapy, as this information will help healthcare professionals to make 
sound decisions on the antiepileptic treatment of pregnant women with epilepsy. Minor updates to the 
Package Leaflet were made as well. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Keppra the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance levetiracetam is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/573970/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
