EMA/6510/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005200 
Kerendia (finerenone) 
An overview of Kerendia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kerendia and what is it used for? 
Kerendia is a medicine used to treat chronic kidney disease in adults with  type 2 diabetes. 
It is used for patients  with moderate or severe kidney damage who pass albumin (a type of protein) in 
their urine. 
Kerendia contains the active substance finerenone. 
How is Kerendia used? 
Kerendia can only be obtained with  a prescription. 
Kerendia is available as tablets to  be taken by mouth once a day. The dosage to  be taken depends on 
the patient’s  kidney function.   
For more information about using Kerendia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Kerendia work? 
The active substance in Kerendia, finerenone, binds to a receptor (target)  known as mineralocorticoid 
receptor (MR).  MR is involved in the activation of processes that cause inflammation and scarring in 
the kidneys. By binding to MR,  Kerendia blocks the start of these processes, preventing inflammation 
and scarring and leading to less kidney damage.  
What benefits of Kerendia have been shown in studies? 
Kerendia, in addition to  standard treatment,  was shown to be effective at slowing down kidney disease 
in one main study involving over 5,600  patients with  chronic kidney disease and type 2 diabetes. In 
this study,  18% of patients taking Kerendia (504  out of 2,833) experienced a loss of kidney function 
compared with  21% of patients taking a placebo, or dummy treatment,  (600 out  of 2,841).   
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
What are the risks associated with Kerendia? 
The most common side effect with  Kerendia (which  may affect more than 1 in 10  people) is the 
presence of high  potassium levels in the blood. Other common side effects, which  may affect up to 1 in 
10 people, are low levels of sodium in the blood, low blood pressure, itching and loss of kidney 
function. 
Kerendia must not  be used in patients with  Addison’s disease (a condition  that prevents the body from 
producing enough of the  hormones cortisol and aldosterone). It must also not be used with  certain 
medicines that  strongly block the effects of CYP3A4, a liver enzyme that  helps the body process many 
medicines.  
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Kerendia, see the  package leaflet. 
Why is Kerendia authorised in the EU? 
Kerendia was shown to slow down loss of kidney function in adults with  chronic kidney disease and 
type 2 diabetes. Overall, the  medicine’s side effects were considered manageable. Therefore, the 
European Medicines Agency decided that Kerendia’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it  can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kerendia? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Kerendia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kerendia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with  Kerendia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to  protect patients. 
Other information about Kerendia 
Kerendia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 16  February 2022. 
Further information on Kerendia can be found on the  Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kerendia.  
This overview was last updated in  02-2022. 
Kerendia (finerenone)  
EMA/6510/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
