EMA/130764/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005410 
Kesimpta (ofatumumab) 
An overview of Kesimpta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kesimpta and what is it used for? 
Kesimpta is a medicine for treating adults with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), where the 
patient has flare-ups (relapses) followed by periods with milder or no symptoms. It is used in patients 
with active disease, which means that they have relapses and/or signs of active inflammation on 
scans. 
Kesimpta contains the active substance ofatumumab. 
How is Kesimpta used? 
Kesimpta can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the management of conditions of the nervous system. 
Kesimpta is available as a solution for injection in prefilled syringes or prefilled pens. Treatment starts 
with one injection under the skin every week for 3 weeks, followed by a week with no injection. The 
next injection is given a week later and then an injection is given every month. Patients can inject 
themselves with Kesimpta once they have been trained. 
For more information about using Kesimpta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Kesimpta work? 
The active substance in Kesimpta, ofatumumab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to a specific target called CD20 on the surface of B cells (a type 
of white blood cell). 
B cells play a key role in multiple sclerosis by attacking the protective covering (sheaths) around the 
nerves in the brain and spinal cord, causing inflammation and damage. By targeting B cells, Kesimpta 
helps to reduce their activity and thereby relieves symptoms or slows down the worsening of the 
disease. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Kesimpta have been shown in studies? 
Studies have shown that Kesimpta is effective at reducing the number of relapses and can also delay 
the worsening of symptoms. 
In two main studies of 1,882 patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, the average number of 
relapses in a year in patients treated with Kesimpta was less than half that in patients treated with 
another multiple sclerosis medicine, teriflunomide (0.11 versus 0.24 relapses per year). The studies 
also showed that fewer patients taking Kesimpta (8%) had worsening symptoms lasting 6 months or 
more compared with those taking teriflunomide (12%). 
What are the risks associated with Kesimpta? 
The most common side effects with Kesimpta (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are upper 
respiratory tract infections (nose and throat infections), urinary tract infections (infections of the 
structures that carry urine), reactions at the site of injection (redness, pain, itching, and swelling) and 
injection-related reactions (fever, headache, muscle pain, chills and tiredness).   
For the full list of side effects of Kesimpta, see the package leaflet. 
Kesimpta must not be used in patients with severe active infections, severely weakened immune 
systems or cancer. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kesimpta authorised in the EU? 
Studies showed that Kesimpta was more effective than teriflunomide at reducing the number of 
relapses in patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The medicine was also more effective at 
delaying the worsening of symptoms. Side effects are in line with those of other similar medicines and 
are considered manageable. The European Medicines Agency decided that Kesimpta’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kesimpta? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kesimpta have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of the medicine are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with the medicine are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kesimpta 
Kesimpta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 March 2021. 
Further information on Kesimpta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kesimpta.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2021. 
Kesimpta (ofatumumab)  
EMA/130764/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
