25 September 2014 
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Ketoconazole HRA  
International non-proprietary name: KETOCONAZOLE HRA 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003906/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Manufacturers ..................................................................................................... 5 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 22 
2.5. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 31 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 61 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 79 
2.8. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 79 
2.9. Product information ............................................................................................ 84 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ............................................................................. 85 
Benefits ................................................................................................................... 85 
Risks ....................................................................................................................... 86 
Benefit-risk balance .................................................................................................. 88 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 89 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 2/115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ACTH   Adrenocorticotrophin Hormone  
AE  
Adverse events  
AGT   Aminoglutethimide  
AI  
Adrenal insufficiency  
ALT  
Alanine transaminase  
AP  
Alkaline phosphatase  
AST   Aspartate transaminase  
AUC   Area under the curve  
b.i.d   Twice a day  
CD  
Cushing’s disease  
CRH   Corticotropin Releasing Hormone  
CS  
Cushing’s Syndrome  
D  
Day  
DDD   Defined Daily Dose  
DHEA   Dehydroepiandrosterone  
DHEAS Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate  
DOC   Deoxycorticosterone  
EAS  
Ectopic ACTH Syndrome  
EC  
European Commission  
EIA  
Enzyme immunoassay  
EU  
European Union  
F  
Female  
GCP   Good Clinical Practice  
HR  
KC  
M  
Hour  
Ketoconazole  
Male  
MET   Metyrapone  
MTH   Month  
NAH   Nodular adrenal/adrenocortical hyperplasia  
NC  
Not controlled  
NIH   National Institute of Health  
RIA  
Radio immunoassay  
SD  
Standard deviation  
SMR   Standard mortality ratio  
THE  
Tetrahydrocortisone  
THF  
Tetrahydrocortisol 
TYMC  Total yeast and mold count 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 3/115 
  
UK  
United Kingdom  
UFC   Urinary free cortisol  
ULN   Upper limit of normal 
US  
United States  
WK   Week  
Y  
Year 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 4/115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Laboratoire HRA Pharma submitted on 5 February 2014 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ketoconazole HRA, through the centralised procedure falling within 
the Article 3(1) and point 4 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 . The eligibility to the centralised procedure 
was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 November 2013.  
Ketoconazole HRA was designated as an orphan medicinal product EU/3/12/965 on 23 April 2012. Ketoconazole 
HRA was designated as an orphan medicinal product in the following indication: treatment of Cushing syndrome. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of Cushing’s syndrome. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to applications relying on well-established medicinal use 
supported by bibliographic literature. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on bibliographic literature substituting all non-clinical tests and clinical studies together with 
a bioequivalent study aiming at bridging the literature data with the intended marketed product.  
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products (Signifor). 
Protocol Assistance 
The applicant did not seek a Protocol Assistance at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Polfarmex S.A. 
ul. Jozefow 9 
99-300 Kutno 
Poland 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 5/115 
  
 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP: 
Rapporteur: Concepcion Prieto Yerro 
Co-Rapporteur: Patrick Salmon 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 5 February 2014. 
•  Accelerated Assessment procedure was agreed-upon by CHMP on 23 January 2014. 
•  The procedure started on 26 February 2014.  
•  The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13  May  2014.  The 
Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  16  May  2014.  In 
accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur declared 
that they had completed their assessment report in less than 80 days.  
•  During the meeting on 26 June 2014, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 27 June 2014. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 July 2014. 
•  The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions  to  all  CHMP  members  on  28  August  2014  and  an  updated  Joint  assessment  report  on  22 
september 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 25 September 2014, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing Authorisation 
to Ketoconazole HRA.  
•  The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Ketoconazole HRA with Signifor on 25 September 2014.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Cushing Syndrome is divided into ACTH-dependent forms, either due to a corticotropic pituitary adenoma i.e. a 
Cushing’s disease (CD) or due to an ectopic ACTH production by a neuroendocrine tumor or an unknown source 
(occult ectopic ACTH syndrome), and ACTH-independent forms, due to adrenal adenoma/carcinoma or nodular 
adrenal hyperplasia (Boscaro, 2001; Newell-Price, 1998).  
According to the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP) (Opinion dated 23/04/12) the prevalence of 
the “condition” Cushing’s syndrome is approximately 0.9 in 10,000 people in the European Union (EU). This is 
equivalent to a total of around 46,000 people, and is below the ceiling for orphan designation, which is 5 people 
in 10,000. This is based on the information provided by the sponsor. The median age at first admission was 41.4 
years (range 3.6-77.7) and the female to male ratio was 3:1. Less than 10% of cases occur in pediatrics and 
unlike in adults no female preponderance is observed (Shah, 2011).  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 6/115 
  
 
 
The  clinical  consequences  of  excess  endogenous  cortisol  exposure  are  generally  severe:  glucose  tolerance 
impairment or diabetes; hypertension; dyslipidemia; clotting disorders; vascular fragility; muscular weakness; 
osteoporosis; diminished resistance to infection; depression and psychiatric disorders; healing defects; gonadal 
dysfunction  with  hirsutism  and  acne  (Arnaldi,  2012;  Bolland,  2011;  Boscaro,  2001;  Cavagnini,  2001; 
Newell-Price, 1998). Obesity and growth arrest are the most common findings in children with CS (Shah, 2011). 
Because  of  complications  such  as  hypertension,  diabetes  mellitus,  cardiac  abnormalities  and  alteration  in 
hemostatic parameters, cortisol excess leads to an  increased cardiovascular risk (Whitworth, 2005; Arnaldi, 
2012)  with  increased  frequency  of  arterial  atherosclerosis  (Neary,  2013).  Inadequately  treated  CS  is  a 
life-threatening condition. In a Danish study (Lindholm, 2001), the mortality rate of non-malignant CS was 3.7 
fold higher than in the normal population and was even worse in CD patients not cured by pituitary surgery, in 
which  the  mortality  rate  was  11.5  times  higher  than  in  the  normal  population.  CD  patients  with  persistent 
disease  after  initial  surgery  had  a  standard  mortality  ratio  (SMR)  of  3.73  (95%  CI:  2.31-6.01),  whereas 
mortality of CD patients with initial remission did not differ significantly from the general population (SMR: 1.23 
(95% CI: 0.51-2.97) (Graversen, 2012). Other authors reported that in CD the mortality is significantly affected, 
even after apparently successful treatment. The probability of 10-year survival was 95.3% with 71.4% of the 
deaths attributed to cardiovascular causes or infection/sepsis (Ntali, 2013). Persistence of disease, older age at 
diagnosis, and presence of hypertension and diabetes were the main determinants of mortality. These results 
are similar to those in Spain (Etxabe, 1994) where mortality in patients with CD was significantly higher (SMR 
3.8) than expected in the control population.  
About the product  
Ketoconazole is an imidazole derivative named: 
(±)-cis-1-Acetyl-4-{4-[2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-imidazol-1-ylmethyl-1,3-dioxolan-4-ylmethoxy]phenyl} 
piperazine, was originally used in the treatment of fungal infections and inhibits the synthesis of ergosterol in 
fungi and cholesterol in mammalian cells. In addition it is an inhibitor of cortisol synthesis resulting from its 
ability to inhibit several cytochrome P450 enzymes in the adrenal glands. Ketoconazole inhibits primarily the 
activity  of  17α-hydroxylase,  but  it  also  inhibits  11-hydroxylation  steps,  and  at  higher  doses  the  cholesterol 
side-chain  cleavage  enzyme.  Therefore,  ketoconazole  is  an  inhibitor  of  cortisol  and  aldosterone  synthesis. 
Ketoconazole is also an inhibitor of androgens synthesis, inhibiting the activity of C17-20 lyase in the adrenals 
and also in Leydig cells. 
Ketoconazole has therefore been demonstrated to be not only an inhibitor of cortisol and aldosterone synthesis 
but  also  an  inhibitor  of  androgens  synthesis.  Ketoconazole  could  be  used  in  the  treatment  of  all  causes  of 
endogenous hypercortisolism, regardless of its aetiology. 
Ketoconazole was subject to a referral procedure, due to public health concerns on the hepatotoxicity risk and 
in July 2013, the CHMP, taking into account the increased rate of liver injury, concluded that the clinical benefit 
of oral ketoconazole as an anti-fungal therapy is uncertain as data on its effectiveness are limited and did not 
meet  current  standards,  and  as  alternative  treatments  of  fungal  infections  were  available.  In  addition, 
ketoconazole may commonly have caused an increase in liver enzyme levels and very rarely, cases of serious 
liver damage, including deaths, or cases requiring a liver transplant.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 7/115 
  
Ketoconazole has been available for the treatment of Cushing disease through compassionate use programs in 
some member states, at least until Janssen-Cilag stops the production of Nizoral 200 mg.  
Type of application and aspects of Development 
This application is based on Article 10a of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended and relies on well established 
medicinal  use  supported  by  bibliographic  literature.  According  to  Article  10a  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as 
amended it is possible to replace results of pre-clinical and clinical trials by detailed references to published 
scientific  literature  (information  available  in  the  public  domain)  if  it  can  be  demonstrated  that  the  active 
substance of a medicinal product has been in well-established medicinal use within the EU for at least 10 years, 
with a recognised efficacy and an acceptable level of safety. In this regard, the provisions of Annex I (Part II.1) 
to Directive 2001/83/EC shall apply. 
The requirements of article 10a application are discussed below: 
a) Factors which have been taken into account by the CHMP in order to establish a well-established use 
1- Time over which the substance has been used 
Ketoconazole has been used in clinical practice for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome since the 1980’s thus 
for a period of more than 30 years. In addition to its antifungal properties, ketoconazole has been shown to 
decrease  the  cortisol  response  to  the  adrenocorticotropic  hormone  (ACTH)  stimulation  in  healthy  subjects 
without any cortisol excess. In the early 1980’s ketoconazole was reported to have steroidogenesis inhibitor 
effects linked to a broad inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes.  
The applicant refers back to more than 400 publications dating from mid 1980’s. The CHMP confirmed that the 
requirement of not less than one decade of medical use in in the applied indication in the EU is fulfilled. The 
literature provided by the applicant showed that, the clinical use of ketoconazole has been documented since at 
least  the  mid-1980  as  shown  by  Angeli  A  publication  dated  1985  describing  long-term  administration  of 
ketoconazole in 5 women with Cushing's disease and bilateral adrenal hyperplasia. Ketoconazole has then been 
increasingly used in the management of Cushing’s syndrome on an off-label basis in the EU. The therapeutic 
values of ketoconazole for long-term treatment of patients with Cushing’s syndrome were studied by several 
groups  over  the  years.  Therefore  it  is  considered  that  ketoconazole  has  been  extensively  used  in  Cushing 
syndrome over the past decades and qualifies as well established-use indication. 
2 - Quantitative aspects of use of the substance 
Cushing’s syndrome is a rare and severe disorder. According to Orphanet 2013, the prevalence is 1/ 26,000. In 
a nationwide Danish survey from 1985-1995 (Steffensen, 2010) the annual incidence, in cases per million per 
year,  was  1.2-1.7/million  for  Cushing’s  disease,  0.6/million  for  benign  adrenal  adenomas,  0.2/million  for 
adrenal cancer, and 2.3/million for non-malignant cause. A study from a defined region in Spain between 1975 
and  1992  (Etxabe,  1994)  reported  an  annual  incidence  of  Cushing’s  disease  of  2.4  cases  per  million  and  a 
prevalence of 39.1 cases per million inhabitants at the end or 1992.  
In an analysis of patient data from the Danish  Civil Registration System between 1980 and 2010 (Dekkers, 
2013), in collaboration with an epidemiology group from the Netherlands, the mortality rate in patients with 
Cushing’s syndrome (n=348) was twice as high as in age and gender matched cohorts (n=34,300). But this 
registry did not provide any specific data about medical therapies.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 8/115 
  
 
 
 
Despite  the  absence  of  official  guidelines  on  the  treatment  of  Cushing’s  syndrome  or  recognized  treatment 
algorithm,  according  to  most  authors,  ketoconazole  has  been  the  most  widely  used  medical  therapy  for 
Cushing’s syndrome because of its effectiveness (Biller, 2008; Invitti, 1999; Gross, 2007; Schteingart, 2009).  
Although, it is difficult to assess the exact number of patients treated with ketoconazole for Cushing’s syndrome 
in the EU as this was an off-label use, some assumptions on the quantitative use for Cushing’s syndrome therapy 
from two official sources could be made:  
-  The  French  agency  (ANSM)  data  on  the  compassionate  use  program  initiated  after  the  suspension  of  oral 
containing-ketoconazole products in France for providing ketoconazole (Nizoral®) to patients with Cushing’s 
syndrome in France. Data from ANSM indicate that about 250 patients were treated per year since 2011 in 
France.  
- The European registry ERCUSYN:  (European Registry on Cushing’s syndrome)  
The  ERCUSYN  (European  Registry  on  Cushing’s  syndrome)  study  is  a  project  funded  by  the  European 
Commission Public Health Program (PHP 800200), of which the European Society of Endocrinology is one of the 
41  Partners  from  25  countries.  The  aims  include  obtaining  prospective  and  follow-up  data  at  EU  level  on 
epidemiology, mortality, outcome of therapies and a database where newly diagnosed patients -since 2005- 
with Cushing’s syndrome are prospectively collected at baseline and periodically after treatment, from centres 
of excellence throughout Europe.  
1,023 patients with Cushing’s syndrome from 57 centres in 28 countries are currently included in the ERCUSYN 
database (up to October 2013).  
In conclusion, the CHMP considers that the demonstration of the quantitative aspects of use of ketoconazole has 
been demonstrated. 
3 - Degree of scientific interest of the use of ketoconazole  
The  applicant  has  provided  detailed  information  supported  by  an  adequate  number  of  scientific  publications 
showing that ketoconazole has been extensively studied as reported in the literature since the early 1980’s. Of 
the published  articles supporting this application for the treatment of Cushing syndrome, Ketoconazole has 
been used both as sole medical therapy and in combination with other drugs (mainly with metyrapone) in more 
severe patients. Globally from the clinical data reviewed from the scientific literature, more than 800 patients 
with Cushing’s syndrome were treated by ketoconazole. These include 748 patients from 28 studies and 52 
patients from individual case reports. Thus data are available from small studies/case reports as well as large 
retrospective  chart  reviews  of  up  to  200  patients  (Castinetti  2014).  The  usefulness  of  ketoconazole  in  the 
treatment of Cushing’s syndrome is well recognized among authors/ clinical experts from several countries. 
4 - Coherence of scientific assessments 
Despite limitations observed in most of the studies evaluated (retrospective analysis with lack of uniformity in 
the frequency of assessments within and across studies), they provide consistent results on the efficacy and 
safety profiles of ketoconazole when used as a treatment for Cushing syndrome. Most of these articles analyzed 
were peer-reviewed therefore the coherence of the scientific assessment has been shown.  
Overall, this application is based on a comprehensive and updated literature review of non-clinical and clinical 
data,  supported  by  more  than  thirty  years  of  clinical  practice  with  the  use  of  ketoconazole  in  the  proposed 
indication. The CHMP therefore concludes that within the recognised limitation of a rare and life threatening 
condition, ketoconazole has been a well-established medicinal use within the EU for more than 10 years. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 9/115 
  
The conclusion on systematic use takes into consideration the relevant proportion of patients covered by the 
presented  data  compared  to  the  overall  population  affected  by  this  condition,  the  consistency  amongst  the 
publications, the representativeness of the patients, as well as the duration over which such use has occurred. 
Therefore, it is the view of the CHMP that they are a reflection of the overall population, in which the applied 
product  has  systematically  been  used;  hence  the  use  of  ketoconazole  can  therefore  be  considered  as 
well-established in the claimed indication. 
b) The CHMP considers that the documentation submitted by the Applicant has covered all aspects of the quality, 
safety  and  efficacy  and  includes  review  of  the  relevant  literature.  The  documentation,  both  favourable  and 
unfavourable has been communicated.   
c) Due to the rarity of the disease, attention has been paid to any missing information and the CHMP considers 
that adequate justifications have been provided by the applicant which demonstrates that an acceptable level of 
safety and efficacy can be supported. 
d) The Applicant explained the relevance of data submitted concerning the product reviewed in the literature 
being different from the product intended for marketing and the PK study performed by the applicant to bridge 
the scientific data with the product intended for marketing and was considered acceptable. It is noted that the 
formulations used are not always stated in the publications.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as uncoated tablets containing 200 mg of ketoconazole as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: maize starch, lactose monohydrate, povidone, microcrystalline cellulose, colloidal silica 
and magnesium stearate. 
The product is available in PVC/Alu blisters. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
General information 
The chemical name of ketoconazole is 
1-acetyl-4-[4-[[(2RS,4SR)-2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-2-(1H-imidazol-1-ylmethyl)1,3-dioxolan-4-yl]methoxy]phe
nyl]piperazine and has the following structure: 
The active substance is a white or almost white powder, which is practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in 
methylene chloride, soluble in methanol, sparingly soluble in ethanol (96 per cent). 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 10/115 
  
 
 
 
Ketoconazole  exhibits  stereoisomerism  due  to  the  presence  of  two  chiral  centres.  Enantiomeric  purity  is 
controlled routinely by specific optical rotation. Polymorphism has not been observed for ketoconazole. 
As  there  is  a  monograph  of  ketoconazole  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia,  the  manufacturer  of  the  active 
substance  has  been  granted  a  Certificate  of  Suitability  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  (CEP)  for  the  active 
substance which has been provided within the current Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The relevant information has been assessed by the EDQM before issuing the Certificate of Suitability. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for:  appearance  (visual),  identification  (IR,  melting  point, 
reaction  of  chlorides),  appearance  of  solution  (Ph.  Eur),  optical  rotation  (Ph.  Eur),  assay  (Ph.  Eur),  related 
substances (HPLC), heavy metals (Ph. Eur) , loss on drying (Ph. Eur), sulfated ash (Ph. Eur), residual solvents 
(GC) and particle size (Ph. Eur). 
The control tests were carried out to comply with the specifications and test methods of the Ph. Eur. monograph. 
Additional specifications have been set for methanol (included in the CEP) and particle size (not included in the 
CEP  and  tested  only  by  the  drug  product  manufacturer).  The  analytical  method  for  particle  size  has  been 
adequately validated and described according to ICH Q2 (R1).  
Batch  analysis  data  on  two  batches  of  the  active  substance  have  been  provided.  The  results  are  within  the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on six commercial scale batches (two different batch sizes) of active substance from the proposed 
manufacturer  stored  in  the  intended  commercial  package  for  36  months  (pilot  scale  batches)  or  72  months 
(commercial  scale  batches)  under  long  term  conditions  at  25  ºC  /  60%  RH  and,  for  up  to  6  months  under 
accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to the ICH guidelines have been provided.  
The following parameters were tested: appearance, loss on drying, assay and related substances. The analytical 
methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
No trends were observed for any of the parameters tested under long term or accelerated conditions, and all the 
batches complied with the proposed specification. 
In addition, a forced degradation study under acid, base, UV radiation, thermal and oxidation conditions was 
conducted and showed that the analytical method used to determine related substances is stability indicating. 
The stability results indicate that the drug substance manufactured by the proposed supplier(s) is sufficiently 
stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain a generic product of the reference product Nizoral 
tablets 200 mg, marketed by Janssen-Cilag, with the same pharmaceutical form (uncoated immediate release 
tablets for oral administration) and the same qualitative composition.  
Therefore, the excipients selected for the formulation of the product are the same as those contained in the 
reference product. They are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 11/115 
  
standards.  There  are  no  novel  excipients  used  in  the  finished  product  formulation.  The  list  of  excipients  is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
The development started with the evaluation of the physicochemical properties of the drug substance which 
could potentially influence the performance of the drug product and its manufacturability: solubility at different 
pH,  particle  size  distribution,  flow  properties  and  polymorphism.  The  results  of  these  studies  showed  that 
ketoconazole being a weak dibasic agent (pKa = 2.94; 6.51) requires an acidic environment for dissolution, its 
particle  size  distribution  (within  the  limits  included  in  the  active  substance  specification)  does  not  influence 
dissolution,  its  flow  properties  do  not  have  an  impact  on  the  homogeneity  of  the  final  dosage  form  and, 
according to the Ph. Eur. ketoconazole does not exhibit polymorphism. 
Although  no  specific  studies  were  conducted  to  evaluate  the  hygroscopicity  of  the  active  substance,  water 
content is controlled by the active substance specification (loss on drying) and the stability results provided 
demonstrate that it remains constant during storage. 
Due to the high content of the active substance in the tablet formula (about 65%), wet granulation was selected 
for the manufacture of the tablets. During development of the manufacturing process it was determined that the 
granulate  moisture  content,  the  proportion  of  lubricant  and  glidant  influenced  the  compression  process  and 
tablet quality. Therefore, these parameters were further studied in order to determine their optimal values.  
In  addition,  parameters  that  can  affect  the  bulk  density (weight,  hardness  and  uniformity  of  content  of  the 
tablets) are controlled through specifications and demonstrated to be reproducible. 
In  line  with  the  “Guidance  on  the  investigation  of  bioequivalence”  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  rev.1  corr.) 
comparative dissolution profiles at different pH values (1, 4.5 and 6.8) were provided. They demonstrated that 
test and reference product show similar dissolution profiles. Specifically, more than 85% of ketoconazole was 
dissolved in 15 minutes at pH 1; and although at pH 4.5 and 6.8 dissolution was incomplete, due to the limited 
solubility of the active substance at those pH, the f2 values were higher than 50. No differences on the impurity 
profile of the test and reference product were observed. 
The discriminatory power of the dissolution method has been demonstrated. 
The primary packaging is PVC/Alu blister. The material complies with Ph.Eur. and EC requirements. The choice 
of the container closure system has been validated by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the 
product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  four  main  steps:  wet  granulation  (mixing  of  ketoconazole  with  the 
excipients,  granulation,  drying  and  calibration),  lubrication,  compression  and  packaging.  The  process  is 
considered to be a standard manufacturing process. 
Adequate in-process controls have been established. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies. It has been demonstrated 
that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible 
manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this type of manufacturing process. 
Product specification 
The finished product release specifications include appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance 
(visual), disintegration time (Ph. Eur.), identification (UV-Vis, HPLC), assay (UV-Vis), purity (HPLC), dissolution 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 12/115 
  
(UV-Vis), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), water content (KF), microbiological purity (TAMC, TYMC and 
E.coli) (Ph. Eur.).  
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through traditional 
final product release testing. 
Non-compendial analytical methods have been described and validated in accordance with ICH Q2 (R1).  
According to the data available at the time of opinion, the proposed HPLC method for determination of purity 
does not ensure mass balance between levels of ketoconazole and degradation product. However, this can be 
accepted at the time of opinion due to the proved stability of the active substance and the finished product, the 
use  of  a  standard  manufacturing  process,  and  the  therapeutic  indication  of  the  product.  Nevertheless,  the 
applicant  is  recommended  to  revalidate  this  method  for  mass-balance,  accuracy  and  specificity  and  has 
committed to doing so by the end of 2014. 
Additionally, although the suitability of the microbiological method on TYMC has been performed using dilution, 
with additional rinsing and membrane filtration to neutralize the antimicrobial activity of ketoconazole, the use 
of neutralizing agents was not tested. The applicant commits to complete the suitability of the microbiological 
method on TYMC by using neutralising agents to counteract the antimicrobial activity of ketoconazole by the end 
of 2014. 
Batch analysis results on 2 commercial scale batches (analyzed with the proposed product specification) and 3 
commercial scale batches (analyzed with a preliminary product specification used during development - which 
used other methods for identification, purity and uniformity of dosage units-) confirmed the consistency of the 
manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification have been provided.  
Stability of the product 
Stability data of three commercial scale batches of finished product stored under long term conditions for 24 
months at 25 ºC / 60% RH and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH according to 
the ICH guidelines have been provided. The batches of ketoconazole tablets are identical to those proposed for 
marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing.  
Samples were tested for appearance, disintegration time, uniformity of mass,  purity, dissolution, assay  and 
microbiological  purity.  The  analytical  procedures  used  are  stability  indicating.  All  the  results  met  the 
specifications and no trends were observed for any of the parameters tested.  
In addition, one batch was exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of New Drug 
Substances and Products. The photostability study showed that the product is not sensitive to light. 
Based on available stability data, the shelf-life as stated in the SmPC is acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
It  is  confirmed  that  magnesium  stearate  is  of  vegetable  origin  and  the  lactose  is  produced  from  milk  from 
healthy animals in the same condition as those used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose 
has  been  prepared  without  the  use  of  ruminant  material  other  than  calf  rennet  according  to  the  Note  for 
Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and 
veterinary medicinal products. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 13/115 
  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and  uniformity  of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have 
a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on 
the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product, see 2.2.6. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions defined 
in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance of the product 
have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the CHMP 
recommends the following points for investigation: 
The applicant is recommended to revalidate for accuracy and mass balance the HPLC method for determination 
of purity of the finished product and has committed to do so by the end of 2014. 
The applicant is recommended to complete the suitability testing of the microbiological method on TYMC by 
using neutralising agents to counteract the antimicrobial activity of ketoconazole and has committed to do so by 
the end of 2014. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
No pharmacology studies have been submitted . The pharmacological profile of ketoconazole is well known, and 
the applicant presented literature data on the effectiveness of ketoconazole as a potent inhibitor of cortisol and 
deoxycortisol synthesis through its ability to interfere with different cyctochrome P450 enzymes in the adrenals. 
This activity is considered as the likely mechanism of action for the proposed indication. 
Primary pharmacology 
The applicant has provided literature in vitro data that supports that the inhibition of cortisol synthesis results 
from its ability to interfere with different cytochrome P450 enzymes in the adrenals: CYP17, acting primarily on 
the 17-20 lyase component of CYP17, but also on the 17α-hydroxylase, 11β-hydroxylase (CYP11B1), P450 side 
chain cleavage (CYP450ssc) and 21-hydroxylase. High variability in the IC50 values for the same enzyme was 
reported  depending  on  the  study.  The  cause  of  the  differences  may  be  the  systems  were  the  ketoconazole 
effects were measured. Available published data do not allow to compare the ketoconazole potency on each 
enzyme among the different species and to estimate the individual contribution of each enzyme to the clinical 
treatment of patients with Cushing´s Syndrome. Despite variability in the results, in humans  IC50 values of 
ketoconazole for inhibition of 17, 20 lyase and 11β-hydroxylase enzymes were in the low μM range, while the 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 14/115 
  
study  performed  in  dog  adrenal  cells  suggests ketoconazole  mainly  acts  on  17α-hydroxylase  activity  in  this 
species.  Thus,  the  pattern  of  steroids  may  be  modified  by  ketoconazole  in  different  ways  depending  on  the 
species. 
The Applicant has provided several reports that examined the in vivo effects of ketoconazole on both basal and 
ACTH  induced  cortisol  levels  in  healthy  dogs  and  dogs  with  hyperadrenocorticism.  Ketoconazole  led  to 
reductions  in  cortisol  levels  in  dogs  treated  with  10  and  30  mg/kg/day  and  significantly  reduced  cortisol 
response to ACTH challenge with a once daily oral dose regimen and with 10 mg/kg dose administered every 8 
hours for 5 days. 
In  dogs  with  hyperadrenocorticism  as  a  result  of  adrenocorticol  tumours  and  pituitary-dependent  disease, 
ketoconazole reduced both resting and ACTH-stimulated increased cortisol in both groups with dose in the range 
of  5-25  mg/kg.  Improvements  in  clinical  parameters  were  also  seen  in  dogs  with  remission  of  polydipsia, 
polyuria, polyphagia and other signs of hyperadrenocorticism. 
In addition to its primary activity in inhibiting adrenal synthesis of cortisol, ketoconazole inhibited the production 
of  aldosterone  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  in  both  rats  and  dogs.  This  activity  was  mediated  primarily  through  the 
inhibition of 11β −hydroxylase and to a lesser extent via the enzymes involved in the transformation at C17 and 
C21. Moreover, ketoconazole decreased androgen production in male and female gonads.  
In  females,  ketoconazole  also  reduced  the  ovarian  production  of  estradiol  and  progesterone.  This  resulted 
mainly from inhibition of the activity of CYP17 in Leydig cells and of 17-20 lyase and aromatase in rat ovaries. 
The doses of ketoconazole required to lower testosterone and estradiol levels in rats and dogs were in the same 
range as those inhibiting corticosterone and cortisol production in these species. In vitro ketoconazole binds to 
the glucocorticoid receptor and antagonized the activity of dexamethasone in functional assays. However this 
did not translate in vivo in rats co-administered with ketoconazole and methylprednisolone and does not seem 
clinically relevant for Cushing’s patients treated with the recommended doses of ketoconazole. 
In vitro Ketoconazole has been shown to inhibit cholesterol synthesis in cultures of human fibroblasts, while in 
vivo, no significant reductions in cholesterol was seen in rats dosed up to 100 mg/kg/day. A slight reduction of 
cholesterol was seen in dogs dosed at 30 mg/kg/day but not at lower doses. Reductions in plasma cholesterol 
have been reported in patients with prostate carcinoma receiving ketoconazole (400 mg every 8 hours) or in 
patients with familial hypercholesterolemia. 
Finally,  ketoconazole  is  a  well-known  orally  active  broad-spectrum  antifungal  agent  and  has  been  recently 
suspended  but  remains  authorised  as  topical  agent  for  the  treatment  of  superficial  fungal  infections. 
Ketoconazole inhibits the synthesis of ergosterol in fungi resulting in accumulation of C-14 methylsterols and 
permeability changes in the fungal cell membrane. 
Ketoconazole is a racemic mixture of the cis-(2S,4R) and the cis–(2R,4S) enantiomers. The cis-(2S,4R) isomer 
was more potent in inhibiting progesterone 17α,20-lyase than its cis-enantiomer, (IC50 values of 0.05 and 2.38 
μM,  respectively)  and  in  inhibiting  11β-hydroxylase  (IC50  values  of  0.152  and  0.608  μM,  respectively).  In 
contrast, isomer 4 was more potent than isomer 2 in inhibiting cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (IC50 values of 0.195 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 15/115 
  
and 2.40 μM, respectively). Both isomers were relatively weak inhibitors of human placental aromatase with 
IC50 values of 40 and 110 μM for isomers 4 and 2, respectively.  
Secondary pharmacology 
With regards to the cardiovascular system, ketoconazole blocked hERG and voltage-gated K+ (Kv1.5) channels 
expressed in Xenopus oocytes with IC50 values of 49±13 and 107±5 μM (26.5 and 56.8 μg/mL) respectively. In 
cardiac  myocytes  isolated from  neonate  rats,  ketoconazole  blocked  inward  rectifying  K+  currents  (IKir),  the 
delayed rectifier K+ currents (IKdr) and voltage-gated L-type Ca2+ currents (ICaL) with IC50 values of 3.2, 20.8 
and 3.5 μM, respectively. The relevance of these results to humans was considered limited given the relatively 
high IC50 values obtained and the effect of high protein binding of ketoconazole. Furthermore, ketonazole had 
little effect on in vivo ventricular repolarization or associated arrhythmias in guinea pigs (200 mg/kg) and dogs 
dosed for up to 40 mg/kg for one year. Prolonged RR and QT intervals were reported in animals coadministered 
ketoconazole  and  terfenadine,  but  this  is  likely  the  result  of  a  pharmacokinetic  interaction  affecting  the 
metabolism  of  terfenadine.  Despite  a  clear  signal  from  pre-clinical  studies,  QT  prolongation  and  Torsade  de 
Pointes have been observed in the clinical setting with ketoconazole. This is further discussed in the clinical part 
of this report and appropriate warnings have been mentioned in the SmPC under sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5 and 
5.3. 
An increased frequency of pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures was observed in mice that have been treated with 
ketoconazole. It could be a consequence of the pharmacological action of the drug on progesterone synthesis. 
However, since signals of neurotoxicity have not been identified in humans treated with doses of ketoconazole 
equivalent to those planned for treatment of endogenous Cushing´s syndrome (up to 1200 mg/day); there is no 
known concern about the safety of ketoconazole on the central nervous system. 
Although  non-clinical  safety  studies  investigating  effects  of  ketoconazole  on  the  respiratory  system  are  not 
available, it is considered acceptable by the CHMP since evidence of toxicity at respiratory level have not been 
reported in patients during decades of clinical experience with ketoconazole. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No new pharmacokinetic studies have been submitted to support the Marketing Authorisation Application. The 
summary for the methods of analysis is based on previously published reports which have utilised HPLC /UV, 
HPLC/fluorescence and LC/MS methods. While the majority of these reports do not include information on the 
validation methods, the methods are considered adequate given the type of application.  
Two studies reported have demonstrated linearity in the range of 0.015-10 μg/mL and 62.5-5000 ng/mL for 
ketoconazole  and  ketoconazole  enantiomers,  respectively.  While,  lower  limits  of  quantification  quoted  for 
ketoconazole and ketoconazole enantiomers were 5 ng/ml and 62.5-5000 ng/ml. 
Absorption and Distribution 
The  bioavailability  of  ketoconazole  following  oral  doses  was  35.8%,  50%,  22%  and  81.2  %  in  rats,  dogs, 
monkeys and humans, respectively. Pharmacokinetic in these species showed  a high degree of inter-animal 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 16/115 
  
variability. Studies in rats showed non-linear pharmacokinetic of ketoconazole with plasma levels increasing 
with the dose, indicative of saturation of metabolising enzymes and of tissue binding sites. Pharmacokinetic 
studies  in  rabbits,  dogs,  pigs  and  monkeys  only  assayed  a  dose  and  thus  the  dose-dependency  of 
pharmacokinetic parameters cannot be evaluated in these species. In dogs, exposure to ketoconazole increased 
following repeated administration. Given that absorption of ketoconazole is variable after oral administration in 
humans, with large variability in peak serum concentrations and highly variable bioavailability, the relevance of 
animal absorption data is potentially limited. 
Metabolism 
Differences in pharmacokinetics between male and female rats were observed, with higher plasma levels and a 
longer half-life in female than in male rats. An analysis of the pharmacokinetics parameters of ketoconazole 
administered  to  castrated  males  and  to  females  supplemented  with  testosterone  showed  that  metabolizing 
enzymes  are  under  androgenic  control  in  rats.  This  observation  explains  because  higher  plasma  levels  and 
longer half-life were reported in female than in male rats. It is unknown if gender differences exist in exposure 
to ketoconazole in other non clinical species, but they have not been observed in humans. 
Half-life of ketoconazole after oral dosing is lower in rats (1.08-1.83 hours), followed by dogs (2.76-3.61 hours) 
and humans (3-10 hours). It was independent of dose in rats, but dose-dependent in humans. Both data (low 
and dose-independent half-life) together with the low bioavailability of ketoconazole observed in rats support 
the extensive first pass hepatic metabolism in rats.  
Ketoconazole is highly bound (99%) to human plasma proteins and appears to be widely distributed in rats and 
guinea pigs with maximal levels occurring in the liver, adrenals and pituitary. Ketoconazole crossed the placenta 
membrane into fetal tissue of rats and guinea pigs (albeit at a markedly lower level than maternal levels) which 
suggested  that  the  placenta  provides  some  levels  of  protection  against  the  passage  of  ketoconazole  to  the 
foetus. 
Ketoconazole  appears  to  be  extensively  metabolized  by  the  liver  to  a  large  number  of  inactive  metabolites. 
Oxidation  and  subsequent  scission  and  degradation  of  the  imidazole  ring,  scission  and  degradation  of  the 
piperazine ring, scission of the dioxolene ring and oxidative O-dealkylation were reported as the major metabolic 
pathways. The predominant metabolite seen was the N-deacetyl ketoconazole (DAK) which accumulated upon 
repeat ketoconazole dosing. All available data support that the metabolic pathways of ketoconazole are very 
similar across species in both human and animals, particularly rodents and canines. 
Excretion 
The major route of excretion appears to be in the feces via the bile. Excretion of ketoconazole in milk was also 
reported. Therefore, the administration of ketoconazole to breast-feeding women is contraindicated and this is  
adequately mentioned in the SmPC (Section 4.3). 
Phamacokinetic interactions 
The possible pharmacokinetic interactions with ketoconazole are well established. Ketoconazole is considered a 
universal inhibitor of CYP450 dependent monooxygenases. In vitro studies have shown that ketoconazole is a 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 17/115 
  
very  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4,  but  inhibition  of  CYP1A,  CYP3A5,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C9/8  is  also  observed  at 
clinically  relevant  concentrations.  Ketoconazole  is  also  a  P-gp  inhibitor  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations. 
Inhibition of BCRP was demonstrated at higher concentrations, raising the possibility of an interaction at the 
intestinal, but not at the systemic level.   Ketoconazole was shown to be an inhibitor of OATP1B1 (IC50 of 43.4 
μM) and OAT1 (IC50 of 319 μM).  
2.3.3.  Toxicology 
No new toxicology studies have been submitted. Information on the toxicity of ketoconazole has been provided 
by  means  of  a  literature  review.  The  GLP  status  of  the  quoted  studies/reports  cannot  be  confirmed.  This  is 
considered acceptable given that the MAA has been submitted as a well-established application.  
The toxicology profile of ketoconazole has been established from long term studies in rats (up to 18 months) and 
dogs (up to 12 months).  
Toxicity arising from ketoconazole pharmacology (reduction of epididymis and accessory sex organ weights, 
increased  in  vaginal  and ovary  weights,  reduction  in  uterus  weight,  spermatid  retention  in  the  seminiferous 
tubules,  decrease  of  serum  testosterone  and  of  estradiol  in  males  and  females,  respectively,  increases  in 
luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicular stimulating hormone (FSH), irregular estrous cycle and prolongation of 
the  estrous  cycle,  decreases  in  thyroxin  and  triiodothyronine  and  increases  in  thyroid-stimulating  hormone) 
were observed in male and female rats orally dosed at doses up to 100 mg/kg/day for 28 days.  
In studies up to 12 months, reduced food consumption, increased weight gain and pathological changes in the 
liver, kidney, adrenal and ovaries were also observed in rats and dogs (20-160 mg/kg/day).  
In addition, female rats showed an increase in bone fragility and broken legs which were associated with reduced 
diameter  of  the  tibial  bone  and  irregularities  in  the  mineralization  of  the  compact  bone,  cancellous  bone 
hyperplasia and spontaneous fractures which were the sites of callus formation with marked fibrosis eventually 
extended far into the neighbouring tissues.  
Kidney changes (increments in weight and swelling of the distal tubules and/or loops of Henle) were observed in 
rats, but no in dogs. Additionally, in the 6-month toxicity study the urinalyses showed an increased excretion of 
urine,  a  decrease  in  creatinine  and  the  presence  of  casts  in  the  urine.  These  alterations  are  not  considered 
clinically relevant because: a) they were only observed in rats, but no in the longer study performed in this 
species, b) clinical signs of renal insufficiency  were  not reported in rats with kidney alterations, c) available 
exposure data, despite of their limited relevance (as they do not correspond to the animals of the study where 
alterations were found), suggest that kidney findings are associated to exposures that were in excess compared 
to  exposures  reached  in  Cushing’s  syndrome  patients  treated  with  the  highest  recommended  dose  (1200 
mg/day) of ketoconazole and d) kidney damages have not been reported in patients during more than 30 years 
of clinical use. 
The main toxicity observed was ketoconazole induced hepatotoxicity occurring in a dose and time-dependent 
manner. This toxicity results to increased liver weights, elevated liver enzymes, hepatocyte hypertrophy and 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 18/115 
  
histological changes in cytoplasm (slight centrilobular swelling and/or finely granular or blurred aspect) and in 
hepatocytes (brown pigmentation). Although the exact mechanism has not been fully elucidated, it is suggested 
that  the  major  hepatic  metabolite  of  ketoconazole  formed  by  the  flavin-containing  monooxygenases  (FMO) 
might be the cause of this toxicity. More specifically, this mechanism is mediated through direct covalent binding 
of  the  parent  compound  to  hepatic  proteins  and  binding  of  FMO  generated  metabolites  (e.g.  N-deacetyl 
ketoconazole)  to  both  hepatic  proteins  and  glutathione.  Another  mechanism  considered  was  the  effect  of 
ketoconazole  on  bile  acid  synthesis.  Both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  showed  that  ketoconazole 
impaired/inhibited  bile  acid  synthesis  flow  and  biliary  output.  In  conclusion,  the  hepatotoxicity  need  to  be 
considered when assessing the benefit/risk of the product. 
Genotoxicity 
No evidence of genotoxic potential was found in vitro and in vivo. However, the doses tested in vitro are lower 
than  those  recommended  by  ICH  and  the  assessment  of  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  results  from  in  vivo 
experiments is limited by the lack of exposure data. Therefore, the CHMP considered that the genotoxic potential 
of  ketoconazole  contains  limitations  when  considering  the  proposed  dosing  regimen  in  the  treatment  of 
endogenous Cushing’s syndrome (higher doses/exposure).  
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenic potential was examined in an 18 month and 24 month carcinogenicity study in mice and rats. The 
overall incidence and type of tumour seen in these studies was not significantly different between treated or 
control  animals.  Moreover,  ketoconazole  was  shown  to  reduce  tumour  incidence  and  progression  in  various 
carcinogenic models. 
Reproduction toxicity 
In fertility studies, ketoconazole impaired both male and female fertility in rats and dogs that were dose and 
duration dependent. Ketoconazole had no effect in female fertility at doses up to 40 mg/kg given in the food, but 
had clear maternal and foetal toxicity at a dose of 80 mg/kg in the rat. In males an oral dose of 200 mg/kg/day 
for 3 days decreased fertility, whereas a complete loss of fertility was observed at 400 mg/kg/day. In longer 
dosing periods (up to 3 months) decreased fertility in males was observed at a dose of 24 mg/kg/day. In dogs 
abnormalities in sperm were observed following oral dosing for 4 weeks with 25 mg/kg of ketoconazole. Some 
of  these  toxicities  (e.g.  early  pregnancy  failure)  are  presumably  related  to  the  antiandrogenic  effects  of 
ketoconazole. 
Ketoconazole  was  both  embryotoxic  (increased  resorbed  foetuses  &  increased  still  births)  and  teratogenic 
(oligodactylia, syndactylia, a slight increased incidence of waved ribs, absence of metacarpal and/or metatarsal 
bones, cleft palate as well as numerous skeletal abnormalities in hand and forelimb bones) at maternally toxic 
doses (80 mg/kg/day and higher). Similarly in rabbits, an increase in the number of resorptions was seen at 10 
and 40 mg/kg/day. An increased incidence of skeletal abnormalities were also seen at 40 mg/kg/day compared 
to  control.  The  applicant  presents  various  hypotheses  for  the  mechanism  for  the  teratogenic  effects  seen; 
inhibition of maternal steroid synthesis by ketoconazole based on the observed decreased incidence of external 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 19/115 
  
and skeletal abnormalities in foetuses from dams supplemented with prednisone, as compared to dams given 
ketoconazole alone; inhibition of phospholipase A2, or disruption of the metabolism of endogenous retinoids. As 
a result of the teratogenicity seen, ketoconazole is contraindicated in pregnancy and this is adequately reflected 
in the proposed SmPC. 
Juvenile toxicity 
In juvenile animals, treatment related toxicities were indicative of the pharmacological action of ketoconazole. 
These  included  significantly  reduced  epididymal  weights  and  increased  serum  testosterone  and  DHT  levels 
(although the latter not considered statistically significant compared to control) in male rats. In female rats, 
body weight gains and onset of sexual maturity was delayed in the high-dose group only (100 mg/kg/day). 
However, adverse effects of ketoconazole on other organs as liver, adrenal and cardiovascular systems were not 
studied in juvenile animals. Thus, the safety of ketoconazole in paediatric population is not well evaluated and 
limited information is available from the non-clinical point of view. The concerns about safety of ketoconazole in 
paediatric population are resolved by an adequate labelling in the SmPC. 
Local tolerance 
Ketoconazole (100 mg/kg/day for 15 p.o.) had no effect on antibody response when rats were immunized with 
sheep red blood cells 6 days before the end of treatment. However, the antibody and delayed hypersensitivity 
responses (along with decreases in NK and phagocytic cell activities) to SRBC were reduced in mice treated for 
14 days with a higher dose of 160 mg/kg/day and immunized with SRBC 4 days before the end of treatment. The 
Applicant was unclear if these reported differences were as a result of the different doses used or the protocol 
employed.  Toxicity  to  the  immune  system  observed  in  patients  (autoimmune  and  allergic  diseases)  after 
ketoconazole  administration  is  due  to  an  enhancement  instead  of  a  suppression  of  the  immune  response. 
Therefore, suppression of the immune response observed in rats is considered no clinically relevant. 
2.3.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
As Ketoconazole is a potential endocrine disruptor, a phase II ERA is requested as outlined in the guideline. The 
PEC surface water using the refined Fpen value of 0.023 microg/L as requested by the CHMP, triggered the 
threshold value of 0.01 microg/L. 
Some data regarding aquatic effects are available in the literature and the applicant is requested to perform a 
full  literature  search  in  order  to  obtain  all  available  information  regarding  ketoconazole  effects  on  the 
environment, and to perform a gap analysis as a post-Marketing Authorisation commitment.  A detailed program 
including missing studies necessary to complete the ERA for ketoconazole will be submitted for approval within 
4 weeks after EC decision. Furthermore, a phase II ERA will be performed as a post Marketing commitment, as 
requested by the CHMP. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 20/115 
  
2.3.5.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The pharmacology studies have shown ketoconazole to be a potent inhibitor of cortisol synthesis resulting from 
its ability to interfere with different cytochrome P450 enzymes in the adrenals: CYP17, acting primarily on the 
17-20 lyase  component  of  CYP17,  but  also  on  the  17α-hydroxylase,  11β-hydroxylase  (CYP11B1),  P450 side 
chain cleavage (CYP450ssc) and 21-hydroxylase. The individual contribution of each of these activities to the 
clinical treatment of patients with Cushing’s syndrome is unclear. 
Ketoconazole has inhibitory activity against enzymes involved in the synthesis and metabolism of other steroids: 
a) CYP11B2, the enzyme involved in the synthesis of aldosterone; b) the activity 17, 20-lyase of the enzyme 
CYP17, which is involved in the synthesis of testosterone and c) the aromatase, the enzyme involved in the 
synthesis of estradiol from testosterone. Thus, ketoconazole, in addition to decreasing cortisol levels, decreased 
the levels of aldosterone, testosterone and estradiol in rats, dogs and humans. The potency of ketoconazole on 
each  CYP  enzyme  seems  different  among  the  species  and  this  difference  could  result  in  a  different  steroid 
pattern in each species (humans, rats and dogs) which hinders the assessment of the toxicological findings in 
animals. 
Electrophysiological studies have shown that ketoconazole blocks the ion channels HERG, Kv1.5, IKir, IKdr and 
ICaL  and  prolongs  the  action  potential  duration  at  concentration  higher  than  those  expected  in  patients. 
Additionally, effects on the ECG were not reported in rats and dogs. In contrast, QT prolongation and Torsade de 
Pointes  have  been  observed  in  patients  after  ketoconazole  administration  and  the  cardiovascular  risk  is 
managed at clinical level (refer to SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.3 and risk management plan). 
Pharmacokinetic studies showed nonlinear pharmacokinetic with plasma levels increasing with the dose (in rats) 
and after repeating dosing (in dogs), presumably reflecting saturation of metabolizing enzymes and of tissue 
binding sites. 
Ketoconazole is highly bound (99%) to human plasma proteins. It is widely distributed in tissues and crosses the 
placental barrier.  
Ketoconazole  is  extensively  metabolised  to  inactive  metabolites  in  the  liver  through  CYP3A4.  Oxidation  and 
subsequent  scission  and  degradation  of  the  imidazole  ring,  scission  and  degradation  of  the  piperazine  ring, 
scission of the dioxolene ring and oxidative O-dealkylation were reported as the major metabolic pathways. The 
predominant metabolite seen was N-deacetyl ketoconazole (DAK) which accumulated upon repeat ketoconazole 
dosing. DAK is metabolised to hydroxylamines and in turn to ring-opened dialdehyde which are thought to result 
in toxic consequences. The metabolic pathways of ketoconazole are very similar across species. 
Ketoconazole is mainly excreted in the faeces (>80%) in rats and dogs as inactive metabolites being biliary 
excretion approximately 60% of the administered dose in rats, but no evidence of enterohepatic recirculation 
was found. Excretion of ketoconazole in milk was reported in Beagle dogs. The administration of ketoconazole in 
breast-feeding women is contraindicated. 
Ketoconazole is an inhibitor of hepatic P450 enzymes (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C9/8, CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6,  CYP2E1  and  CYP4A  but  especially  of  the  CYP3A  family),  of  UGT  enzymes  (UGT1A1,  UGT1A9  and 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 21/115 
  
UGT2B7)  and  an  inducer  of  CYP1A1.  Inhibition  of  CYP3A  enzymes  was  observed  at  clinically  relevant 
concentrations  and  interactions  with  CYP1A2,  CYP2B6  and  UGT1A1  seem  likely  in  patients  treated  with  the 
highest dose recommended. Ketoconazole is also an inhibitor of P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1 and OAT1 and it inhibits 
P-gp at clinically relevant concentrations. 
The toxicology profile of ketoconazole has been established from long term studies in rats and dog, but the 
assessment of the safety profile of ketoconazole is limited by the lack of toxicokinetic data and of a recovery 
period in the toxicity studies.  
The main toxicity induced by ketoconazole is hepatotoxicity to be considered in the benefit/risk balance. Effects 
in adrenal and reproductive systems that probably are consequence of the ketoconazole pharmacological action 
have been also observed in rats and dogs. The same organs are also target of ketoconazole in humans and the 
risk is managed at clinical level. In addition, bone fragility and broken legs were observed in rats but no in other 
species. In conclusion, the  risk in bone is described in the SmPC section 5.3. 
Ketoconazole is not considered carcinogenic and no evidence of genotoxic potential was found in vitro and in 
vivo. However, the genotoxic potential of ketoconazole was not properly determined for the proposed dosing 
regimen in the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s as described in section 5.3 of the SmPC. 
In reproduction studies, ketoconazole impaired fertility, and produced embryotoxic and teratogenic effects. The 
administration of ketoconazole during pregnancy and breast-feeding is contraindicated. (refer to section 4.3 and 
5.3) 
A post-Marketing Authorisation commitment to perform a Phase II ERA is recommended..  
2.3.6.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
The  Applicant  submitted  an  application  for  a  well-established  use  product,  and  as  such  submitted  no  new 
non-clinical  data.  The  extensive  literature  review  of  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  of 
ketoconazole is considered appropriate and acceptable to support the non-clinical profile of ketoconazole. 
The concerns related to the hepatotoxicity of ketoconazole leading to the withdrawal of the product previously 
approved in treatment of fungal infections are discussed later in the context of the new applied indication. 
The hepatotoxicity of ketoconazole remains an issue to be considered and is further addressed in the benefit/risk 
of  this  report.  Overall,  the  non  -clinical  profile  of  ketoconazole  is  considered  to  be  well  established  as 
demonstrated by the literature review provided and is considered appropriate to support the proposed clinical 
use of ketoconazole for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Ketoconazole has been used in clinical practice for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome since the 1980’s thus 
for  a  period  of  more  than  30  years.  In  the  early  1980’s  ketoconazole  was  reported to  have  steroidogenesis 
inhibitor effects linked to a broad inhibition of cytochrome P450 enzymes.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 22/115 
  
The applicant refers back to more than 350 publications showing that, the clinical use of ketoconazole has been 
documented since at least the mid-1980s. 
GCP 
The Clinical trial was performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics data in this application are supported by literature data and a bioequivalence study 
between the test drug and the product referred to in the literature Nizoral® 200 mg film-coated .  
2.4.2.1.   Bioequivalence study 
The applicant has conducted a randomized, blind, two-way crossover, bioequivalence study (04/AM/POL/2003) 
of test drug and the product referred to in the literature Nizoral® 200 mg film-coated tablets administered as 1 
tablet containing 200 mg of ketoconazole in healthy subjects under fasting conditions with a washout of 14 days. 
The study was conducted from August 09th, 2003 to August 24th, 2003 and according to current Good Clinical 
Practice guidelines and in line with the Declaration of Helsinki and its amendments. 
All Ketoconazole plasma samples were analyzed within the established long-term stability. 
ANOVA  analysis  has  been  performed  correctly  (sequence,  period  and  treatment  as  fixed  factor  and  subject 
[nested within sequence] as random factor).  
Pharmacokinetic parameters of Ketoconazole and the evaluation of the bioequivalence AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax 
for Ketoconazole is presented below (N=23).  
Based  on  the  submitted  bioequivalence  study  Ketoconazole  200  mg  film-coated  tablets  manufactured  by 
Polfarmex, S.A.  when compared with  Nizoral® 200  mg film-coated tablets, manufactured by Janssen-Cilag 
meet the bioequivalence criteria with respect to the AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and Cmax. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 23/115 
  
 
 
 
2.4.2.2.  Literature review 
Absorption 
KC  is  a  weak  dibasic  agent  and  thus  requires  acidity  for  dissolution  and  absorption.  Mean  peak  plasma 
concentrations of approximately 3.5 μg/ml are reached within 1 to 2 hours, following oral administration of a 
single 200 mg dose taken with a meal. Cmax and area under the curve (AUC) increase more than proportionally 
with dose. Four to six hours post dose, concentrations of 6 to 50 μg/mL were reported after doses of 400 to 1600 
mg. However, Cmax of 6 μg/mL is referred to KC solution and 50 μg/mL is based on administration of 600 mg 
to 4 patients. Cmax reached with the maximum dose (i.e 1,600 mg) ranged from 2.85-12.14 μg/mL. These data 
needed  further  clarification.  The  applicant  has  provided  more  information  regarding  steady  state 
pharmacokinetics  of  ketoconazole  when  used  at  higher  doses  (400  mg  to  2.000  mg)  that  come  from  5 
publications involving healthy volunteers and patients with different pathologies (fungal infection and prostate 
cancer). This data has been included in section 5.2 of the SmPC. Also additional information was required on the 
linearity of pharmacokinetics.  The Applicant was requested to clarify the increase in half-life of the terminal 
phase  (stated  to  be  8  hours).  From  the  data  provided  it  seems  that  the  terminal  half-life  is  rather  similar 
regardless of the dose. It is agreed that the lack of dose proportionally in exposure does not represent an issue. 
According  to  information  included  in  Nizoral  200  mg  tablets  SmPC  (Nizoral  UK  SmPC  2010)  absorption  of 
ketoconazole  under  fasted  conditions  is  increased.  The  references  provided  set  different  conclusions.  The 
Applicant's proposal for the SmPC section 4.2 states that the “Ketoconazole HRA Pharma should be taken during 
meals for maximal absorption” considering the well-known effect of food. However, publications regarding the 
food effect are conflicting and taking into account that KC dose will be adjusted by cortisol levels, the statement 
regarding food restriction has been deleted. 
The applicant was also requested to comment on the possibility to administer KC with other acidic beverages 
different to cola beverage. According to the data presented ketoconazole absorption could be improved with 
drinks with a pH below 4. Given that most of orange juices have pH < 4 this beverage has already been included 
as another example of acidic beverage and mentioned in the SmPC. 
Distribution 
The information provided from the literature shows that distribution of KC varies according to the tissue sampled, 
the underlying disease and the dose and duration of treatment. KC does not cross the intact blood-brain barrier, 
and crosses to only a limited extent in fungal meningitis. In the presence of renal failure, KC disposition was not 
altered, whereas in the presence of hepatic insufficiency, an alteration in disposition was suggested (Brass C. 
AAC 1982).  
Additional information was requested to the applicant on the linearity of pharmacokinetics and to clarify the 
increase in half-life of the terminal phase (stated to be 8 hours). From the data provided, it seems that the 
terminal half-life is rather similar regardless of the dose. It is also agreed with the applicant that the lack of dose 
proportionally in exposure does not represent an issue. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 24/115 
  
 
According  to  different  publications  ketoconazole  half-life  appears  to  be  dose  dependent,  increasing  with 
increasing dose and after repeated dosing (Daneshmend 1981, 1983, 1984; Gascoigne 1981 and Huang 1986). 
Gascoigne described that the absorption of ketoconazole was rapid and the decline in plasma levels was biphasic 
taking almost 10 h in the slower phase. The proposed wording for the SmPC states that mean peak plasma 
concentrations of approximately 3.5 μg/mL are reached within 1 or 2 hours, following oral administration of a 
single 200 mg dose taken with a meal is acceptable. 
The Applicant was asked to discuss the linearity of binding to plasma proteins over the relevant concentration 
range. From the data provided, this has been characterised over a range of concentrations of 0.1 to 10 μg/mL.  
Metabolism 
Following absorption from the gastrointestinal tract, ketoconazole is converted into several inactive metabolites. 
The Applicant was requested to provide additional data to discuss the metabolism. According to both clinical and 
non-clinical responses, the complex metabolism of ketoconazole has been confirmed. Although there are scarce 
data regarding metabolism in humans,  it appears quite similar to the metabolism in rats leading to a great 
number (i.e 16-22) of inactive metabolites that do not play a role in the safety profile of ketoconazole.  
The major identified metabolic pathways are oxidation and degradation of the imidazole and piperazine rings, 
oxidative  O-dealkylation  and  aromatic  hydroxylation.  KC  inhibits  cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  enzymes  and  is  a 
particularly potent inhibitor of human CYP3A4. In vitro studies have shown that CYP3A4 is the major enzyme 
involved  in  the  metabolism  of  ketoconazole.  Time  dependency  of  CYP  inhibition  has  been  discussed  by  the 
Applicant. It was not clear if there is a time dependency of onset of the effect.  In addition the reversibility of the 
effect needed be further clarified as it appears to be reversible but slow. Reversibility of inhibition of transporters 
has been discussed by the Applicant as this was considered important in terms of recommendation to dose BCRP 
substrates at least 2 hours after administration. Data provided show that KC is a potent, mixed competitive and 
non-competitive reversible inhibitor of CYP3A4 with no time dependency of its effect. In addition, data suggest 
that the interaction would most likely be reversible. Given that the doses of ketoconazole included in the current 
submission are up to 1200mg/day, it is mentioned in the ketoconazole SmPC that KC should be administered 
with  caution  to  patients  receiving  drugs  known  to  be  BCRP  substrates,  and  be  carefully  monitored  for  dose 
adjustment.  
There is no specific pharmacokinetic study in the target population included in the references provided by the 
applicant. It is unexpected that pharmacokinetics would be different in the CS patients. 
Excretion 
The major route of excretion is through the bile into the intestinal tract. About 13% of the dose is excreted in the 
urine. Heykants et al. gave a single 200 mg oral dose of ketoconazole to 6 patients with severe renal failure and 
not found changes in the extent of absorption, although it appeared that peak concentrations were lower and 
attained later compared to patients with normal renal function. The applicant has provided PK information in 
patients with renal impairment that suggest that PK is not significantly different in patients with renal failure 
compared to healthy subjects and therefore, there is no need for dose adjustment. This has been reflected in the 
SmPC. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 25/115 
  
Special populations:  
Hepatic impairment 
Hepatotoxicity of ketoconazole is well-recognized adverse event. There is a wide range of presentation of this 
adverse event, from an increase in liver enzymes to fatal liver injury. However as there is a lack of data in the 
patients with hepatic impairment, a contraindication in the SmPC has been introduced for patients with acute or 
chronic liver disease and is mentioned in section 4.3. of the SmPC and further information in section 4.2 and 4.4 
regarding the need of monitoring of liver enzymes prior and during treatment. (Refer to the safety part of the 
report) 
The effect of gender, race or weight has been discussed by the applicant. No formal assessment of the influence 
of these variables on KC PK has been performed. This information has been included in the SmPC.  
Elderly population 
In relation to elderly patients, the applicant provide information of 22 patients >65y old with hypercortisolism of 
different  origins  treated  with  KC  (i.e  17/24  Cushing’s  disease,  6/24  EAS  and  1/24  CS  ACTH-independent 
malignant steroid cell ovarian tumour). They received a dose ranging from 400 to 1.200 mg. Although data are 
limited they suggest good response and no need of dose adjustment. This is appropriately mentioned in section 
4.2. of the SmPC.  
Paediatric population 
As  this  is  a  well-established  use  application,  no  PIP  is  required.  No  PK  data  on  children  was  provided.  The 
applicant included data from 24 patients between 4 months and 17 years. 13/24 present CD, 3/24 an adrenal 
carcinoma, 5/24 EAS, 2/24 CS and 1/24 Mc Cune-Albright syndrome. Ten out of 24 received KC pre-surgery.  
Further discussion is provided later in this report.  
Metabolism and Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
As mentioned in the [Nizoral UK SmPC], ketoconazole in vitro is an inhibitor of CYP3A4 and of the efflux protein 
P-gp. Strong inhibition of CYP3A was demonstrated regardless of the substrate, with estimates of Ki in the 
nanomolar range for all four substrates, but variations were shown in ketoconazole potency among substrates. 
The mechanism of inhibition was reversible and appeared to be a mixed competitive-non-competitive process. 
The activity of ketoconazole against several CYP isoenzymes was investigated by Baldwin et al [Baldwin et al, 
1995] on human liver microsomes from male and female donors. In this study, ketoconazole inhibited CYP3A4 
with an IC50 value of 0.2±0.2 μM, and inhibited CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9/8, 2C19 and 2D6 with lower potency, whilst 
inhibition of CYP2A6, and 2E1 was minimal. Data available do not show a potential to induce CYP3A4, 2B6, 1A1 
or 1A2 enzymes and Pg-transporter. Propensity for time-dependent autoinduction is not suggested either. 
The effect of ketoconazole on P-glycoprotein (P-gp) mediated transport has been investigated in vitro and in 
vivo. Ketoconazole was shown to be actively effluxed in Caco-2 cells; an increase in efflux was observed with 
increasing concentrations of ketoconazole. In an in vivo study ketoconazole was shown to increase the plasma 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 26/115 
  
 
levels  of  digoxin  after  intravenous  or  oral  administration.  Ketoconazole  administration  prolonged  digoxin 
elimination,  reduced  digoxin  absorption  time  and  increased  its  bioavailability.  Although  the  effects  of 
ketoconazole on the digoxin AUC could be explained by inhibition of both CYP3A and P-gp, the decreased mean 
absorption time can only be explained by inhibition of P-gp in the intestine. Inhibition of P-gp mediated transport 
has been demonstrated in vitro and in vivo. Since inhibition of CSA and digoxin transports were reported at low 
ketoconazole concentrations (0.03μM for CSA in MDCKII-MDR1 and Caco-2 cell lines and 0.3 μM for digoxin in 
MDCKII-MDR1  cells),  KC  could  block  P-gp  mediated  transport  at  clinical  concentration.  A  warning  about 
potential interactions with digoxin is included in the SmPC (section 4.5). However, interactions with other P-gp 
substrates are probable and are described in the section 4.5 of the SmPC (see SmPC annotated). 
BCRP (IC50 of 15.3 μM), OATP1B1 (IC50 of 43.4 μM) and OAT1 (IC50 of 319 μM) inhibition by KC has been already 
reported in the literature. Because KC is highly bound to plasmatic proteins, there is no risk of interaction with 
BCRP substrates at the systemic level, but ketoconazole may be an inhibitor of BCRP at the intestinal level at 
clinically relevant concentrations.  
Data on interactions with transporter mechanisms are available for OAT1 and OATP1B1 [Choi et al, 2011] and 
for BRCP (the human breast cancer resistance protein) [Gupta et al, 2007]. Ketoconazole inhibited transport of 
reference  substrates  by  OAT1  and  OATP1B1,  expressed  in  Xenopus  laevis  oocytes.  Considering  that 
ketoconazole is highly bound to plasma proteins the risk for ketoconazole to inhibit the transport of OATP1B1 
substrates  is  considered  as  very  unlikely.  The  same  holds  for  systemic  interactions  with  BCRP  substrates. 
However,  the  list  of  substrates  of  OATP1B1  and  BCRP  transporters  includes  various  HMG-CoA  reductase 
inhibitors  belonging  to  the  family  of  statins.  These  medications  are  widely  used  in  patients  with  Cushing’s 
syndrome to reduce their cardiovascular risk. Some of these drugs, but not all, are in addition metabolized by 
CYP3A4, and for this reason are already contraindicated in patients on ketoconazole treatment. Others such as 
rosuvastatin, pitavastatin or pravastatin are not metabolized by CYP3A4, but yet are actively transported by 
OATP1B1 or BCRP. Ketoconazole did not produce any change in rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics, thus confirming 
that coadministration of ketoconazole and rosuvastatin is unlikely to increase the risk of toxicity of rosuvastatin. 
However, with high doses of ketoconazole, a theoretical risk of inhibition of BCRP at the intestinal level cannot 
be totally excluded.  
In summary ketoconazole is considered a universal inhibitor of CYP450 dependent monooxygenases. In vitro 
studies  have  shown  that  ketoconazole  is  a  very  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4,  inhibition  of  CYP1A,  CYP2B6, 
CYP2C9/8 is observed at higher but still at clinically relevant concentrations, whilst inhibition of CYP2A6, and 2E1 
is minimal. Ketoconazole also inhibits the activity of CYP3A5 with Ki 4-fold higher as compared to Ki for CYP3A4. 
The  presence  of  variable  CYP3A5/CYP3A4  enzyme  expression  in  the  gut  and  the  liver  may  contribute 
significantly  to  the  inter-individual  variability  associated  with  ketoconazole-midazolam  interactions. 
Ketoconazole is also a P-gp inhibitor at clinically relevant concentrations.  
KC has been used in combination with other steroidogenesis inhibitors (metyrapone, mitotane and AGT), the 
somatostatin analogue pasireotide and the dopamine receptor agonist cabergoline. There are no data indicating 
that the KC dose had to be increased above the range used in monotherapy.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 27/115 
  
Drug interactions of KC with other medicinal products are well known and have been documented in the SmPC 
for  Nizoral  200  mg  Tablets  (Nizoral  UK  SmPC).  In  vitro  data  show  that  ketoconazole  inhibits  BCRP  (Breast 
Cancer  Resistance  Protein)  with  an  IC50  of  15  μM,  indicating  that  there  is  no  risk  of  interaction  with  BCRP 
substrates at the systemic level. However ketoconazole may be an inhibitor of BCRP at the intestinal level at 
clinically relevant concentrations. Considering the rapid absorption of ketoconazole intake of BCRP substrates 
such as statins should be postponed 2 hours after ketoconazole intake.   
In conclusion, KC is mainly metabolized though cytochrome CYP3A4 in the liver. The bioavailability of KC is 
significantly reduced by enzyme-inducing drugs. In addition, the metabolism of drugs via hepatic P450 enzymes, 
especially of the CYP3A family, can be inhibited by KC resulting in an increase and/or prolongation of their effects 
including adverse effects. Regarding the potential CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9/8, 2C19 and 2D6 inhibition by 
ketoconazole, Ki values are reported in the range of 1.3-28 µM. According to the EMA Guideline on Investigation 
of Drug Interaction the cut-off value for enzyme inhibition in the liver is 50xCmax,u i.e. 15 µM following a 1200 mg 
dose. The risk for a clinical inhibition cannot be excluded for enzymes which are inhibited in vitro with a Ki <15 
µM.  For these enzymes, a literature review should be performed to address if DDI studies are available with 
selective substrates. Information on the risk for inhibition of enzymes other than CYP3A4 has been included in 
the SmPC section 4.5. 
KC has been shown to inhibit cholesterol synthesis by blocking demethylation of lanosterol. These effects are 
mediated at least partly by inhibition of mitochondrial cytochrome P 450-linked enzymes activities resulting in a 
block of cholesterol synthesis.  
The DDI profile of KC has been well addressed by the applicant describing the most important DDI of KC. Most 
of interactions are in line with the ones included in Nizoral UK SmPC and Nizoral US SmPC. The interactions 
described in the non-clinical summary are aligned with the interactions in humans. In vitro, KC behaves as a 
strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, inhibition of other CYP isoforms (i.e  CYP1A, CYP2B6, CYP2C9/8) is observed at higher 
but  still  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations.  KC  is  also  a  P-gp  and  BCRP  inhibitor  at  clinically  relevant 
concentrations. All but CYP1A, CYP2B6, CYP2C9/8 isoforms have been also described in humans. 
The applicant has included a specific discussion for some of the interactions (i.e concomitant administration with 
other  steroidogenesis  inhibitors,  effects  on  lipoproteins  and  cholesterol  levels).  Most  of  the  remaining 
interactions have been included in the product information based on Nizoral UK SmPC and Nizoral US SmPC. 
In a study evaluating the combination of ketoconazole 400 mg (2 intakes of 200 mg tablets, 12 h apart) and 
rosuvastatin 80 mg (the highest dose) in healthy subjects, the plasma concentrations of rosuvastatin over time 
were  similar  when  rosuvastatin  was  co-administered  with  ketoconazole  and  placebo  [Cooper  et  al,  2003]. 
Results  of  this  study  could  support  the  addition  of  rosuvastatin  in  section  4.5  in  order  to  inform  that  no 
interaction is expected when rosuvastatin and KC are co-administered (see SmPC). 
All relevant information regarding interactions has been included in the SmPC as requested by the CHMP during 
the procedure. However it is highlighted that, Ketoconazole plasma level could be significantly higher at the 
SmPC  recommended  doses  than  at  the  doses  used  to  treat  fungal  infections.  This  could  lead  to  previously 
unrecognised  interactions.  The  Applicant  was  requested  to  comment  on  whether  the  proposed  posology  in 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 28/115 
  
Cushing’s  syndrome  will  have  an  effect  on  known  interactions  (i.e.  more  concomitant  drugs  which  are 
contraindicated, more drugs which should not be used together with ketoconazole, etc.). After review, it was 
considered that given that clinical interaction studies were performed with KC 400 mg daily dose, it is expected 
that they detected the majority of interactions. No new interactions would be expected in case of higher doses 
to be administered. However, different degrees of interaction may be dependent on the ketoconazole dose given 
i.e. many results are reported following a 200 mg ketoconazole dose and a stronger interaction may be expected 
at a higher dose and/or shorter dosing interval. 
The company is requested to provide more information post-authorization regarding some specific interactions 
(i.e potential CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9/8, 2C19 and 2D6 inhibition by ketoconazole). 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
KC reduces adrenal steroid production though inhibition of multiple steroidogenic enzymes, with reported effects 
on 11β-hydroxylase, 17α-hydroxylase and 18-hydroxylase (Alexandraki, 2010 ; Engelhardt, 1983; Engelhardt, 
1991,  Weber,  1993).  KC  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  cortisol  production  through  the  inhibition  of  both 
11β-hydroxylase and cholesterol side-chain cleavage (Sonino, 1987).  
Figure1. Main pathways of adrenal steroid biosynthesis 
Ketoconazole is an inhibitor of cortisol synthesis resulting from its ability to inhibit several cytochrome P450 
enzymes  in  the  adrenal  glands.  Apart  from  adrenal  blocking  effect,  KC  may  also  have  direct  effects  on 
corticotropic tumour cells in patients with CD.  
In contrast to subjects with an intact hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, patients with pituitary dependent CD 
may show no compensatory rise or stable plasma ACTH levels upon prolonged administration of KC. The marked 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 29/115 
  
 
 
reduction  in  plasma  and  urinary  cortisol  levels  induced  by  KC  is  thus  not  always  followed  by  an  increase  in 
plasma ACTH. KC effects on ACTH levels were variable from one study to another, from no change to slight 
increase. Thus, although some in vitro studies of pituitary corticotrophs suggested an additional site of inhibition 
at the pituitary level, the clinical findings argue against this hypothesis and favour more a regulation of the 
pituitary-adrenal axis.  
Aldosterone levels were lowered by KC. Since KC has a strong inhibitory effect on the 17,20-lyase activity and 
is  a  more  potent  inhibitor  of  cholesterol  side-chain  cleavage  activity  than  metyrapone,  the  side  effects  of 
mineralocorticoid excess or worsening of hirsutism would not be expected. Inhibition of adrenal and gonadal 
testosterone production is observed in clinical studies.  
KC  also  decreases  total  and  LDL-cholesterol  levels  by  10  to  25%  by  inhibiting  cholesterol  synthesis  at 
14-α-demethylation of lanosterol and thus up-regulating LDL receptors activity. It has been used to treat familial 
hypercholesterolemia before the widespread use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. Hence, the use of KC for the 
CS control may have beneficial effects on the management of dyslipidaemia. 
Mechanism of action and pharmacodynamics has been discussed adequately. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
This is a “well established use” use application therefore evidence is expected to be provided through references 
to publications. Results from a PK study have also been provided to bridge the literature data with the intended 
drug formulation, which is appropriate and acceptable. 
The  publications  address  all  aspects  of  the  pharmacokinetics  and  the  applicant  also  provided  upon  request 
references  to  publications  reflecting  pharmacokinetics  data  for  the  higher  doses  required  in  the  proposed 
indications.  
Based  on  the  submitted  bioequivalence  study  Ketoconazole  200  mg  film-coated  tablets  manufactured  by 
Polfarmex,  S.A.  when  compared  with  the  product  referred  to  in  the  literature  Nizoral®  200  mg  film-coated 
tablets, manufactured by Janssen-Cilag meet the bioequivalence criteria with respect to the AUC0-t, AUC0-inf and 
Cmax 
As KC can be used in children, the applicant has discussed the posology for paediatric population and proposed 
to include adolescents in the indication. This is supported by the submitted publications which refer mostly to 
this age range. Data are not available and very limited in younger patients. According to the publications, the 
proposed posology for adolescents is the same as for adults. This is considered acceptable. (please also refer to 
discussions later in the report) 
In  general,  the  PK  profile  has  been  adequately  assessed  and  the  PK  profile  is  considered  to  be  adequately 
supported by the publications. The applicant has addressed PK in special populations such as those with renal or 
hepatic  impairment,  and  the  elderly,  providing  appropriate  supportive  data  and  analyses,  and  making 
appropriate updates for the relevant parts of the SmPC.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 30/115 
  
All relevant information regarding interactions has been included in the SmPC. However it is highlighted that, 
Ketoconazole plasma level could be significantly higher at the SmPC recommended doses than at the doses used 
to treat fungal infections. This could lead to previously unrecognised interactions. The Applicant was requested 
to comment on whether the proposed posology in Cushing’s syndrome will have an effect on known interactions 
(i.e. more concomitant drugs which are contraindicated, more drugs which should not be used together with 
ketoconazole, etc.). After review, it was considered that given that clinical interaction studies were performed 
with KC 400 mg daily dose, it is expected that they detected the majority of interactions. However, different 
degrees  of  interaction  may  be  dependent  on  the  ketoconazole  dose  given  i.e.  many  results  are  reported 
following a 200 mg ketoconazole dose and a stronger interaction may be expected at a  higher dose and/or 
shorter dosing interval. 
In  conclusion,  the  CHMP  considered  that  all  issues  have  been  discussed  and  solved  and  the  clinical 
pharmacology has been adequately demonstrated. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The  Applicant  submitted  an  application  for  a  well-established  use  product,  and  as  such  submitted  literature 
review and a bioequivalence study Ketoconazole 200 mg film-coated tablets manufactured by Polfarmex, S.A. 
with the Product Nizoral® 200 mg film-coated tablets, manufactured by Janssen-Cilag in order to bridge the 
literature data with the intended marketed product.  
Bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  and  it  is  considered  that  the  applicant  has  provided  appropriate 
supportive data from the literature and answers to the CHMP clarifications.  
The  Drug-Drug  interactions  have  been  discussed  and  are  considered  appropriately  described  in  the  SmPC. 
However,  the  company  is  requested  to  provide  more  information  in  the  post-authorization  period  regarding 
some specific interactions (i.e potential CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C9/8, 2C19 and 2D6 inhibition by ketoconazole).    
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
The Applicant submitted more than 350 articles supporting clinical pharmacology and clinical efficacy/safety.  
Data are presented on more than 800 patients in total, including 748 from 28 studies and 52 from individual case 
reports. 
Thus  the  dossier  is  based  on  published  scientific  literature  for  the  use  of  KC  in  the  treatment  of  CS  for  the 
pharmacodynamics and efficacy evaluations.  
Ketoconazole (KC) is an imidazole-dioxalone that has been authorized in several countries (in more than 20 
countries) in the  European Union (EU) since December 1980 for the treatment of fungal infections and  was 
withdrawn following an Article 31 referral in July 2013. 
The patients included in the studies are considered representative of the patient population as a whole as they 
cover a wide age range, from infants to the elderly, although it is not possible to determine exact numbers for 
any age-group and they include many of the different manifestations of CS and the subtypes. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 31/115 
  
2.5.1.  Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
There are no specific studies regarding dose-response provided by the applicant. 
From the review of the publications presented when KC is used as monotherapy the dosing range was 200-1,200 
mg/daily and the most common dose used was 600-800 mg/daily. If combination therapy is considered, the 
dosing range was also 200-1,200 mg/daily but the most common dose seems to be lower at 400 mg/daily. There 
is only one article which describes the use of a higher dose in some patients (i.e 1,600 mg/daily).  
It  appears  that  higher  doses  are  needed  in  case  of  adrenal  carcinoma  or  EAS,  although  some  cases  are 
controlled with the standard doses (Sharma ST., et al.).  
The  duration  of  treatment  for  CS  varies  considerably  in  the  studies,  but  this  represents  a  reflection  of  the 
different strategies needed to manage this disease in different patients and the need to adjust posology on an 
individual patient basis depending on the corticol levels. It is noted that several patients treated very long term 
with ketoconazole were symptom-free. 
Taking into account the different forms of Cushing’s Syndrome, the posology is quite similar amongst all of 
them.  
Some publications point out the possibility of less efficacy in cases with lower dose or in patients who does not 
reach the maximal dose (Castinetti et al. 2014, Loli P., et al. 1986). 
In conclusion, there is no clear dose reponse observed reflecting the need to individualise the posology on a  
patient basis according to the normalisation of the cortisol levels. The recommended range varies from 200mg/d 
to 1200mg/d. 
2.5.1.1.  Summary of main efficacy results  
The  applicant  provides  information  regarding  800  patients  treated  with  KC  as  a  monotherapy  or  as  a 
combination therapy. The studies include a description of efficacy in a group of patients or as individual case 
reports. Most of the studies are retrospective, non-controlled, and describe patients since 1985 to 2012 (Table 
1).  
Table 1. Classification of study population 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 32/115 
  
Taking into account that CS is considered a rare disease, the number of patients included in this application is 
considered acceptable by the CHMP. Considering only the studies where the number of patients in CS subgroups 
are  clearly  identified,  the  distribution  of  patients  was  as  follows:  78.6%  (535+13/697)  Cushing’s  disease, 
15.6%  (91+18/697)  ectopic  ACTH  syndrome  including  three  patients  with  cyclic  CS,  5.2%  (36/697) 
adrenal-dependent CS.  
2.5.1.1.1.  Monotherapy studies – Review of the literature provided 
The applicant provides 22 studies regarding the use of KC as monotherapy. 
•  Cushing’s disease 
Angeli  A.,  et  al,  1985:  This  is  a  report  of  the  inhibitory  effect  on  adrenocortical  secretion  and  clinical 
improvement observed after long-term administration of KC in 5 women with Cushing's disease and bilateral 
adrenal hyperplasia. All 5 women (aged 20-44) received KC 800 mg daily in four divided doses for at least 4 
months; in 3 women the dose was then reduced to 600 mg daily. Plasma corticotropin and cortisol levels, and 
daily urinary free cortisol output were clearly decreased in all patients after 1-2 months of therapy; the changes 
were highly significant at the third month. However, the circadian periodicity of plasma cortisol was not restored 
despite attainment of normal 24 h urinary free cortisol and 8 am circulating cortisol. Clinical improvement was 
observed in all 5 women with a return to normal menstruation. 
Bereselli ME., et al, 1987: In this study, ACTH response to the CRH test was provided for 8 patients with CD 
before and during KC therapy. Both basal and stimulated ACTH levels did not increase on KC despite the marked 
decrease of cortisol levels. Although these data may suggest an additional KC effect on the pituitary level, aside 
its effects on the inhibition of adrenal steroidogenesis, this finding was not confirmed by further studies. 
Boscaro M., at al, 1987: In this exploratory study where data were published in two separate papers, authors 
have  shown  that  basal  and  stimulated  ACTH  response  are  enhanced  after  4  to  6  weeks  of  KC  600  mg/d 
treatment in 4 out of 6 patients and that both basal and post-CRH plasma cortisol and aldosterone levels were 
lowered. These findings indicate that KC has no additional inhibitory effect on ACTH secretion and confirm the 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 33/115 
  
 
inhibitory effects of KC on cortisol secretion and also on aldosterone secretion (for patients with pre-therapeutic 
elevated levels). 
Calvo Romero JM., et al, 1999: The objective was to determine the usefulness of KC for the control of arterial 
hypertension in CS. Eleven cases of CD were included. Three out of eleven presented hypertension, two of them 
received  KC  400  mg/day  and  one  600  mg/day.  In  all  normalization  of  arterial  tension  and  urinary  cortisol 
excretion was reached.  
Castinetti F., et al, 2008: This is a French single centre retrospective study of 38 patients with CD treated with 
KC  between  1995  and  2005.  Reasons  for  initiation  of  KC  treatment  were  as  follows:  unsuccessful  pituitary 
surgery (n=17 patients); lack of image of adenoma on pituitary MRI (n=15 patients): refusal (1 patient) or 
contraindication  (1  patient)  of  surgery;  and  awaiting  antisecretory  efficacy  of  Gamma  Knife  radiosurgery  (4 
patients). The patient population was subdivided into a “No pituitary surgery group” of 21 patients who were 
treated with KC as a primary treatment and an “After pituitary surgery group” of 17 patients. KC was always 
initiated at a low dose (200-400 mg/day) with weekly monitoring of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), and γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (γ-GT) during the first month. If necessary, to obtain 
biochemical  remission,  the  dosage  was  increased  by  200  mg/day  every  10-14  days,  with  a  liver  function 
measurement at each titration step, up to a maximum of 1200 mg/day. 33 patients were treated on a long-term 
basis  with  KC  at  doses  of  200  to  1200  mg/d  and  of  these  17  were  controlled  and  16  uncontrolled.  In  the 
controlled group (n=17; 51.5% of those treated long term) mean follow-up was 22.6 months and doses of KC 
varied from 200 to 1000 mg/day (mean 529 mg/day). Blood pressure was normal in all controlled patients 3-6 
months after initiation of  KC. All  five diabetic patients in the study had normalized 24-h UFC and metabolic 
control on the basis of blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA 1c) monitoring. In the uncontrolled 
group (n=16; 48.5% of those treated long term) mean follow-up was 10 months and doses of KC varied from 
600 to 1200 mg/day (mean 890 mg/day). Five of them had initially been controlled, for a period of 3 months 
(n=2), 2 years (n=2), and 3 years (n=1), at doses varying from 600 to 1000 mg/day. Of the 16 uncontrolled 
patients,  8  presented  a  significant  decrease  in  UFC:  5  of  them  normalized  high  blood  pressure  without 
modification of their anti-hypertensive therapy. The 24-h UFC was unchanged in the other 8 patients and the 
blood pressure status was not modified (n=3 had normal blood pressure at initiation of KC treatment). Half of 
the biologically uncontrolled patients displayed clinical regression of signs of hypercortisolism with mean loss of 
weight similar to that of controlled patients. The authors concluded that KC was an effective therapy for CD 
patients, either as a primary treatment or as a post-operative treatment (the only difference between these 
groups was the duration of treatment which was longer in the 2nd group). Seventeen out of the 33 patients 
(51%) who were treated on a long-term basis with KC at doses of 200 to 1200 mg/d were controlled i.e. had a 
normal 24- h UFC at 2 consecutive evaluations. Of the uncontrolled patients, five had initially been controlled 
and 50% presented a significant decrease in UFC. The 17 patients with normalized 24-h UFC also presented 
clinical regression of signs of hypercortisolism including lowering of blood pressure and loss of weight during the 
first 3 months of treatment, whereas blood pressure was unchanged in uncontrolled patients. However some of 
the uncontrolled patients displayed some clinical regression of other CS signs. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 34/115 
  
Castinetti  F.,  et  al,  2014:  This was a French retrospective, multicenter study reviewing data from patients 
treated by ketoconazole as a single agent for CD, with the aim of clarifying efficacy and tolerance in order to 
better determine the benefits/risk balance. Data from 200 patients followed in 14 French centers were included 
in  this  retrospective  study.  All  patients  were  treated  with  ketoconazole  as  a  single  treatment  for  active  CD 
between 1995 and 2012. The diagnosis of CD was based on criteria defined according to current guidelines. The 
first evaluation of UFC (mean of 2–3 samples) was carried out in all centers after 0.25–1 month of treatment. 
Urinary cortisol secretion was usually monitored at 1–4 month intervals and if necessary, ketoconazole dosage 
was increased by 200 mg/d every 7–28 days depending on the investigator’s judgment until normalization was 
achieved. Patients were considered controlled if they had normal 24-hour UFC at 2 consecutive evaluations. 
Partial control was defined as a decrease in UFC superior to 50% without normalization. A lack of control was 
defined by a decrease in UFC of less than 50% and/or immediate clinical or biological intolerance leading to 
ketoconazole discontinuation. When the dose of ketoconazole was finally established, biological evaluation of 
hypercortisolism was performed at 3–6 month intervals. Each investigator also evaluated the changes in clinical 
signs of  hypercortisolism including BP,  as  well as plasma potassium and glucose tolerance. Improvement in 
hypertension was defined as a decrease of at least 10 mmHg of systolic and/or diastolic BP in patients with 
hypertension. Improved glycemic conntrol was defined as one or more of the following: a decrease of insulin 
dose (-10% of the total dose), a decrease in the number of antidiabetic drugs, and an improvement of HbA1c 
(-0.5% when available) without addition of other antidiabetic drugs. Regular monitoring (every 7–15 days) of 
aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST)  (ASAT),  alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  (ALAT),  and  gamma-glutamyl 
transpeptidase (GGT) was performed during the first month of prescription, and then at each dose change. The 
mean  age  at  diagnosis  of  CD  was  41.9+/-15.8  years,  ranging  from  8  to  87  years.  Pituitary  MRI  reported  a 
microadenoma  in  106  patients  (53.4%),  a  macroadenoma  in  36  patients  (18.2%),  and  the  lack  of  obvious 
adenoma in 58 patients (29.4%).The following figure resumes the main results. At the time of ketoconazole 
initiation,  all  patients  had  clinical  CD,  116/174  patients  (66.7%)  had  hypertension,  39/174  (22.4%) 
hypokalemia  and  55/174  (31.8%)  diabetes  mellitus.  Data  were  not  detailed  for  26  patients.  Mean  initial 
24h-UFC was 4.1 ± 5.3-times the ULN (range, 1.1– 40). 
Figure 1. Flow-chart including the main characteristics of the cohort, and the main results. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 35/115 
  
CI, contraindication 
Forty-one patients (20.5%) stopped the treatment due to poor tolerance. Increase in liver enzyme levels up to 
5-fold normal values was reported in 30/190 patients (15.8%). Four patients presented 5–10-fold increase, and 
1 patient (treated at a dose of 600 mg/d) presented a 40-fold increase of ASAT, ALAT andGGT, which remained 
high  for  3  weeks  after  ketoconazole  withdrawal.  This  patient  was  also  concomitantly  taking  alcohol  and 
acetaminophen. Liver enzyme levels in this patient eventually returned to normal 90 days after ketoconazole 
withdrawal. In all other patients, liver enzyme levels returned to normal within 2–4 weeks after dose decrease 
(50% of cases) or withdrawal (50% of cases).No fatal hepatitis was observed. The authors concluded that data 
showed that ketoconazole is a highly effective drug to reduce hypercortisolemia: 75.2% of patients had at least 
50% decrease of UFC, including 49% with normal UFC at the last follow-up. Of the 49 patients with lack of 
control, only 9 reached the final dose of 1200 mg/d. 
Chou SC., et al, 2000: This is a report on the treatment of three females (aged 37-49 years) with residual or 
recurrent  Cushing's  disease  after  unilateral  adrenalectomy  (n=1,  relapse  at  12  years)  or  transsphenoidal 
adenomectomy (n=2, relapse at 10.6 and 5.3 years). The patients initially received 200 mg KC per day, up to 
a maximum of 1200 mg/day. The duration of treatment was 65 to 86 months. The 24-hour urinary free cortisol 
excretion  levels  markedly  decreased  in  all  patients  immediately  after  treatment  and  remained  in  the  upper 
levels of the reference range. All the patients showed clinical improvement soon after beginning KC treatment. 
Dash RJ., et al., 1990: This is a small clinical study of five female patients (aged 16-48 years) diagnosed with 
Cushing's disease treated with KC 400 to 800 mg/d for 7-10 weeks, 4 subsequently underwent surgery and the 
fifth was offered long term KC therapy. There was a significant improvement in the clinical features of CD by the 
end of the 3rd week which corresponded to near normalization of plasma cortisol. But in one case with invasive 
pituitary macroadenoma, an escape phenomenon was observed at the 6th week with 800mg/d dose. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 36/115 
  
 
 
Engelhardt D., et al., 1989: The short term and long term effects of KC administration on the pituitary and 
adrenals was studied in 10 patients with CD. Three patients were treated for 24 hours with 1000 mg. After this 
short-term administration of KC, there was a slight decrease in serum cortisol levels in the three patients with 
CD. Seven patients were treated with 600 mg/day of KC  from 1 week up to 12 months. Three out of the 7 
patients with CD were treated for at least 2 months. In the three patients with CD treated over 3, 10, and 12 
months,  there  was  a  partial  decrease  of  UFC  levels  but  no  normalization  was  achieved  and  one  of  them 
developed labile hypertension and low potassium levels. 
Fallo F., et al., 1993: Forty consecutive hypertensive patients with CS (N=32 with Cushing’s disease; N= 5 
with an adrenal adenoma and N=1 with an adrenal carcinoma) were admitted. Twenty eight patients (Group 1) 
were treated with antihypertensive drugs including 12 with a resistant hypertension who received an association 
therapy with KC 400-800 mg/day (mean age 38±3 years; 9 women/3 men) for 10±2 months. Twelve patients 
(Group 2) received KC alone at the same doses (mean age 39±2 years; 10 women/2 men) for 7±2 months. 
Blood  pressure  normalization  was  obtained  in  4  out  of  28  patients  belonging  to  Group  1  and  who  were  not 
treated  by  KC.  In  those  were  KC  was  added,  a  parallel  normalization  of  blood  pressure  and  urinary  cortisol 
occurred in 11 out of 12. In Group 2, KC alone lowered blood pressure within normal limits in 11 out of 12 
patients  and  normalized  cortisol  levels  in  all.  One  patient  with  a  hypertension  preceding  CS  remained 
hypertensive despite KC. 
Gomez RM., et al., 2007: Authors retrospectively assessed 71 CS patients who were admitted between 1978 
and 2003 (60 women, 11 men; mean age 37.4 years with a range of 13-75), including 50 with CD. After KC 
therapy, a significant decrease in 24 hr UFC was shown. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in 
systolic and diastolic blood pressure values. 
Invitti C., et al., 1999: A retrospective multicenter Italian study described the clinical features and therapeutic 
procedures carried out in 288 patients with CD. Medical therapy was carried out in 178 patients with Cushing’s 
disease before a surgical procedure, after surgical failure or relapse, and in association with pituitary irradiation. 
KC, the drug mostly  used (the exact number of patients treated by KC was  not provided), brought about a 
normalization or a reduction in UFC concentrations in 43% and 42% of patients respectively. 
Loli P., et al, 1986: Seven patients (six women and one man) with pituitary-dependent Cushing's disease were 
studied. Two patients previously had unsuccessful pituitary microsurgery (performed at another hospital) and 
one patient had recurrence of Cushing's disease 2 years after successful pituitary adenomectomy. The initial 
dose  was  200  mg  twice  daily  (every  12  h).  The  dose  was  increased  in  200  mg  increments  in  13-40  days 
according  to  the  individual's  drug  tolerance  and  treatment  efficacy  (evaluated  on  the  basis  of  the  clinical 
behavior and the changes in urinary cortical levels). A maximum of 800 mg KC (200 mg three times a day (tid)) 
was used in two patients. A marked decrease in urinary cortisol excretion occurred in each patient within the first 
week of treatment; thereafter, urinary cortisol remained near normal or within the normal range throughout 
therapy  in  all  but  two  patients.  Plasma  cortisol  levels  decreased  in  each  patient  within  the  first  month  of 
treatment; thereafter, they changed little. Within 2 months after the beginning of treatment, the clinical signs of 
CS regressed.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 37/115 
  
Luisetto  G.,  et  al.,  2001:  This was a retrospective study to assess the effect of treatment with KC on the 
recovery  of  bone  mineral  density  in  10  patients  with  CD.  KC  300  to  600  mg/d  was  administered  following 
unsuccessful pituitary surgery and treatment ranged from 10 to 100 months (44± 34). UFC was normalized in 
five  patients  (50%)  on  KC  who  achieved  a  mean  level  of  223±80  nmol/24h  and  remained  elevated  in  the 
remaining  5  patients  (mean  UFC  level:  631±223  nmol/24h);  but  bone  mineral  density  remained  low  in  the 
group as a whole with similar levels for patients with normal or elevated UFC levels. The percentage change of 
BMD ranged from -6% to + 3.8%. In the surgery group, BMD increased significantly after surgery.  
Moncet D., et al, 2007: This study included 54 patients with proven CS undergoing KC treatment (44 women 
and 10 men), with a mean age at diagnosis of 38 ±13.1 (range 14-63) years. Cushing's disease was the final 
diagnosis in 37 patients. The duration of treatment ranged from 15 days to 13 years with 24 patients receiving 
long term therapy (defined as ≥1year) mean 3.6 years range 1-13 years. Normal or subnormal UFC was reached 
in 44/52 (85%) of patients evaluated. In seven patients not normalized, UFC decreased from 12 to 48% of 
pre-treatment  values.  Escape  phenomenon  was  observed  in  six  patients  with  CD  after  4-  11  months  on  KC 
400-800 mg/d and UFC normalized by increasing the dose in three. Clinical signs improved on KC treatment 
(Figure  2.7.3-6).  Hypertension  improved  in  33  out  of  41  patients  (80%),  blood  pressure  normalized  in  18 
patients on KC alone and 15 with reduced daily dosage of anti-hypertensive. Sixteen out of 21 pre-menopausal 
patients with menstrual disturbances normalized their menstrual cycles (76%). Diabetes improved, 8 out of 11 
(73%) normalized their glucose levels with dieting and KC alone while two needed anti-diabetic drugs and one 
insulin. 
Mortimer RH., et al., 1991: Eight subjects (6 females, age range:33-51y ; 2 males, age range: 26-33) with 
Cushing’s  disease  were  treated  pre-operatively  with  KC  200  mg  orally  four  times  daily  for  2  weeks  before 
pituitary  surgery  or  radiotherapy  and  up  to  2  years  (in  N=3  who  failed  or  where  unfit  to  surgery).  Results 
showed  a  tendency  for  plasma  cortisol  to  fall  butthis  was  non-significant.  Plasma  ACTH  did  not  changed 
significantly. There were highly significant increases in plasma progesterone, 17α hydroxyprogesterone and 11 
β-deoxycortisol whereas DHEAS levels fell significantly. Plasma testosterone did not change . There were highly 
significant fall in UFC (p< 0.0001). 
Sonino N., et al., 1985: In this study five patients with Cushing’s disease, aged 18 to 48 years (4 females and 
one male), were treated with KC for 2 to 6 months because hypercortisolism persisted after transsphenoidal 
surgery  and  for  2  cases  because  no  or  little  response  was  observed  after  bromocriptine,  for  1  case  after 
intolerance to aminoglutethimide and for one case after metyrapone withdrawal for hirsutism. The initial KC 
dose was 800 mg/day, reduced to 600 mg/day after one month according to individual responses. At 6 weeks all 
patients were on 600 mg/day. Pituitary radiotherapy was started in 4 patients 1 to 3 weeks after KC initiation. 
Plasma cortisol decreased and there was a rapid normalization of 24hr UFC (within 1 week) for all 5 patients. A 
rapid clinical improvement was observed in all patients. After 4-6 weeks they gained normal appearance with 
regression  of  symptoms  such  as  diabetes,  hypertension  and  muscle  weakness.  Regression  of  hirsutism  was 
observed in the four females. 
Sonino N., et al., 1991: This study evaluated 34 patients (28 females, 6 males; age range: 14-67 years) with 
CS;  there  were  28  with  Cushing’s  disease.  The  reasons  for  starting  KC  included:  preparation  for  surgery  in 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 38/115 
  
patients  with  risk  factors  such  as  diabetes,  hypertension,  coagulation  abnormalities;  management  of  the 
disease during and following pituitary radiation or in patients not suitable for surgery; persistent or recurrence 
of hypercortisolism after pituitary surgery. KC daily dose ranged from 400 to 800 mg/day in two divided doses 
and was 600 mg/day (200 mg in the morning and 400 mg at night) in most cases. Marked suppression of cortisol 
production by KC as indicated by urinary cortisol levels occurred immediately after starting treatment. Mean UFC 
decreased from 1296 ± 176 to 270 ± 69 nmol/d (N=34, p< 0.001). Urinary cortisol was then maintained within 
normal limits throughout treatment in 30 patients. Complications such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and 
hypokalaemia, were quick to resolve and medication against diabetes and hypertension could be either reduced 
or withdrawn within 2 weeks. 
Tabarin A., et al.,1991: The four patients with Cushing’s disease were treated with KC 400-800 mg/day for 
the first month. UFC fell to within the normal range in one patient but remained elevated in two and fell to below 
normal in one. The KC dose was maintained at the same dose in one patient, was increased in two patients and 
decreased from 600 mg/day to 400 mg/day with the addition of hydrocortisone (20 mg/day) in one. With this 
regimen  UFC  remained  within  the  normal  range  in  all  patients  for  more  than  6  months.  Plasma  cortisol 
decreased from basal mean of 688 ± 339 nmol/l to 265 ± 152 nmol/l after 6 months. All patients improved 
clinically  they  regained  normal  or  near  normal  physical  appearance  with  a  reduction  in  total  body  weight. 
Hypertension and hypercholesterolaemia seen in one patient disappeared after 2 months while impaired glucose 
tolerance seen in another patient also disappeared. 
Terzolo M., et al., 1988: Three patients (2 females aged 50 and 59 y, 1 male aged 20 y) with CD were treated 
with KC at an initial dose of 200 mg/d increasing by 200 mg/week for 6 months. The final dose was 600 mg/d 
(200  mg  tid).  Mean  plasma  cortisol  and  UFC  levels  were  normalized.  Each  patient  showed  a  clear  clinical 
improvement within 4-6 weeks. 
Weber MM., et al., 1989: The effects of KC on adrenal androgen secretion was examined in 15 patients (12 
females; 3 males; aged 16-61 years) with elevated androgens including 12 with CS. There was 9 patients with 
Cushing’s  disease.  Treatment  with  KC  600  mg/d  caused  a  significant  reduction  in  serum  androgen  levels  in 
patients with signs of androgen hypersecretion. 
• 
Ectopic ACTH syndrome (EAS) 
Calvo Romero JM., et al, 1999: Two cases of EAS were included. Both presented hypertension, one of them 
received KC 600 mg/day and one 800 mg/day. In both normalization of arterial tension and urinary cortisol 
excretion was reached.  
In another article was included only one patient with EAS in whom serum and urinary cortisol levels returned to 
normal within one week with KC treatment (Engelhardt D., et al., 1989). 
Invitti C., et al., 1999:  The tumour responsible for ectopic secretion was resected in 15 out of 25 patients. 
Four  of  these  patients  had  previously  been  submitted  to  pituitary  surgery  and  another  three  to  bilateral 
adrenalectomy. Eight patients were treated with medical therapy alone, resulting in transient improvement of 
ACTH secretion in less than half. Two patients were never treated. All together, 9 patients with ectopic secretion 
died 2–48 months after diagnosis (mean, 13 ± 5.2 months; median, 8 months). 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 39/115 
  
Sonino N., et al in 1991 described a patient with EAS who has been controlled with KC 600 mg/day for more 
than a year until surgery. The authors explain this good response, in contrast with other reports, to prolonged 
treatment due to unilateral adrenalectomy in previous years. 
Tabarin A., et al., 1991: The four patients with ectopic ACTH syndrome were treated with KC at 600 mg/day 
for one month. UFC decreased after 1 month but was above normal. The dose was increased to 1,200 mg/day 
but UFC remained above normal at 2 months (N=1) and 3 months (N=3). Plasma cortisol also remained above 
normal. There was no clinical improvement, except a transient improvement in one patient in whom diabetes, 
hypertension  and  hypokalemia  disappeared  after  1  month  but  returned  at  month  2.  All  patients  underwent 
bilateral adrenalectomy. 
•  Adrenal-dependent CS 
Calvo Romero JM., et al, 1999 described one case of adrenal carcinoma who received KC 800 mg/day and did 
not normalize arterial tension nor urinary cortisol excretion.  
Engelhardt D., et al., 1989 described a patient with adrenal carcinoma who received KC 600 mg/day for more 
than a week normalizing urinary cortisol levels. 
Invitti  C.,  et  al.,  1999  Seventeen patients with adrenal carcinoma underwent radical surgery, followed by 
medical therapy in 8, it was not specified which drug was used. Five patients were treated with medical therapy 
alone, whereas 2 patients were not treated. Surgical treatment of adrenal adenoma was straightforward. All 
patients with nodular adrenal hyperplasia were submitted to bilateral adrenalectomy. 
Loli P., et al, 1986 described one patient with an adrenal adenoma treated with KC 800 mg/day treated for 3 
months with normalization of UFC. 
Moncet D., et al, 2007 described 5 patients with adrenal tumors who received KC treatment. The article does 
not  provided  an  evaluation  by  type  of  CS,  but  taking  into  account  the  global  results  it  seems  that  KC  was 
effective in these patients. The dose of KC ranged from 200 to 1,200 mg/d with a mean maintenance dose of 600 
mg/d. The excretion significantly decreased after 40 days (30-45 d) of KC treatment. Normal or subnormal UFC 
was reached in 44/52 (85%) of patients evaluated. Clinical signs improved on KC treatment.  
Sonino N., et al in 1991 described two patients with nodular adrenal hyperplasia, one with adrenal adenoma 
and  one  with  adrenal  carcinoma.  Although  it  is  not  possible  to  obtain  specific  data  from  these  patients, 
considering the global results it could supposed the efficacy in these four patients. A marked decreased in UFC 
occurred and was maintained within normal limits throughout treatment in 30 patients, but in two, it remained 
above normal and in two, it increased above normal after 6 months while they were at a dose of 600 mg/d. 
Complications such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypocalcaemia, were quick to resolve and medication 
against diabetes and hypertension could be either reduced or withdrawn within 2 weeks.   
2.5.1.1.2.  Combination therapy – Review of the literature provided 
•  Cushing’s disease 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 40/115 
  
Feelders R., et al., 2010: The study initially enrolled 17 patients (13 women, 4 men; mean age 45.7 years) 
with the main objective to normalize urinary free cortisol levels. In this prospective study, eight patients with 
Cushing’s disease received KC after having been previously treated and uncontrolled despite the combination of 
pasireotide  and  cabergoline  for  60  days.  The  addition  of  KC  600  mg/d  for  20  additional  days  led  to  a 
normalization of UFC levels in six out of the eight patients. 
Kamenicky P., et al., 2011: The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of combination 
therapy with mitotane, metyrapone and KC in severe ACTH-dependent CS. Eleven patients (aged 18-75 years; 
7 females/4 males) were included in the study and were treated with mitotane 3.0-5.0 g/day plus metyrapone 
3.0-4.5  g/day  plus  KC  400-1,200  mg/day.  Urinary  free  cortisol  (UFC)  levels  were  monitored.  The  authors’ 
hypothesis was that metyrapone and KC provide rapid clinical and biological control of hypercortisolism, thus 
covering the lag period before mitotane starts to act. All patients experienced a marked clinical improvement. 
UFC excretion fell rapidly from a median of 2737 μg/24 h (853-22,605 μg/24 h) at baseline to a median of 50 
μg/24 h (18-298 μg/24 h) (P = 0.001) within 24-48 hours of initiation of therapy and remained low to normal on 
the combination therapy. All patients with Cushing’s disease were able to undergo pituitary surgery 5-22 months 
after the initiation of combination therapy, after an improvement in their clinical status (Table 2). The authors 
concluded that when surgical treatment for severe ACTH-dependent CS is not feasible, combination therapy 
with mitotane, metyrapone and KC is an effective alternative to bilateral adrenalectomy, which is a permanent 
procedure.  
Table 2. Etiology of hypercortisolism, duration of treatment and treatment outcomes 
Valassi E., et al., 2012: The study aimed to evaluate the outcome of pre-operative therapy with KC alone or in 
combination with metyrapone in previously untreated patients with CS. They were treated between 1983 and 
2010  and  studied  retrospectively.  Within  the  study  population  that  included  62  patients,  39  patients  were 
treated by KC (17 received KC alone and 22 the combination therapy). The mean age at diagnosis was 41 ± 13 
years  (7-70  years).  The  overall  median  duration  of  pre-surgical  medical  treatment  was  4  months  (range: 
1-30.7). Initial daily dose of KC ranged from 200 to 600 mg and was increased by 200 mg at a time. The results 
were as follows: group CO (controlled) included 11 patients (24%) with eucortisolism and significant clinical 
improvement; group NC (not controlled) 22 patients (49%) with persistent hypercortisolism and no control of 
symptoms; and group PC (partially controlled) 12 patients (27%) who, despite eucortisolism, had no real clinical 
improvement.  It  is  not  known  from  what  is  stated  in  the  article  whether  partially  controlled  or  uncontrolled 
patients were titrated to the maximal tolerated dose of KC or not. 
Vilar L., et al., 2010: The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of cabergoline (at doses of up 3 
mg/week), alone or combined with relatively low doses of KC (up to 400 mg/day), in 12 patients (8 females; 4 
males; mean age: 22.8 ± 6.2 years) with CD unsuccessfully treated by transsphenoidal surgery. After 6 months 
of cabergoline therapy, normalization of 24 h urinary free cortisol (UFC) levels occurred in three patients (25%), 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 41/115 
  
 
whereas reductions ranging from 15.0 to 48.4% were found in the remaining. KC was then initiated at low doses 
100 mg/day which were progressively increased by 100 mg every month until normalization of UFC levels or a 
maximal  dose  of  400  mg/day  was  reached.  The  addition  of  ketoconazole  to  the  nine  patients  without  an 
adequate response to cabergoline was able to normalize UFC excretion in six patients (66.7%) at doses of 200 
mg/day (three patients), 300 mg/day (two patients) and 400 mg/day (one patient). UFC levels decreased from 
520 ± 156 to 149 ± 124 μg/24 h (p < 0.001). Overall, normalization in UFC excretion could be obtained in 75%. 
No  treatment  escape  was  observed.  Authors  concluded  that  they  could  demonstrate  that  cabergoline 
monotherapy was able to reverse hypercortisolism in 25% of patients with CD unsuccessfully treated by surgery 
and that the addition of relatively low doses of KC led to normalization of UFC in about two-thirds of patients not 
achieving a full response to cabergoline. 
• 
Ectopic ACTH syndrome 
Kamenicky P., et al., 2011: for more details see above. The following table shows the results on EAS. 
Table 3. Etiology of hypercortisolism, duration of treatment and treatment outcomes 
Neary  NM.,  et  al.,  2012:  Twelve patients (4 females; 8 males) with the ectopic ACTH syndrome due to a 
neuroendocrine thymic tumor were studied in this retrospective review over 25 years (between 1986 and 2010). 
Preoperatively, nine patients received medical treatment, 6 with KC. All patients underwent thymectomy, and 
nine of 10 tumors exhibited positive ACTH immunochemistry. Six patients recurred 20-28 months after surgery 
with metastases. All recurrent patients received KC and four later underwent bilateral adrenalectomy. Clinical 
resolution of CS features post operatively. 
Winquist EW., et al., 1995: This is a retrospective chart review of the records of all patients with ectopic ACTH 
syndrome (EAS) who presented to the medical oncology service at The Toronto Hospital, General Division from 
1980 to 1992. Fifteen patients with EAS and treated with KC were assessable for hormonal and/or biochemical 
responses. There were four women and 11 men with a median age of 59 years (range, 44 to 84). All patients had 
histologically confirmed metastatic tumors. KC was administered in dosages ranging from 400 to 1,200 mg/day, 
and the median duration of therapy was 26 days (range, 3 to 1,059). Only three patients received KC for more 
than 3 months, which included one patient who was treated for nearly 3 years. Two patients received short 
courses  of  aminoglutethimide  and  metyrapone  until  death  after  disease  progression  on  KC.  Nine  patients 
received combination chemotherapy concurrently with KC. Of the 12 patients assessable for hormonal response 
by 24hr UFC levels, five had complete resolution, three had a reduction in UFC up to <50% of baseline (partial 
resolution), and two improved but had less than partial resolution. Improvements were observed in the clinical 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 42/115 
  
 
 
manifestations of CS. Of 14 assessable patients with hypokalemia, 13 improved during KC therapy, but only five 
could discontinue potassium supplementation and potassium-conserving medications. Eight of 11 assessable 
patients  with  metabolic  alkalosis  had  complete  response.  Of  10  assessable  patients  with  new  or  worsened 
diabetes,  insulin  and  oral  hypoglycemic  drugs  were  stopped  in  only  one  patient,  but  six  other  patients  had 
improved  glycemic  control  after  starting  KC  therapy.  All  eight  assessable  patients  with  new  or  worsened 
hypertension  responded,  but  antihypertensives  were  discontinued  in  only  one  patient.  Most  patients  died  of 
progressive  malignant  disease  accompanied  by  escape  from  hormonal  control  by  KC.  The  median  survival 
duration of the group was 19 weeks (range, 1 to 154). 
2.5.1.2.  Review of the main efficacy results  
A paper published by the European Registry on CS (ERCUSYN) (Valassi, 2011) shows that the main causes for 
481 patients with CS are 66% pituitary-dependent, 27% adrenal-dependent, 5% ectopic source and 2% 
other causes. The number of patients with adrenal-dependent CS described in this application is lower than in 
the European Registry on CS.   
Most  of  the  studies  presented  described  the  use  of  KC  as  sole  treatment  in  case  of  pre-surgery  treatment, 
post-surgery in patients who do not respond or have a recurrence after surgery or waiting for the radiotherapy 
efficacy. Eight studies describe the use of KC in combination with other steroidogenesis inhibitors. The most 
common combination was KC + metyrapone. It has been used also in combination with mitotane, cabergoline, 
pasireotide in biotherapy or triple therapy.  
The use of KC as combination therapy is described in 126 patients. Most of these patients presented EAS (around 
65%),  being  the  second  one  entity  more  frequent  CD.  It  reflects  the  complexity  and  heterogeneicity  of  the 
management of this disease and the need to use combination therapy in cases of EAS because of the severe 
hypercortisolism associated to this entity. The information provided by the applicant not only as monotherapy 
but also as a combination treatment is considered acceptable. 
Most of them are retrospective studies without a clear objective stated.  However, it could be said that the main 
objective of the provided studies was to describe the efficacy and safety profile of KC used to treat Cushing 
Syndrome.  
Most of the studies included two main measures in order to describe the efficacy. The first one is a biological one 
consisted  on  change  on  urinary  cortisol  excretion  during  24  hours  (urinary  free  cortisol,  UFC  24h)  during 
treatment compared to the pre-treatment level. This measure has the advantage that provides information of 
cortisol production over a period of 24 hours. On the other hand, the two most relevant disadvantages are the 
dependency on renal function and the inconvenience for the patient to collect urine for 24 hours.  Other studies 
measure plasma cortisol levels to establish efficacy. Both of them are considered valid methods for monitoring 
efficacy results.  
The second one parameter, which is as relevant as the previous one, is the clinical response.  There are not 
established  criteria  regarding  the  clinical  signs  to  evaluate  the  efficacy.  The  most  frequently  clinical  signs 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 43/115 
  
described were the improvement of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and hypokalemia. Others included in some 
studies were improvement of weakness, dermatological problems and moon face.  
Both criterion, the biological and the clinical, were described by the applicant along the review of the published 
literature. 
The  Cushing’s  syndrome  affected  approximately  0.9  in  10,000  people  in  the  European  Union  (EU).  This  is 
equivalent to a total of around 46,000 people, and is below the ceiling for orphan designation, which is 5 people 
in 10,000 (EMA/COMP/528385/2012). 
The total sample size was around 800 patients and represented patients from all the spectrum of Cushing’s 
Syndrome. The applicant included retrospective studies reviewing data from patients treated with KC including 
from 1 (i.e individual case reports) to 200 patients (Castinnetti et al., 2014).  
The  patient  population  described  is  considered  appropriate  for  the  claimed  indication  which  was  further 
amended during the procedure to reflect the available published data.(see later in the report). 
•  Persistence of Efficacy and/or Tolerance Effects 
The duration of treatment with KC in the patients presented ranges from a few weeks to 13 years. The treatment 
goal is to control the cortisol levels in the short-term to alleviate symptoms while investigations are ongoing or 
in  anticipation  of  surgery.  Longer-term  therapy  is  required  to  supplement  pituitary  irradiation  and  in  those 
patients who cannot undergo surgery or in whom it fails. In the Castinetti 2014 study, 69 patients, (including 21 
patients who were never operated and 48 patients who had a persistent CS after a primary pituitary surgery) 
were  treated  for  at  least  6  months  by  ketoconazole  as  a  sole  therapy,  i.e.  they  did  not  receive  any  other 
therapies including pituitary radiotherapy or a second pituitary surgery. The follow-up ranged from 6.1 months 
to 127 months (mean: 26.6 ± 26 months).  
Ketoconazole  dose  ranged  from  400  to  1200  mg/d.  Fifty-one  out  of  the  160  patients  were  treated  with 
ketoconazole for more than 24 months (mean 108.5 ± 244.4 months, range 24.1 to 135 months). Eight patients 
had contra-indications to surgery, and were treated by ketoconazole as a first-line treatment. 
 At the last follow-up, mean final UFC was 1.48±1.27-fold ULN. At the last visit, hypertension was improved in 
15/27 patients (55.5%), diabetes in 7/14 patients (50%), and hypokalemia in 7/8 patients (87.5%). UFC was 
normalized in 33/51 patients (64.7%), and it had decreased by at least 50% in an additional 12/51 patients 
(23.5%). The six remaining patients (11.7%) had final increase in UFC despite initial control, after a mean time 
of 64.3±27.3 months (24.4- 105.6 months). A number of patients included in the studies presented have been 
treated for a prolonged period (at least 6 months) with KC and these are summarized in Table 4. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 44/115 
  
Table 4. Long term treatment with ketoconazole 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 45/115 
  
 
 
 
Literature Reference 
Diagnosis 
Angeli 1985 
Berselli 1987 
Castinetti 2008 
Castinetti 2014  
Chou 2000 
Engelhardt 1989 
Loli 1986 
Luisetto 2001 
Monocet 2007 
Sonino 1991 
Tabarin 1991 
Terzolo 1988 
Valassi 2012 
Vilar 2010 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CD 
CS  
(69%  CD) 
CD 
Ectopic ACTH syndrome 
Adrenal carcinoma 
CD 
CD 
CS  
(84%  CD) 
CD 
Winquist 1995 
Ectopic ACTH syndrome 
Number of 
Patients 
5 
8 
13 
5 
8 
69 
3 
2 
5 
10 
24 
2 
10 
1 
1 
4 
3 
At least 1 
9 
1 
Treatment Regimen 
Duration of Treatment 
KC 600-800 mg/d 
KC 600-800 mg/d  
KC Max 400 -1200 mg/d 
KC Max 400 -1000 mg/d 
KC Max 200 -1000 mg/d 
KC~ 600mg/d to 800 mg/d 
KC 200-1200mg/d 
KC 600 mg/d 
KC Max 200 -800 mg/d 
KC 300-600mg/d 
KC 200-1200mg/d, mean 
maintenance dose 600 mg/d 
KC 400-600 mg/d 
KC 400-600 mg/d 
KC 400-1000 mg/d 
KC 400-1200 mg/d 
KC 600 mg/d 
KC 400-600 mg/d +/- MET 
6-18 mth 
5-13 mth 
6-12 mth 
18-24 mth 
30-72 mth 
6.1-127 mth 
(mean: 26.6 mth) 
65-83 mth 
10 and 12 mth 
6-13 mth 
10-100 mth 
1-13y 
6mth and 9 mth 
1y-3y 
14 mth 
6 mth 
>6mth 
6 mth 
Up to 31 mth 
KC 200-400 mg/d + 
cabergoline 3mg/wk 
KC 400-1200 mg/d 
6 mth 
2.9y 
Some  of  these  patients  underwent  surgery  or  died  or  suffered  from  complications  related  to  the  underlying 
condition. However, the mortality rate in these studies reflects the seriousness of the disease and it appears that 
most of the deaths were a result of the underlying pathology of the condition. In terms of persistence of effect, 
the cortisol levels represent a measure of the efficacy and the dose of KC should be titrated accordingly.  
It is also acknowledged that the progression of the underlying pathology of the disease and the spontaneous 
fluctuations in cortisol hypersecretion in some patients will affect the treatment decisions over time. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Paediatric population  
The majority of patients described are adult, probably because of the known epidemiology of Cushing syndrome 
and it is not possible to discern exactly what proportion of patients would be < 18 years or > 65 years. Clear 
information on the age of all patients in the studies is not available from the published data. However, a wide age 
range of between 4 months and 17 years has been included. Available data are limited but show that KC at doses 
ranging from 200 to 1200 mg/d might be useful in some cases of CS occurring during childhood and results in 
biochemical and clinical benefit with the restoration of a normal height and gonadal function.  
The applicant presents a table with paediatric data from 24 children for treatment of endogenous Cushing’s 
syndrome (13 patients with Cushing’s disease, 2 patients with adrenal carcinoma, 5 patients with the EAS, one 
from  a  McCune-Albright  syndrome,  one  with  an  adrenal  adenoma  and  2  from  an  indeterminate  cause). 
Regarding age groups, 16 were aged above 12 years old and 8 were aged below 12.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 46/115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding posology, the dose ranged from 200-1,200 mg/d, some cases received KC pre-surgery. In 13 out of 
24 KC was considered as partially effective or effective therapy.  
Table. KC use in paediatric population 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 47/115 
  
 
The  clinical  experience  in  children  is  limited  as  endogenous  Cushing’s  syndrome  is  extremely  rare  in  the 
paediatric population. It is estimated that approximately 10 % of Cushing’s syndrome cases occur in children 
(Stratakis, 2012).  
Ketoconazole has a therapeutic utility in paediatric patients due to the paucity of medical options that may be 
used  in  the  paediatric  population.  In  addition  there  is  no  safety  signal  in  the  literature  justifying  a 
contraindication. However most of the data are from the use in adolescents above the age of 12 years. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 48/115 
  
 
The applicant was asked to provide further clarification detailed below whether paediatric patients should be 
included in the indication and provide further evidence and justification for posology recommendation for section 
4.2 and sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1 as appropriate.  
Ketoconazole efficacy data in the paediatric population  
When ketoconazole has been used for Cushing’s disease in patients from 9 to 16 years old, the dose varied from 
200-400 mg/day to 600-800 mg/day. It has been used up to 1,200 mg/day in one 15 years old patient. When 
used for adrenal carcinoma in patients from 9 to 17 years old, the dose ranged from 200 to 1,200 mg/day. When 
used for adrenal adenoma in infants, lower ketoconazole doses were used (~ 200 mg/day in 2 divided doses). 
When used for the ectopic ACTH syndrome, no specific information on dosing was available except in one case 
(A 3 year old patient treated by 300 mg/day).  
In conclusion, from the publications it appears that the doses  used in adolescents above 12 years old were 
similar to the doses used in adult patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome. In children and infants, no 
reliable  information  on  posology  is  available  because  of  the  limited  data.  Two  infants  were  treated  by  200 
mg/day  and  300  mg/day  respectively  (Duta,  2012;  Matarazzo,  2011).  In  a  case  report  of  McCune  Albright 
syndrome  in  a  5  years  old  girl,  ketoconazole  dose  was  2.5  mg/  kg/  day  which  induced  a  strong  adrenal 
suppression (Vong, 2009).  
Treatment  with  ketoconazole  in  paediatric  patients  allowed  normalisation  of  urinary  free  cortisol  levels  and 
clinical improvement, including recovering of growth rate and gonadal function, normalisation of blood pressure, 
Cushing’s syndrome features and weight loss. Harinarayan, 1991 described 2 cases with adrenal carcinoma who 
had a significant fall in plasma and urinary cortisol levels, a normalisation of blood pressure and a decrease in 
facial  plethora.  Moncet  2007,  reports  that  eucortisolism  was  achieved  in  a  14  year  old  girl  treated  with 
ketoconazole. She achieved a normal height and had menarche 2 years after starting ketoconazole. Sonino 1991, 
reports  a  14  year  old  boy  who  was  diagnosed  with  Cushing’s  disease.  On  ketoconazole,  he  had  a  marked 
suppression  of  cortisol  production  immediately  after  treatment  and  regression  of  clinical  signs  of  Cushing’s. 
Costenaro 2011 reports a case of a 12 years old girl who was diagnosed with Cushing’s disease who was treated 
with ketoconazole until surgery. Urinary free cortisol levels normalized within 2 months and at the 800 mg/d 
dose,  she  recovered  growth  rate  and  lost  10%  of  body  weight.  In  the  McCune  Albright  syndrome  patient, 
ketoconazole induced very low cortisol levels after 4 months, was well tolerated and was continued for 2 years 
as an alternative to adrenalectomy.  
Ketoconazole safety data in the paediatric population  
In  total  two  cases  out  of  24  developed  severe  hepatoxicity  including  one  case  of  fatal  liver  failure  due  to 
ketoconazole was reported in a 14 year-old girl while treated for Cushing’s disease with ketoconazole 200 mg 
twice daily (Zollner, 2001) and this is included in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Ketoconazole pharmacokinetics in the paediatric population  
Data  on  ketoconazole  pharmacokinetics  in  the  paediatric  population  are  available  from  two  publications  in 
studies in antifungal indications (Ginsburg, 1983; Bardare, 1984). Main data indicate that there is no evidence 
for differences in half-life or exposure of ketoconazole in paediatric patients compared to adults  
Data on efficacy of ketoconazole in paediatric population is scarce as only 10% of all CS cases occur in children 
(Sarafoglou 2009). Around 75-90% of CS cases in children over age 5–7 years are due to CD (Lafferty 1999; 
Savage  2008).  Adrenal  causes  are  more  common  in  the  youngest  age  groups  (Savage  2008).  Primary 
pigmented nodular adrenalcortical are more commonly presented in the second or third decade of life, but they 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 49/115 
  
are  also  seen  in  younger  children,  as  early  as  in  the  first  2-3  years  of  life  (Stratakis  2001).  Ectopic  ACTH 
syndrome is a very rare cause in children (More 2011).  
The  efficacy  in  this  subset  has  been  demonstrated  although  with  limited  data.  Posology  used  in  paediatric 
population, pharmacokinetics and the safety profile seem similar to those of adults.  
Although prevalence of CS in children is low, it is important to include this population in the indication as well a 
posology recommendation. Based on the literature provided, it is considered that the use in patients of 12-17 
years old is adequately demonstrated and thus it is agreed to include adolescents older than 12 years of age in 
the indication as well as the recommended posology for this subset.  
The agreed wording related to the paediatric population in sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.1 is detailed below: 
Paediatric population  
“The safety and efficacy of Ketoconazole HRA in children aged less than 12 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on posology can be made. 
The posology in adolescents is the same as in adults.”  
The  following  information  about  the  paediatric  use  in  section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  about  the  safety  in 
adolescents:  
“Frequency of hepatoxicity could be higher in adolescents than in adults. In the literature, among 24 paediatric 
patients treated with ketoconazole, two developed a severe hepatoxicity. A 14 year-old girl who was treated for 
Cushing’s disease with ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily presented one month later with jaundice, fever anorexia, 
nausea and vomiting. Ketoconazole was stopped but she deteriorated rapidly and died. A 17-year old girl was 
treated  on  ketoconazole  1200  mg/day  for  an  adrenal  carcinoma  with  liver  metastasis  and  had  altered  liver 
function  tests  at  22  days.  After  ketoconazole  withdrawal,  liver  enzymes  returned  to  normal  levels  within  3 
weeks.”  
The following information about the paediatric use in section 5.1 of the SmPC is agreed upon:  
“Data on 24 paediatric patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome treated with ketoconazole are available in 
the literature, among which 16 were aged over 12 years old and 8 were aged less than 12 years old.  
Treatment  with  ketoconazole  in  paediatric  patients  allowed  normalisation  of  urinary  free  cortisol  levels  and 
clinical improvement, including recovering of growth rate and gonadal function, normalisation of blood pressure, 
Cushing’s syndrome features and weight loss. The doses used in adolescents above 12 years old were similar to 
the doses used in adults’ patients with endogenous Cushing’s syndrome”. 
Pregnancy  
KC therapy is not recommended during pregnancy due to concerns on teratogenicity from studies in animals 
(Gross 2007; Vilar, 2007). It has been demonstrated that KC crosses the placenta in animal studies.  
No guidelines for CS in pregnancy are available. However, surgical management is recommended whenever 
possible, except late in the third trimester, with medical therapy being a second choice until after delivery (Vilar, 
2007). However, as KC is teratogenic we do not recommend its use during pregnancy.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 50/115 
  
 
There are scarce data about the use of KC in pregnancy. Due to teratogenicity, it is not recommended use KC in 
this population. The applicant position is agreed by the CHMP and appropriate information is mentioned in the 
SmPC. 
Elderly population  
Several studies included elderly patients but did not provide the exact number in the elderly population thus, 
clarification was provided.  Finally, the applicant provided information about 24 elderly patients, 17 out of 24 
was 65-74y, 4/24 75-84y and 2/24 >85y. 6 had EAS and the rest CD.   
Available clinical data suggest that ketoconazole was used in elderly patients at doses ranging from 400 to 1200 
mg/d and length of treatment was 2-30 months.  
Although data are limited on the KC use in the elderly population, KC was a useful therapy for several elderly 
patients  at  doses  ranging  from  400  to  1200  mg/d,  therefore  at  doses  not  different  from  those  of  the  other 
age-groups. (see below detailed information) 
Donovan et al. (1993) describe a 66y woman with a lipoid cell tumour in the ovary and a CS associated with 
the progression of the malignancy. She received up to 1,200mg/daily of KC without control of UFC excretion 
level. Previously other authors have published the association between this type of tumours and CS (Taylor and 
Norris 1967, De Lima 1966, Young and Scully 1987, Cleveland et al. 1987). 
Kamenicky  et  al.  (2011)  described  11  patients  who  received  mitotane,  metyrapone  and  ketoconazole 
combination  therapy  in  severe  ACTH-dependent  CS.  Four  of  them  were  >65y,  received  a  median  dose  of 
800mg/daily  of  KC  (range  400-1.200  mg/daily)  and  the  symptoms  were  controlled  and  the  UFC  excretion 
remained low to normal throughout the period of combination therapy. 
Brito  et  al.  (2012)  described  an  83y  woman  with  an  ACTH-dependent  CS  probably  of  ectopic  origin.  She 
received 1.200 mg/day. The evolution of the disease was not known. 
Valassi et al. (2012) describe at least one 70y old patient with CD.  
Castinetti  et  al.  (2008)  described  three  women  >65y  who  received  400-600  mg/daily  of  KC.  In  the  ITT 
population  44.7%  normalized  their  UFC  excretion  and  they  also  presented  a  clinical  regression  of  signs  of 
hypercortisolism (i.e loss of weight, lowering of blood pressure and improving HbA1c). 
Castinetti et al. (2014) the manuscript included 200 patients with KC treatment for active CD between 1995 
and 2012. The mean age was 41.9±15.8y (range 8-87y). Maximal dosage was 1.200 mg/day. 75.2% of patients 
had at least 50% decrease of UFC, including 49% with normal UFC at the last follow-up.  The applicant described 
more detailed data about patients >65y included in this study but in the manuscript provided we do not have 
these data. 
On the basis of the above data, the CHMP considered that the data in patients older than 65 years are limited, 
but there is no evidence to suggest that dose adjustment would be required in these patients. This is adequately 
addressed in the SmPC section 4.2.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 51/115 
  
2.5.2.  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses AND 
meta-analysis) 
As discussed above, the studies presented cover a range of conditions within CS and therefore also include a 
range  of  different  treatments  apart  from  KC,  such  as  pituitary  radiation,  adrenalectomy,  transsphenoidal 
surgery,  as  well  as  other  medical  therapies  (metyrapone,  mitotane,  and  aminoglutethimide),  which  are 
important  therapeutic  options  for  use  in  patients  with  CS.  KC  has  been  used  since  the  early  1980s  for  the 
treatment of CS from any cause, particularly for CS management when causal treatment is not possible or has 
failed.  
• KC has been used both as sole medical therapy and in combination with other drugs or with radiation therapy. 
In 43 to 80% of patients, KC therapy resulted in a normalization of cortisol levels and in further 24 to 42%, a 
decrease of more than 50% of urinary free cortisol levels was shown (Castinetti, 2014; Castinetti 2008; Gomez, 
2007; Invitti, 1999; Moncet, 2007; Sonino, 1991). Combined therapy with multiple steroidogenesis inhibitors 
has  been  shown  to  be  effective  in  both  rapid  and  chronic  control  of  hypercortisolism.  KC  brings  a  major 
contribution to patients’ care in this rare and severe disease by effectively treating symptoms related to cortisol 
excess (Kamenicky, 2011; Feelders, 2010a).  
• KC is characterized by a rapid onset of action. The cortisol response to ACTH stimulation is significantly blunted 
3-4 hours after administration of 400 and 600 mg doses of KC (Pont, 1982) and 24 hour urinary free cortisol 
levels  are  decreased  within  one  day.  This  allows  its  use  in  cases  of  severe  CS  or  in  cases  where  acute 
complications are critical.  
• KC is an effective drug for reducing cortisol levels in all causes of CS.  
•  KC  efficacy  is  usually  maintained  in  the  long-term,  which  allows  a  long-term  control  of  hypercortisolism. 
Escape is rare once control is achieved.  
•  Biochemical  and  hormonal  improvements  are  associated  with  clinical  improvements  in  CS  symptoms 
(depressive psychiatric symptoms, diabetes or glucose intolerance, hypertension, muscle weakness, hirsutism 
etc.). Co-morbid conditions of hypertension and diabetes in CS tended to improve on KC therapy (Castinetti, 
2014; Fallo, 1993; Gomez, 2007; Loli, 1986; Moncet, 2007, Sonino, 1985).  
• KC is also effective in the treatment of increased androgens levels and hirsutism. 
Ideally, treatment of CS is by surgery, removing its cause, thus normalizing cortisol secretion with the resulting 
disappearance of the associated symptoms. However, surgery is sometimes not possible or may fail, leading to 
persistent or recurrent disease, and medical therapy can be used in these cases to restore a normal 24-hour 
production rate of cortisol. Alternatively, medical therapy can help control cortisol levels in Cushing’s disease 
patients while waiting for pituitary radiotherapy to become fully effective, which can take several years. In light 
of the wide-ranging conditions included in CS and the range of treatment options for each case, the diversity of 
treatments  in  the  studies  presented is  a  result  of  normal  clinical  practice.  There  will  therefore  inevitably  be 
disparities in the groups of patients summarized below, but some broad conclusions can be drawn from the data. 
Dexamethasone was added in some cases when a block-and-replace regimen was used; but a dose titration 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 52/115 
  
(block-only regimen) was mostly used. Cortisol levels, either in serum/plasma or urine, were used to assess the 
efficacy of the treatment, along with clinical symptoms. Plasma/serum cortisol measurements were also used to 
detect if there was any over-treatment. In some studies (Engelhardt, 1989; Mortimer, 1991; Weber 1989), 
other  steroids  were  also  assessed  in  an  exploratory  fashion.  Basal  and,  in  some  cases  dynamic,  ACTH 
measurements were done for patients with CD.  
Cushing’s Disease  
Data from 535 patients with Cushing’s disease are presented, along with 13 individual case reports. The dose of 
KC administered in these patients ranges from 200 mg and 1200 mg per day. In patients with Cushing’s disease, 
KC  has  been  used  either  alone  in  the  period  prior  to  pituitary  surgery  or  after  surgery  failure,  either  in 
combination with pituitary radiotherapy or as single therapy. The duration of treatment varied from a few days 
to 13 years. KC is given at an initial daily dose of 200 to 400 mg/day with  weekly control of AST, ALT  and 
gamma-GT during the first month (Castinetti 2008; Castinetti, 2014; Sonino, 1991). The dose used is adjusted 
by 200 mg/day increments on the basis of the cortisol levels achieved (in serum/plasma and/or urine) in each 
patient.  Liver  function  tests  are  conducted  at  each  titration  step  and  the  dose  reduced  as  necessary.  The 
average  dose  was  800  mg/day.  In  all  the  reports  the  cortisol  levels  fell  to  around  normal  levels  soon  after 
initiation of KC therapy. Some patients required increasing doses to maintain response.  
In the Castinetti 2014, study, 69 patients, (including 21 patients who were never operated and 48 patients who 
had a persistent CS after a primary pituitary surgery) were treated for at least 6 months by ketoconazole as a 
sole therapy, i.e. they did not receive any other therapies including pituitary radiotherapy or a second pituitary 
surgery. The follow-up ranged from 6.1 months to 127 months (mean: 26.6±26 months). Ketoconazole dose 
ranged from 400 to 1200 mg/d. The wide range in the duration of treatment reflects the different treatment 
modalities, and the patients receiving KC for a short duration (a few weeks) were generally being treated in 
preparation for definitive surgery or radiotherapy. The patients treated longer-term are those in whom surgery 
was not possible or failed or in whom treatment was associated with a radiation therapy of the pituitary. UFC and 
morning  plasma  cortisol  levels  were  significantly  decreased,  however  the  cortisol  circadian  rhythm  was  not 
restored. In the largest study (Castinetti, 2014) that included 200 patients with CD, 75% of patients had at least 
a  50%  decrease  in  UFC  levels,  including  49%  with  normal  UFC  at  the  last  follow-up.  These  results  were 
concordant with smaller studies previously reported. The median final dose of KC was 600 mg/day and among 
the 49 patients with the lack of response, only 9 reached the maximal dose of 1200 mg/d. In some patients 
long-term  control  of  cortisol  levels  was  achieved  with  KC,  as  discussed  above,  but  in  others  bilateral 
adrenalectomy was necessary. In a prospective study (Feelders, 2010b), eight patients with CD received KC 
after having been previously treated and uncontrolled despite the combination of pasireotide and cabergoline for 
60 days. The addition of KC 600 mg/d for 20 additional days led to a normalization of UFC levels in six out of the 
eight  patients.  Plasma  ACTH  levels  were  highly  variable  from  one  study  to  another.  No  remarkable  change 
(Sonino, 1985; Loli, 1986; Terzolo, 1988), tendency to increased levels (Engelhardt, 1989; Mortimer, 1991) or 
no compensatory ACTH rise despite normalization of cortisol levels or even decreased ACTH levels (Angelli, 1985; 
Sonino, 1991) were reported, although in these last papers at least some patients received pituitary radiation 
therapy which may explain these findings. A study (Boscaro, 1987) showed an increased response of plasma 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 53/115 
  
ACTH  to  the  CRH  stimulation  test,  whereas  others  (Loli,  1986)  found  it  to  be  unchanged  compared  with 
pre-treatment response. In addition to the effects of KC on steroidogenesis inhibition, a direct effect of KC on 
corticotropic  tumor  cells/  pituitary  ACTH  secretion  was  suggested  by  in-vitro  studies  and  thought  to  be  the 
consequence of the occupancy of glucocorticoid binding sites with putative effects or the consequence of the 
inhibition of corticotropic tumor cell growth (Stalla, 1988 ; Terzolo, 1988, Feelders, 2010a Neuroendocrinology). 
However most authors (Biller 2008) believe that this phenomenon does not seem to involve a direct KC effect on 
plasma ACTH secretion, but rather an adjustment in the sensitivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. 
Clinical features were noted to improve after initiation of KC therapy, including facial features, muscle weakness, 
hirsutism in females and psychiatric disturbances. In addition, hypertension and glucose control in diabetics also 
often improved. 
Adrenal Tumours and Nodular Adrenal Hyperplasia  
Data from 17 patients with adrenal tumors and from 2 patients with primary nodular adrenocortical hyperplasia 
(NAH) are presented, along with 17 individual case reports of patients with benign or malignant tumors or NAH 
and  2  paediatric  cases  of  McCune  Albright  syndrome.  The  dose  of  KC  administered  in  these  patients  was 
between 200 mg and 1200 mg per day. The highest dose of 1200 mg/d was only used for malignant adrenal 
carcinoma. The duration of treatment varied from a few days to 6 months where specified. Again, the short 
duration of treatment reflects the use of KC therapy prior to surgery, in preparation for adrenalectomy, whereas 
patients  who  cannot  have  surgery  or  those  in  whom  it  is  unsuccessful  are  more  likely  to  have  longer-term 
treatment. As above, KC is given at an initial daily dose of 200 to 400 mg/day with weekly monitoring of liver 
transaminases. The dose is titrated on the basis of the cortisol levels/cortical excretion achieved in each patient 
and adjusted based on the liver function test results. Improvement of clinical symptoms was  noted in most 
patients after initiation of treatment. However in patients with adrenal carcinoma, response to KC was usually 
poor (Calvo Romero, 1999; Engelhardt, 1989; Hofle, 1998), but mainly useful in preparation for adrenalectomy 
(Kruimel, 1991; Sinnaeve, 1989; Contreras, 1985).  
Ectopic ACTH Syndrome  
Data  from  91  patients  with  EAS  are  presented,  along  with  18  individual  case  reports.  EAS  covers  a  large 
spectrum of tumors from undetectable isolated lesions to extensive metastatic and aggressive malignancies and 
is often associated with severe hypercortisolemia. Occult EAS is one of the most intriguing challenges for the 
clinical endocrinologist, as in some cases no tumor is found even after long-term follow-up. The prognosis and 
treatment of EAS patients depend on the tumor type, and surgery can be curative in patients with localised 
tumors.  However,  detection  of  the  tumor  is  sometimes  difficult.  KC  is  also  used  when  total  removal  of  the 
secreting tumor is not possible, in preparation for surgery or in the case of metastases to provide relief of CS 
symptoms. A 10 year (1980-1990) chart review of patients in Toronto Canada (Shepherd, 1992) with small cell 
lung cancer identified 23 patients (4.5%), 17 male and 6 female aged 43 to 77 years, with CS and ectopic ACTH 
production. The response to combination chemotherapy was low and the rate of complications was high. KC was 
used  in  the  treatment  of  eight  patients.  A  reduction  in  serum  and  urinary  cortisol  levels  (partial  hormone 
response)  was  observed  in  four  out  of  seven  patients  receiving  concurrent  chemotherapy  along  with  an 
improvement  in  their  ACTH  levels.  A  partial  hormone  response  was  achieved  in  one  patient  on  KC  without 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 54/115 
  
concurrent  chemotherapy.  Although  corticosteroid  levels  may  be  controlled  with  KC  in  patients  with  ectopic 
ACTH syndrome due to small cell lung, cancer survival remains poor. In a Canadian retrospective record review 
from 1980 to 1992 (Winquist, 1995) 15 patients with EAS and histologically confirmed metastatic tumors were 
treated with KC dosages ranging from 400 to 1,200 mg/day. The median duration of therapy was 26 days (range, 
3 to 1,059), three patients received KC for >3 months and one patient was treated for nearly 3 years. Nine 
patients received combination chemotherapy concurrently with KC. Of the 12 assessable patients 10 showed a 
reduction in UFC, five had complete resolution, three had a reduction in UFC up to <50% of baseline (partial 
resolution),  and  two  improved  but  had  less  than  partial  resolution.  Two  patients  received  short  courses  of 
aminoglutethimide  and  metyrapone  until  death  after  disease  progression  on  KC.  Clinical  improvement  in 
hypokalemia,  metabolic  alkalosis,  diabetes  mellitus,  and  hypertension  occurred  in  the  absence  of  complete 
hormonal response.  
One case report (Steen, 1991) evaluated in-vitro ACTH secretion from a thymic carcinoid tumor. The addition of 
KC  to  the  tumor  culture  inhibited  ACTH  production  (maximal  inhibition  at  concentration  of  100  μmol/l) 
suggesting a possible KC direct effect on the tumor-cells.  
Combination therapy  
Combination therapies may be useful as a second line therapy in patients not completely responding to a single 
agent or in those requiring a dose reduction of each drug to improve clinical tolerance. Combination of KC with 
metyrapone is a common practice and allows benefiting from potential synergistic effects while limiting side 
effects through dose reduction. One article reported the usefulness of KC in combination with metyrapone + 
mitotane,  in  11  patients  with  severe  ACTH-dependent  CS  as  an  alternative  to  bilateral  adrenalectomy 
(Kamenicky, 2011). Another study looked at the use of KC alone or with metyrapone as preoperative treatments 
and  found  that  urinary  cortisol  levels  were  normalised  in  49%  of  cases,  but  that  concomitant  clinical 
improvement  was  not  always  observed  (Valassi,  2012).  KC  was  an  effective  addition  to  the  treatment  with 
cabergoline  (Villar,  2010)  and  pasireotide/cabergoline  in  combination  (N=17  patients;  Feelders,  2010b). 
Pasireotide  monotherapy  induced  sustained  normalization  of  urinary  free  cortisol  (UFC)  in  5/17  (29%)  of 
patients, at day 28, cabergoline was included in the therapy of the non-responders but at day 60 UFC was still 
elevated in  8  patients.  The  addition  of  KC  (600  mg/day)  induced  biochemical  remission  in  6  out  of  these  8 
patients  at  day  80  (Feelders,  2010b).  As  in  all  KC-treated  patients,  the  dose  was  adjusted  in  these  specific 
populations on the basis of the cortisol levels achieved (in serum/plasma and/or urine) in each patient and on 
the basis of the clinical tolerance and clinical response to the therapy. Concluding remarks: In all these studies 
variable  KC  and  metyrapone  starting  doses  were  used  depending  on  the  patients’  needs  and  the  center’ 
experience. High doses of both metyrapone and KC were used in patients with very severe hypercortisolism. As 
in all patients receiving steroidogenesis inhibitors, doses were usually adjusted in these specific populations on 
the basis of the cortisol levels achieved in each patient and on the basis of the clinical tolerance. The maximal KC 
in this situation was 1600 mg/d. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 55/115 
  
2.5.3.  Supportive studies 
The applicant provided a list of case reports to complete the previous information. There are 13 CD, 18 EAS and 
17 of adrenal origin and 2 McCune Albright syndrome. 
Monotherapy 
Cushing’s disease 
The use of KC as monotherapy has been used pre-surgery, post-surgery or associated to radiotherapy. 
KC was used as a pre-surgery therapy with doses of 400-1,200 mg/day during 6 months (Blanco et al. 2001) 
or 600 mg/day during 35 days (Li et al. 1996) reaching a normalization of UFC previous to surgery. Costenaro 
et  al  2011 used KC 200-800 mg/day pre-surgery  during more than 11 months until normalization of  UFC. 
Fernandez et al 2011 also used KC until surgery, but dose was not specified.  
Two  articles  described  use  of  KC  pre-  and  post-surgery.  One  was  a  pregnant  woman  who  was  treated 
pre-surgery with KC 400 mg/day, pregnancy was discovered at week 9 of KC treatment and KC was suspended. 
After surgery KC was re-started at the same dose. No data regarding evolution was provided (Boronat et al. 
2011). The second one was a 14y female treated with KC 200-400 mg/day pre- and post-surgery. No efficacy 
data are presented for KC re-treatment since the patient died of liver failure (Zollner et al 2001). 
Dash et al., Ferrau et al. and Shimon et al., used KC after surgery. Dash described a 40y female treated 
with KC 800 mg/day during 4 weeks with normalization of plasma cortisol, decreased of UFC and significant 
improvement in the clinical status. Ferrau described a 22y female treated with KC 400 mg/day  for 3 years. 
Serum cortisol and UFC normalized and she recovered regular menses and became pregnant 4 months after KC 
withdrawal. Shimon described a 33y male treated with KC 400-800 mg/day after surgery failure. The patient 
received  radiotherapy  and  continued  on  KC  treatment  during  and  after  radiotherapy.  After  15  months  of 
treatment, KC was suspended and UFC, glucose and potassium levels and blood pressure remained normal. 
Salgado et al. 2006 treated a 49y female with surgery on a non-specified dose of KC. No efficacy data was 
provided.  
Berwaerts et al. 1999 described a 30y pregnant woman case treated with KC alone 600-1,000 mg/day during 
8 months without UFC normalization. KC was associated to cabergoline 0.125-0.25 mg/d for more than 3 years 
with a normalization of UFC levels and clinical improvement.  
Ectopic ACTH syndrome 
The use of KC as monotherapy has been described in different articles (Arteaga et al. 1999, Brito et al. 2012, 
Joubert et al. 2007). The range dose used was 300-1,200 mg/d. In all but one surgery to remove the tumour 
and in some of them bilateral adrenalectomy was performed. In most of them the hypercortisolism improved 
(Matarazzo et al 2011, Rickman et al. 2001), in some others UFC or plasma cortisol levels was normalized 
during treatment (La Rosa et al. 2011, Said et al. 2010, Steen et al. 1991). Clinical improvement was also 
observed, but efficacy is linked to surgery in most of the cases, mainly in localized tumours.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 56/115 
  
 
KC  was  also  used  in  combination  therapy  with  other  steroidogenesis  inhibitors  (i.e  cabergoline,  etomidate, 
metyrapone  and  mitotane)  plus  surgery.  The  KC  dose  range  used  was  400-1,200  mg/d  with  clinical  and 
biological improvement in most cases. Two of them stopped KC due to adrenal insufficiency (Ahmed    et  al. 
2012, Gabalec et al. 2011, Gani et al. 2011, Kornely et al. 1991, Parthiban et al. 1995)  
Other Cushing’s Syndrome types 
Two  articles  (Sharma  et  al.  2012,  Krysiak  et  al.  2012)  reported  cyclic  Cushing’s  Syndrome  partially 
controlled with KC plus surgery.  
In all but one cases of adrenal origin KC was used as monotherapy associated to adrenal surgery. The dose 
range used was 200-1,200 mg/d with decrease in plasma and urinary cortisol levels and clinical improvement in 
most cases (Amado et al. 1990, Contreras et al. 1985, Harinarayan et al. 1991, Hocher et al. 1993, 
Hofle  et  al.  1998,  Holgado-Galicia  et  al.  2011,  Kong  et  al.  1992,  Kruimel  et  al.  1992  and  Li et  al. 
1996).  
There were two cases of Mc Cune Albright syndrome (females 4 months and 5y), the younger one received 200 
mg/d pre-surgery and symptoms was definitely resolved with surgery. The oldest one received 2.5 mg/kg/d and 
serum and urinary cortisol levels decreased avoiding bilateral adrenalectomy (Dutta et al. 2012 and Vong et 
al. 2009). 
2.5.4.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
This is a well-established use application, therefore the efficacy is based on literature data. Most of the studies 
are retrospective, non-controlled or case reports, and describe patients since 1985 to 2012.  
In total, data are presented on more than 800 patients including 748 from 28 published studies, some of which 
are retrospective case reviews, and 52 from individual case reports. As in the multi-centric Italian study (Invitti, 
1999),  the  exact  number  of  patients  treated  with  ketoconazole  was  not  clearly  mentioned,  the  applicant 
arbitrarily  considered  that  there  were  110  patients  with  CD  treated  with  KC,  which  was  considered    a 
conservative  estimation  as  the  authors  stated  that  ketoconazole  was  the  drug  mostly  used  among  the  178 
patients treated medically.  
The applicant states that the patients included in the studies are representative of the patient population as a 
whole as they cover a wide age range, from infants to the elderly, although it is not possible to determine exact 
numbers for any age-group and they include many of the different manifestations of CS and the subtypes. 
Most  of  the  studies  presented  described  the  use  of  KC  as  sole  treatment  in  case  of  pre-surgery  treatment, 
post-surgery in patients who do not respond or have a recurrence after surgery and waiting for the radiotherapy 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 57/115 
  
 
 
efficacy. Eight studies described the use of KC in combination with other steroidogenesis inhibitors. The most 
common combination was KC + metyrapone.  
Most of the studies included two main measures in order to describe the efficacy. The first one is a biological one 
consisted  on  change  on  urinary  cortisol  excretion  during  24  hours  (urinary  free  cortisol,  UFC  24h)  during 
treatment compared to the pre-treatment level. The second one parameter, which is as relevant as the previous 
one, is the clinical response (i.e normalization of hypertension, improvement on diabetes and normalization of 
hypokalemia). However, the clinical parameter is sometimes difficult to evaluate because of the retrospective 
design of the studies.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Cushing’s syndrome (CS) is a rare condition with symptoms and signs resulting from chronic exposure to excess 
glucocorticoid.  Establishing  the  diagnosis  is  often  difficult  because  none  of  the  symptoms  or  signs  are 
pathognomonic of the syndrome. There is a large spectrum of manifestations from subclinical to overt syndrome, 
depending on duration and intensity of excess steroid production. In 80% of cases CS is ACTH-dependent and 
only in 20% of cases is ACTH-independent. 
ACTH-dependent CS includes: 
- Pituitary adenoma (Cushing's disease): 65 to 70% of patients 
- Ectopic secretion of ACTH by non pituitary tumours: 10 to 15% of patients 
- Ectopic secretion of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) by non-hypothalamic tumours   
causing pituitary hypersecretion of ACTH: less than 1% of patients 
-  Iatrogenic  or  factitious  Cushing's  syndrome  due  to  administration  of  exogenous  ACTH  (not 
glucocorticoids): less than 1 percent 
ACTH-independent CS consists of: 
- Adrenocortical adenomas and carcinomas: 18 to 20% of patients  
- Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease: less than 1% of patients 
- Bilateral ACTH-independent macronodular hyperplasia: less than 1% of patients 
A  consensus  statement  on  ACTH-dependent  CS  published  in  2008  (Biller,  2008)  highlighted  the  need  for  a 
multi-disciplinary and individualised approach to patients’ management. Generally speaking, transsphenoidal 
surgery is the treatment of choice although this it is not always possible. Second-line treatments include more 
radical  surgery,  radiation  therapy,  pharmacological  therapy  and  bilateral  adrenalectomy.  Because  of  the 
significant morbidity of Cushing’s syndrome, early diagnosis and prompt therapy are warranted. 
Pharmacological treatment is considered under the following circumstances:  
- contraindication or refusal of surgery or radiotherapy  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 58/115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- waiting for radiation to be effective or pre-surgery 
- persistence or recurrence of hypercortisolism after surgery 
- lack of detection of adenoma by imaging 
Pharmacological  therapy  plays  an  important  role  in  several  situations.  Treatment  has  to  be  defined  on  a 
case-by-case  basis  because  of  the  heterogeneity  in  patients’  presentation  and  associated  morbidities. 
Consequently there are no official national or international guidelines or treatment algorithm for management of 
Cushing’s Syndrome. The aim is usually to achieve normal plasma/serum cortisol or a normal 24 hour urinary 
free cortisol level.  
Several  drugs  with  different  mechanism  of  action  are  being  used  for  treatment  of  CS,  like  ketoconazole, 
pasireotide, metyrapone, mitotane or mifepristone. Nevertheless, the availability of drugs in Europe is limited. 
Ketoconazole is often  given to control the condition prior to definitive therapy, such as pituitary or 
adrenal surgery, or to control severe hypercortisolism in patients who are acutely ill, or in case of Cushing’s 
disease , while awaiting benefit from pituitary irradiation or in case of surgery failure.  
Ketoconazole has been used both as monotherapy and in combination with other drugs (mainly with 
metyrapone, but also with mitotane, cabergoline and pasireotide) in more severe patients. Evidence suggests 
that it leads to a normalisation of cortisol levels in about 43 to 80% of patients. An additional 24 to 42% have a 
decrease in urinary free cortisol (UFC) levels of more than 50% as compared to pre-treatment values and may 
have some clinical benefit. 
The Applicant has presented data from the literature, including more than 800 patients in total, to support the 
indication in the treatment of Cushing’s Syndrome.  
Efficacy of KC in the treatment of Cushing’s disease was based on 535 patients and 13 case reports. Taking 
into  account  the  epidemiology  of  the  disease,  it  seems  to  be  an  acceptable  number  of  patients.  Regarding 
Cushing’s disease the overall response on decreasing urinary cortisol was between 40-85% depending on the 
articles 
The efficacy of KC on treatment of ectopic  ACTH  syndrome was based on 91 cases. The dose ranged was 
similar to the one used in CD. In most of the series KC was used in combination with other drugs and surgery. 
The efficacy results showed 40-50% with a reduction of urinary cortisol levels. In most of the cases the complete 
recovery was achieved with surgery. 
The efficacy of KC on treatment of CS of adrenal origin is based on 36 patients, including 2 patients with a 
primary adrenocortical hyperplasia and 2 paediatric cases of McCune Albright syndrome. The dose ranged from 
200 mg/d to 1,200 mg/d and the duration of treatment varied from days to 6 months. The efficacy is difficult to 
assess because not all of the studies specified the results by type of CS. Most of the case reports (12 out of 17) 
reported a decreased of plasma and urinary cortisol levels and an improvement of clinical symptoms. 5 out of 17 
received  surgery  apart  from  KC  and  three  received  concomitant  medications  (i.e  mitotane  and 
aminoglutethimide). The number of patients is very limited. It seems that KC is efficacious for controlling urinary 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 59/115 
  
cortisol  levels,  but  clinical  improvement  (i.e  normalization  of  hypertension,  improvement  on  diabetes  and 
normalization of hypokalemia) was not always described.  
The  efficacy  of  KC  in  Cushing’s  syndrome  is  considered  supported  by  the  data  provided.  It  was  based  on  a 
considerable number of publications and most of them included biological (i.e UFC or serum cortisol levels) and 
clinical  response  (i.e  normalization  of  hypertension,  improvement  on  diabetes  and  normalization  of 
hypokalemia). However, medical treatment in CS is used when surgery fails or is not an option, waiting for the 
effect of radiotherapy. The indication proposed by the applicant has been justified taking into account the place 
of ketoconazole in the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome described above. The limited data in certain subtypes 
and other medical therapies, this suggest that the indication could be restricted to treatment of endogenous 
Cushing’s syndrome. This is acceptable by CHMP. 
Taking into account the proposed indication the applicant has discussed the posology in adults and paediatric 
population. Section 4.2 of the SmPC has been amended in order to reorganize the recommendations on initial 
dose, maintenance dose and taper phase as required. 
There are scarce data about the use of KC in pregnancy. Due to teratogenicity KC is contra indicated in pregnant 
women. The applicant position is agreed. 
The applicant provided information about 24 elderly patients treated at dose  ranged from 400-1,200 mg/d and 
length of treatment was 2-30 months.There is no need for dose adjustment in this population.  
Long term treatment could be a possibility in some patients, especially those waiting for radiotherapy effect or 
when surgery fails or it cannot be performed. There were 194 patients who received KC for more than 5 months 
(range 5 months to 13 years). Most of them presented CD and received a dose range from 200 to 1,800 mg/d. 
There were few patients with EAS or ACTH-independent Cushing’s syndrome who were treated for more than 6 
months.  
Approximately 28% (194 out of 700 patients) of patients received ketoconazole for more than 6 months and 
they do not seem to have lost efficacy (only in 10-15% an escape phenomenon is observed) or have  more 
adverse events. 
The discussion provided and the amendments proposed in the SmPC are considered acceptable.  
In  approximately  10  to  15  %  of  ketoconazole  treated  patients,  an  "escape  phenomenon"  is  observed  and 
reinforces the need for a long-term clinical and biochemical follow-up of these patients. If such a phenomenon 
occurs,  a  further  dose  increase  may  be  required  to  maintain  cortisol  levels  within  the  normal  range.  This 
information is  appropriatly adressed in the SmPC. 
Assessment of paediatric data on clinical efficacy 
The  efficacy  in  this  subset  has  been  demonstrated  although  with  limited  data.  Posology  used  in  paediatric 
population, pharmacokinetics and the safety profile seem similar to those of adults.  
Data on efficacy of ketoconazole in paediatric population is scarce. Although prevalence of CS in children is low, 
it is important to include this population in the indication as well a posology recommendation at least for the 
most commonly subset described in the literature (patients of 12-17 years old). It has also been included in the 
SmPC that safety and efficacy of ketoconazole in children younger than 12 years have not been established. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 60/115 
  
 
2.5.5.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Overall, review of the literature suggests that ketoconazole is an effective drug for normalising cortisol levels in 
Cushing’s syndrome from all causes and, if well tolerated, ketoconazole treatment can be maintained for a long 
period  which  allows  a  long-term  control  of  hypercortisolism.  Biochemical  and  hormonal  improvements  was 
associated with clinical improvements in Cushing’s Syndrome symptoms. The clinical experience suggests that 
ketoconazole is a valuable drug for the short-term or the long term medical management of the patients with 
Cushing’s Syndrome, whenever a medical therapy is indicated. The hormonal changes caused by ketoconazole 
are dose-dependent and fully reversible. The posology needs to be adjusted on an individual basis and varies 
between 200 and 1200 mg/d depending on patients’ requirements to restore normal cortisol levels, and clinical 
tolerance. The maintenance dose is usually of 600-800 mg/d.  
The indication has been justified taking into account the place of ketoconazole in the treatment of Cushing’s 
syndrome and  the CHMP agreed that the applicant provided sufficient literature data demonstating the efficacy 
for the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome in adults and in adolescents above the age of 12 years. 
In  summary,  the  applicant  provided  adequate  data  showing  that  this  application  fulfils  the  criteria  for  a 
well-established use application. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
2.6.1.  Background information – EU Referral procedure 
In  July  2013,  further  to  the  referral  procedure  under  article  31  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  the  European 
commission suspended the marketing authorization of oral ketoconazole containing products authorised in the 
treatment of fungal infections. This decision was based on the CHMP opinion concluding that the benefit/risk 
ratio of oral KC containing products for antifungal treatment had become unfavourable due to its hepatotoxicity 
and the availability of newer molecules for such antifungal treatment. However, KC remained accessible in some 
member states through compassionate use in the CS treatment until recent discontinuation of supply. 
The  hepatotoxicity  of  KC  in  the  setting  of  fungal  infections  treatment  was  summarized  by  the  EMA  in  the 
following way (Nizoral - EC Decision): A summary  from EC decision is provided below: 
“Results from non-clinical toxicity studies indicated the liver and endocrine system as primary target organs. 
Several potential mechanisms for this toxicity have been identified but uncertainties still remain.  
The clinical safety of oral ketoconazole was evaluated in 4735 subjects in 92 company-sponsored clinical trials 
of ketoconazole tablets (or suspension), administered either to treat a variety of fungal infections in patients or 
to healthy-volunteer subjects. Based on this analysis, the point-estimate risk, in terms of the commonly-used 
Frequency Categories in the SmPCs, was “Common” (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) for any Hepatic Function Test result 
being abnormal, and “Rare” (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) for Hepatitis and/or Jaundice.  
Of the 1,505 cases of interest; 880 (58%) were medically validated serious of which 18 life-threatening cases 
did not present any confounding factors and therefore are supportive of a causal role of ketoconazole. Seven 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 61/115 
  
fatal/life-threatening cases were reported with event dates after 2006 i.e., after the CCDS update that contained 
substantial hepatotoxicity-related revisions.  
The incidence of symptomatic hepatic reactions in the setting of treatment with oral ketoconazole was estimated 
in several epidemiology studies to be between 1/10,000 and 1/15,000 patients.  
The review of the literature and post-marketing data provided by the MAHs showed that:  
-  hepatotoxicity  with  ketoconazole  has  been  reported  at  a  daily  dose  of  200  mg  (median)  which  is  the 
recommended daily dose;  
- the incidence and seriousness of hepatotoxicity associated with the use of oral ketoconazole is higher than with 
the use of other antifungals, with the highest crude incidence rate per 10,000 patients for acute liver injury 
among other oral antifungals and with its use associated with the development of chronic hepatitis and cirrhosis  
-  the  onset  of  hepatotoxicity  with  ketoconazole  usually  occurs  between  1  and  6  months  after  initiation  of 
treatment (55% of the cases when the time to onset was documented) but has also be reported earlier than 1 
month  (including  few  days)  after  initiation  of  treatment  (35%  of  the  cases  when  the  time  to  onset  was 
documented);  
It  was  concluded  that  the  results  of  the  current  analysis  of  all  cases  of  potential  hepatotoxicity  with  oral 
ketoconazole-containing medicinal product confirm the risk of serious hepatotoxicity associated with the use of 
oral  ketoconazole,  best  demonstrated  by  the  causality  assessments  of  fatal/life-  threatening  hepatotoxicity 
cases.” 
KC has been used off-label in several EU countries as a standard of care to treat Cushing’s syndrome for more 
than 2 decades. The most important safety issue is hepatotoxicity, the applicant provided data on this issue 
based on the published literature in order to establish the benefit/risk for the proposed indication. 
Data are available from small studies and retrospective chart reviews of up to 200 patients (Castinetti, 2014). 
The dose used for ketoconazole in the majority of studies presented varied between a minimum of 200 mg/d to 
a maximum of 1,200 mg/d with an average maintenance dose of 600 mg/d. The doses used in the studies are 
in line with the dosage regimen recommended for the treatment of CS in the proposed SmPC for this application.  
2.6.2.  Patient exposure 
KC has been used for the treatment of fungal infections for more than 30 years as well as, off label or in clinical 
trials, for the treatment of prostate cancer, increased androgen levels/ hirsutism, hypercholesterolemia and CS. 
There is therefore considerable clinical experience and safety data in a wide range of patient populations. The 
following sections address exposure in CS only. 
In total, safety data are presented, including 646 patients from 27 studies and 52 from individual 
case reports giving an overall total of 698 patients. 
The patients treated with KC alone or in combination could be classified as follows: Cushing’s disease (n=443), 
ectopic  ACTH  syndrome  (n=109),  adrenal  tumors  (n=25),  nodular  adrenal  hyperplasia  (NAH)  (n=3)  and 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 62/115 
  
McCune-Albright syndrome (n=1). For the remaining patients the cause of CS was not established, not specified 
or impossible to determine. 
Ketoconazole  was  administered  as  monotherapy  in  21  studies,  including  a  French  retrospective  study  on 
ketoconazole outcome (FReSKO) reviewing data from patients treated with ketoconazole as a single treatment 
for CD (Castinetti, 2014). In total 200 patients (44 males and 156 females) were followed in 14 French centres 
with the aim of clarifying the efficacy and tolerance, particularly hepatic tolerance of ketoconazole in order to 
better  determine  the  benefits/risk  balance.  In  another  study,  54  patients  with  CS  were  treated  with  
ketoconazole at doses up to 1,200 mg/d and 24 patients received treatment for greater than 1 year (1 to 13 
years) (Moncet, 2007). The dose used for KC in the majority of studies presented varied between a minimum of 
200 mg/d to a maximum of 1,200 mg/d with an average maintenance dose of 600 mg/d to 800 mg/d. 
The duration of treatment with KC in the patients presented ranges from a few days to 13 years. The treatment 
strategy is to control the cortisol levels in the short-term to alleviate symptoms while investigations are ongoing 
or in anticipation of surgery. Longer-term therapy is required to supplement pituitary irradiation and in those 
patients who cannot undergo surgery or in whom it fails. 
Around 200 patients with CS received KC for ~ 6 months up to 13 years. In addition, there are 13 case reports 
in which treatment ranged from 6 months to 13 years. 
The extent of population exposure to KC was about 700 patients, 193 received KC for more than 6 months. 
Taking into account the rarity of the disease, it is considered acceptable. The most relevant issue is that the dose 
proposed for the new indication is higher and the length of treatment is longer than the one used to treat fungal 
infections. Although long term treatment is not frequent some patients waiting radiotherapy effect could be 
treated with KC for a long period of time (at least 6 months) and some others in which surgery is contraindicated 
of failed.  
The applicant was requested to discuss the evidence for long term treatment with ketoconazole in the proposed 
indication  from  the  safety  point  of  view.  It  was  concluded  that  most  of  hepatotoxicity  cases  occur  at  the 
beginning of treatment and within the first month. Long-term treatment with ketoconazole does not seem to 
increase  the  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  (see  discussion  later  in  the  report  under  safety  and  benefit  risk  parts). 
However, given that the majority of cases are idiosyncratic reactions and therefore no dose-dependent, some 
precautions to the SmPC in reference to treatment lasting longer than six months are included. 
2.6.3.  Adverse events 
In addition to the literature review, the applicant provided a review adverse drug reactions observed in clinical 
trial or in post-marketing surveillance for Nizoral tablets.  
Adverse drug reactions observed in Study Narratives 
The applicant provided pulications from two studies including depressed patients treated with KC. The first one 
included depressed hypercortisolemic patients, while in the second one the baseline cortisol levels were normal. 
The first one showed an improvement in clinical symptoms without any effect on cortisol levels. In the second 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 63/115 
  
one ketoconazole lead to partial improvements in depressive symptomatology, no changes in plasma cortisol 
concentrations,  no  relevant  increase  in  CRH  or  ACTH.  The  role  of  KC  in  depressed  patients  without 
hypercortisolism is not clear. KC was well tolerated without any significant increases of hepatic enzymes. 
The  applicant  presents  one  study  regarding  autoimmune  or  allergic  diseases  after  CS  remission.  Overt 
autoimmune and allergic diseases were diagnosed in 11 (16.7%); eight (72.7%) were noted for the first time, 
and three (27.3%) were exacerbated after remission of CS. Regarding the new onset autoimmune diseases 
there were 2 patients with psoriasis, 3 patients with rash (generalized, rosacea-like or eczematous), 1 patient 
with  sarcoidosis,  1  patient  with  primary  biliary  cirrhosis  and  1  with  Graves  disease.  6  out  of  11  were  on 
hydrocortisone treatment at the time of immune dysfunction onset. The KC dose received and the length of 
treatment were variable. There were previous publications regarding the development of immune dysfunctions 
following CS remission including thyroiditis, sarcoidosis, SLE, arthritis, psoriasis… The applicant has discussed 
the implications of these dysfunctions, the possible relation with allergic adverse events and the need to include 
this  information  in  the  SmPC.  Hypercortisolism,  both  exogenous  and  endogenous  produce  a  depletion  of 
immune  system  which  could  lead  to  infections  and  also  to  exacerbation  of  autoimmune  disorders.  Of  note, 
reactivation of autoimmune diseases after normalization of cortisol levels regardless of the treatment used has 
been previously described. The explanation for these events could be the existence of a latent autoimmune 
process  inhibited  or  reduced  in  intensity  by  hypercortisolism.  Therefore,  when  cortisol  levels  normalise 
autoimmune disorders become evident.  
Although  this  phenomenon  occurs  with  any  kind  of  treatment  normalising  cortisol  levels,  the  applicant  has 
included this information in section 4.4 of the SmPC. This is agreed by CHMP. 
Adverse events of special interest 
The most significant adverse effect during treatment with KC is hepatotoxicity.  
Lewis and Zimmerman published an analysis of 33 cases of hepatic injuries associated with ketoconazole (Lewis, 
1984) as an antifungal therapy. This was a retrospective review of 54 cases implicating ketoconazole as a cause 
of acute hepatic injury in the US that were reported to the FDA and to the manufacturer between July 1980 and 
January  1983.  Of  these  54  cases,  33  reports  (including  one  fatal)  were  considered  likely  (i.e.  probable  or 
possible) cases of KC-related injury. 
Lake-Bakaar,  1987  published  a  review  of  adverse  event  reports  of  hepatotoxicity  possibly  associated  with 
ketoconazole  used  in  the  treatment  of  systemic  fungal  infections.  Eighty  two  (82)  reports  of  possible 
hepatotoxicity associated with the drug, including five deaths, were received. An analysis of the 75 cases that 
had  been  adequately  followed  up  among  these  82  reports  of  possible  hepatotoxicity,  suggested  that  16, 
including 3 deaths, were probably related to treatment with the drug. Of the 16 cases of hepatotoxicity with a 
probable association to drug treatment, 11 patients (69%) were women. The mean (SD) age of the group was 
57.9 (±13.1) years (range 36 to 79). The mean duration of treatment before the onset of symptoms of hepatitis 
was 61.2 (±5) days (range 5-195). The results of serum liver function tests suggested hepatocellular injury in 
10 (63%); the rest showed a mixed pattern. In contrast, the results of histological examination of the liver often 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 64/115 
  
showed evidence of cholestasis. There were three deaths. In two patients treatment had been continued after 
symptoms  of  hepatitis  and  jaundice  had  developed.  The  third  patient  seemed  to  be  asymptomatic  for  two 
months after the drug had been stopped, severe hepatitis and liver failure developed later. The cause of clinically 
apparent  ketoconazole  -induced  hepatotoxicity  is  unknown.  However,  it  may  correlate  with  the  ability  of 
ketoconazole to inhibit mammalian sterol synthesis. Acute liver injury is clearly idiosyncratic. 
The retrospective, multicenter review of 200 patients treated by KC as a single agent for CD is the most recent, 
representative and comprehensive source of information to assess hepatic tolerance (Castinetti, 2014). Forty 
patients were treated with KC as a pre-surgical treatment. Mean initial KC dose in these patients was 585±242.4 
mg/day; mean final dose was 755±284 mg/day. KC was given to 160 patients as a primary treatment because 
of contra-indication or refusal of surgery (n=32, 20%), and as a secondary treatment because of unsuccessful 
surgery  (n=93,  58.1%),  or  in  order  to  control  hypersecretion  while  waiting  for  radiotherapy  to  be  effective 
(n=35, 21.8%). In these patients, KC was initiated at a mean dose of 542.7±198.7 mg/day for a mean period 
of 40.1±147.7 months. At the last follow-up, mean final dose of KC was 714.1±273.7 mg/day (final vs. initial 
dose, p<0.0001). 
Regular monitoring, every 7-15 days, of ASAT, ALAT and GGT was performed during the first treatment month, 
and then at each dose change. Patients had the usual co-morbidities, hypertension, hypokalemia and diabetes. 
Liver enzymes increases, ≤ 5N or > 5N, were observed in ~16% and ~2.5% of patients respectively occurring 
mostly within the first month of treatment. 
Mild transient increases of less than 5-fold normal of liver enzyme levels were observed in 30 patients. Among 
the patients with increases of less than 5-fold normal for whom more details were available, authors reported 
one case with levels at 1.5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), one case with 2 times the ULN, 6 cases with 
3 times the ULN, 4 cases with 4 times the ULN and 3 cases with 5 times the ULN. 
In  this  review,  five  patients  (2.5%)  had  increases  in  excess  of  5-fold  normal.  Among  these,  four  patients 
presented a 5-10 fold increase and one patient, treated at a dose of 600 mg/day, had a 40 fold increase. This 
patient was also concomitantly taking alcohol and acetaminophen. 
In all instance, liver enzyme levels returned to normal within 2-12 weeks after dose decrease (50% of cases) or 
withdrawal of KC (50% of cases). No fatal hepatitis was observed. Hepatotoxicity did not appear to be dose 
dependent. 
The authors concluded that “a close follow-up of liver enzymes (once weekly) for 1 month after dose change 
could potentially avoid any risks of severe hepatotoxicity. All potential associated factors of hepatotoxicity, and 
abnormal liver enzyme levels detected before KC initiation should be taken into account before considering KC 
as a treatment. These results suggest that, first, in case of an increase in liver enzyme levels inferior to 5-fold 
to the ULN values, the dose should be decreased to at least 200 mg, while weekly surveillance is continued; and 
second, that treatment should be stopped if liver enzyme levels increase up to 5-fold normal values, with a close 
monitoring until normalization. Of note, as this was a retrospective study, monitoring of liver enzymes was not 
homogeneous across all the centers; each investigator thus decided to decrease the dose and follow closely (and 
stop in case of further increase) when there was a what was considered as moderate liver enzyme increase (i.e. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 65/115 
  
less than 5 times the ULN) as they considered that the benefits/risk balance was in favor of maintaining KC. As 
our study was not a prospective study primarily aiming at better defining this side effect, there is obviously no 
evidence that such an approach should be the preferred one in comparison with a systematic withdrawal when 
liver enzymes increase moderately”. 
Study narratives regarding hepatotoxicity in CS 
One case (Zöllner, 2001) of fatal liver failure in a 14 year-old girl with Cushing’s disease treated with 400mg/d 
KC for 56 days, post-surgery, has been reported. In contrast to this, there are six reports of paediatric patients 
with CS, aged from 4 months to 14 years, receiving KC therapy for up to 2 years with no hepatic side effects. 
In a retrospective review of 38 patients with CD treated with KC 200-1200 mg/d at one centre in France for 1 
week to 72 months (Castinetti, 2008), one patient experienced a five fold increase of GGT (normal AST and 
ALT) in the first week of treatment and KC 200 mg/day was stopped. Of the 33 patients continuing treatment 
transient  hepatic  adverse  events  were  observed  in  four  patients.  Three  patients  experienced  a  moderate 
increase of GGT at the initiation of therapy (not exceeding 2-3 fold upper limit of normal) which spontaneously 
regressed at 3 months. One patient had AST and ALT levels of 8-fold ULN when the KC dose was increased to 
1200 mg/day, this subsided after decreasing the dose to 1000 mg/day. 
In a 54 patient study (Moncet,  2007) with KC 200 to 1200 mg/day, mean maintenance dose of 600 mg/d, 
transient  subclinical  hepatic  injury  developed  in  six  patients  (11%)  after  15.  days  to  17  months  of  starting 
therapy.  In  four  of  these  patients  alterations  in  hepatic  biochemical  tests  disappeared  after  switching  to 
aminogluthetimide, while the other two were kept without enzyme blocking therapy. 
In a study of 8 patients with Cushing’s disease (Mortimer, 1991) treated with KC 800 mg/d, two patients had 
transitory,  mild,  asymptomatic  elevations  of  hepatic  transaminases  without  significant  increase  in  plasma 
bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase. 
In a study of 34 patients (Sonino, 1991) treated with KC 600 mg/day (range 400 to 800 mg/day), a female 
patient  aged  67  years  with  nodular  adrenal  hyperplasia  experienced  hepatotoxicity.  After  4  days  on  KC  she 
experienced abdominal pain (right upper quadrant) with markedly high ALT, AST, GGT and ALP, bilirubin was 
slightly  elevated.  Upon  KC  withdrawal,  abdominal  pain  improved  in  3  days  and  her  liver  functions  became 
completely normal within 2 weeks. Asymptomatic liver function abnormalities also occurred in three patients (all 
females aged 47, 36 and 50 years), with transient elevation of ALT, AST and GGT values. In the patient aged 47 
years,  in  whom  KC  treatment  was  subsequently  resumed,  liver  functions  remained  within  normal  limits 
throughout treatment (overall period 3 years). 
In one case report (Harinarayan, 1991) a 17 y female developed altered liver function tests on 22nd day when 
she was on a dose of 1200 mg/day. Liver function tests returned to normal 3 weeks after stopping KC and she 
was started again on KC. 
In a study of 5 patients with Cushing’s disease (Angeli, 1985) treated with 600-800 mg/d, KC gastrointestinal 
disturbances  and  a  rise  in  serum  transaminase  levels  were  reported  in  1  patient.  In  a  14-patient  study 
(Engelhardt, 1989), one patient showed signs of liver toxicity with GGT 580U/l, AST (GOT) 129U/l and ALT 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 66/115 
  
(GPT) 254U/l (no normal ranges provided), this patient completed 3 months treatment with KC at 600mg/day. 
Increased transaminases were observed in 3/25 patients (Weber, 1989) treated with 600mg/day KC from 2 to 
~36  weeks.  Minor  and  transient  changes  in  liver  enzymes  were  observed  in  two  patients  and  KC  was 
discontinued in one case where increasing transaminases were found in association with considerable alcohol 
consumption. In another study (Valassi,  2012), an increase in transaminases was observed in 3 out of 17 
patients  on  KC  monotherapy  but  none  of  the  22  patients  on  combination  therapy  with  metyrapone.  In  one 
patient there was a four-fold elevation after 1 week which led to the discontinuation of KC. In the other two 
patients the elevation was mild, KC dose was reduced in one case and temporarily suspended in the other. In a 
study  of  24  patients  treated  with  KC,  12  patients  in  monotherapy  and  12  patients  with  associated 
antihypertensive drugs, one patient had transient liver function abnormalities (Fallo, 1993). 
Increases in transaminases but no symptomatic worsening of liver function were observed in patients treated 
with  a  combination  of  KC,  metyrapone  and  mitotane  (Kamenicky,  2011).  Increases  in  AST  levels  were 
observed in 2 patients, ALT in 3 patients and there was a significant elevation in GGT in 9 patients (p=0.002). 
Liver toxicity led to a reduction in the KC dose in two patients and to withdrawal of this drug in one patient. 
In study of 9 patients with Cushing’s disease (Vilar, 2010) treated with cabergoline 3mg/week and KC 200-400 
mg/d, mild transient elevation of transaminases was found in one patient (11.1%) after the addition of KC. 
Increases  in  hepatocellular  enzymes  have  been  recorded  in  five  case  reports.  In  one  case  increases  were 
transient and did not result in the discontinuation of KC while in the other four KC was discontinued and the 
follow-up in two reports showed levels had returned to normal. 
The mechanism of hepatotoxicity has been discussed along the available literature. Some articles supported the 
theory  of  cytotoxicity  mediated  by  KC  primary  metabolite  (N-deacetyl  ketoconazole),  using  post-natal  rat 
hepatocytes, Rodriguez and Acosta (Rodriguez and Acosta, 1997b) showed that DAK was more cytotoxic than 
ketoconazole, suggesting that DAK may, at least in part, be responsible for the hepatotoxicity associated with 
ketoconazole. Other articles concluded that ketoconazole-hepatotoxicity might be due to direct covalent binding 
of  the  parent  compound  to  hepatic  proteins  and  the  binding  of  FMO-generated  metabolites  to  both  hepatic 
proteins and GSH (Rodriguez and Buckholz, 2003). Another mechanism investigated for the hepatotoxicity of 
ketoconazole involved reduction of bile acid synthesis that was observed in vivo and in vitro (Princen et al, 1986; 
Kuipers et al, 1989; Azer et al, 1995). 
Some other authors suggested dose-independent hepatotoxiciy and an immune-mediated mechanism (Chin-Lin 
Lin et al., 2008). 
The mechanism of KC hepatotoxiciy still remains uncertain. The majority of cases of drug-induced liver injury 
(DILI) are related to idiosyncratic reactions. The principal characteristic of this type of reaction is the apparent 
unpredictability of the liver injury in humans. The latent period between exposure to the drug and the sensitivity 
reaction  is  variable,  although  it  is  generally  about  one  to  three  months.  A  threshold  dose  may  be  required. 
Although the parent compound may directly lead to idiosyncratic DILI, it is most often a toxic metabolite that is 
at  fault.  Idiosyncratic  drug  toxicity  may  be  either  nonallergic  (metabolic)  or  immunologic/allergic;  however, 
overlap likely exists. Some other authors include KC in the group of metabolic DILI, probably due to genetically 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 67/115 
  
determined  aberrant  metabolism  of  the  drug  in  susceptible  patients.  The  duration  of  exposure  before  the 
development  of  toxicity  varies  from  weeks  to  months,  and  reactions  can  develop  several  weeks  after  drug 
discontinuation. The disease occurs within many days to weeks after rechallenge. Features of hypersensitivity 
are absent. It has been hypothesized that local accumulation of toxic metabolites results in covalent binding of 
the metabolite to cellular proteins, lipids, and DNA.  
The applicant reviewed hepatotoxicity along the literature. Castinetti et al., reported patients with liver enzyme 
increases  ≤5ULN  in  16%  patients  and  >5ULN  in  2.5%.  Liver  enzymes  returned  to  normal  levels  after  KC 
withdrawal or after dose decrease.  
In conclusion, the CHMP agreed that the hepatotoxicity has been adequately documented in Cushing syndrome 
at the posology used (200-1200mg/d). From the publications previously discussed, the  higher dose used in 
Cushing’s syndrome, does not seem to expose to an additional hepatoxotcitiy risk. The higher dose used has 
been  adequately  documented  and  the  risk  is  considered  manageable  with  an  adequate  monitoring  of  liver 
function prior, during treatment and regularly in case of increase of dose. 
Besides, contra-indication in patients with acute or chronic liver disease and/or if liver enzymes are above 2ULN 
has  been  implemented.  The  CHMP  also  requested  to  increase  the  liver  monitoring  initially  proposed  by  the 
applicant, in particular by weekly measurement of liver function during one month and whenever the dose was 
increased  as  well  as  recommendation  of  monitoring  in  patients  with  long-term  treatment.  Strict  criteria  for 
stopping the treatment in case of increase in liver enzymes are also clearly indicated for the prescriber and the 
patient.  
The agreed monitoring is summarized below:  
Monitoring of liver function 
Liver enzymes should be monitored in all patients receiving Ketoconazole HRA. Due to the risk of serious hepatic 
toxicity, close follow-up of patients is required.   
Before starting the treatment, it is mandatory: 
- 
- 
to measure liver enzymes (ASAT, ALAT, gammaGT and alkaline phosphatase) and bilirubin 
to inform the patients about the risk of hepatotoxicity, including to stop the treatment and to contact their 
doctor immediately if they feel unwell or in the event of symptoms such as anorexia, nausea, vomiting, 
fatigue, jaundice, abdominal pain or dark urine. If these occur, treatment should be stopped immediately 
and liver function tests should be performed. 
Due to the known  hepatotoxicity of Ketoconazol,  the treatment should not be initiated in patients with liver 
enzymes levels above 2 times the upper limit of normal (see section 4.3). 
During the treatment: 
close clinical follow-up should be undertaken  
- 
-  measurement of liver enzymes (ASAT, ALAT, gamma GT and alkaline phosphatase) and bilirubin, should be 
performed at frequent intervals:  
o  weekly for one month after initiation of the treatment   
o 
o  weekly during one month whenever the dose was increased.  
then monthly for 6 months 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 68/115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  case  of  an  increase  in  liver  enzymes  of  less  than  3  times  the  upper  limit  of  normal,  more  frequent 
monitoring of liver function tests are requested and the daily dose should be decreased by at least 200 mg.  
In  the  case  of  an  increase  in  liver  enzymes equal  to  or  greater  than  3  times  the  upper  limit  of  normal,  the 
treatment should be stopped immediately and should not be reintroduced due to the risk of serious hepatic 
toxicity. In addition, the treatment should be discontinued without any delay if clinical symptoms of hepatitis 
develop. 
In case of long term treatment (more than 6 months) 
Although hepatotoxicity is usually observed at treatment initiation and within the first six months of treatment, 
monitoring of liver enzymes should be done under medical criteria. As a precautionary measure, in the case of 
a dose increase after the first six months of treatment, monitoring of liver enzymes should be repeated on a 
weekly basis for one month. 
Adrenal insufficiency (AI) 
AI is commonly observed on KC when used to treat CS, as this is the case for other CS therapies, either if there 
is an overtreatment or in the situations of stress (especially infection). In the FReSKO study (Castinetti, 2014), 
10/190  patients  (5.4%)  presented  with  clinical  and  biochemical  AI,  the  KC  dose  ranged  from  400  to  1200 
mg/day. Three of these patients were being treated with a block and replace strategy: they had moderately 
increased  initial  UFC  (1.1  to  3-fold  upper  limit  of  normal)  and  normal  UFC  on  KC.  However,  the  dose  was 
increased by 200 mg/day (up to 1200 mg/day) and hydrocortisone was added (20 mg/day). 
Ten out of 54 patients (18.5%) experienced AI (Moncet, 2007) five to 90 days after starting treatment with KC 
at doses of 400-800 mg/d, four patients before day 10. The patients recovered either on reducing the KC dose 
(n=4) or by reducing the dose and the addition of glucocorticoid treatment (n=6). 
In  a  study  of  8  patients  with  Cushing’s  disease  (Mortimer,  1991)  treated  with  KC  800  mg/d,  one  patient 
developed mild symptoms of glucocorticoid insufficiency which did not require treatment. 
AI  with  clinical  signs  (nausea,  vomiting  and  persistent  abdominal  discomfort)  was  observed  in  one  patient 
(Dash, 1990a) after 7 days on KC 800 mg/day, treatment was stopped. One out of 8 patients (Tabarin, 1991) 
developed mild systemic adrenal insufficiency after 1 month on KC 600 mg/day, hypoadrenalism disappeared 
spontaneously within 24h after KC withdrawal. KC was restarted at 400mg/day with 20 mg/day hydrocortisone 
due hypercortisolism and treatment continued for at least 6 months. AI was observed in one patient treated with 
1200 mg/day KC (Chou, 2000) and the symptoms subsided on reducing the dose to 400 mg/day. 
AI was observed in 4/11 patients treated with a combination of KC, metyrapone and mitotane and attributed to 
inappropriate glucocorticoid subsititution (Kamenicky, 2011). Dose dependent hypocortisolism was observed 
in two out of 17 patients treated with KC alone (Valassi, 2012). Hypoadrenalism episodes documented by low 
plasma cortisol levels were reported in three out of 15 patients with ectopic ACTH syndrome (Winquist, 1995). 
One  of  these  patients  was  treated  with  KC  for  3  years  had  2  episodes  of  hypoadrenalism  associated  with 
symptoms of respiratory infection. At the earliest sign of infection KC therapy was interrupted, maintenance 
corticosteroid dose increased and antibiotic therapy begun. 
Therefore  AI  is  related  to  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  KC  and  may  be  due  to  over  treatment  or  to  the 
combination of several steroidogenesis inhibitors or to a relative cortisol deficiency in situations of stress. The 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 69/115 
  
 
 
 
 
occurrence of hypoadrenalism seems related in part to the level of hormonal control. Main presenting symptoms 
such as fatigue, anorexia, and weight loss are non-specific, thus AI diagnosis is sometimes delayed unless a 
periodic monitoring of cortisol levels is set up and the patient is educated. AI due to overtreatment may be 
prevented by careful monitoring of cortisol levels, adequate KC dose-adjustment and transitory KC withdrawal 
in case of suggestive AI symptoms. 
In patients with good hormonal control, the cortisol response to stress/infection may be impaired due to an 
increased  glucocorticoid  demand  (for  patients  on  a  block-only  regimen)  and/or  due  to  an  insufficient 
glucocorticoid replacement (for the patients treated with a block-and-replace regimen). 
The applicant provided data based on at least 40 patients with adrenal insufficiency or hypocortisolism during KC 
treatment. This adverse event could be considered as the second most relevant. It appears not to be associated 
with a specific dose and develops between 5-90 days after initiation of treatment, although cases after 3 years 
of treatment have been reported.  
Therefore,  recommendations  for  the  prescribers  about  monitoring  of  adrenal  function  are  included  in  the 
proposed SmPC, despite the fact that CS patients are usually managed in experts centers who are used to deal 
in routine with the endocrine workup of the pituitary-adrenal function. This is acceptable by the CHMP. 
Due to the seriousness of this adverse event, it is considered that the patient should be warned regarding the 
symptoms in order to inform his doctor, as described in the package leaflet. The warnings included in the SmPC 
are also acceptable.  
Gastrointestinal events 
In  the  FReSKO  study  (Castinetti,  2014),  25/190  patients  (13.1%)  presented  with  gastrointestinal 
complaints,  the  KC  dose  ranged  from  400  to  1,200  mg/day.  In  a  retrospective  review  of  38  patients  with 
Cushing’s disease (Castinetti, 2008), KC 200 mg/day was stopped in the first week of treatment in 5 patients 
due to nausea and diarrhea. Two patients experienced nausea and diarrhea when increasing the KC dose to 
1,200 mg/day. 
Two  out  of  54  patients  (3.7%)  experienced  moderate  digestive  intolerance  and  improved  after  2  months 
treatment  with  KC  (Moncet,  2007).  In  a  34  patient  study  (Sonino,  1991),  gastrointestinal  side-effects 
occurred in three patients treated with KC 400 to 800 mg/day. One dyspepsia, one abdominal discomfort and 
episodic diarrhea associated with pruritus and one abdominal discomfort and episodic diarrhea. A fourth patient 
with adrenal carcinoma was treated with 1000 to 1200 mg/day KC for 3 out 6 months therapy and experienced 
diffuse abdominal pain and diarrhoea on the 1200 mg/day dose. 
In  a  study  of  24  patients  treated  with  KC,  12  patients  in  monotherapy  and  12  patients  with  associated 
antihypertensive drugs, one patient had dyspepsia (Fallo, 1993). 
Transient nausea and vomiting were observed in 7/11 patients treated with a combination of KC, metyrapone 
and mitotane (Kamenicky, 2011). 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 70/115 
  
When KC was used as an antifungal the most frequently reported adverse events were of gastrointestinal origin, 
i.e. nausea and vomiting. The applicant provided information of this AE based on around 50 patients. Most of 
gastrointestinal symptoms were mild and transient. These adverse events have been previously described as 
the main reason for discontinuation.  In the literature referring to CS treatment, it is difficult to assess the reason 
for discontinuation. Gastrointestinal disorders are included in section 4.8 and are acceptable.  
Pruritus  and  rash,  gynecomastia  and  hypogonadism  were  also  assessed  in  different  publications, 
although the number of adverse events was low. 
Other relevant adverse events described were hyperkalemia and QTc prolongation.  
Taking into account the mechanism of action of KC hyperkalemia would be an expected adverse event. In the 
literature,  some  patients  presented  hypokalemia  and  required  oral  potassium  supplementation  or  even 
spironolactone. 
The  applicant  has  further  discussed  the  mechanism  of  QT  prolongation  and  increase  risk  of  TdP.  There  are 
different mechanisms which may lead to this severe adverse event. Therefore, is essential to state in the SmPC 
all  the  information  necessary  to  detect  it  as  early  as  developed  and  consider  ECG  monitoring.  The  detailed 
information is provided below ; 
Ketoconazole and other azole antifungals (for example, fluconazole and miconazole) have been associated with 
acquired Long QT Syndrome (LQTS) and ventricular arrhythmias (Khazan, 2002; Roden, 2001; Han 2011 and 
Kikuchi, 2005)  
Ketoconazole can prolong the QT interval and increase risk of TdP by several mechanisms:  
• Drug-drug interaction by inhibiting multiple cytochrome P450 enzymes in the liver and gastrointestinal 
tract  (Dresser,  2000  and  Zhang,  2002)  which  is  the  main  potential  cause  for  QT  prolongation. 
Ketoconazole’s arrhythmogenic mechanism is likely to involve a rise in the plasma concentrations of QT 
interval-prolonging drugs that use the same metabolic pathway (Tonini, 1999). Tsai has described a TdP 
episode with concomitant use of astemizole and ketoconazole (Tsai, 1997) and Zimmermann et al. a TdP 
episode  with  concomitant  use  of  ketoconazole  and  terfenadine  (Zimmermann,  1992).  A 
pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  KC  and  domperidone  that  lead  to  QT  prolongation  was  also 
described  in  healthy  volunteers  by  Boyce  (Boyce,  2011).  Chaikin  described  a  pharmacokinetic 
interaction between ketoconazole and ebastine/loratidine with modest increases of QT (Chaikin 2005).  
• Direct effect of ketoconazole and miconazole on  ventricular conduction  have been reported to directly 
block  human  Ether-à-go-go-Related  Gene  (hERG)  currents  (Kikuchi,  2005  and  Takemasa,  2008). 
Moreover, one report has shown that ketoconazole directly inhibits the hERG current and reduces the 
surface membrane expression of hERG channels by disrupting channel protein trafficking (Takemasa, 
2008). Please refer to module 2.4 and module 2.6.2 for further preclinical and clinical data presentation 
and discussion.  
•  Ketoconazole  is  to  be  used  in  Cushing’s  syndrome  patients,  a  population  who  has  a  number  of 
characteristics  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  LQTS:  female  predominance,  hypokalemia, 
polymedication, cardiovascular comorbidity . 
Due to the coexistence of these three mechanisms and considering the ketoconazole doses that are used in 
Cushing’s syndrome, despite the rarity and the non-fatal nature of clinical events that have been published, the 
CHMP agreed to recommend screenning for QT prolongation before initiating treatment and on treatment is 
acceptable. (see below) 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 71/115 
  
Moreover,  if  an  agent  known  to  increase  QTc  interval  is  introduced  in  a  ketoconazole-treated  patient,  it  is 
advisable to monitor ECG.  
 “Monitoring of the QTc interval  
“Monitoring for an effect on the QTc interval is advisable and ECG should be performed prior to the start of 
Ketoconazole HRA, within one week after the beginning of the treatment and as clinically indicated thereafter. In 
case  of  co-administration  of  an  agent  known  to  increase  QTc  interval  (see  section  4.5),  ECG  monitoring  is 
recommended.”  
Doses of ketoconazole are adjusted to each patient with specific comorbidities and concomitant medications 
with the goal to normalize cortisol levels. The applicant therefore recommends performing a second  ECG at 
steady state i.e. within one week of treatment initiation in order to detect a QTc prolongation promptly if any.  
These recommendations are acceptable and in line with the recent recommendation of Jardin: “Of the population 
receiving  QTc  Meds,  only  a  small  portion  had  a  baseline  ECG,  identifying  a  large  population  at  risk  of  QTcP 
without appropriate monitoring “ (Jardin 2014).  
It is not clear if ketoconazole per se or interactions with other drugs when it is co-administered are responsible 
of QTc prolongation.  
In the clinic, ketoconazole has mainly been shown to be pro-arrhythmic with concomitant use of QT 
interval-prolonging drugs. Prolongation of QTc has been reported in subjects following concomitant intake of  
ketoconazole (200 mg 12-hourly) and domperidone (10 mg, at 4h intervals for 7 days (Boyce, 2010), astemizole 
(Tsai, 1997) and terfenadine (Zimmermann, 1992).  
Ketoconazole monotherapy for treatment of fungal infection (200 mg, b.i.d for five days) in a woman with 
coronary artery disease was reported to induce a markedly prolonged QT interval and torsades de pointes (TdP). 
Her QT interval returned to normal upon withdrawal of ketoconazole. Genetic study did not find any mutation in 
her genes that encode cardiac IKr channel proteins. The authors postulated that by virtue of its direct blocking 
action on IKr, ketoconazole alone may prolong QT interval and induce TdP and recommended attention when 
ketoconazole is administered to patients with risk factors for acquired long QT syndrome (Mok, 2005).  
In conclusion,the CHMP ageed that in case of co-administration with a pro-arrythmic agent ECG monitoring is 
advisable as recommended in the SmPC. 
Other Adverse Events  
Other adverse reactions have been reported in studies where ketoconazole was administered in combination 
with metyrapone and/or other steroidogenesis inhibitors. Some of these were also observed in studies and case 
reports where ketoconazole was administered as monotherapy.  
Two case reports (Leal-Cerro, 1989) and two studies reported worsening hypertension in some patients 
(Engelhardt, 1991; Valassi, 2012;). One of these studies reported 30 cases of uncontrolled/worsening 
hypertension which was managed with antihypertensive medications (Valassi, 2012). But it is not possible to 
determine whether the patients were on metyrapone alone, or on ketoconazole alone, or on combination 
therapy with ketoconazole in this study. There were two case reports of hypertension in patients treated with 
ketoconazole  alone at 800 mg/d (Leal-Cerro, 1989).  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 72/115 
  
Headache was reported in 1/17 on ketoconazole alone, associated with hypertensive crisis, and 3/22 on 
ketoconazole or metyrapone (Valassi, 2012).  
Dizziness was reported by one patient out of 190 (0.6%) in the FReSKO study (Castinetti, 2014) at a 
ketoconazole dose of 1,200 mg/day. Dizziness and confusion were observed in 1/11 patients treated with a 
combination of ketoconazole metyrapone and mitotane (the concomitant plasma mitotane concentration was 
15.3 mg/L) (Kamenicky, 2011).  
Leg oedema was observed in two patients out of 190 (1%) in the FReSKO study (Castinetti, 2014). In a study 
of patients treated with ketoconazole or metyrapone alone or in combination, 9 cases of onset of peripheral 
oedema were reported (Valassi, 2012), none of these were on  ketoconazole monotherapy.  
Hypokalaemia can occur spontaneously in CS. In a study of 11 patients treated with a combination of , 
ketoconazole, metyrapone and mitotane (Kamenicky, 2011), all patients initially experienced hypokalaemia. 
The lowest potassium concentration during treatment was 2.9 mmol/l (range 2.6-3.5 mmol/l). Nine patients 
required oral potassium supplementation, 8 also received spironolactone. A long term improvement in plasma 
potassium concentrations occurred during treatment.  
2.6.4.  Serious adverse events and deaths 
The  majority  of  deaths  occurring  during  treatment  with  KC  are  attributable  to  the  underlying  condition.  An 
exception  is  the  case  of  a  14  year-old  girl  with  Cushing’s  disease  treated  with  400mg/d  KC  for  56  days, 
post-surgery who died of liver failure (Zöllner, 2001). This has been adequately clarified by the Applicant. The 
other  deaths  occurred  in  patients  with  aggressive  tumours  (i.e  EAS  or  adrenal  tumour)  who  despite  the 
treatment  with  chemotherapy  plus  ketoconazole  did  not  control  the  extension  of  the  tumour.  Although  it  is 
difficult to prove or discard the relation with ketoconazole treatment it is more probable that the tumor per se 
could be the responsible of the deaths. 
There was one serious case report (Brito, 2012) of iatrogenic heart block following treatment with KC. An 83 
year-old female with a history of hypertension, treated chronically with verapamil 360 mg/day, was diagnosed 
with CS. She was administered KC 900 mg/day (300 mg tid) and 2 days later the dosage was increased to 1,200 
mg (300 mg qid). On the third day, the patient developed severe hypotension, bradycardia and altered mental 
status. Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed complete heart block with a slow junctional escape rhythm. Verapamil 
and KC were discontinued immediately. The next day the patient recovered completely. The authors conclude 
that the case strongly suggests a possible drug-drug interaction. 
2.6.5.  Laboratory findings 
No extrinsic factors have been identified in these studies that would preclude the use of KC. The most frequent 
laboratory finding in patients treated with KC was increase in liver enzymes. However, hypokalemia has been 
found in some patients and should be included in section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 73/115 
  
2.6.6.  Safety in special populations 
KC  has  been  administered  to  patients  in  all  age  groups.  For  the  treatment  of  CS,  a  wide  dosage  range  is 
proposed and the dosage used, as indicated in the literature review, is individually adjusted on the basis of the 
cortisol levels achieved (in serum/plasma and/or urine) in each patient, which needs to be reviewed periodically, 
and on the basis of the clinical tolerance. 
KC is contraindicated in pregnant women due to its teratogenicity. It is to be noted that four healthy babies have 
been delivered after KC treatment for CS during pregnancy. 
Furthermore, since KC is excreted in the milk; mothers who are under treatment should not breast-feed whilst 
being treated. This is appropriately reflected in the SmPC. (section 4.3)  
A discussion on whether the safety profile is similar in special populations (i.e children, elderly, hepatic and renal 
impairment) to the general population or not has been provided by the Applicant and no new safety concerns 
have  been  identified  for  these  populations  apart  from  the  possibility  of  a  higher  rate  of  hepatotoxicity  in 
adolescents.  Two  out  of  twenty-four  paediatric  patients  developed  hepatic  injury  (i.e  8.3%).  Although  the 
available data are scarce, the wording proposed by the applicant for section 4.8 in order to describe the safety 
profile in this group of age is agreed upon. 
2.6.7.  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
KC  200  mg  tablets  have  the  potential  for  clinically  important  drug  interactions  and  co-administration  is 
contraindicated with a range of CYP3A4 substrates. The information provided is essentially the same as in the UK 
Nizoral SmPC and was  used as the basis for the Product Information for the current indication. There is no 
evidence of any specificity regarding drug interactions in CS but the following paragraph describes situations of 
particular interest in CS.  
In the context of CS treatment, the following drug interactions are of particular interest:  
-  Lipid lowering  drugs  and  mainly  HMG-CoA  inhibitors  may  be  used  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  CS  to 
reduce their cardiovascular risk. Simvastatin, lovastatin and atorvastatin are metabolized through CYP 3A4 and 
thus  their  plasma  concentrations  are  increased  in  KC-treated  patients,  with  the  risk  of  myopathy  including 
rhabdomyolysis  and  thus  are  contra-indicated.  In  case  a  statin  is  needed,  pravastatin  and  rosuvastatin  are 
preferable as they are excreted unchanged and their plasma concentrations are not significantly increased by 
CYP3A4 inhibitors (Greenman, 2010).  
One study specifically evaluated the combination of KC 200 mg every 12 h and rosuvastatin 80 mg (the highest 
studied dose) in healthy subjects. The geometric mean plasma concentrations of rosuvastatin over time were 
similar  when  rosuvastatin  was  coadministered  with  KC  and  placebo.  KC  did  not  produce  any  change  in 
rosuvastatin pharmacokinetics, therefore, coadministration of KC and rosuvastatin is unlikely to increase the 
risk of toxicity of rosuvastatin. (Cooper, 2003).  
However as statins are BCRP substrate, we recommend to separate the administration of the statin and KC by 
2 hours.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 74/115 
  
- As pasireotide (Signifor, PI) has been shown to prolong the QT interval on the ECG, we have advised in the 
proposed  SmPC  against  concomitant  use  since  the  combination  can  potentially  lead  to  QT  prolongation  in 
patients with known cardiac rhythm disorders.  
-  Metyrapone  is  the  most  frequent  associated  therapy  to  KC  in  the  management  of  CS.  When  the  3 
steroidogenesis inhibitors (mitotane 3.0-5.0 g/day plus metyrapone 3.0-4.5 g/day plus KC 400-1200 mg/day) 
were concomitantly used at an initial high dose in patients with a very severe CS (Kamenicky, 2011), acute AI 
was observed in 4/11 patients and was due to inappropriate glucocorticoid replacement therapy during episodes 
of vomiting. No particular safety issue was mentioned. No symptomatic worsening of liver function was observed 
during combination therapy, although increase in liver enzymes led to the reduction of KC dose in 2 patients and 
to withdraw it in one. The doses were maintained in the other patients. 
There is no evidence to suggest that the KC dose has to be increased above the range used in monotherapy in 
combination  with  other  steroidogenesis  inhibitors  (metyrapone,  mitotane),  the  somatostatin  analogue 
pasireotide and the dopamine receptor agonist cabergoline. However as mitotane is a CYP 3A4 inducer and thus 
could affect the metabolism of KC, this information was included in section 4.5 of the proposed SmPC interaction 
with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction.  
Discontinuation due to AES 
The information on treatment discontinuations due to adverse events is usually reported as part of prospective 
controlled clinical trials. In the case of this application, this information is either none existent or incomplete as 
data are based on retrospective studies.  
It is agreed with the Applicant that information on discontinuation due to AEs that come from literature is difficult 
to assess. Castinetti et al. reported a high percentage of discontinuation although the description of adverse 
events which lead to such discontinuations is not provided by the author and it is not known the percentage of 
patients who decided to re-start treatment. The conditions in which ketoconazole treatment should be stopped 
have been described in section 4.4 of the SmPC and are acceptable. 
2.6.8.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  European  Medicines  Agency’s  Committee  on  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (CHMP)  recommended 
following  a  referral  under  Article  31  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  that  the  marketing  authorisations  of  oral 
ketoconazole-containing medicines should be suspended throughout the European Union (EU) (26 July 2013, 
EMA/458028/2013) as  the benefit of oral ketoconazole in the treatment of all antifungal indications do not 
outweigh the risks. 
In its conclusion the following conclusions were made: 
- The mechanism of hepatotoxicity has not been elucidated and some uncertainties still remain. Some authors 
support the theory of a metabolic mechanism. On the other hand, some others advocate for an autoimmune 
mechanism. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 75/115 
  
-  Although  hepatotoxicity  is  considered  a  class  effect  of  azole  antifungals,  there  has  been  more  frequently 
reported associated to KC treatment. Hepatotoxicity was reported with the KC dose use as an antifungal (daily 
dose  200  mg),  the  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  with  KC  is  higher  than  with  other  antifungals  and  the  onset  of 
hepatotoxicity with ketoconazole usually occurs between 1 and 6 months after initiation of treatment.  
-  The  most  significant  safety  issue  during  treatment  with  ketoconazole  is  hepatotoxicity,  primarily  of  the 
hepatocellular  type.  Fatal  cases  have  been  reported  particularly  when  treatment  is  continued  despite  liver 
enzyme elevation.  
The  doses  proposed  for  treatment  of  Cushing  syndrome  will  be  higher  than  the  ones  used  to  treat  fungal 
infections, hepatotoxicity seems to be not fully predictable and its mechanism remains not well-known. 
As discussed before, in the treatment of CS, mild (≤ 5N) and major (> 5N) increases in liver enzymes were 
observed in ~16% and ~2.5% of patients respectively occurring mostly within the first month of treatment and 
up  to  6  months.  However,  liver  enzyme  levels  returned  to  normal  within  2-12  weeks  of  dose  decrease  or 
withdrawal of KC. Thus the higher dose used in Cushing syndrome (200-1200mg/d) would not be considered as 
an additional concern. 
Nevertheless, it appears that most of the cases occur at the beginning of treatment and within the first month. 
In case of liver enzymes elevation, ketoconazole is stopped or the dose is reduced depending on the severity of 
the liver enzymes rise.  
Long-term treatment with ketoconazole does not seem to increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. However, due to 
the majority of cases of drug-induced liver injury are related to idiosyncratic reactions, the CHMP suggest to add 
a warning to the SmPC for treatments lasting longer than six months. 
Recent reviews of CS treatment suggest that the hepatotoxicity of ketoconazole can be managed by appropriate 
medical/endocrinology specialist when the SmPC is followed and contraindications are respected; concurrent 
use of other potential hepatotoxic drugs is avoided  and liver enzyme monitoring is performed at treatment 
initiation and throughout treatment for at least the first 6 months. 
In conclusion, considering the posology used (200-1200mg/d), the CHMP agreed that the hepatotoxicity has 
been  adequately  documented  in  Cushing  syndrome.  The  risk  is  considered  manageable  with  an  adequate 
monitoring of liver function prior, during treatment and regularly in case of increase of dose.  
Contra indication in patients with acute or chronic liver disease and/or if liver enzymes are above 2ULN has been 
implemented. The CHMP also requested to increase the frequency  of the liver monitoring initially proposed by 
the applicant, in particular by weekly measurement of liver function during one month and whenever the dose 
was increased as well as recommendation of monitoring in patients with long-term treatment. Strict criteria for 
stopping the treatment in case of increase in liver enzymes are also clearly indicated to the prescriber and the 
patient.  
The possibility of a higher rate of hepatotoxicity in adolescents is an additional safety issue that deserves to be 
mentioned. Although only two out of twenty-four paediatric patients developed hepatic injury (i.e 8.3%) the 
CHMP agree with the applicant's proposal for section 4.8 of the SmPC. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 76/115 
  
In  conclusion,  hepatotoxicity  remains  a  concern  that  needs  to  be  followed  up  post  approval  and  the  CHMP 
requested the applicant to collect post approval data through a registry and submit annually results for review.  
Ketoconazole is a substrate and potent inhibitor of CYP3A4.  Ketoconazole may decrease the elimination of drugs 
metabolised by CYP3A4 thereby increasing their concentrations. Inducers of CYP3A4 may decrease the plasma 
concentration of ketoconazole. Other inhibitors of CYP3A4 may increase plasma concentration of ketoconazole. 
The proposed Product Information is based on the Nizoral tablets SmPC and provides detailed information for 
prescribers  and  contraindications  of  a  number  of  concomitant  treatments.  Guidance  is  also  provided  in  the 
proposed Product Information to advise for use of statins with no major CYP3A4 interaction potential.  
The risk of QTc prolongation with ketoconazole is low and has mainly been shown with concomitant use of QT 
interval prolonging drugs which should therefore be avoided as indicated in the proposed Product Information. 
The applicant has further discussed that different mechanisms could cause QT prolongation and increase risk of 
TdP. The product information includes this information. 
Adrenal  insufficiency  (AI)  due  to  overtreatment  may  be  prevented  by  careful  monitoring  of  cortisol  levels, 
adequate dose-adjustment or transitory ketoconazole withdrawal and patients’ education. KC can in some cases 
induce hypogonadism resulting in erectile dysfunction and gynecomastia.  
Appropriate information is provided with monitoring of adenal insuficiency  in section 4.4.  
Other AE associated with ketoconazole use include nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, pruritis/rash, dizziness 
and headache (Nizoral SmPC UK, 2010).  
Increased blood pressure and oedema were also reported occasionally with ketoconazole.  
Ketoconazole should not be used during pregnancy as there have been reports of exposure to ketoconazole 
during pregnancy and in all four cases healthy infants were delivered.  
In general, when contraindications are respected, a close monitoring is undertaken under the supervision of 
endocrinology/internal medicine specialists, ketoconazole appeared to be well tolerated, for short and long-term 
treatment of CS. 
 Reactivation of autoimmune diseases after normalization of cortisol levels regardless the treatment used has 
been previously described. The explanation for these events could be the existence of a latent autoimmune 
process inhibited or reduced in intensity by hypercortisolism thereafter. When cortisol levels are normalised 
autoimmune disorders become evident.  
Although this phenomenon can occur with any kind of treatments which normalise cortisol levels, the applicant 
has proposed to include this information in section 4.4 of the SmPC. This is agreed by the CHMP. 
2.6.9.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The applicant has reviewed the literature and has provided a thorough review of the safety of ketoconazole in 
the  treatment  of  Cushing’s  syndrome.  Hepatic  adverse  reactions  are  of    concern,  especially  considering  the 
referral under Article 31 od Directive 2001/83/EC  and the opinion of the CHMP, followed by the EC Decision, that 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 77/115 
  
the benefit risk ratio was negative for the use of ketoconazole in the treatment of fungal infections. However, the 
claimed indication in Cushing’s syndrome is associated with an unmet medical need and serious comorbidities 
compared  to  the  antifungal  infection.  Based  on  the  data  submitted,  hepatotoxicity  seems  to  be  not  fully 
predictable and its mechanism remains not well-known. Overall the publications submitted for the CS indication 
describe that despite the higher dose used in Cushing syndrome, the hepatotoxicity appears manageable and 
reversible if the treatment is interrupted. Therefore, hepatotoxicity did not appear to be dose dependent, thus 
the higher dose used in Cushing syndrome (200-1200mg/d) would not be considered as an additional concern. 
It appears that most of the cases occur at the beginning of treatment and within the first month. In case of liver 
enzymes  elevation,  ketoconazole  is  stopped  or  the  dose  is  reduced  depending  on  the  severity  of  the  liver 
enzymes rise.  
Recent reviews of CS treatment suggest that the hepatotoxicity of ketoconazole can be managed by appropriate 
medical/endocrinology specialist when the SmPC is followed and contraindications are respected; concurrent 
use of other potential hepatotoxic drugs is avoided  and liver enzyme monitoring is performed at treatment 
initiation and throughout treatment for at least the first 6 months. 
Long-term treatment with ketoconazole does not seem to increase the risk of hepatotoxicity. However, as the 
majority of cases of drug-induced liver injury are related to idiosyncratic reactions, the CHMP suggest to add a 
warning to the SmPC for treatments lasting longer than six months. 
In conclusion, considering the posology used (200-1200mg/d), the CHMP agreed that the hepatotoxicity has 
been adequately documented in Cushing syndrome. The risk of hepatic adverse reactions can be managed or 
minimised  by  ensuring  prescription  is  under  the  supervision  of  relevant  specialists,  and  with  an  adequate 
monitoring of liver function prior, during treatment and in case of dose increase. Adequate contra indication and 
stopping rules have been mentioned in the SmPC.   
There is also a need for adrenal insufficiency monitoring and ECG monitoring during treatment. Regarding Drug 
Drug  interactions,  there  are  described  and  detailed  in  section  4.5  and  where  necessary  warning  and 
contradindications have been introduced . 
In conclusion the safety profile and concerns related to the use of ketoconazole is adequately documented and 
are acceptable in the context of the treatment of Cushing Syndrome. 
Nevertheless,  given  the  above  concerns  related  to  safety,  the  CHMP  considers  necessary  to  continue  to 
investigate the safety profile of ketoconazole in routine daily practice and a Post Authorisation safety study is 
recommended by the PRAC and agreed with the CHMP. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
Description 
A Post Authorisation safety study : Multi-country, observational registry to collect clinical 
information on patients with Cushing Syndrome patients exposed with Ketoconazole 
(preferably using the existing European Registry on Cushing’s syndrome (ERCUSYN) 
registry where feasible ), to assess drug utilization patterns and to document the safety (eg 
Due date 
Yearly 
submission  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 78/115 
  
 
hepatotoxicity, QT prolongation) and effectiveness of ketoconazole 
In addition, The PRAC and CHMP agreed on the need to inform selected prescribers prior to launch via a Dear 
Health Care professional Letter highlighting specific recommendations related to the safety profile of 
ketoconazole (eg hepatotoxicity).  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP  considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the legislative 
requirements. 
2.8.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 could be acceptable if the applicant implements 
the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC advice.  
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP v1.3 as requested by PRAC.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 1.3 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 79/115 
  
 
 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 80/115 
  
 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 81/115 
  
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 82/115 
  
 
 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 83/115 
  
 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the applicant 
show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the readability of 
the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 84/115 
  
 
 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
Cushing's  syndrome  is  a  rare  and  heterogeneous  disease  for  which  transsphenoidal  surgery  as  first  option 
treatment  is  not  always  possible.  In  these  cases  pharmacological  therapies  and  radiation  treatment  are 
well-established options.  
Cushing Syndrome is divided into ACTH-dependent forms, either due to a corticotropic pituitary adenoma i.e. a 
Cushing’s disease (CD) or due to an ectopic ACTH production by a neuroendocrine tumor or an unknown source 
(occult ectopic ACTH syndrome), and ACTH-independent forms, due to adrenal adenoma/carcinoma or nodular 
adrenal hyperplasia. The clinical consequences of excess endogenous cortisol exposure are generally severe. 
Ketoconazole is an inhibitor of cortisol synthesis resulting from its ability to inhibit several cytochrome P450 
enzymes  in  the  adrenal  glands.  Apart  from  adrenal  blocking  effect,  KC  may  also  have  direct  effects  on 
corticotropic tumour cells in patients with CD.  
The well established use is adequately supported by a comprehensive list of publications showing the use of  
Ketoconazole in clinical practice for the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome since the 1980’s thus for a period of 
more than 30 years.  
Review  of  the  literature  suggests  that  ketoconazole  is  an  effective  drug  for  normalising  cortisol  levels  in 
Cushing’s syndrome from all causes and, if well tolerated, ketoconazole treatment can be maintained for a long 
period which allows a long-term control of hypercortisolism. Biochemical and hormonal improvements (measure 
of decreases or normalization of urinary free cortisol levels) are usually associated with clinical improvements in 
Cushing’s Syndrome symptoms. The clinical experience suggests that ketoconazole may be a valuable drug for 
the short-term or the long term medical management of the patients with Cushing’s Syndrome, whenever a 
medical  therapy  is  indicated.  The  hormonal  changes  caused  by  ketoconazole  are  dose-dependent  and  fully 
reversible. The ketoconazole dose varied between 200 and 1200 mg/d depending on patients’ requirements and 
need to be individualised to restore normal cortisol levels, clinical tolerance and centres’ experience with a usual 
dose of 600-800 mg/d.  
The indication has been justified taking into account the place of ketoconazole in the management of Cushing’s 
syndrome and the CHMP agreed to restrict the indication to the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome.  
Regarding the paediatric population, although prevalence of CS in children is low, it is important to consider the 
use in this population. Based on the literature provided, it is considered that the use in patients of 12-17 years 
old is adequately demonstrated and thus it is agreed to include adolescents older than 12 years of age in the 
indication. Due to limited data in younger patients, the CHMP considered that the use has not been adequately 
demonstrated in this subset.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 85/115 
  
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
As  this  is  a  well-established  use  application  only  data  coming  from  literature  are  available.  All  the  studies 
provided are retrospective and non-controlled. Due  to these characteristics, it is difficult to assess a clinical 
response in all of the studies. In most cases efficacy is shown by demonstrating an effect on urinary free cortisol 
which  is  taken  as  a  marker  of  response  to  treatment  of  Cushing's.  There  is  relatively  little  information  on 
associated clinical effects such as improvement in glucose tolerance (reduction in glycosylated haemoglobin); 
hypertension; or hypokalaemia. Long term treatment could be needed in some patients, especially those waiting 
for radiotherapy effect or when surgery fails or it cannot be performed. Data available do not suggest a loss of 
efficacy in the long-term use, but data remain limited.  
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
A thorough review of the safety of ketoconazole in the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome has been documented. 
Hepatic  adverse  reactions  are  of  concern,  especially  considering  the  referral  under  Article  31  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC and the CHMP’s opinion that the benefit risk ratio was negative for the use of ketoconazole in the 
treatment of fungal infections and considering the higher dose used in Cushing syndrome. 
Based on the data submitted, hepatotoxicity seems to be not fully predictable and its mechanism remains not 
well-known. However, a number of publications describe that despite the higher dose used in Cushing syndrome, 
the hepatotoxicity appears manageable and reversible if the treatment is interrupted. Therefore, hepatotoxicity 
did not appear to be dose dependent, thus the higher dose used in Cushing syndrome (200-1200mg/d) would 
not be considered as an additional concern. 
It appears that most of the cases occur at the beginning of treatment and within the first month. In case of liver 
enzymes  elevation,  ketoconazole  is  stopped  or  the  dose  is  reduced  depending  on  the  severity  of  the  liver 
enzymes rise.  
Recent reviews of CS treatment suggest that the hepatotoxicity of ketoconazole can be managed by appropriate 
medical/endocrinology specialist when the SmPC is followed and contraindications are respected; concurrent 
use of other potential hepatotoxic drugs is avoided  and liver enzyme monitoring is performed at treatment 
initiation and throughout treatment for at least the first 6 months. 
Long-term treatment with ketoconazole does not seem to increase the risk of hepatotoxicity.  
Adrenal  insufficiency  is  a  problem  which  can  occur  during  treatment.  Some  others  have  been  described  as 
hypocortisolism, autoimmune reactions, hypokalemia, QTc prolongation. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 86/115 
  
 
Consequently, there is also a need for adrenal insufficiency monitoring and ECG monitoring during treatment. 
Regarding Drug Drug interactions, there are described and detailed in section 4.5 and where necessary warning 
and contradindications have been introduced. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about unfavourable effects 
Uncertainties relate to the limited experience in treating patients at higher doses or for long periods at these 
high doses. Additionally there are limited information in younger children <12 years.  
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Currently pasireotide and metyrapone are the only authorised pharmacological treatment for Cushing's disease. 
Therefore, there is a need for additional treatment options for situations when surgery is not indicated or fails. 
Ketoconazole is a drug used off-label for treatment of Cushing's syndrome and its efficacy and safety has been 
adequately demonstated through its  use in clinical practice since the mid 1980s. Based on the data provided, KC 
has shown efficacy both from the biological and clinical point of view. The initial therapeutic indication has been 
restricted to the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome considering the current role of ketoconazole in 
the management of this syndrome. Posology has been further justified by the applicant both for adults and 
adolescents above 12 years based on the data available.  
Hepatotoxicity is the main safety concerns that could have an impact on the benefit risk in the treatment of 
endogenous Cushing syndrome and considering the posology used (200-1200mg/d).  
The  CHMP  agreed  that  the  risk  of  hepatic  adverse  reactions  can  be  managed  or  minimised  by  ensuring 
prescription is under the supervision of relevant specialists, and with an adequate monitoring of liver function 
prior, during treatment and in case of dose increase. Adequate contra-indication and interruption of treatment 
rules have been mentioned in the SmPC.   
Nevertheless,  given  the  above  concerns  related  to  safety,  the  CHMP  considers  necessary  to  continue  to 
investigate the safety profile of ketoconazole in routine daily practice and a Post Authorisation safety study is 
recommended by the PRAC and agreed with the CHMP. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
Description 
A Post Authorisation safety study : Multi-country, observational registry to collect clinical 
information on patients with Cushing Syndrome patients exposed with Ketoconazole 
(preferably using the existing European Registry on Cushing’s syndrome (ERCUSYN) 
registry where feasible ), to assess drug utilization patterns and to document the safety (eg 
hepatotoxicity, QT prolongation) and effectiveness of ketoconazole 
Due date 
Yearly 
submission  
In addition, it is considered important to inform prescribers prior to launch via a Dear Health Care professional 
Letter highlighting specific recommendations related to the safety profile of ketoconazole (eg hepatotoxicity).  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 87/115 
  
 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment 
As support of this well-established use application, the applicant has presented comprehensive publications data 
endorsing the efficacy and safety of this product that can be considered acceptable. All issues raised have been 
adequately addressed by the applicant mainly the wording of the therapeutic indication, the recommendations 
for posology in adults and adolescents and more importantly the safety profile (eg hepatotoxicity). 
Currently  only  pasireotide  and  metyrapone  are  on  the  market  and  are  the  only.  There  is  a  need  for 
pharmacological  treatment  options  for  Cushing's  disease  in  particular  for  situations  when  surgery  is  not 
indicated or fails. 
Ketoconazole has been used off label during more than 30 years demonstrating its recognised therapeutic value 
in the treatment of endogenous Cushing syndrome in adults and adolescents above 12 years, as documented in 
this application. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  risk  of  hepatic  adverse  reactions  can  be  managed  or  minimised  by  ensuring 
prescription is under the supervision of relevant specialists, and with an adequate monitoring of liver function 
prior, during treatment and in case of dose increase. Adequate contra indication and interruption of treatment 
rules have been mentioned in the SmPC.   
Nevertheless,  given  the  above  concerns  related  to  safety,  the  CHMP  considers  necessary  to  continue  to 
investigate the safety profile of ketoconazole in routine daily practice and assess the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. Therefore, a Post Authorisation safety study is recommended by the PRAC and agreed 
with the CHMP. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address issues related to safety: 
Description 
A Post Authorisation safety study : Multi-country, observational registry to collect clinical 
information on patients with Cushing Syndrome patients exposed with Ketoconazole 
(preferably using the existing European Registry on Cushing’s syndrome (ERCUSYN) 
registry where feasible ), to assess drug utilization patterns and to document the safety (eg 
hepatotoxicity, QT prolongation) and effectiveness of ketoconazole 
Due date 
Yearly 
submission  
In addition, it is considered important to inform selected prescribers prior to launch via a Dear Health Care 
professional Letter highlighting specific recommendation related to the hepatic safety profile of ketoconazole  
Conclusions 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 88/115 
  
 
 
 
The  overall  Benefit  Risk  of  Ketoconazole  HRA  Pharma  is  positive  in  the  treatment  of  endogenous  Cushing’s 
Syndrome in adults and adolescents above the age of 12 years. 
4.  Recommendations 
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The CHMP by consensus is of the opinion that ketoconazole HRA is not similar to Signifor (paresotide) within the 
meaning of Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 847/200.  
See appendix 1 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
risk-benefit balance of ketoconazole HRA in the treatment of endogenous Cushing’s syndrome in adults and 
adolescents above the age of 12 years is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 6 
months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety 
update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates 
(EURD  list)  provided  for  under  Article  107c(7)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  and  published  on  the  European 
medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required  pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed  subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same time. 
• 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 89/115 
  
 
 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measures: 
Description 
A Post Authorisation safety study : Multi-country, observational registry to collect clinical 
information on patients with Cushing Syndrome patients exposed with Ketoconazole 
(preferably using the existing European Registry on Cushing’s syndrome (ERCUSYN) 
registry where feasible ), to assess drug utilization patterns and to document the safety (eg 
hepatotoxicity, QT prolongation) and effectiveness of ketoconazole 
Due date 
Yearly 
submission  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product to be 
implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 90/115 
  
 
 
 
7. List of references  
Articles published: 459 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
Abel S, Russell D, Taylor-Worth RJ, Ridgway CE, Muirhead GJ. Effects of CYP3A4 inhibitors on 
the pharmacokinetics of maraviroc in healthy volunteers. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2008;65 Suppl 
1:27-37. 
Aguilar-Jiménez M, Gálvez-Múgica MA, de Pablo López de Abechuco  I, Serrano-Olmeda M, 
Revilla-Monaj A, Longo F, Olmedo ME, Carrato A, Grande Pulido E. P1-16. A Phase I, pilot, 
dose finding clinical trial to assess sunitinib-ketoconazol interaction. Preliminary assessment 
of the safety data. Basic & Clinical Pharmacology & Toxicology. 2011;109(3),41-71. 
Ahmed A, Furquan S, Islam N. Disappearance of pituitary macro adenoma with combination 
of  ketoconazole  and  cabergoline  treatment:  an  unusual  case  of  Cushing's  syndrome  with 
interesting findings. BMJ Case Reports. 2012; doi:10.1136/bcr.03.2012.6025 
Alexandraki KI, Grossman AB Medical therapy of Cushing's disease: where are we now? Front 
Horm Res. 2010;38:165-173. 
Amado JA, C. Pesquera C, Gonzalez EM, Otero M, Freijanes J, Alvarez A. Successful treatment 
with  ketoconazole  of  Cushing's 
J. 
syndrome 
1990;66(773):221-3. 
in  pregnancy.  Postgrad  Med 
Amaral VCS, Nunes 
 GP. Prednisone  reduces ketoconazole-induced skeletal defects in rat fetuses. Arch Toxicol 
2009; 83: 863-871 
Amin  A.  Ketoconazole-induced  testicular  damage  in  rats  reduced  by  gentiana  extract. 
Experimental & Toxicologic Pathology 2008; 59: 377-384.  
Angeli A, Frairia R. Ketoconazole therapy in cushing's disease. Lancet. 1985;1(8432):821. 
Arnaldi G, Boscaro M. Pasireotide for the treatment of Cushing's disease. Expert Opin Investig 
Drugs. 2010;19(7):889-898. 
Arnaldi G, Mancini T, Tirabassi G, Trementino L, Boscaro M. Advances in the epidemiology, 
pathogenesis, and management of Cushing's syndrome complications. J. Endocrinol. Invest. 
2012;35:434-448. 
Arteaga E, Fardella C, Campusano C, Cardenas I, Martinez P. Persistent hypokalemia after 
successful  adrenalectomy  in  a  patient  with  Cushing’s  syndrome  due  to  ectopic  ACTH 
secretion: Possible role of 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase inhibition. J Endocrinol Invest. 
1999;22:857-859. 
Atkinson  A,  Kenny  JR,  Grime  K.  Automated  assessment  of  time-dependent  inhibition  of 
human cytochrome P450 enzymes using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
analysis. Drug Metab Dispos. 2005;33(11):1637-47. 
Ayub  M,  Levell  MJ.  Inhibition  of  testicular  17(alpha)-hydroxylase  and  17,20-lyase  but  not 
3(beta)-hydroxysteroid 
17-beta-hydroxysteroid 
oxidoreductase  by  ketoconazole  and  other  imidazole  rings.  J  Steroid  Biochem  1987;  28: 
521-531 
dehydrogenase-isomerase 
or 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 91/115 
  
 
 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
Azer  SA,  Kukongviriyapan  V,  Stacey  NH.  Mechanism  of  ketoconazole-induced  elevation  of 
individual serum bile acids in the rat: relationship to the effect of ketoconazole on bile acid 
uptake by isolated hepatocytes. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1995;272(3):1231-7. 
Bäck O, Bartosik J. Systemic ketoconazole for yeast allergic patients with atopic dermatitis. J 
Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2001;15(1):34-8. 
Badcock NR, Bartholomeusz FD, Frewin DB, Sansom LN, Reid JG. The pharmacokinetics of 
ketoconazole after chronic administration in adults. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 1987;33(5):531-4. 
Baldwin  SJ,  Bloomer  JC,  Smith  GJ,  Ayrton  AD,  Clarke  SE,  Chenery  RJ.  Ketoconazole  and 
sulphaphenazole  as  the  respective  selective  inhibitors  of  P4503A  and  2C9.  Xenobiotica. 
1995;25(3):261-70. 
Bardare M, Tortorano AM, Pietrogrande MC, Viviani MA. Pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole and 
treatment evaluation in candidal infections. Arch Dis Child. 1984;59(11):1068-71.  
Baxter  JG,  Brass  C,  Schentag  JJ  and  Slaughter  RL.  Pharmacokinetics  of  ketoconazole 
administered intravenously to dogs and orally as tablet and solution to humans and dogs. J 
Pharm Sci 1986; 75: 443-447. 
Beal M, Bernard C, Zenut M, Simmonnet F, Lavarenne J, Boch C. [Anaphylactic reaction to 
ketoconazole]. Therapie. 1996;51(5):604-5.  
Bercoff  E,  Bernuau  J,  Degott  C,  Kalis  B,  Lemaire  A,  Tilly  H,  Rueff  B,  Benhamou  JP. 
Ketoconazole-induced fulminant hepatitis. Gut. 1985;26(6):636-8. 
Bernuau  J,  Durand  F,  Pessayre  D.  Ketoconazole-induced  hepatotoxicity.  Hepatology. 
1997;26(3):802.  
Berselli ME, Tagliaferri M, Vignati F, Loli P. Effect of Ketoconazole on CRH-induced ACTH and 
cortisol release in patients with Cushing’s Disease. Horm Metab Res Suppl. 1987;16:58-9. 
Bertagna X, Guignat L. Approach to the Cushing's disease patient with persistent/recurrent 
hypercortisolism after pituitary surgery. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98(4):1307-18. 
Berwaerts  J,  Verhelst  J,  Mahler  C,  Abs  R.  Cushing's  syndrome  in  pregnancy  treated  by 
ketoconazole:  case 
literature.  Gynecol  Endocrinol, 
1999;13(3):175-82. 
report  and 
review  of 
the 
Bhasin S, Sikka S, Fielder T, Sod-Moriah U, Levine HB, Swerdloff RS and Rajfer J. Hormonal 
effects of ketoconazole in-vivo in the male rat: mechanism of action. Endocrinology 1986; 
118: 1229-1232 
Biller BM, Grossman AB, Stewart PM, Melmed S, Bertagna X, Bertherat J, Buchfelder M, Colao 
A,  Hermus  AR,  Hofland  LJ,  Klibanski  A,  Lacroix  A,  Lindsay  JR,  Newell-Price  J,  Nieman  LK, 
Petersenn S, Sonino N, Stalla GK, Swearingen B, Vance ML, Wass JA, Boscaro M. Treatment of 
ACTH-Dependent  Cushing’s  Syndrome:  A  Consensus  Statement.  Journal  of  Clinical 
Endocrinology & Metabolism. 2008;93(7):2454-2462. 
Blanco C, Marazuela M, Flores J, Alvarez J. Severe respiratory failure secondary to Cushing’s 
myopathy. J Endocrinol Invest. 2001;24:618-621. 
Blum  RA,  D'Andrea  DT,  Florentino  BM,  Wilton  JH,  Hilligoss  DM,  Gardner  MJ,  Henry  EB, 
Goldstein  H,  Schentag  JJ.  Increased  gastric  pH  and  the  bioavailability  of  fluconazole  and 
ketoconazole. Ann Intern Med. 1991;114(9):755-7. 
Böhmer GM, Drollmann A, Gleiter CH, Nave R. Effect of coadministered ketoconazole, a strong 
cytochrome P450 3A4 enzyme inhibitor, on the pharmacokinetics of ciclesonide and its active 
metabolite desisobutyryl-ciclesonide. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2008;47(5):343-9. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 92/115 
  
32. 
33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 
37. 
38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
Bolland  MJ,  Holdaway  IM,  Berkeley  JE,  Lim  S,  Dransfield  WJ,  Conaglen  JV,  Croxson  MS, 
Gamble  GD,  Hunt  PJ,  Toomath  RJ.  Mortality  and  morbidity  in  Cushing's  syndrome  in  New 
Zealand. Clin Endocrinol, 2011;75(4):436-442. 
Boni  JP,  Leister  C,  Burns  J,  Hug  B.  Differential  effects  of  ketoconazole  on  exposure  to 
J  Cancer. 
temsirolimus 
2008;98(11):1797-802 
temsirolimus.  Br 
infusion  of 
intravenous 
following 
Borelli D, Fuentes J, Leiderman E, Restrepo-M A, Bran JL, Legendre R, Levine HB, Stevens DA. 
Ketoconazole,  an  oral  antifungal:  laboratory  and  clinical  assessment  of  imidazole  drugs. 
Postgraduate Medical Journal September 1979; 55, 657-661 
Boronat  M,  Marrero  D,  Lopez-Plasencia  Y,  Barber  M,  Schamann  Y,  Novoa  FJ.  Successful 
outcome of pregnancy in a patient with Cushing’s disease under treatment with ketoconazole 
during the first trimester of gestation. Gynecological Endocrinology. 2011;27(9):675-677. 
Boscaro  M,  Barzon  L,  Fallo  F,  Sonino  N.  Cushing's  syndrome.  Lancet.  2001;357(9258): 
783-91. 
Boscaro  M,  Sonino  M,  Rampazo  A,  Mantero  F.  Response  of  pituitary-adrenal  axis  to 
corticotrophin  releasing  in  patients  with  Cushing’s  disease  before  and  after  ketoconazole 
treatment. Clin Endocrinol, 1987b;24(4):461-7. 
Boscaro M, Sonino N, Rampazzo A, Menegus AM, Mantero F. ACTH response to corticotropin 
releasing hormone in Cushing’s disease before and after ketoconazole: in vivo and in vitro 
studies. Horm Meta Res. 1987a;16:60-2. 
Boyce MJ, Baisley KJ, Warrington SJ. Pharmacokinetic interaction between domperidone and 
randomized, 
ketoconazole 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, crossover study. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2011;73(3):411-421. 
in  healthy  volunteers:  a 
to  QT  prolongation 
leads 
Bradbrook ID, Gillies HC, Morrison PJ, Robinson J, Rogers HJ, Spector RG. Effects of single and 
multiple doses of ketoconazole on adrenal function in normal subjects. Br. J. Clin. Pharmac, 
1985;20:163-165. 
Brass  C,  Galgiani  JN,  Blaschke  TF,  Defelice  R,  O'reilly  RA,  Stevens  DA.  Disposition  of 
Ketoconazole,  an  Oral  Antifungal, 
in  Humans.  Antimicrob  Agents  Chemother. 
1982;21(1):151-8. 
Brito JP, Singh E, Basu A. Iatrogenic heart block during treatment of a patient with Cushing's 
syndrome: report of a case. Endocrine. 2012;41(2):344. 
Brynne  N,  Forslund  C,  Hallén  B,  Gustafsson  LL,  Bertilsson  L.  Ketoconazole  inhibits  the 
metabolism  of  tolterodine  in  subjects  with  deficient  CYP2D6  activity.  Br  J  Clin  Pharmacol. 
1999;48(4):564-72. 
Buescher MA, McClamrock, HD, Adashi EY. Cushing syndrome in pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol. 
1992;79(1):130-7.   
Buggia I, Zecca M, Alessandrino EP, Locatelli F, Rosti G, Bosi A, Pession A, Rotoli B, Majolino 
I, Dallorso A, Regazzi MB. Itraconazole can increase systemic exposure to busulfan in patients 
given  bone  marrow  transplantation.  GITMO  (Gruppo  Italiano  Trapianto  di  Midollo  Osseo). 
Anticancer Res. 1996;16(4A):2083-8. 
Burrin JM, Yeo TH, Ashby MJ and Bloom SR. Effect of ketoconazole on ACTH secretion in-vitro 
and in-vivo. J Endocrinol 1986; 108: 37-42. 
Buttke TM and Chapman SW. Inhibition by ketoconazole of mitogen-induced DNA synthesis 
and  cholesterol  biosynthesis  in  lymphocytes.  Antimicrob  Agents  Chemother  1983;  24: 
478-485 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 93/115 
  
48. 
49. 
50. 
51. 
52. 
53. 
54. 
55. 
56. 
57. 
58. 
59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
Cabergoline EMA, 2009  
Calvo Romero JM, Perez FM, Alvarez Barrelro JA, Diaz Perez de Madrid J. Ketoconazol en el 
control de la hipertensión arterial en el síndrome de cushing. Rev Clin Esp 1999;199:25-27. 
Carlson  JA,  Mann  HJ,  Canafax  DM.  Effect  of  pH  on  disintegration  and  dissolution  of 
ketoconazole tablets. Am J Hosp Pharm. 1983;40(8):1334-6. 
Castinetti F, Fassnacht M, Johanssen S, Terzolo, Bouchard P, Chanson P, Do Cao C, Morange 
I, Picoa, Ouzounian, Young J, Hahner S, Brue T, Allolio B, Conte-Devolx B. Merits and putfalls 
of mifepristone in Cushing’s syndrome. Eur J Endocrinol, 2009;160:1003-1010. 
Castinetti F, Guignat L, Giraud P, Muller P, Kamenicky P, Drui D, Caron P, Luca F, Donadilla B, 
Vantyghem  MC,  Bihan  H,  Delemer  B,  Raverot  G,  Emmanuelle  M,  Philippon  M,  Morange  I, 
Conte-Devolx B, Quinquis L, Martinie M, Vezzosi D, Le Bras M, Baudry C, Christin-Maitre S, 
Goichot B, Chanson P, Young J, Chabre O, Tabarin A, Bertherat J, Brue T. Ketoconazole in 
Cushing’s disease: is it worth a try? J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014;99(5):1623-30. 
Castinetti  F,  Morange  I,  Jaquet  P,  Conte-Devolx  B,  Brue  T.  Ketoconazole  revisited:  a 
in  Cushing's  disease.  Eur  J  Endocrinol, 
preoperative  or  postoperative  treatment 
2008;158(1):91-9. 
Cavagnini F, Pecori Giraldi F. Epidemiology and follow-up of Cushing's disease. Ann Endocrinol 
(Paris). 2001;62(2):168-72. 
Chaikin  P,  Gillen  MS,  Malik  M,  Pentikis  H,  Rhodes  GR,  Roberts  DJ.  Co-administration  of 
ketoconazole  with  H1-antagonists  ebastine  and 
in  healthy  subjects: 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2005;59(3):346-54. 
loratadine 
Champeroux  P,  Viaud  K,  El  Amrami  AI,  Fowler  JSL,  Martel  E,  Le  Guennec  J-Y,  Richard  S.  
Prediction of the risk of Torsade de Pointes using the model of isolated canine Purkinje fibres. 
Brit J Pharmacol 2005; 144: 376-385. 
Chaudhary  LR,  Stocco  DM.  Inhbition  of  HCG-stimulated  and  cyclic  AMP-stimulated 
progesterone production in MA-10 mouse Leydig cell tumor cells by ketoconazole. Biochem 
Int 1989; 18: 251-262 
Chien RN, Yang LJ, Lin PY, Liaw YF. Hepatic Injury During Ketoconazole Therapy in Patients. 
With Onychomycosis: A Controlled Cohort Study. Hepatology. 1997;25(1):103-107. 
Chin  TW,  Loeb  M,  Fong  IW.  Effects  of  an  acidic  beverage  (Coca-Cola)  on  absorption  of 
ketoconazole. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1995;39(8):1671-5. 
Chiu  YY,  Ereshefsky  L,  Preskorn  SH,  Poola  N,  Loebel  A.  Lurasidone  drug-drug  interaction 
studies: a comprehensive review. Drug Metabol Drug Interact. 2014 May. In press. 
Choi MK, Jin QR, Choi YL, Ahn SH, Bae MA, Song IS. Inhibitory effects of ketoconazole and 
rifampin  on  OAT1  and  OATP1B1  transport  activities:  considerations  on  drug-drug 
interactions. Biopharm Drug Dispos. 2011;32(3):175-84. 
Chou SC, Lin JD. Long-Term Effects of Ketoconazole in the Treatment of Residual or Recurrent 
Cushing's Disease. Endocrine Journal, 2000;47(4):401-406. 
Clayton  RN,  Raskauskiene  D,  Reulen  RC,  Jones  PW.  Mortality  and  Morbidity  in  Cushing's 
Disease over 50 Years in Stoke-on-Trent, UK: Audit and Meta-Analysis of Literature. J Clin 
Endocrinol Metab 2011;96(3):632-642. 
Colao A, Petersenn S, Newell-Price J, Findling JW, Gu F, Maldonado M, Schoenherr U, Mills D, 
Salgado  LR,  Biller  BM;  Pasireotide  B2305  Study  Group.  A  12-month  phase  3  study  of 
pasireotide in Cushing's disease. N Engl J Med. 2012; 366(10):914-24. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 94/115 
  
  
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 
Colao A, Pivonello R, Faggiano A, Filippella M, Ferone D, Di Somma C, Cerbone G, Marzullo P, 
Fenzi G, Lombardi G. Increased prevalence of thyroid autoimmunity in patients successfully 
treated for Cushing's disease. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2000;53(1):13-9. 
Contreras P, Rojas A, Biagini L, González P, Massardo T.  Regression of metastatic adrenal 
carcinoma during palliative ketoconazole treatment. Lancet. 1985;326(8447): 151-152. 
Cooper  KJ,  Martin  PD,  Dane  AL,  Warwick  MJ,  Raza  A,  Schneck  DS.  Lack  of  effect  of 
ketoconazole  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rosuvastatin  in  healthy  subjects.  Br  J  Clin 
Pharmacol. 2003;55:94-99. 
Costenaro  F,  Rodrigues  TC,  Ferreira  NP,  Costa  TG,  Schuch  T,  Boschi  V,  Czepielewski  MA. 
Pseudotumor  cerebri  during  Cushing's  disease  treatment  with  ketoconazole.  Arq  Bras 
Endocrinol Metabol, 2011;55(4):284-287. 
Couch RM, Muller J, Perry YS, Winter JS. Kinetic Analysis of Inhibition of Human Adrenal S 
teroidogenesis by Ketoconazole. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1987;65(3):551-4. 
Craven PC, Graybill JR, Jorgensen JH, Dismukes WE, Levine BE. High-dose ketoconazole for 
treatment  of  fungal  infections  of  the  central  nervous  system.  Ann  Intern  Med. 
1983;98(2):160-7. 
Cummings AM, Hedge JL, Laskey J. Ketoconazole impairs early pregnancy and the decidual 
cell response via alterations in ovarian function. Fundam Appl Toxicol 1997; 40: 238-246 
Da  Mota  F,  Murray  C,  Ezzat  S.  Overt  Immune  Dysfunction  after  Cushing's  Syndrome 
Remission: A Consecutive Case Series and Review of the Literature. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 
2011;96(10):E1670-E1674. 
Daneshmend TK, Warnock DW, Ene MD, Johnson EM, Parker G, Richardson MD and Roberts 
CJC. Multiple dose pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole and their effects on antipyrine kinetics in 
man. J Antimicrob Chemother. 1983;12(2):185-8. 
Daneshmend TK, Warnock DW, Ene MD, Johnson EM, Potten MR, Richardson MD, Williamson 
PJ. Influence of food on the pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
1984;25(1):1-3. 
Daneshmend TK, Warnock DW. Clinical pharmacokinetics of ketoconazole. Clin Pharmacokin. 
1988;14:13-34. 
Daneshmend TK. Diseases and drugs but not food decrease ketoconazole 'bioavailability'. Br. 
J. Clin. Pharmac. 1990;29:783-784. 
Dang CN, Trainer P. Pharmocological management of Cushing's syndrome: an update. Arq 
Bras Endocrinol Metab 2007; 51-8. 
Dash  RJ,  Khandekar  S,  Kak  VK.  Persistent  Cushing’s  disease  in  a  patient  with  invasive 
pituitary adenoma. J Assoc Physicians India. 1990b;38(6):428-30. 
Dash  RJ,  Khandekar  S,  Lata  V,  Bhansali  A.  Ketoconazole  in  the  treatment  of  Cushing’s 
disease. J Assoc Physicians India. 1990a;38(7):486-9. 
De Coster R, Beerens D, Dom J and Willemsens G. Endocrinological effects of single dose daily 
ketoconazole administration in male beagle dogs. Acna Endocrinologica 1984; 107: 175-181 
De  Coster  R,  Coene  MC,  Haelterman  C.  Effects  of  high-dose  ketoconazole  treatment  on 
adrenal  mineralocorticid  biosynthesis  in  dogs  and  rats.  Acta  Endocrinologica  1987;  115: 
423-431 
82. 
De  Coster  R,  Mahler  C,  Denis  L,  Coene  MC,  Caers  I,  Amery  W,  Haelterman  C,  Beerens  D. 
Effects  of  high-dose  ketoconazole  and  dexamethasone  on  ACTH-stimulated  adrenal 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 95/115 
  
83. 
84. 
85. 
86. 
87. 
88. 
89. 
90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 
94. 
95. 
96. 
97. 
98. 
steroidogenesis  in  orchiectomized  prostatic  cancer  patients.  Acta  Endocrinol  (Copenh). 
1987;115(2):265-71. 
Dekkers OM, Horvath-Puho E, Jorgensen JO, Cannegieter SC, Ehrenstein V, Vandenbroucke 
JP, Pereira AM, Sorensen HT. Multisystem morbidity and mortality in Cushing’s syndrome: A 
cohort study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98(6):2277-2284. 
Delongeas  JL,  Justice  C,  Labbe  V,  Falda-Buscaiot  f,  Sarsat  JP,  Leonard  JF,  Albaladejo  V, 
Guittin P. Effect of repeated administration of ketoconazole on genital organs and semen in 
the male Beagle dog. Teratology Society Abstracts 1996; P25:109 
Delongeas  JL,  Rangara  R,  Leonard  JF,  Albaladejo  V,  Peric  C,  Guittin  P.  Effect  of  repeated 
administration of ketoconazole on genital organs and reproductive performance in the male 
rat. Teratology Society Abstracts 1995; P23:183 
Demoly  P,  Viola  M,  Rebelo  Gomes  E,  Romano  A.  Epidemiology  and  Causes  of  Drug 
Hypersensitivity. Pichler WJ (ed): Drug Hypersensitivity. Basel, Karger, 2007, pp 2–17 
Desta  Z,  Kerbusch  T,  Soukhova  N,  Richard  E,  Ko  JW,  Flockhart  DA.  Identification  and 
characterization of human cytochrome P450 isoforms interacting with pimozide. J Pharmacol 
Exp Ther. 1998;285(2):428-37. 
Dodo T, Uchida K, Hirose T, Fukuta T, Kojima C, Shiraishi I, Kato E, Horiba T, Mineshima H, 
Okuda Y, Maeda M, Katsutani N, Hirano K and Aoki T. Increases in discontinuous rib cartilage 
and  fused  carpal  bone  in  rat  fetuses  exposed  to  the  teratogens  busulfan,  acetazolamide, 
vitamin A and ketoconazole. Human Exp Toxicol 2010; 29: 439-450 
Donovan JT, Otis CN, Powell JL, Cathcart HK. Cushing’s syndrome secondary to malignant 
lipoid cell tumor of the ovary. Gynecological Oncology. 1993;50:249-253. 
Dresser  GK,  Spence  JD,  Bailey  DG.  Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic  consequences  and 
clinical relevance of cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibition. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2000;38(1):41-57. 
Dumaine R, Troy M-L, Brown AM. Blockade of HERG and Kv1.5 by ketoconazole.  
J Pharm Exp Therap 1998; 286: 727-735. 
Dutreix  C,  Peng  B,  Mehring  G,  Hayes  M,  Capdeville  R,  Pokorny  R,  Seiberling  M. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction between ketoconazole and imatinib mesylate (Glivec) in healthy 
subjects. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 2004; 54(4):290-4. 
Dutta D, Jain R, Maisnam I, Mishra PK, Ghosh S, Mukhopadhyay S, Chowdhury S. Isolated 
Cushing's Syndrome in Early Infancy Due to Left Adrenal Adenoma: An Unusual Aetiology. J 
Clin Res Pediatr Endocrinol. 2012;4(3): 64-168. 
Elsby R, Hilgendorf C, Fenner K. Understanding the critical disposition pathways of statins to 
assess drug-drug interaction risk during drug development: it's not just about OATP1B1. Clin 
Pharmacol Ther. 2012;92(5):584-98. 
EMA Ketoconazole assessment report, 2013. 
Engelhardt D, Jacob K, Doerr HG. Different therapeutic efficacy of ketoconazole in patients 
with Cushing’s syndrome. Klin Wochenschr. 1989;67:241-247. 
Engelhardt D, Mann K, Hormann R, Karl HJ. Ketoconazole Inhibits Cortisol Secretion of an 
Adrenal Adenoma in Vivo and in Vitro. Klin Wocheoschr. 1983;61:373-375. 
Engelhardt D, Weber M, Miksch T, Abedinpour F, Jaspers C. The influence of ketoconazole on 
human adrenal steroidogenesis: incubation studies with tissue slices. Clinical Endocrinology. 
1991;35:163-168. 
99. 
Engelhardt D, Weber MM. Therapy of Cushing's syndrome with steroid biosynthesis inhibitors. 
J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 1994;49(4-6):261-7. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 96/115 
  
100.  Engels FK, Mathot RA, Loos WJ, van Schaik RH, Verweij J. Influence of high-dose ketoconazole 
on the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel. Cancer Biol Ther. 2006;5(7):833-9. 
101.  English HF, Santner S,  Levine H and Santen RJ. Inhibition of testosterone production with 
ketoconazole alone and in combination with a gonadotropin releasing hormone analogue in 
the rat. Cancer Research 1986; 46: 38-42 
102.  Ensina LF, Tanno LK, Motta AA, Kalil J, Giavina-Bianchi P. Ketoconazole allergy. Clinics (Sao 
Paulo). 2009;64(4):373-4. 
103.  Etxabe  J,  Vazquez  JA.  Morbidity  and  mortality  in  Cushing’s  disease:  an  epidemiological 
approach. Clinical Endocrinology. 1994;40:479-484. 
104.  Fallo F, Paoletta A, Tona F, Boscaro M, Sonino N. Response of hypertension to conventional 
antihypertensive treatment and/or steroidogenesis inhibitors in Cushing’s syndrome. J Intern 
Med. 1993;234(6):595-8. 
105.  Fan  Y,  Rodriguez-Proteau  R.  Ketoconazole  and 
the  modulation  of  multidrug 
resistance-mediated  transport  in  Caco-2  and  MDCKII-MDR1  drug  transport  models. 
Xenobiotica 2008; 38: 107-129 
106.  Farschian M, Yaghoobi R, Samadi K. Fluconazole versus ketoconazole in the treatment of tinea 
versicolor. J Dermatolog Treat. 2002;13(2):73-6. 
107.  Fazio RA, Wickremesinghe PC, Arsura EL. Ketoconazole treatment of Candida esophagitis--a 
prospective study of 12 cases. Am J Gastroenterol. 1983;78(5):261-4. 
108.  Feelders RA, de Bruin C, Pereira AM, Romijn JA, Netea-Maier RT, Hermus AR, Zelissen PM, Van 
Heerebeek  R,  de  Joung  FH,  van  der  lely  A,  de  Herder  WW,  Hofland  LJ,  Lamberts  SW. 
Pasireotide alone or with cabergoline and ketoconazole in Cushing’s disease. N Engl J Med. 
2010b;362(19):1846-1848. 
109.  Feelders  RA,  Hofland  LJ,  de  Herder  WW.  Medical  treatment  of  Cushing's  syndrome: 
adrenal-blocking drugs and ketaconazole. Neuroendocrinology. 2010a;92 Suppl 1:111-5. 
110.  Feelders  RA,  Hofland  LJ.  Medical  treatment  of  Cushing's  disease.  J  Clin  Endocrinol  Metab. 
2013;98(2):425-38. 
111.  Feldman  EC,  Bruyette  DS,  Nelson  RW  and  Farver  TB.  Plasma  cortisol  response  to 
ketoconazole administration in dogs with hyperadrenocorticism. J Am Vet Med Assoc 1990; 
197: 71-78. 
112.  Fernandez A, Karavitaki N, Wass JA. Prevalence of pituitary adenomas: a community-based, 
cross-sectional study in Banbury (Oxfordshire, UK). Clin Endocrinol. 2010;72:377-382. 
113.  Fernandez BH, Gomez JJ, Aragones JH, Pariegua ES, Arnao M. Enfermedad de Cushing en la 
edad pediatria, Tratamento y evolución. Acta Pediatr Esp. 2011;69(2):88-91. 
114.  Ferraù  F,  Losa  M,  Cotta  OR,  Torre  ML,  Ragonese  M,  Trimarchi  F,  Cannavò  S.  Course  of 
pregnancies in women with Cushing's disease treated by gamma-knife. Gynecol Endocrinol, 
2012;28(10):827-829. 
115.  Figg WD, Woo S, Zhu W, Chen X, Ajiboye AS, Steinberg SM, Price DK, Wright JJ, Parnes HL, 
Arlen PM, Gulley JL, Dahut WL. A phase I clinical study of high dose ketoconazole plus weekly 
docetaxel for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. J Urol. 2010;183(6):2219-26. 
116.  Fitch WL, Thuy T, Young M, Liu L, Chen Y. Revisiting the Metabolism of Ketoconazole Using 
Accurate Mass.Drug Metabolism Letters, 2009, 3, 191-198 
117.  Fleseriu  M,  Biller  BM,  Findling  JW,  Molitch  ME,  Schteingart  DE,  Gross  C.  Mifepristone,  a 
Glucocorticoid Receptor Antagonist, Produces Clinical and Metabolic Benefits in Patients with 
Cushing's Syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2012;97(6):2039-2049. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 97/115 
  
118.  Floren  LC,  Bekersky  I,  Benet  LZ,  Mekki  Q,  Dressler  D,  Lee  JW,  Roberts  JP,  Hebert  MF. 
Tacrolimus oral bioavailability doubles with coadministration of ketoconazole. Clin Pharmacol 
Ther. 1997;62(1):41-9. 
119.  Francisco J. de Abajo, Dolores Montero, Mariano Madurga & Luis A. García Rodríguez. Acute 
and clinically relevant drug-induced liver injury: a population based case-control study. Br J 
Clin Pharmacol204, 58:1 71–80 
120.  Freyberger A, Weimer M, Lofink W and Ahr HJ. Short-term dynamic culture of rat testicular 
fragments as a model to assess effects on steroidogenesis – potential use and limitations. 
Reprod Toxicol 2010; 30: 36-43 
121.  Gabalec  F,  Zavrelová  A,  Havel  E,  Cerman  J  Jr,  Radocha  J,  Svilias  I,  Cáp  J.  Pneumocystis 
pneumonia during medicamentous treatment of Cushing's syndrome - a description of two 
cases. Acta Medica (Hradec Kralove). 2011;54(3):127-130. 
122.  Gani LU, Gianatti EJ, Cheung AS, Jerums G, MacIsaac RJ. Failure of functional imaging with 
gallium-68-DOTA-D-Phel-Tyr3-octreotide positron emission tomography to localize the site of 
ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion: a case report. J Med Case Rep. 2011;5:405. 
123.  Garcıa-Rodriguez LA, Duque A,  Castellsague J, Perez-Gutthann S, Stricker BH Ch. A cohort 
study on the risk of acute liver injury among users of ketoconazole and other antifungal drugs. 
1999 Blackwell Science Ltd Br J Clin Pharmacol, 48, 847–852 
124.  Gascoigne  EW,  Barton  GJ,  Michaels  M,  Meuldermans  W  Heykants  J.  The  Kinetics  of 
Ketoconazole in Animals and Man. Clinical Research Reviews. 1981;1(3):177-187. 
125.  Generaux  GT,  Bonomo  FM,  Johnson  M,  Mahar  Doan  KM.  Impact  of  SLCOlBl (OATPlBl)  and 
ABCG2  (BCRP)  genetic  polymorphisms  and  inhibition  on  LDL-C  lowering  and  myopathy  of 
statins. Xenobiotica. 2011;41(8):639-651. 
126.  Gibbs  MA,  Baillie  MT,  Shen  DD,  et  al.  Persistent  inhibition  of  CYP3A4  by  ketoconazole  in 
modified Caco-2 cells. Pharm Res 2000; 17: 299-305 
127.  Gibbs MA, Thummel KE, Shen DD, Kunze KL. Inhibition of cytochrome P-450 3A(CYP3A) in 
human  intestinal  and  liver  microsomes:  comparison  of  Ki  values  and  impact  on  CYP3A5 
expression. Drug Metab Dispos 1999; 27: 180-187 
128.  Gilad R, Lampl Y. Rhabdomyolysis induced by simvastatin and ketoconazole treatment. Clin 
Neuropharmacol 1999;22(5):295-7 
129.  Ginsburg CM, McCracken GH Jr, Olsen K. Pharmacology of ketoconazole suspension in infants 
and children. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1983;23(5):787-9.  
130.  Glynn  AM,  Slaughter  RL,  Brass  C,  D'Ambrosio  R,  Jusko  WJ.  Effects  of  ketoconazole  on 
methylprednisolone  pharmacokinetics  and  cortisol  secretion.  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther 
1986;39(6):654-9 
131.  Goeders NE, Peltier RL, Guerin GF. Ketoconazole reduces low dose cocaine self-administration 
in rats. Drug and Alcohol Depend 1998; 53: 67-77 
132.  Gomes ER, Demoly P. Epidemiology of hypersensitivity drug reactions. Drug allergy 2005; 
309-316 
133.  Gomez DY, Wacher VJ, Tomlanovich SJ, Hebert MF, Benet LZ. The effects of ketoconazole on 
the  intestinal  metabolism  and  bioavailability  of  cyclosporine.  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther. 
1995;58(1):15-9 
134.  Gomez RM, Albiger NM, Diaz AG, Moncet D, Pitoia FA, Bruno OD. Effect of hypercortisolism 
control  on  high  blood  pressure  in  Cushing’s  syndrome.  Medicina  (Buenos  Aires). 
2007;67:439-444 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 98/115 
  
135.  González-Delgado P, Florido-Lopez F, Saenz de San Pedro B, Cuevas-Agusti M, Marin-Pozo JF. 
Hypersensitivity to ketoconazole. Ann Allergy. 1994;73(4):326-8. 
136.  Graversen  D,  Vestergaard  P,  Stochholm  CH,  Gravholt  CH,  Jorgensen  JO.  Mortality  in 
Cushing's  syndrome:  A  systematic  review  and  meta-analysis.  Eur  J  Intern  Med. 
2012;23(3):278-82. 
137.  Graybill  JR,  Galgiani  JN,  Jorgensen  JH,  Strandberg  DA.  Ketoconazole  therapy  for  fungal 
urinary tract infections. J Urol. 1983;129(1):68-70. 
138.  Greenblatt  DJ,  Venkatakrishnan  K,  Harmatz  JS,  Parent  SJ,  von  Moltke  LL.  Sources  of 
variability  in  ketoconazole  inhibition  of  human  cytochrome  P450  3A  in  vitro.    Xenobiotica. 
2010;40(10):713-20. 
139.  Greenblatt DJ, Wright CE, von Moltke LL, Harmatz JS, Ehrenberg BL, Harrel LM, Corbett K, 
Counihan  M,  Tobias  S,  Shader  RI.  Ketoconazole  inhibition  of  triazolam  and  alprazolam 
clearance:  differential  kinetic  and  dynamic  consequences.  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther. 
1998;64(3):237-47.  
140.  Greenblatt DJ, Zhao Y, Venkatakrishnan K, Duan SX, Harmatz JS, Parent SJ, Court MH, von 
Moltke LL. Mechanism of cytochrome P450-3A inhibition by ketoconazole. J Pharm Pharmacol. 
2011;63(2):214-21.  
141.  Greenman  Y.  Management  of  Dyslipidemia  in  Cushing's  Syndrome.  Neuroendocrinology. 
2010;92(1):91-95. 
142.  Grimm SW, Richtand NM, Winter HR, Stams KR, Reele SB. Effects of cytochrome P450 3A 
modulators  ketoconazole  and  carbamazepine  on  quetiapine  pharmacokinetics.  Br  J  Clin 
Pharmacol. 2006;61(1):58-69. 
143.  Gross  BA, Mindea SA,  Pick AJ, Chandler JP  et al. Diagnostic approach to Cushing disease. 
Neurosurg Focus 2007; 23 (3); E1. 
144.  Gross  BA,  Mindea  SA,  Pick  AJ,  Chandler  JP,  Batjer  HH.  Medical  management  of  Cushing 
disease. Neurosurg Focus. 2007;23(3):E10. 
145.  Grub  S,  Bryson  H,  Goggin  T,  Lüdin  E,  Jorga  K.  The  interaction  of  saquinavir  (soft  gelatin 
capsule) with ketoconazole, erythromycin and rifampicin: comparison of the effect in healthy 
volunteers and in HIV-infected patients. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2001;57(2):115-21.  
146.  Gupta A, Unadkat JD, Mao Q. Interactions of azole antifungal agents with the human breast 
cancer resistance protein (BCRP). J Pharm Sci. 2007;96(12):3226-35. 
147.  Gupta AK, Sexton RC, Rudney H. Differential regulation of low density lipoproteinsuppression 
of HMG-CoA reductase activity incultured cells by inhibitors of cholesterol biosynBaldthesis. J 
Lipid Res. 1990;31(2):203-15. 
148.  Gylling H, Vanhanen H, Miettinen TA. Effects of ketoconazole on cholesterol precursorsand 
low density lipoprotein kinetics inhypercholesterolemia. J Lipid Res. 1993;34(1):59-67. 
149.  Hamdy DA, Brocks DR. A stereospecific high-performance liquid chromatographic assay for 
the determination of ketoconazole enantiomers in rat plasma. Biomedical Chromatography 
2008; 22: 542-547.  
150.  Hamdy  DA,  Brocks  DR.  Nonlinear  stereoselective  pharmacokinetics  of  ketoconazole  in  rat 
after administration of racemate. Chirality 2009; 21: 704-712 
151.  Hamdy DA, Brocks DR. The effect of increased lipoprotein levels on the pharmacokinetics of 
ketoconazole enantiomers in the rat. Xenobiotica, 2011;41(2): 137-143 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 99/115 
  
152.  Hammer  GD,  Tyrrell  JB,  Lamborn  KR,  Applebury  CB,  Hannegan  ET,  Bell  S,  Rahl  R,  Lu  A, 
Wilson,  CB.  Transsphenoidal  microsurgery  for  Cushing’s  disease:  initial  outcome  and 
long-term results. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2004;89(12):6348-57. 
153.  Han S, Zhang Y, Chen Q, Duan Y, Zheng T, Hu X, Zhang Z, Zhang L. Fluconazole inhibits hERG 
K(+)  channel  by  direct  block  and  disruption  of  protein  trafficking.  Eur  J  Pharmacol. 
2011;650(1):138-44. 
154.  Harinarayan  CV,  Gupta  S,  Ammini  AC,  Karmarkar  MG,  Gupta  R,  Sharma  LK,  Ahuja  MM. 
Clinical  utility  of  ketoconazole  in  cases  of  adrenocortical  carcinoma.  Indian  J  Cancer. 
1991;28(4):196-201. 
155.  Harnicar  S,  Adel  N,  Jurcic  J.  Modification  of  vincristine  dosing  during  concomitant  azole 
leukemia  patients.  J  Oncol  Pharm  Pract. 
in  adult  acute 
lymphoblastic 
therapy 
2009;15(3):175-82. 
156.  Harris RZ, Salfi M, Sullivan JT, Padhi D. Pharmacokinetics of cinacalcet hydrochloride when 
administered with ketoconazole. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2007;46(6):495-501. 
157.  Hatorp  V,  Hansen  KT,  Thomsen  MS.  Influence  of  drugs  interacting  with  CYP3A4  on  the 
pharmacokinetics,  pharmacodynamics,  and  safety  of  the  prandial  glucose  regulator 
repaglinide. J Clin Pharmacol. 2003;43(6):649-60. 
158.  Heckman WR, Kane BR, Pakyz RE, Cosentino MJ. The effect of ketoconazole on endocrine and 
reproductive parameters in male mice and rats. Journal of Andrology 1992; 13: 191-198  
159.  Heel R.C. Ketoconazole in the management of fungal disease. 1982. In Levine (Ed.), ADIS 
Press, Sydney, pp. 67-73. 
160.  Heinig  R,  Adelmann  HG,  Ahr  G.  The  effect  of  ketoconazole  on  the  pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics and safety of nisoldipine. Eur J Clin Pharmacol 1999;55(1):57-60. 
161.  Herman BD, Fleishaker JC, Brown MT. Ketoconazole inhibits the clearance of the enantiomers 
of the antidepressant reboxetine in humans. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1999;66(4):374-9. 
162.  Higashi Y, Omura M, Suzuki K, Inano H and Oshima H. Ketoconazole as a possible universal 
inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 dependent enzymes: its mode of inhibition.  Endocrinol Japan 
1987; 34: 105-115 
163.  Higashi  Y,  Omura  M,  Suzuki  K,  Inano  H,  Oshima  H.  Ketoconazole  as  a  possible  universal 
inhibitor  of  cytochrome  P-450  dependent  enzymes:  its  mode  of  inhibition.  Endocrinol  Jpn. 
1987;34(1):105-15. 
164.  Hille  U,  Zimmer  C,  Vock  CA,  Hartmann  RW  .  First  selective  CTP11B1  inhibitors  for  the 
treatment of cortisol-dependent diseases. ACS Med Chem Lett 2011; 2: 2-6 
165.  Hocher  B,  Bähr  V,  Dorfmüller  S,  Oelkers  W.  Hypercortisolism  with  non-pigmented 
micronodular adrenal hyperplasia: transition from pituitary-dependant to adrenal-dependant 
Cushing’s syndrome. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1993;128(2):120-5. 
166.  Höfle  G,  Gasser  RW,  Lhotta  K,  Janetschek  G,  Kreczy  A,  Finkenstedt  G.  Adrenocortical 
carcinoma  evolving  after  diagnosis  of  preclinical  Cushing’s  syndrome  in  an  adrenal 
incidentaloma. Horm Res, 1998;50:237-242. 
167.  Hofmann BM, Hlavac M, Martinez R, Buchfelder M, Müller OA, Fahlbusch R. Long-term results 
after microsurgery for Cushing disease experience with 426 primary operations over 35 years. 
J Neurosurg. 2008;108:9-18. 
168.  Holgado-Galicia  MV,  Magno  JD,  Acelajado-Valdenor  C,  Isip-Tan  IT,  Lim-Abrahan  MA. 
Cushing's syndrome in pregnancy. BMJ Case Reports. 2011; doi: 10.1136/bcr.01.2011.3720. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 100/115 
  
169.  Hsiao P, Bui T, Ho, RJY, Unadkat JD. In vitro-to-in vivo prediction of P-glycoprotein-based 
drug interactions at the human and rodent blood-brain barrier. Drug Metab and Dispos 2008; 
36: 481-484 
170.  http://www.orpha.net/consor/cgi-bin/OC_Exp.php?lng=en&Expert=553. European portal for 
rare diseases. 2013 
171.  Huang  H,  Wang  H,  Sinz  M,  Zoeckler  M,  Staudinger  J,  Redinbo  MR,  Teotico  DG,  Locker  J, 
Kalpana  GV,  Mani  S.  Inhibition  of  drug  metabolism  by  blocking  the  activation  of  nuclear 
receptors by ketoconazole. Oncogene. 2007;26(2):258-68. 
172.  Huang  YC,  Colaizzi  JL,  Bierman  RH,  Woestenborghs  R,  Heykants  J.  Pharmacokinetics  and 
Dose Proportionality of Ketoconazole in Normal Volunteers. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 
1986;30(2):206-10. 
173. 
174. 
175. 
176. 
177. 
178. 
179. 
180. 
181. 
182. 
183. 
184. 
185. 
Invitti  C,  Pecori  F,  De  Martin  M,  Cavagnini  F and  the  study  group  of  the  Italian  society  of 
endocrinology on the pathophysiology of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis. Diagnosis 
and  management  of  Cushing’s  syndrome:  Results  of  an  Italian  multicentre  study.  J  Clin 
Endocrinol Metab. 1999;84(2):440-8. 
Irsy G, Koranyi L. Neuroendocrinological effects of ketoconazole in rats. Acta Endocrinologica 
1990; 122: 409-413 
Jager LP, De Graaf GJ, Widjaja-Greefkes HCA. Screening for drug-induced alterations in the 
production and release of steroid hormones by porcine adrenocortical cells in vitro. Toxicology 
in Vitro 1996; 10: 595-608 
Jalava KM, Olkkola KT, Neuvonen PJ. Itraconazole greatly increases plasma concentrations 
and effects of felodipine. Clin Pharmacol Ther 1997; 61(4):410-5. 
Jamis-Dow  CA,  Pearl  ML,  Watkins  PB,  Blake  DS,  Klecker  RW,  Collins  JM.  Predicting  drug 
interactions  in  vivo  from  experiments  in  vitro.  Human  studies  with  paclitaxel  and 
ketoconazole. Am J Clin Oncol. 1997;20(6):592-9. 
Janssen  PA,  Symoens  JE.  Hepatic  reactions  during  ketoconazole  treatment.  Am  J  Med. 
1983;74(1B):80-5.  
Jardin  CG,  Putney  D,  Michaud  S.  Assessment  of  drug-induced  torsade  de  pointes  risk  for 
hospitalized  high-risk  patients  receiving  QT-prolonging  agents.  Ann  Pharmacother. 
2014;48(2):196-202.  
Jeffcoate WJ, Rees LH, Tomlin S, Jones AE, Edwards CR, Besser GM. Metyrapone in long-term 
management of Cushing's disease. Br Med J. 1977;2(6081):215-7. 
Jerling  M,  Huan  BL,  Leung  K,  Chu  N,  Abdallah  H,  Hussein  Z.  Studies  to  investigate  the 
pharmacokinetic interactions between ranolazine and ketoconazole, diltiazem, or simvastatin 
during combined administration in healthy subjects. J Clin Pharmacol. 2005;45(4):422-33. 
Johansson M, Sanderson JT, Lund B-O. Effects of 3-MeSO2-DDE and some CYP inhibitors on 
glucocorticoid  steroidogenesis  in  the  H295R  human  adrenocortical  carcinoma  cell  line. 
Toxicology In Vitro 2002; 16: 113-121 
Johnson FM, Agrawal S, Burris H, Rosen L, Dhillon N, Hong D, Blackwood-Chirchir A, Luo FR, 
Sy O, Kaul S, Chiappori A. A Phase 1 pharmacokinetic and drug-interaction study of dasatinib 
in patients with advanced solid tumors. Cancer. 2010;116(6):1582-91. 
Jones  HE,  Simpson  JG,  Artis  WM.  Oral  ketoconazole.  An  effective  and  safe  treatment  for 
dermatophytosis. Arch Dermatol. 1981;117(3):129-34. 
Joubert M, Reznik Y, Verdon R. “Rescue” bilateral adrenalectomy in paraneoplastic Cushing’s 
syndrome with invasive Aspergillus fumigatus infection. Am J Med Sci. 2007;334(6):497-498. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 101/115 
  
186. 
Jung  EG,  Haas  PJ,  Bräutigam  M,  Weidinger  G.  Systemic  treatment  of  skin  candidosis:  a 
randomized comparison of terbinafine and ketoconazole. Mycoses. 1994;37(9-10):361-5. 
187.  Kamenický  P,  Droumaguet  C,  Salenave  S,  Blanchard  A  et  al.Mitotane,  metyrapone,  and 
ketoconazole  combination  therapy  as  an  alternative  to  rescue  adrenalectomy  for  severe 
ACTH-dependent Cushing's syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2011 Sep; 96(9): 2796-804. 
188.  Kandrotas RJ, Slaughter RL, Brass C, Jusko WJ. Ketoconazole effects on methylprednisolone 
disposition  and  their  joint  suppression  of  endogenous  cortisol.  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther 
1987;42(4):465-70. 
189.  Kasperlik-Zatuska  AA,  Zgliczynski  W.  Increased  prevalence  of  thyroid  autoimmunity  in 
patients successfully treated for Cushing's disease. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2001;54(3):411. 
190.  Kehrer  DF,  Mathijssen RH, Verweij J, de Bruijn P, Sparreboom A.  Modulation of irinotecan 
metabolism by ketoconazole. J Clin Oncol. 2002;20(14):3122-9. 
191.  Kempen HJ, van Son K, Cohen LH, Griffioen M, Verboom H, Havekes L. Effect of ketoconazole 
on cholesterol synthesis and on HMG-CoA reductase and LDL-receptor activities in Hep G2 
cells. Biochem Pharmacol. 1987;36(8):1245-1249. 
192.  Kempsford  R,  Allen  A,  Bal  J,  Rubin  D,  Tombs  L.  The  effect  of  ketoconazole  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  inhaled  fluticasone  furoate  and  vilanterol 
trifenatate in healthy subjects. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2013;75(6):1478-87. 
193.  Kharasch  ED,  Vangveravong  S,  Buck  N,  London  A,  Kim  T,  Blood  J,  Mach  RH.  Concurrent 
assessment  of  hepatic  and  intestinal  cytochrome  P450  3A  activities  using  deuterated 
alfentanil. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2011;89(4):562-70. 
194.  Khazan  M,  Mathis  AS.  Probable  case  of  torsades  de  pointes  induced  by  fluconazole. 
Pharmacotherapy. 2002;22(12):1632-7. 
195.  Kikuchi K, Nagatomo T, Abe H, Kawakami K, Duff HJ, Makielski JC, January CT, Nakashima Y. 
Blockade  of  HERG  cardiac  K+  current  by  antifungal  drug  miconazole.  Br  J  Pharmacol. 
2005;144(6):840-8. 
196.  Kim  JH,  Lim  JP,  Kang  TW.  Effect  of  biphenyl  dimethyl  dicarboxylate  on  the  humoral 
immunosuppression by ketoconazole in mice. Arch Pharm Res 1999a; 22: 124-129 
197.  Kim JH, Kang TW. Effect of biphenyl dimethyl dicarboxylate on the cellular and nonspecific 
immunosuppressions by ketoconazole in mice. Arch Pharm Res 1999b; 22: 255-261 
198.  Kim JW, Yi SJ, Kim TE, Lim KS, Yoon SH, Cho JY, Lee MG, Song IS, Shin SG, Jang IJ, Yu KS. 
lncreased  Systemic  Exposure  of  Fimasartan,  an  Angiotensin  Il  Receptor  Antagonist,  by 
Ketoconazole and Rifampicin. The journal of Clinicat Pharmacology 2012; 53(1) 75-81 
199.  Kivistö  KT,  Lamberg  TS,  Neuvonen  PJ.  Interactions  of  buspirone  with  itraconazole  and 
rifampicin:  effects  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  active  1-(2-pyrimidinyl)-piperazine 
metabolite of buspirone. Pharmacol Toxicol. 1999;84(2):94-7. 
200.  Kong  HL,  Lee  KO,  Cheah  JS.  Medical  treatment  of  Cushing’s  syndrome  with 
aminoglutethimide and ketoconazole. Singapore Med J. 1992;33:523-524. 
201.  Korashy HM, Shayeganpour A, Brocks DR, El-Kadi AOS. Induction of cytochrome p450 1A1 by 
ketoconazole and itraconazole but not fluconazole in murine and human hepatoma cell lines. 
Toxicol Sci 2007; 97: 32-43. 
202.  Kornely E, Schlaghecke R, Horster FA. Palliative therapy of an ectopic Cushing’s syndrome 
due to a metastatic carcinoid tumor. Klin Wochenschr. 1991;69:173-176. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 102/115 
  
203.  Kotegawa  T,  Laurijssens  BE,  Durol  AL,  Greenblatt  DJ.  Pharmacokinetics  and 
electroencephalographic effects of ketoconazole in the rat. Biopharm Drug Dispos 1999; 20: 
49-52 
204.  Kovarik JM, Beyer D, Bizot MN, Jiang Q, Shenouda M, Schmouder RL. Blood concentrations of 
everolimus are markedly increased by ketoconazole. J Clin Pharmacol. 2005;45(5):514-8. 
205.  Kraemer FB, Pont A. Inhibition of cholesterol synthesis by ketoconazole. Am J Med. 1986; 80: 
616-622. 
206.  Kroiss M, Quinkler M, Lutzt WK, Allolio B, Fassnacht M. Drug interactions with mitotane by 
induction  of  CYP3A4  metabolism  in  the  clinical  management  of  adrenocortical  carcinoma. 
Accepted Article; doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2011.04214 
207.  Kruimel  JW,  Smals  AG,  Beex  LV,  Swinkels  LM,  Pieters  GF,  Kloppenborg  PW.  Favourable 
response of a virilizing adrenocortical carcinoma to preoperative treatment with ketoconazole 
and postoperative chemotherapy. Act Endocrinologica (Copenh). 1991;124:492-496. 
208.  Krysiak  R,  Kedzia  A,  Okopień  B. Cyclic  Cushing's  syndrome.  Acta  Clinica  Belgica. 
2012;67(1):30-33. 
209.  Kuipers F, Havinga R, Huijsmans CM, Vonk RJ, Princen HM. Inhibition and induction of bile acid 
synthesis by ketoconazole. Effects on bile formation in the rat. Lipids. 1989;24(9):759-64. 
210.  Kukanich  B,  Hubin  M.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  ketoconazole  and  its  effects  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  midazolam  and  fentanyl  in  dogs.  J  Vet  Pharmacol  Therap  2010;  33: 
42-49 
211.  Kummer O, Hammann F, Moser C, Schaller O, Drewe J, Krähenbühl S. Effect of the inhibition 
of CYP3A4 or CYP2D6 on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oxycodone. Eur J 
Clin Pharmacol. 2011;67(1):63-71 
212.  La Rosa S, Marando A, Ghezzi F, Colombo P, Finzi G, Capella C. Cushing’s syndrome due to a 
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor metastatic to the ovaries: a clinicopathological description 
of a case. Endocr Pathol. 2011. 22:118-124. 
213.  Lacoste  D,  Caron  S,  Belanger  A,  Labrie  F.    Effect  of  3-week  treatment  with  D  TRP-6  des 
–glyamide  LHRH  ethylamide  aminoglutethimide  ketoconazole  or  flutamide  alone  or  in 
combination on testicular serum adrenal and prostatic steroid level in dog. J Steroid Biochem 
1989; 33: 233-242 
214.  Lake-Bakaar G, Scheuer PJ, Sherlock S. Hepatic reactions associated with ketoconazole in the 
United Kingdom. Br Med J (Clin Res Ed). 1987;294(6569):419-22. 
215.  Lake-Bakaar G, Tom W, Lake-Bakaar D, Gupta N, Beidas S, Elsakr M, Straus E. Gastropathy 
and  ketoconazole  malabsorption  in  the  acquired  immunodeficiency  syndrome  (AIDS).  Ann 
Intern Med. 1988;109(6):471-3. 
216.  Lambert A, Mitchell R, Robertson WR. The effect of ketoconazole on adrenal and testicular 
steroidogenesis in vitro. Biochem Pharmacol. 1986;35(22):3999-4004. 
217.  Lamberts  SW,  Bons  EG,  Bruining  HA,  de  Jong  FH.  Differential  effects  of  the  imidazole 
derivatives etomidate, ketoconazole and miconazole and of metyrapone on the secretion of 
cortisol and its precursors by human adrenocortical cells. J Pharm Exp Therap 1987; 240: 
259-264 
218.  Larsen  UL1,  Hyldahl  Olesen  L,  Guldborg  Nyvold  C,  Eriksen  J,  Jakobsen  P,  Østergaard  M, 
Autrup  H,  Andersen  V.  Human  intestinal  P-glycoprotein  activity  estimated  by  the  model 
substrate digoxin. Scand J Clin Lab Invest. 2007;67(2):123-34. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 103/115 
  
219.  Latrille  F,  Charuel  C,  Lodola  A.  Imidazole  antifungal  agents  reduce  production  on 
17β-estradiol by rat ovaries in vitro. Biochem Pharmacol 1987; 36: 1863-1866 
220.  Leal-Cerro  A,  Garcia-Luna  PP,  Villar  J,  Miranda  ML,  Pereira  JL,  Gomez-Pan  A,  Astorga  R. 
Arterial  hypertension  as  a  complication  of  prolonged  ketoconazole  treatment.  J  Hypertens 
Suppl. 1989;7(6):S212-3. 
221.  Lebrun-Vignes  B,  Diquet  B,  Chosidow  O.  Clinical  pharmacokinetics  of  mizolastine.  Clin 
Pharmacokinet. 2001;40(7):501-7.  
222.  Legendre  R,  Steltz  M.  A  multi-center,  double-blind  comparison  of  ketoconazole  and 
griseofulvin  in  the  treatment  of  infections  due  to  dermatophytes.  Rev  Infect  Dis. 
1980;2(4):586-91. 
223.  Lelawongs P, Barone JA, Colaizzi JL, Hsuan AT, Mechlinski W, Legendre R, Guarnieri J. Effect 
of  food  and  gastric  acidity  on  absorption  of  orally  administered  ketoconazole.  lin  Pharm. 
1988;7(3):228-35. 
224.  Lewis JH, Zimmerman HJ, Benson GD, Ishak KG. Hepatic injury associated with ketoconazole 
therapy. Gastroenterology. 1984;86:503-513. 
225.  Li KL, Tung SC, Wang PW. The effect of ketoconazole in pre-operative treatment in Cushing’s 
syndrome: three cases report. Chang Gung Med J. 1996;19(4):358-363. 
226.  Li X, Song X, Kamenecka  T, Cameron MD. Discovery of a highly selective CYP3A4 inhibitor 
suitable  for  reaction  phenotyping  studies  and  differentiation  of  CYP3A4  and  CYP3A5.  Drug 
Metab Dispos 2012; 40: 1803-1809 
227.  Lien  Y-H,  Huang  H-P.  Use  of  ketoconazole  to  treat  dogs  with  pituitary-dependent 
hyperadrenocorticism: 48 cases (1994-2007). J Am Vet Med Assoc 2008; 233: 1896-1901 
228.  Lin CL, Hu JT, Yang SS, Shin CY, Huang SH. Unexpected emergence of acute hepatic injury in 
patients treated repeatedly with ketoconazole. Clin Gastroenterof April 2008; 42:4 
229.  Lin·TH, Hu·K, Flarakos J,·Sharr-McMahon M, Mangold JB, He H, Wang Y. Assessment of the 
absorption,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  [14C]pasireotide  in  healthy  volunteers  using 
accelerator mass spectrometry. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol (2013) 72:181-188 
230.  Lindholm J, Juul S, Jørgensen JO, Astrup J, Bjerre P, Feldt-Rasmussen U, Hagen C, Jørgensen 
J, Kosteljanetz M, Kristensen L, Laurberg P, Schmidt K, Weeke J. Incidence and late prognosis 
of  Cushing's  syndrome:  a  population-based  study. 
J  Clin  Endocrinol  Metab. 
2001;86(1):117-123. 
231.  Lindsay  JR,  Jonklaas  J,  Oldfield  EH,  Nieman  LK.  Cushing’s  Syndrome  during  Pregnancy: 
the  Literature.  J  Clin  Endocrinol  Metab. 
Personal  Experience  and  Review  of 
2005;90(5):3077-83. 
232.  Liu PY, Lee CH, Lin LJ, Chen JH. Refractory anaphylactic shock associated with ketoconazole 
treatment. Ann Pharmacother. 2005;39(3):547-50. 
233.  Loli P, Berselli ME, Tagliaferri M. Use of ketoconazole in the treatment of Cushing’s syndrome. 
J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1986;63(6):1365-71. 
234.  Loose  DS,  Price  Stover  E,  Feldman  D.  Ketoconazole  blocks  adrenal  steroidogenesis  by 
inhibiting cytochrome P450-dependent enzymes. J Clin Invest. 1983a; 71: 1495-1499 
235.  Loose DS, Stover EP, Feldman D. Ketoconazole binds to glucocorticoid receptors and exhibits 
glucocorticoid antagonist activity in cultured cells. J Clin Invest 1983b; 72: 404-408 
236.  Luisetto G, Zangari M, Camozzi V, Boscaro M, Sonino N, Fallo F. Recovery of bone mineral 
density  after  surgical  cure,  but  not  by  ketoconazole  treatment,  in  Cushing’s  syndrome. 
Osteoporos Int. 2001;12:956-960. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 104/115 
  
237.  Ma YM,  Ma ZQ, Gui CQ, Yao JS, Sun RY. Hepatotoxicity and toxicokinetics of ketoconazole in 
rabbits.  Acta Pharmacologica Sinica 2003; 24: 778-782. 
238.  Mahatthanatrakul W, Sriwiriyajan S, Ridtitid W, Boonleang J, Wongnawa M, Rujimamahasan 
N, Pipatrattanaseree W. Effect of cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole on risperidone 
pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers. J Clin Pharm Ther. 2012;37(2):221-5. 
239.  Maksymiuk  AW,  Levine  HB,  Bodey  GP.  Pharmacokinetics  of  ketoconazole  in  patients  with 
neoplastic diseases. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1982;22(1):43-6. 
240.  Malhotra B, Sachse R, Wood N. Evaluation of drug-drug interactions with fesoterodine. Eur J 
Clin Pharmacol. 2009;65(6):551-60. 
241.  Malozowski  S,  Mericq  V,  Cassorla  F.  Effects  of  ketoconazole  on  rat  ovarian  steroidogenic 
enzymatic activities. Res Comm Chem Pathol Pharmacol 1986; 52: 403-406 
242.  Männistö  PT,  Mäntylä  R,  Nykänen  S,  Lamminsivu  U,  Ottoila  P.  Impairing  effect  of  food  on 
ketoconazole absorption. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1982;21(5):730-3. 
243.  Marcelín-Jiménez  G,  Hernández  J,  Angeles  AP,  Contreras  L,  Hinojosa  M,  Rivera  L, 
Martínez-Rossier  L,  Amancio  O,  Fernández  A.  Bioequivalence  evaluation  of  two  brands  of 
ketoconazole  tablets  (Onofin-K  and  Nizoral)  in  a  healthy  female  Mexican  population. 
Biopharm Drug Dispos. 2004;25(5):203-9. 
244.  Marin P, Henry RR, Mudaliar SR, Hsueh W, Birketvedt GS. The effect of modified-releaseof 
ketoconazole  on  insulin  resistance  in  patients  with  severe  metabolic  syndrome.  Immun, 
Endoc and Metab Agents in Med. Chem. 2012;12:64-72. 
245.  Marty MS, Crissman JW, Carney EW. Evaluation of the EDSTAC female pubertal assay in CD 
rats  using  17b-Estradiol,  steroid  biosynthesis inhibitors  and  a  thyroid  inhibitor.  Toxicol  Sci 
1999; 52: 269-277 
246.  Marty MS, Crissman JW, Carney EW. Evaluation of the male pubertal onset assay to detect 
testosterone and steroid biosynthesis inhibitors in CD rats. Toxicol Sci 2001; 60: 285-295 
247.  Matarazzo P, Tuli G, Tessaris D, Verna F, Rabonne I, Lezo A, Brunati A, Salizzoni M, Carbonaro 
G,  Terzolo  M,  Reimondo  G,  Papotti  M,  Lala  R.  Cushing  syndrome  due  to  ectopic 
adrenocorticotropic  hormone  secretion 
J  Pediatr  Met. 
2011;24(3-4):219-222. 
in  a  3-year-old  child. 
248.  Matthew D, Brennan B, Zomorodi K and Houston JB. Disposition of azole antifungal agents. I: 
Nonlinearities in ketoconazole clearance and biding in rat liver. Pharm Res 1993; 10: 418-422 
249.  McCance DR, Ritchie CM, Sheridan B, Atkinson AB. Acute hypoadrenalism and hepatotoxicity 
after treatment with ketoconazole. Lancet. 1987;1(8532):573. 
250.  McNulty RM, Lazor JA, Sketch M. Transient increase in plasma quinidine concentrations during 
ketoconazole-quinidine therapy. Clin Pharm. 1989;8(3):222-5. 
251.  Miettinen  TA.  Cholesterol  metabolism  during  ketoconazole  treatment  in  man.  J  Lipid  Res. 
1988;29(1):43-51. 
252.  Miller  JW,  Crapo  L.  The  medical  treatment  of  Cushing’s  syndrome.  Endocr  Rev. 
1993;14(4):443-58. 
253.  Mineshima H. Fukuta T. Kato E. Uchida K. Aoki T. Matsuno Y. Mori C. Malformation spectrum 
induced by ketoconazole after single administration to pregnant rats during the critical period 
-  comparison  with  vitamin  A-induced  malformation  spectrum.  J  Appl  Toxicol  2012;  32: 
98-107 
254.  Minniti G, Brada M. Radiotherapy and Radiosurgery for Cushing’s Disease. Arq Bras Endocrinol 
Metab 2007;51-8 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 105/115 
  
255.  Misaka S, Miyazaki N, Yatabe MS, Ono T, Shikama Y, Fukushima T, Kimura J. Pharmacokinetic 
and pharmacodynamic interaction of nadolol with itraconazole, rifampicin and grapefruit juice 
in healthy volunteers. J Clin Pharmacol. 2013;53(7):738-45. 
256.  Mobacken H, Moberg S. Ketoconazole Treatment of 13 Patients with Chronic Mucocntaneous 
Candidiasis. A Prospective 3.:Year Trial. Dermatologica 173:229-236 (1986) 
257.  Mohamed  KN.  Severe  photodermatitis  during  ketoconazole  therapy.  Clin  Exp  Dermatol. 
1988;13(1):54. 
258.  Mok  NS,  Lo  YK,  Tsui  PT,  Lam  CW.  Ketoconazole  induced  torsades  de  pointes  without 
concomitant use of QT interval-prolonging drug. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2005;16(12): 
1375-7. 
259.  Moncet  D,  Morando  DJ,  Pitoia  F,  Katz  SB,  Rossi  MA,  Bruno  OD.  Ketoconazole  therapy:  an 
efficacious alternative to achieve eucortisolism in patients with Cushing's syndrome. Medicina 
(B Aires). 2007;67(1):26-31. 
260.  Morishita K, Okumura H, Ito N, Takahashi N. Primary culture system of adrenocortical cells 
from dogs to evaluate direct effects of chemicals on steroidogenesis. Toxicology 2001; 165: 
171-178 
261.  Mortimer RH, Cannell GR, Thew CM, Galligan JP. Ketoconazole and plasma and urine steroids 
levels in Cushing’s disease. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 1991;18(8):563-9. 
262.  Mueck  W,  Kubitza  D,  Becka  M.  Co-administration  of  rivaroxaban  with drugs  that  share  its 
elimination  pathways:  pharmacokinetic  effects  in  healthy  subjects.  Br  J  Clin  Pharmacol. 
2013;76(3):455-66. 
263.  Müssig K, Gallwitz B, Häring HU, Seif FJ. Manifestation of thyroid autoimmunity in patients 
successfully treated for hypercortisolism. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2004;61(2):284. 
264.  Naftalovich  S,  Yefenof  E,  Eilam  Y.  Antitumor  effects  of  ketoconazole  and  trifluoperazine  in 
murine T-cell lymphomas. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 1991; 28: 384-390. 
265.  Nagai K, Miyamori I, Ikeda M. Effect of ketoconazole (an imidazole antimycotic agent) and 
other  inhibitors  of  steroidogenesis  on  cytochrome  P450-catalyzed  reactions.  J  Steroid 
Biochem 1986; 24: 321-323 
266.  Nagai  K,  Miyamori  I,  Takeda  R.  Effect  of  ketocaonazole,  etomidate  and  other  inhibitors  of 
steroidogenesis on cytochrome P-450SCCII-catalyzed reactions. J Steroid Biochem 1987; 28: 
333-336 
267.  Neary  NM,  Booker  OJ,  Abel  BS,  Matta  JR,  Muldoon  N,  Sinaii  N,  Pettigrew  RI,  Nieman  LK, 
Gharib AM. Hypercortisolism Is Associated With increased Coronary Arterial Atherosclerosis: 
Analysis  of  Noninvasive  Coronary  Angiography  Using  Multidetector  Computerized 
Tomography. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98(5):2045-2052. 
268.  Neary NM, Lopez-Chavez A, Abel BS, Boyce AM, Schaub N, Kwong K, Stratakis CA,  Moran CA, 
Giaccone G, Nieman LK.. Neuroendocrine ACTH-Producing Tumor of the Thymus-Experience 
with 12 Patients over 25 Years. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012;97(7):2223-30. 
269.  Newell-Price  J,  Bertagne  X,  Grossman  AB,  Nieman  LK.  Cushing’s  syndrome.  Lancet. 
2006;367:1605:1617. 
270.  Newell-Price J, Trainer P, Besser M, Grossman A. The diagnosis and differential diagnosis of 
Cushing’s syndrome and pseudo-cushing’s states. Endocr Rev. 1998;19(5):647-72. 
271.  Newell-Price J. Ketoconazole as an adrenal steroidogenesis inhibitor: effectiveness and risks 
in the treatment of Cushing's disease. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014; 99(5):1586-1588.  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 106/115 
  
272.  Nieman  LK..  Update  in  the  medical  therapy  of  Cushing's  disease.  Curr  Opin  Endocrinol 
Diabetes Obes. 2013;20(4):330-4.  
273.  Niepomniszcze  H,  Pitoia  F.  Resolution  of  Cushing's  syndrome  and  exacerbation  of 
autoimmune thyroiditis. Thyroid. 2011;21(2):207. 
274.  Nizoral – EC decision of 11.10.2013 concerning, in the framework of Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, the marketing authorisations for 
medicinal  products  for  human  use  for  oral  use  which  contain  the  active  substance 
"ketoconazole". 
275.  Nizoral (Ketoconazole): Drug Safety Communication - Potentially Fatal Liver Injury, Risk of 
Drug Interactions, and Adrenal Gland Problems. News, CID, 2013; 57. 
276.  NoorZurani MH, Vicknasingam B, Narayanan S. Itraconazole-induced torsade de pointes in a 
patient receiving methadone substitution therapy. Drug Alcohol Rev 2009;28(6):688-90. 
277.  Ntali G, Asimakopoulou A, Siamatras T, Komninos J, Vassiliadi D, Tzanela M, Tsagarakis S, 
Grossman AB, Wass JAH, Karavitaki N. Mortality in Cushing's syndrome: Systematic Analysis 
of  a  Large  Series  with  Prolonged  Follow-up.  Mortality  in  Cushing's  syndrome:  systematic 
analysis of a large series with prolonged follow-up. Eur J Endocrinol. 2013;169 (5):715-723. 
278.  O’Connor JC, Frame SR, Ladics GS. Evaluation of a 15-day screening assay using intact male 
rats for identifying steroid biosynthesis inhibitors and thyroid modulators. Toxicol Sciences 
2002; 69: 79-91 
279.  Oelkers W, Bähr V, Hensen J, Pickartz H. Primary adrenocortical micronodular adenomatosis 
causing  Cushing's  syndrome.  Effects  of  ketoconazole  on  steroid  production  and  in  vitro 
performance of adrenal cells. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1986;113(3):370-7. 
280.  Olkkola KT, Backman JT, Neuvonen PJ. Midazolam should be avoided in patients receiving the 
systemic antimycotics ketoconazole or itraconazole. Clin Pharmacol Ther 1994;55(5):481-5. 
281.  Owens  RC  Jr,  Nolin  TD.  Antimicrobial-Associated  QT  Interval  Prolongation:  Pointes  of 
Interest.Clinical practices CID 2006;43:1603-11 
282.  Owens  RC  Jr.  QT  Prolongation  with  Antimicrobial  Agents.  Understanding  the  Significance. 
Drugs 2004;64 (10):1091-1124 
283.  Pardes  E,  De  Yampey  JE,  Moses  DF  and  De  Nicola  AF.  Glicocorticoid  treatment,  Cushing’s 
disease and ketoconazole. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol 1991; 39: 233-238 
284.  Parente F, Ardizzone S, Cernuschi M, Antinori S, Esposito R, Moroni M, Lazzarin A, Bianchi 
Porro G. Prevention of symptomatic recurrences of esophageal candidiasis in AIDS patients 
after the first episode: a prospective open study. Am J Gastroenterol. 1994;89(3):416-20. 
285.  Parthiban A, Sundaram DS, Reddy DJ,  Girinath MR, Prabhakaran R,  Chidambaranathan N. 
Octreotide and ketoconazole for persistent ectopic ACTH Cushing’s disease due to mediastinal 
carcinoid. J Assoc Physicians India. 1995;43(2):140. 
286.  Paslakis G, Lecei O, Stalla GK, Landgraf R, Uhr M, Hamann B, Luppa P, Gilles M, Heuser I, 
Deschle M. The effect of treatment with ketoconazole on central CRH systems of depressed 
patients. Hum Psychopharmacol. 2011;26(1):35-40. 
287.  Patel CG, Li L, Girgis S, Kornhauser DM, Frevert EU, Boulton DW. Two-way pharmacokinetic 
interaction  studies  between  saxagliptin  and  cytochrome  P450  substrates  or  inhibitors: 
simvastatin, diltiazem extended-release, and ketoconazole. Clin Pharmacol. 2011;3:13-25. 
288.  Patil  CG,  Prevedello  DM,  Lad  SP,  Vance  ML,  Thorner  MO,  Katznelson  L,  Laws  ER.  Late 
recurrences  of  Cushing’s  disease  after  initial  successful  transsphenoidal  surgery.  J  Clin 
Endocrinol Metab. 2008;93(2):358-362. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 107/115 
  
289.  Pesce  ME,  Acevedo  X,  Bustamante  D,  Miranda  HE,  Pinardi  G.  Effects  of  ketoconazole  on 
oestrus cycle and convulsant action of pentylenetetrazol in mice. Pharmacol Toxicol 2001; 89: 
312-314 
290.  Pivonello R, De Martino MC, Cappabianca P, De Leo M, Faggiano A, Lombardi G, Hofland LJ, 
Lamberts SW, Colao A. The medical treatment of Cushing's disease: effectiveness of chronic 
treatment  with  the  dopamine  agonist  cabergoline  in  patients  unsuccessfully  treated  by 
surgery. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009; 94(1):223-230. 
291.  Pont A, Graybill JR, Craven PC, Galgiani JN, Dismukes WE, Reitz RE, Stevens DA. High-dose 
ketoconazole  therapy  and  adrenal  and  testicular  function  in  humans.  Arch  Intern  Med. 
1984;144(11):2150-3. 
292.  Pont  A,  Williams  PL,  Loose  DS,  Feldman  D,  reitz  RE,  Bochra  C,  Stevens  DA.  Ketoconazole 
blocks adrenal steroid synthesis. Ann Intern Med. 1982;97(3):370-2. 
293.  Prebtani  AP,  Donat  D,  Ezzat  S.  Case  Report:  Worrisome 
striae.  Lancet. 
2000;355(9216):1692. 
294.  Princen HM, Huijsmans CM, Kuipers F, Vonk RJ, Kempen HJ. Ketoconazole blocks bile acid 
synthesis  in  hepatocyte  monolayer  cultures  and  in  vivo  in  rat  by  inhibiting  cholesterol  7 
alpha-hydroxylase. J Clin Invest. 1986;78(4):1064-71. 
295.  Product  Monograph  of  Novo-Ketoconazole.  Health  Canada  161183,  Novopharm  Limited, 
February 2013  
296.  Raapana A, Koivukangas J, Ebeling T, Pirilä T. Incidence of pituitary adenomas in northern 
Finland in 1992-2007. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010;95(9):4268-4275. 
297.  Rajput  SK,  Singh  JN,  Sharma  SS.  Evaluation  of  terfenadine  and  ketoconazole  induced  QT 
prolongation  in  conscious  telemetered  guinea  pigs.    Pharmacological  Reports  2010;  62: 
683-688 
298.  Rakhit  A,  Pantze  MP,  Fettner  S,  Jones  HM,  Charoin  JE,  Riek  M,  Lum  BL,  Hamilton  M.  The 
effects  of  CYP3A4  inhibition  on  erlotinib  pharmacokinetics:  computer-based  simulation 
(SimCYP) predicts in vivo metabolic inhibition. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2008 Jan;64(1):31-41.  
299.  Remmel  RP,  Amoh  K,  Abdel-Monem  MM.  The  disposition  and  pharmacokinetics  of 
ketoconazole in the rat. Drug Metab Dispos 1987; 15: 735-739 
300.  Rickman T, Garmany R, Doherty T, Benson D, Okusa MD. Hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, 
and hypertension: Cushing’s syndrome in a patient with metatastic prostate adenocarcinoma. 
Am J Kidney Dis. 2001;37(4):838-46. 
301.  Ridtitid  W,  Ratsamemonthon  K,  Mahatthanatrakul  W,  Wongnawa  M.  Pharmacokinetic 
interaction between ketoconazole and praziquantel in healthy volunteers. J Clin Pharm Ther. 
2007;32(6):585-93. 
302.  Riley CM, James MO. Determination of ketoconazole in plasma, liver, lung and adrenal of the 
rat  by  high-performance  liquid  chromatography.    J  Chromatog  Biomed  App  1986;  377: 
287-294 
303.  Roden  DM.  Pharmacogenetics  and  drug-induced  arrhythmias.  Cardiovasc  Res. 
2001;50(2):224-31.  
304.  Rodriguez RJ, Acosta D. Metabolism of ketoconazole and deacetylated ketoconazole by rat 
hepatic microsomes and flavin-containing monooxygenases.  Drug Metab Dispos 1997a; 25: 
772-777 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 108/115 
  
305.  Rodriguez RJ, Acosta D Jr. Metabolism of ketoconazole and deacetylated ketoconazole by rat 
flavin-containing  monooxygenases.  Drug  Metab  Dispos. 
hepatic  microsomes  and 
1997b;25(6):772-7. 
306.  Rodriguez RJ, Acosta D. N-Deacetyl ketoconazole-induced hepatotoxicity in a primary culture 
system of rat hepatocytes. Toxicology 1997b; 117: 123-131 
307.  Rodriguez  RJ,  Buckholz  CJ.  Hepatotoxicity  of  ketoconazole  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats: 
Glutathione depletion, flavin-containing monooxygenases-mediated bioactivation and hepatic 
covalent binding. Xenobiotica 2003; 33: 429-441 
308.  Rodriguez  RJ,  Proteau  PJ,  Marquez  BL,  Hetherington  CL,  Buckholz  CJ,  O'Connell  KL. 
Flavin-containing monooxygenase-mediated metabolism of N-deacetyl ketoconazole by  rat 
hepatic microsomes. Drug Metab Dispos. 1999;27(8):880-6. 
309.  Rohde-Werner  H.  Topical  tioconazole  versus  systemic  ketoconazole  treatment  of  vaginal 
candidiasis. J Int Med Res. 1984;12(5):298-302. 
310.  Rossi R, Tommaselli AP, Panza N, Ghiggi MR, Rezza G, Giuliani M, Suligoi B, De Mercato R, 
Lombardi  G.  Hormonal  and  immunological  pattern  in  a  patient  with  acquired  immuno 
deficiency  syndrome  related  complex  and  Cushing’s  syndrome.  J  Endocrinol  Invest. 
1992;15:849-852. 
311.  Roth RA, Ganey PE. Intrinsic versus idiosyncratic drug-induced hepatotoxicity--two villains or 
one? J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 2010;332(3):692-7. 
312.  Rotstein  DM,  Kertesz  DJ,  Walker  KA,  Swinney  DC.  Stereoisomers  of  ketoconazole: 
preparation and biological activity. J Med Chem. 1992; 35: 2818-2825. 
313.  Said  R,  O’Reilly  EM,  Blumgart  L,  Shia  J,  Abou-Alfa  GK.  Pancreatic  islet  cell  carcinoma 
presenting  with  concurrent  Cushing’s  and  Zollinger-Ellison  syndromes:  case  series  and 
literature review. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010;22(2):246-52. 
314.  Salgado LR, Machado MC, Cukiert A, Liberman B, Kanamura CT, Alves VA. Cushing’s disease 
arising from a clinically nonfunctioning pituitary adenoma. Endocr Pathol. 2006;17(2):191-9. 
315.  Salphati  L,  Benet  LZ.  Effects  of  ketoconazole  on  digoxin  absorption  and  disposition  in  rat 
Pharmacology (Basel) 1998; 56: 308-313 
316.  Savin RC. Systemic ketoconazole in tinea versicolor: A double-blind evaluation and 1-year 
follow-up. Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, 1984;10(5):824-30 
317.  Schnyder  B,  Pichler  WJ.  Mechanisms  of  Drug-Induced  Allergy.  Mayo  Clin  Proc  March 
2009;84(3):268-272 
318.  Schteingart DE. Drugs in the medical treatment of Cushing's syndrome. Expert Opin Emerg 
Drugs. 2009;14(4):661-671. 
319.  Seidegard  J.  Reduction  of  the 
inhibitory  effect  of  ketoconazole  on  budesonide 
pharmacokinetics  by  separation  of  their  time  of  administration.  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther 
2000;68(1):13-7. 
320.  Sekiguchi  N,  Higashida  A,  Kato  M,  Nabuchi  Y,  Mitsui  T,  Takanashi  K,  Aso  Y,  Ishigai  M. 
Prediction  of  Drug-Drug  Interactions  based  on  Time-Dependent  Inhibition  from  High 
Throughput Screening of Cytochrome P450 3A4 Inhibition. Drug Metab. Pharmacokinet 2009;  
24 (6): 500–510 
321.  Shah  NS,  Lila  A.  Childhood  Cushing  Disease:  A  Challenge  in  Diagnosis  and  Management. 
Horm Res Paediatr. 2011;76(1):65-70. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 109/115 
  
322.  Sharma ST, Nieman LK. Prolonged remission after long-term treatment with steroidogenesis 
inhibitors  in  Cushing’s  syndrome  caused  by  ectopic  ACTH  secretion  –  Case  Reports.  Eur  J 
Endocrinol. 2012;166(3):531-6. 
323.  Shepherd FA, Laskey J, Evans WK, Gross PE, Johansen E, Khamsi F. Cushing’s syndrome with 
ectopic corticotropin production and small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol. 1992;10(1):21-7. 
324.  Shi J, Chapel S, Montay G, Hardy P, Barrett JS, Sica D, Swan SK, Noveck R, Leroy B, Bhargava 
VO.  Effect  of  ketoconazole  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and  safety  of  telithromycin  and 
clarithromycin  in  older  subjects  with  renal  impairment.  Int  J  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther. 
2005;43(3):123-33.  
325.  Shimon  I,  Manisterski  Y,  Kamer  AA.  Acute  cortisol  release  during  stereotactic  fractionated 
radiotherapy to an ACTH-secreting pituitary macroadenoma. Pituitary. 2012;15:S41-S45. 
326.  Shin JH, Moon HJ, Kang IH, Kim TS, Kim IY, Park IS, Kim HS, Jeung EB and Han SY. Repeated 
28-day oral toxicity study of ketoconazole in rats based on the draft protocol “Enhanced OECD 
test guideline No. 407” to detect endocrine effects. Arch Toxicol 2006; 80: 797-803 
327.  Shoaf  SE,  Bricmont  P,  Mallikaarjun  S.  Effects  of  CYP3A4  inhibition  and  induction  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  tolvaptan,  a  non-peptide  AVP  antagonist  in 
healthy subjects. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2012;73(4):579-87 
328.  Signifor®, EPAR 2012, Assesmentg Report, Novartis 
329.  Signifor®, EPAR Product Information, Novartis 
330.  Simkó  J,  Csilek  A,  Karászi  J,  Lorincz  I.  Proarrhythmic  Potential  of  Antimicrobial  Agents. 
Infection 2008;36(3):194-206 
331.  Sinnaeve  LJE,  Becks  GP.  Preoperative  ketoconazole  therapy  for  adrenocortical  carcinoma. 
CMAJ. 1989;141(2):131-3. 
332.  Sjoberg P, Ekman L, Lundqvist T. Dose and sex-dependent disposition of ketoconazole in rats.  
Arch Toxicol 1988; 62: 177-180 
333.  Smagin  GN  and  Goeders  NE.  Effects  of  acute  and  chronic  ketoconazole  administration  on 
hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal  axis  activity  and  brain  corticotropin-releasing  hormone. 
Psychoneuroendocrinol 2004; 29: 1223-1228  
334.  Smith  AG.  Potentiation  of  oral  anticoagulants  by  ketoconazole.  Br  Med  J  (Clin  Res  Ed) 
1984;288(6412):188-9. 
335.  Smith DA, Koch KM, Arya N, Bowen CJ, Herendeen JM, Beelen A. Effects of ketoconazole and 
carbamazepine  on  lapatinib  pharmacokinetics  in  healthy  subjects.  Br  J  Clin  Pharmacol. 
2009;67(4):421-6 
336.  Sonino  N,  Boscaro  M,  Merola  G,  Mantero  F.  Prolonged  Treatment  of  Cushing's  Disease  by 
Ketoconazole. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1985;61(4):718-722. 
337.  Sonino  N,  Boscaro  M,  Paoletta  A,  Maniero  F  et  al.Ketoconazole  treatment  in  Cushing's 
syndrome: experience in 34 patients.Clin Endocrinol 1991; 35: 347-352. 
338.  Sonino N, Scaroni C, Biason A, Boscaro M, Mantero F. Low-dose ketoconazole treatment in 
hirsute women. J Endocrinol Invest. 1990;13(1):35-40. 
339.  Sonino N. The endocrine effects of ketoconazole. J Endocrinol Invest. 1986;9:341-347. 
340.  Sonino  N.  The  use  of  ketoconazole  as  an  inhibitor  of  steroid  production.  N  Engl  J  Med. 
1987;317(13):812-8. 
341.  Spina E, Arena D, Scordo MG, Fazio A, Pisani F, Perucca E. Elevation of plasma carbamazepine 
concentrations by ketoconazole in patients with epilepsy. Ther Drug Monit 1997;19(5):535-8. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 110/115 
  
342.  Stalla  GK,  Stalla  J,  Huber  M,  Loeffler  JP,  Höllt  V,  von  Werder  K,  Müller  OA.  Ketoconazole 
Inhibits Corticotropic Cell Function in Vitro. Endocrinology. 1988;122(2):618-23. 
343.  Stalla GK, Stalla J, Loeffler JP, Von Werder K and Müller OA. Pharmacological modulation of 
CRH-stimulated  ACTH  secretion  by  ketoconazole.  Hormone  and  Metabolic  Research. 
Supplement series 1987; 16: 31-36 
344.  Steen RE, Kapelrud H, Haug E, Frey H. In vivo and in vitro by ketoconazole of ACTH secretion 
from a human thymic carcinoid tumour. Acta Endocrinologica. 1991;125:331-334. 
345.  Steffensen C, Bak AM, Rubek KZ. Epidemiology of Cushing’s syndrome. Neuroendocrinology. 
2010;91(suppl 1):1-5. 
346.  Strandberg TE, Tilvis RS, Miettinen TA. Effects of ketoconazole on cholesterol synthesis and 
precursor concentrations in the rat liver. Lipids. 1987; 22: 1020-1024. 
347.  Stratakis  CA.  Cushing  syndrome  in  pediatrics.  Endocrinol  Metab  Clin  North  Am. 
2012;41(4):793-803. 
348.  Straus S, Sturkenboom M, Bleumink G S, Dieleman JP, van der Lei J, de Graeff PA, Kingma JH, 
Stricker  B  H.Ch.  Non-cardiac  QTc-prolonging  drugs  and  the  risk  of  sudden  cardiac  death. 
European Heart Journal (2005) 26, 2007–2012. 
349.  Stricker BH, Blok APR, Bronkhorst FB, Van Parys GE, Desmet VJ. Ketoconazole-Associated 
Hepatic Injury. A Clinicopathological Study of 55 Cases. J Hepatol. 1986;3(3):399-406. 
350.  Sugar AM, Alsip SG, Galgiani JN, Graybil JR, Dismukes WE, Cloud GA, Craven PC, Stevens DA. 
Pharmacology  and  Toxicity  of  High-Dose  Ketoconazole.  Antimicrob  Agents  Chemother. 
1987;31(12):1874-8. 
351.  Summary basis of approval (SBoA) of Nizoral. Pharmacology review(s) NDA 18-553, Center 
for drug evaluation and research, FDA. 1981 
352.  Sung D-J, Kim J-G, Won KJ, Won KJ, Kim B, Shin HC, Park J-Y, Bae YM. Blockade of K+ and 
Ca2+ Channels by Azole Antifungal Agents in Neonatal Rat Ventricular Myocytes. Biol Pharm 
Bull 2012; 35: 1469-1475 
353.  Swart PJ, Krauwinkel WJ, Smulders RA, Smith NN. Pharmacokinetic effect of ketoconazole on 
solifenacin in healthy volunteers. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2006;99(1):33-6. 
354.  Tabarin A, Navarranne A, Guérin J, Corcuff JB, Parneix M, Roger P. Use of ketoconazole in the 
treatment  of  Cushing's  disease  and  ectopic  ACTH  syndrome.  Clin  Endocrinol  (Oxf). 
1991;34(1):63-9. 
355.  Takeda S,  Kitajima Y, Ishii Y, Nishimura Y, Mackenzie PI, Oguri K, Yamada H. Inhibition of 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 2B7-catalyzed morphine glucuronidation by ketoconazole: dual 
mechanisms  involving  a  novel  noncompetitive  mode.    Drug  Metab  Dispos  2006; 
34:1277–1282  
356.  Takemasa H, Nagatomo T, Abe H, Kawakami K, Igarashi T, Tsurugi T, Kabashima N, Tamura 
M,  Okazaki  M,  Delisle  BP,  January  CT,  Otsuji  Y.  Coexistence  of  hERG  current  block  and 
disruption of protein trafficking in ketoconazole-induced long QT syndrome. Br J Pharmacol. 
2008;153(3):439-47. 
357.  Tanaka C, Yin OQ, Smith T, Sethuraman V, Grouss K, Galitz L, Harrell R, Schran H. Effects of 
rifampin and ketoconazole on the pharmacokinetics of nilotinib in healthy participants. J Clin 
Pharmacol. 2011;51(1):75-83. 
358.  Terkeltaub RA, Furst DE, Digiacinto JL, Kook KA, Davis MW. Novel evidence-based colchicine 
dose-reduction  algorithm  to  predict  and  prevent  colchicine  toxicity  in  the  presence  of 
cytochrome P450 3A4/P-glycoprotein inhibitors. Arthritis Rheum. 2011;63(8):2226-37. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 111/115 
  
359.  Terzolo M, Panarelli M, Piovesan A, Torta M, Paccotti P, Angeli A. Ketoconazole treatment in 
Cushing’s disease. Effect on the circadian profile of plasma ACTH and cortisol. J Endocrinol 
Invest. 1988;11:717-721. 
360.  Tham  LS,  Lee  HS,  Wang  L,  Yong  WP,  Fan  L,  Ong  AB,  Sukri  N,  Soo  R,  Lee  SC,  Goh  BC. 
Ketoconazole renders poor CYP3A phenotype status with midazolam as probe drug. Ther Drug 
Monit. 2006;28(2):255-61 
361.  Thomas PP, Manivannan J, John GT, Jacob CK. Sirolimus and ketoconazole co-prescription in 
renal transplant recipients. Transplantation 2004;77(3):474-5 
362.  Thomson RG, Rawlins MD, James OFW, Wood P and Williams FM. The acute and sunchronic 
effects  of  ketoconazole  on  hepatic  microsomal  monooxygenases  in  the  rat.  Biochem 
Pharmacol 1988; 37: 3975-3980 
363.  Tonini  M,  De  Ponti  F,  Di  Nucci  A,  Crema  F.  Review  article:  cardiac  adverse  effects  of 
gastrointestinal prokinetics. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999;13(12):1585-91.  
364.  Trinkley KE, Page RL 2nd, Lien H, Yamanouye K, Tisdale JE. QT interval prolongation and the 
for  clinicians.  Curr  Med  Res  Opin. 
torsades  de  pointes:  essentials 
risk  of 
2013;29(12):1719-26. 
365.  Tsafriri A. Popliker M. Nahum R. Beyth Y. Effects of ketoconazole on ovulatory changes in the 
rat: implications on the role    of a meiosis-activating sterol. Molecular Human Reproduction 
1998; 4: 483-489 
366.  Tsai WC, Tsai LM, Chen JH. Combined use of astemizole and ketoconazole resulting in torsade 
de pointes. J Formos Med Assoc. 1997;96(2):144-6. 
367.  Vaidyanathan  S,  Camenisch  G,  Schuetz  H,  Reynolds  C,  Yeh  CM,  Bizot  MN,  Dieterich  HA, 
Howard  D,  Dole  WP.  Pharmacokinetics  of  the  oral  direct  renin  inhibitor  aliskiren  in 
combination  with  digoxin,  atorvastatin,  and  ketoconazole  in  healthy  subjects:  the  role  of 
P-glycoprotein in the disposition of aliskiren. J Clin Pharmacol. 2008;48(11). 
368.  Valassi E, Crespo I, Gich I, Rodríguez J, Webb SM. A reappraisal of the medical therapy with 
steroidogenesis inhibitors in Cushing syndrome. Clin Endocrinol. 2012;77(5):735-42. 
369.  Valassi E, Santos A, Yaneva M, Tóth M, Strasburger CJ, Chanson P, Wass JA, Chabre O, Pfeifer 
M,  Feelders  RA,  Tsagarakis  S,  Trainer  PJ,  Franz  H,  Zopf  K,  Zacharieva  S,  Lamberts  SW, 
Tabarin A, Webb SM; ERCUSYN Study Group. The European Registry on Cushing's syndrome 
(ERCUSYN):  2-year  Experience.  Baseline  Demographic  and  Clinical  Characteristics.  Eur  J 
Endocrinol. 2011;165(3):383-92. 
370.  Van  Cauteren  H,  Lampo  A,  Vanderberghe  J,  Vanparys  Ph,  Coussement  W,  De  Coster  R 
Marsboom R. Toxicological profile and safety evaluation antifungal azole derivatives. Mycoses 
1989 ; 32(Suppl 1): 60-66 
371.  Van Cauteren H, Van Den Berghe J, Herin V. Effect of a high dosage of keyoconazole all or not 
combined with ovariectomy on N-nitroso-N-methylurea-induced mammary cancer in the rat. 
Cancer Letters 1984; 24: 193-200 
372.  Van der Pas R, Hofland LJ, Hofland J, Taylor AE, Arlt W, Steenbergen J, van Koetsveld PM, de 
Herder  WW,  de  Jong  FH,  Feelders  RA.J.  Fluconazole  inhibits  human  adrenocortical 
steroidogenesis in vitro. Endocrinol. 2012;215(3):403-12.  
373.  Van Dijke CP, Veerman FR, Haverkamp HC. Anaphylactic reactions to ketoconazole. Br Med J 
(Clin Res Ed). 1983;287(6406):1673.  
374.  Van Giersbergen PL, Halabi A, Dingemanse J. Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of 
bosentan and its interaction with ketoconazole. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2002;53(6):589-95. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 112/115 
  
375.  Van  Roey  J,  Haxaire  M,  Kamya  M,  Lwanga  I,  Katabira  E.  Comparative  efficacy  of  topical 
therapy with a slow-release mucoadhesive buccal tablet containing miconazole nitrate versus 
systemic therapy with ketoconazole in HIV-positive patients with oropharyngeal candidiasis. J 
Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2004;35(2):144-50. 
376.  Van Tyle JH. Ketoconazole. Mechanism of action, spectrum of activity, pharmacokinetics, drug 
interactions, adverse reactions and therapeutic use. Pharmacotherapy. 1984;4(6):343-73. 
377.  Vawda AI, Davies AG. An investigation into the effects of ketoconazole on testicular function 
in Wistar rats. Acta Endocrinologica 1986; 111: 246-251 
378.  Venkatakrishnan K, Rader M, Ramanathan RK, Ramalingam S, Chen E, Riordan W, Trepicchio 
W, Cooper M, Karol M, von Moltke L, Neuwirth R, Egorin M, Chatta G. Effect of the CYP3A 
inhibitor  ketoconazole  on  the  pharmacokinetics  and  pharmacodynamics  of  bortezomib  in 
patients  with  advanced  solid  tumors:  a  prospective,  multicenter,  open-label,  randomized, 
two-way crossover drug-drug interaction study. Clin Ther. 2009;31 Pt 2:2444-58. 
379.  Verhelst JA, Trainer PJ, Howlett TA, Perry L, Rees LH, Grossman AB, Wass JA, Besser GM. 
Short and long-term responses to metyrapone in the medical management of 91 patients with 
Cushing's syndrome. Clin Endocrinol. 1991;35(2):169-78. 
380.  Vertzoni MV, Reppas C, Archontaki HA. Optimization and validation of a high-performance 
liquid  chromatographic  method  with  uv  detection  for  the  determination  of  ketoconazole  in 
canine plasma. J Chromatog B 2006; 839: 62-67.  
381.  Vilar L, Freitas M, Lima L, Lyra R, Kater C. Cushing's syndrome in pregnancy: an overview. Arq 
Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2007;51(8):1293-302. 
382.  Vilar L, Naves LA, Azevedos MF, Arruda MJ, Arahata CM, Moura L, Silva L, Agra R, Pontes L, 
Montenegro L, Albuquerque JL, Canadas V. Effectiveness of cabergoline in monotherapy and 
combined  with  ketoconazole  in  the  management  of  Cushing’s  disease.  Pituitary. 
2010;13:123-129. 
383.  Vogler WR, Malcom LG, Winton EF. A randomized trial comparing ketoconazole and nystatin 
prophylactic therapy in neutropenic patients. Cancer Invest. 1987;5(4):267-73. 
384.  Von  Moltke  LL,  Durol  AL,  Duan  SX,  Greenblatt  DJ.  Potent  mechanism-based  inhibition  of 
human CYP3A in vitro by amprenavir and ritonavir: comparison with ketoconazole. Eur J Clin 
Pharmacol. 2000;56(3):259-61. 
385.  Vong  CH,  Forest  M,  Nicolino  M.  Ketoconazole  treatment  for  Cushing  syndrome  in 
McCune-Albright syndrome. J Pediatr. 2009;154(3):467-8. 
386.  Waller DP, Martin A, Vickery BH, Zaneveld LJD. The effect of ketoconazole on fertility of male 
rats. Contraception 1990; 41: 411-417 
387.  Wang H, Huang H, Li H, Teotico DG, Sinz M, Baker SD, Staudinger J, Kalpana G, Redinbo MR, 
Mani S. Activated pregnenolone X-receptor is a target for ketoconazole and its analogs. Clin 
Cancer Res. 2007;13(8):2488-95. 
388.  Ward KW, Stelman GJ, Morgan JA et al. Development of an in vivo preclinical screen model to 
estimate absorption and first pass hepatic extraction of xenobiotics. II. Use of ketoconazole to 
identify P-glycoprotein/CYP3A-limited bioavailability in the monkey. Drug Metab Dispos 2004; 
32: 172-177  
389.  Watanabe H and Menzies JA. Depression of ovarian estradiol-17β following single oral dose of 
ketoconazole. Res Comm in Chem Path and Pharmacol 1985; 48: 141-144 
390.  Watanabe H, Menzies JA. Effect of single-dose ketoconazole on ovarian steroids. Res Comm 
Chem Pathol Pharmacol 1986a; 54: 271-274 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 113/115 
  
391.  Watanabe H, Menzies JA. Inhibition of ovarian aromatase by ketoconazole Res Comm Chem 
Pathol Pharmacol 1986b; 54: 181-190 
392.  Weber MM, Lang J, Abedinpour F, Zeilberger K, Adelmann B, Engelhardt D. Different inhibitory 
effect  of  etomidate  and  ketoconazole  on  the  hurnan  adrenal  steroid  biosynthesis.  Clin 
Investig. 1993;71:933-938. 
393.  Weber  MM,  Luppa  P,  Engelhardt  D.  Inhibition  of  human  adrenal  androgen  secretion  by 
ketoconazole. Klin Wochenschr. 1989;67:707-712. 
394.  Weberpals  J,  Djordjevic  B,  Khalifa  M,  Oza  A.  A  rare  case  of  ectopic  adrenocorticotropic 
hormone syndrome in small cell carcinoma of the vagina: a case report. J Low Genit Tract Dis. 
2008;12(2):140-5. 
395.  Whitehouse LW, Menzies A, Dawson B, Cyr TD, By AW, Black DB, Zamecnik J. Mouse hepatic 
metabolites  of  ketoconazole:  isolation  and  structure  elucidation.  J  Pharm  Biomed  Analysis 
1994a; 12: 1425-1441 
396.  Whitehouse  LW,  Menzies  A,  Mueller  R,  Pontefract  R.    Ketoconazole-induced  hepatic 
phospholipidosis in the mouse and its association with de-N-acetyl ketoconazole. Toxicology 
1994b; 94: 81-95 
397.  Whitworth JA, Williamson PM,  Mangos G, Kelly JJ. Cardiovascular consequences of cortisol 
excess. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2005;1(4): 291-299. 
398.  Willard  MD,  Nachreiner  R,  McDonald  R,  Roudebush  P.  Ketoconazole-induced  changes  in 
selected canine hormone concentrations. Am J Vet Res 1986; 47: 2504-2509 
399.  Winquist EW, Laskey J, Crump M, Khamsi F, Shepherd FA. Ketoconazole in the management 
of paraneoplastic Cushing’s syndrome secondary to ectopic adrenocorticotropin production. J 
Clin Oncol. 1995;13(1):157-64. 
400.  Wolkowitz  OM,  Reus  VI,  Manfredi  F,  Ingbar  J,  Brizendine  L,  Weingartner  H.  Ketoconazole 
administration in hypercortisolemic depression. Am J Psychiatry. 1993;150:810-812. 
401.  Yakushiji  F,  Kita  M,  Hiroi  N,  Ueshiba  H,  Monma  I,  Miyachi  Y.  Exacerbation  of  rheumatoid 
in  Cushing's  syndrome.  Endocr  J. 
arthritis  after  removal  of  adrenal  adenoma 
1995;42(2):219-23. 
402.  Yan  JY,  Nie  XL,  Tao  QM,  Zhan  SY,  Zhang  YD.  Ketoconazole  associated  hepatotoxicity:  a 
systematic review and meta- analysis. Biomed Environ Sci. 2013;26(7):605-10. 
403.  Yasui  N,  Kondo  T,  Otani  K,  Furukori  H,  Mihara  K,  Suzuki  A,  Kaneko  S,  Inoue  Y.  Effects  of 
itraconazole  on  the  steady-state  plasma  concentrations  of  haloperidol  and  its  reduced 
metabolite  in  schizophrenic  patients:  in  vivo  evidence  of  the  involvement  of  CYP3A4  for 
haloperidol metabolism. J Clin Psychopharmacol. 1999;19(2):149-54. 
404.  Yazdanpanah  MJ,  Azizi  H,  Suizi  B.  Comparison  between  fluconazole  and  ketoconazole 
effectivity in the treatment of pityriasis versicolor. Mycoses. 2007;50(4):311-3. 
405.  Yong WP, Ramirez J, Innocenti JF, Ratain MJ. Effects of Ketoconazole on glucuronidation by 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzymes. Clin Cancer Res 2005;11:6699-6704. 
406.  Yun BH, Hwang EC, Yoo DH, Hwang IS et al. Comparison of ketoconazole and estramustine for 
J  Urol. 
castration-resistant  prostate 
cancer.  Korean 
treating  patients  with 
2011;52(11):746-51. 
407.  Zhang  W,  Ramamoorthy  Y,  Kilicarslan  T,  Nolte  H,  Tyndale  RF,  Sellers  EM.  Inhibition  of 
imidazole  derivatives.  Drug  Metab  Dispos. 
cytochromes  P450  by  antifungal 
2002;30(3):314-8. 
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 114/115 
  
408.  Zimmermann M1, Duruz H, Guinand O, Broccard O, Levy P, Lacatis D, Bloch A. Torsades de 
Pointes after treatment with terfenadine and ketoconazole. Eur Heart J. 1992;13(7):1002-3. 
409.  Zöllner E, Delport S, Bonnici F. Fatal liver failure due to ketoconazole treatment of a girl with 
Cushing’s syndrome. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2001;14(3):335-8. 
Articles not published: 1 
410.  NIH study - manuscript  
Ketoconazole HRA 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/534845/2014 
Page 115/115 
  
 
 
 
 
 
