17 September 2020  
EMA/635403/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): sarilumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010609/202001 
Period covered by the PSUR: from 13 July 2019 to 12 January 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for sarilumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on gastrointestinal perforation from clinical trials and spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the 
PRAC considers a causal relationship between sarilumab and gastrointestinal perforation is established. 
The PRAC concluded that the existing warning on gastrointestinal perforation in the Section 4.4 of the 
SmPC should be updated to reflect that gastrointestinal perforation has been reported in association with 
Kevzara in patients with and without diverticulitis. In addition, the following adverse reaction should be 
added in the Section 4.8 of the SmPC under the SOC “Gastrointestinal disorders” with a frequency “rare”: 
Gastrointestinal perforation. The package leaflet should be updated accordingly. The PRAC concluded that 
the product information of products containing sarilumab should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for sarilumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing sarilumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/635403/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
