EMA/515149/2023  
EMEA/H/C/003820 
Keytruda (pembrolizumab) 
An overview of Keytruda and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Keytruda and what is it used for? 
Keytruda is a cancer medicine used to treat: 
•  melanoma, a skin cancer, 
•  non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), a type of lung cancer, 
• 
classical Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer of the white blood cells, 
•  urothelial cancer, a cancer of the bladder and urinary tract, 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
a cancer affecting the head and neck known as head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), 
renal cell carcinoma (a type of kidney cancer), 
oesophageal cancer (cancer of the gullet or food pipe), 
gastric (stomach) and gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma (a type of cancer at the 
junction between the oesophagus and the stomach), 
a type of breast cancer called triple-negative breast cancer, 
endometrial carcinoma (a cancer of the lining of the womb), 
cervical cancer (a cancer of the cervix), 
biliary tract cancer (a cancer of the bile ducts – the tubes that carry bile from the liver and 
gallbladder to the gut – or the gallbladder), 
• 
the following cancers when described as microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair 
deficient (dMMR): 
− 
colorectal cancer (a cancer of the colon or rectum, the lower part of the gut), 
−  endometrial carcinoma (a cancer of the lining of the womb), 
−  gastric cancer (a cancer of the stomach), small intestine cancer, biliary cancer. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2024. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Keytruda is mainly used in adults for cancers that are advanced, have spread or returned, are not 
responding to other treatments or cannot be removed by surgery. Keytruda is also used in children 
aged 3 years and older with classical Hodgkin lymphoma, and in adolescents aged 12 years and older 
with melanoma.  
In some cancers, it is only given to patients whose tumours produce certain levels of a protein known 
as PD-L1 or are determined to be MSI-H or dMMR. 
Keytruda is also used to help prevent the cancer from coming back after patients had surgery 
(adjuvant therapy) to remove melanoma, NSCLC or renal cell carcinoma. In some patients with triple-
negative breast cancer, Keytruda can be given before (neoadjuvant treatment) and after (adjuvant 
treatment) surgery.  
Depending on the cancer being treated, Keytruda can be used on its own or in combination with other 
cancer medicines such as lenvatinib or axitinib, chemotherapy alone or in combination with 
trastuzumab or bevacizumab. 
Keytruda contains the active substance pembrolizumab. 
How is Keytruda used? 
Keytruda is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein every three or six weeks. The doctor may delay 
doses if certain side effects occur or stop treatment altogether if side effects are severe. Tests to check 
levels of PD-L1 or MSI-H/dMMR tumour status are needed in some cases before starting treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be started and supervised 
by a doctor experienced in the treatment of cancer. For more information about using Keytruda, see 
the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Keytruda work? 
The active substance in Keytruda, pembrolizumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a protein that has been 
designed to recognise and block a receptor (‘target’) called PD-1. Some cancers can make a protein 
(PD-L1) that combines with PD-1 to switch off the activity of certain cells of the immune system (the 
body’s natural defences), preventing them from attacking the cancer. By blocking PD-1, 
pembrolizumab stops the cancer switching off these immune cells, thereby increasing the immune 
system’s ability to kill the cancer cells. 
What benefits of Keytruda have been shown in studies? 
Melanoma (skin cancer) 
Keytruda can delay worsening of melanoma and improve survival. Results from a study of 540 
previously treated patients with melanoma showed that 2 years after start of treatment, the disease 
had not worsened in 16% of patients treated with Keytruda compared with less than 1% of patients 
treated with chemotherapy. 
A second study looked at 834 patients with melanoma who received either Keytruda or another 
medicine, ipilimumab. Patients treated with Keytruda lived for up to 5.6 months without their disease 
getting worse compared with 2.8 months with ipilimumab. Also, up to 74% of patients treated with 
Keytruda lived for at least 12 months after the start of their treatment compared with 59% of patients 
on ipilimumab.  
Keytruda (pembrolizumab)  
EMA/515149/2023 
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
A third study in 1,019 patients who had had surgery and who were at high risk for their cancer coming 
back compared Keytruda to placebo (a dummy treatment). After one and a half years, 72% of patients 
who had Keytruda were still disease-free compared with 54% of patients who had placebo. 
Another study compared Keytruda to placebo in 976 patients who had not received previous 
treatments and had surgery to remove their cancer. After 14.3 months of treatment, 11% of patients 
treated with Keytruda had a recurrence of their cancer or had died, compared with about 17% of those 
treated with placebo. 
Because melanoma in adolescents is similar to the disease in adults, Keytruda is expected to be as 
effective in adolescents as it is in adults. The data from adults therefore apply to adolescents as well.  
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
Keytruda is also effective in delaying worsening of the disease and improving survival in patients with 
NSCLC. 
In a study looking at around 1,000 previously treated patients, patients lived longer with Keytruda 
given alone (around 11 months) than with another cancer medicine called docetaxel (around 8 
months), and the disease did not get worse for around 4 months with both treatments. Keytruda was 
more effective in patients who tested strongly for PD-L1, with these patients living for 15 months on 
average, 5 months of which without their disease worsening.  
In a second lung cancer study of 305 patients whose tumours tested strongly for PD-L1 and who had 
not been treated before, patients on Keytruda lived for around 10 months without their disease getting 
worse compared with 6 months in patients receiving platinum-based chemotherapy. 
Keytruda is also effective in combination treatment of a type of NSCLC known as non-squamous 
cancer. In a study of 616 patients with non-squamous NSCLC that had spread, 69% of patients taking 
Keytruda with pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy were alive at 11 months, compared with less 
than half of patients who had only pemetrexed and platinum chemotherapy. In addition, patients who 
had Keytruda treatment lived on average for 8.8 months without the disease getting worse compared 
with 4.9 months for patients who were not given Keytruda. 
In a further study of 559 patients with squamous NSCLC that had spread, patients given Keytruda with 
carboplatin and paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel lived on average for 15.9 months compared with 11.3 
months for patients given placebo with carboplatin and paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel. Patients in the 
Keytruda group lived on average for around 6 months without their disease getting worse compared 
with 4.8 months for patients in the placebo group. 
In a study involving over 1,000 patients with NSCLC who had their cancer surgically removed and had 
received chemotherapy after surgery, patients who were treated for up to one year with Keytruda lived 
an average of 54 months without the disease coming back, compared with 41 months for patients who 
received placebo.  
Hodgkin lymphoma 
Keytruda partially or completely clears cancer cells in classical Hodgkin lymphoma that has not 
improved or had returned after previous treatment. 
In a main study of 210 adult patients, Keytruda produced a complete or partial remission (clearing) of 
the cancer in 71% of the patients; a complete remission occurred in 28% of them, meaning they no 
longer had any signs of cancer. The average time that patients lived without their disease getting 
worse again was around 14 months.  
Keytruda (pembrolizumab)  
EMA/515149/2023 
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
Another main study of 304 adults showed that Keytruda was also effective in patients who had tried a 
stem cell transplant and those who had had two other treatments and were unable to have a stem cell 
transplant. In this study, patients who received Keytruda lived on average for 13 months without their 
disease getting worse compared with around 8 months for those treated with brentuximab vedotin. 
Data from a study in children indicate that the medicine could also be effective in that age group. 
Urothelial cancer 
Keytruda improves survival of patients with urothelial cancer. A study looked at 542 patients 
previously treated with platinum-based medicines who received either Keytruda or another cancer 
medicine chosen by the doctor (paclitaxel, docetaxel or vinflunine). Patients treated with Keytruda 
lived on average around 10 months compared with around 7 months with the other cancer medicines. 
Keytruda did not delay worsening of the disease compared with the other cancer medicines (time to 
disease worsening was 2 and 3 months respectively). 
In a second study of 370 patients who could not be treated with cisplatin-containing medicines, 
Keytruda produced a complete or partial remission (clearing) of the cancer in 108 patients (29%); a 
complete remission occurred in 30 (8%) of them, meaning they no longer had any signs of cancer.  
Head and neck cancer 
Keytruda is also effective in improving survival of patients with head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma (HNSCC) that has spread or come back. In a study of 495 patients, patients treated with 
Keytruda who had high levels of PD-L1 lived on average for 11.6 months while those taking standard 
cancer treatments lived for 6.6 months.  
Another study involving 882 patients with HNSCC showed that Keytruda alone or in combination with 
platinum and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy is effective at prolonging patients’ lives when the 
HNSCC has a certain level of PD-L1. Patients taking the Keytruda combination lived on average for 
13.6 months compared with 10.4 months for patients taking other standard treatments. In addition, 
patients taking Keytruda alone lived on average 12.3 months compared with 10.3 months for patients 
taking other standard treatments. 
In this study, disease did not get worse for 5.1 months on average in patients taking Keytruda 
combination, 3.2 months in patients taking Keytruda alone and 5.0 months in patients taking other 
standard treatments. 
Kidney cancer 
In a study of 861 patients with renal cell carcinoma, patients given Keytruda in combination with an 
already authorised medicine for renal cell carcinoma, axitinib, lived for around 15 months without their 
disease getting worse, compared with 11 months for patients who received treatment with another 
renal cell carcinoma medicine, sunitinib. Keytruda is also effective in improving survival of patients 
with renal cell carcinoma. At 18 months, 81% of the patients given the combination were alive, 
compared with 71% in the sunitinib group. 
Another study, involving 1,069 patients, with renal cell carcinoma compared the effects of Keytruda or 
everolimus in combination with lenvatinib with the effects of sunitinib. In this study, patients in the 
Keytruda plus lenvatinib group lived for around 24 months without their disease getting worse, while 
those in the sunitinib group lived for 9 months without their disease worsening.  
A third study looked at the effect of Keytruda after surgery in 994 patients who had a higher risk of 
their kidney cancer coming back. After one year, the probability of being alive without the disease 
Keytruda (pembrolizumab)  
EMA/515149/2023 
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
coming back was 86% for patients receiving Keytruda treatment compared with 76% for patients 
receiving placebo. After two years, the figures were 77% for those had Keytruda and 68% for those 
who had placebo. 
Oesophageal cancer 
A main study of 749 patients with oesophageal cancer that was advanced or had spread compared 
Keytruda plus chemotherapy with placebo plus chemotherapy.  
Keytruda treatment mainly benefited patients whose cancer produced high levels of PD-L1. Among 
these patients, those who received Keytruda lived on average for around 14 months while those who 
had placebo lived for 9 months. In addition, those in the Keytruda group lived for 8 months without the 
disease getting worse, compared with 6 months for those in the placebo group. 
Gastric and gastro-oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma 
A main study was carried out in 698 patients with HER2-positive advanced gastric or gastro-
oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma who had not been treated before and whose cancer could not be 
removed by surgery. HER2-positive means that the cancer cells produce a protein called HER2 on their 
surface. The study compared Keytruda with placebo in patients who were also receiving another cancer 
medicine called trastuzumab and chemotherapy. Keytruda treatment only showed benefits in patients 
whose cancer produced a certain level of PD-L1. Among these patients, those who received Keytruda 
lived on average 11 months without their disease getting worse and about 21 months overall, 
compared with about 7 months and 16 months, respectively, for those who received placebo. 
Another main study was carried out in 1,579 patients with HER2-negative advanced gastric or gastro-
oesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, who had not previously received systemic therapy (treatment 
affecting the whole body) for metastatic disease. Patients received either Keytruda or placebo, 
together with chemotherapy medicines chosen by the doctor (5-FU plus cisplatin or capecitabine plus 
oxaliplatin). Keytruda treatment showed greater benefits in patients whose cancer produced a certain 
level of PD-L1. Among these patients, those who were treated with Keytruda lived for 13 months on 
average, compared with 11.4 months for those who received placebo.  
Triple-negative breast cancer 
A main study of 1,174 patients with high-risk early-stage triple-negative breast cancer compared the 
effects of giving Keytruda both before (neoadjuvant treatment) and after (adjuvant treatment) surgery 
with the effects of giving placebo before and after surgery. All patients in the study, whose cancer was 
locally advanced and at risk of coming back, also had chemotherapy before surgery. The result was 
that 64% of patients given Keytruda as neoadjuvant treatment had no signs of invasive cancer in the 
breast tissue removed during surgery compared with 55% of patients given placebo. In addition, after 
24 months the probability of being alive without the disease coming back was 88% for patients who 
had Keytruda as neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment, compared with 81% for those treated with 
placebo. 
Another main study compared Keytruda plus chemotherapy with placebo and chemotherapy in 847 
patients with previously untreated triple-negative breast cancer that could not be removed surgically or 
had spread. Among patients with high levels of PD-L1, those in the Keytruda group lived for almost 10 
months without their disease getting worse, while those in the placebo group lived for 5 months 
without the disease worsening. When the study looked at survival (how long they lived), those in the 
Keytruda group lived longer: 23 months compared with 16 months. 
Keytruda (pembrolizumab)  
EMA/515149/2023 
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
Endometrial carcinoma 
A study of 827 patients with endometrial carcinoma compared Keytruda plus lenvatinib with 
chemotherapy treatments (doxorubicin or paclitaxel). Patients in the Keytruda group lived for around 7 
months without their disease getting worse, while patients in the chemotherapy group lived for almost 
4 months without their disease worsening. In addition, when the study looked at survival (how long 
they lived), patients in the Keytruda group lived on average for around 18 months compared with 11 
months for patients in the chemotherapy group. 
Cervical cancer 
Keytruda given with other cancer treatments is also effective in patients with cervical cancer that came 
back after previous treatment or has spread and tested positive for PDL-1 protein.  
Patients who received Keytruda, together with chemotherapy, with or without another cancer medicine 
called bevacizumab, lived on average 10.4 months without their disease getting worse (273 patients) 
compared with 8.2 months for those who received only chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab 
(275 patients). In addition, early data from the study show that patients who received Keytruda live 
longer than those who did not. 
Biliary tract cancer 
In a study in 1,069 patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic biliary tract cancer who 
had not received systemic therapy for their advanced disease before, patients received either Keytruda 
or placebo, together with gemcitabine and cisplatin. Patients treated with Keytruda lived for 12.7 
months on average, compared with 10.9 months for those who received placebo. 
MSI-H or dMMR cancers 
A main study compared Keytruda with standard treatment, including chemotherapy, in 307 patients 
with MSI-H or dMMR colorectal cancer that had spread and who had not received any previous 
treatment for their cancer. Patients who received Keytruda lived for around 17 months without the 
disease getting worse compared with 8 months for patients who received standard treatments. 
Two additional studies looked at the effect of Keytruda in patients with other MSI-H or dMMR cancers 
that had spread and come back after previous treatments. Among the patients participating in the 
study, 124 had colorectal cancer, 83 had endometrial carcinoma, 51 had gastric cancer, 27 had cancer 
of the small intestine and 22 had biliary cancer.  
The proportion of patients whose cancer responded to Keytruda treatment was about 34% in patients 
with colorectal cancer, 51% in patients with endometrial carcinoma, 37% in patients with gastric 
cancer, 56% in patients with small intestine cancer and 41% in those with biliary cancer. 
What are the risks associated with Keytruda? 
For the complete list of side effects and restrictions with Keytruda, see the package leaflet. 
The side effects of Keytruda are mostly related to the activity of the immune system, which may cause 
inflammation of body organs and tissues and can be serious, although most side effects resolve with 
appropriate treatment or on stopping Keytruda. The most common side effects of Keytruda given alone 
(which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) include tiredness, nausea (feeling sick) and diarrhoea. The 
most serious adverse reactions were immune reactions and severe reactions related to the infusion.  
Additional side effects may occur when Keytruda is used with other cancer medicines.  
Keytruda (pembrolizumab)  
EMA/515149/2023 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
Why is Keytruda authorised in the EU? 
Keytruda is effective at improving survival or delaying the worsening of disease in patients with 
advanced cancers or cancers that have spread or come back or cannot be removed surgically. In some 
patients, tumours have to produce a certain level of PD-L1 or have to be determined as being MSI-H or 
dMMR for the medicine to be effective. 
Keytruda is also effective in preventing melanoma, NSCLC and kidney cancer from coming back in 
patients who have had surgery, and improves the outcome in patients with triple-negative breast 
cancer when given before and after surgery. 
The side effects of Keytruda are manageable and are similar to those of various other cancer 
treatments. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Keytruda’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Keytruda? 
The company that markets Keytruda will provide patients with an alert card to inform them about the 
risks of potential immune-related side effects and to give instructions on when to contact their doctor if 
they experience symptoms. 
In addition, the company will provide the results of studies with Keytruda to confirm its benefits, 
including in the long-term, in the treatment of melanoma in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and 
older, as well as in the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma, NSCLC and certain MSI-H or dMMR cancers 
(gastric cancer, biliary cancer and cancer of the small intestine) in adults. Moreover, the company will 
carry out analyses to better understand which patients are likely to benefit most from treatment with 
Keytruda. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Keytruda have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Keytruda are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Keytruda are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Keytruda 
Keytruda received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 July 2015.  
Further information on Keytruda can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/keytruda.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2023.  
Keytruda (pembrolizumab)  
EMA/515149/2023 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
