18 October 2018 
DOC_REF_ID  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pembrolizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010403/201803 
Period covered by the PSUR: 04/09/2017 - 03/03/2018 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pembrolizumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome: In several cases, the role of pembrolizumab in triggering VKH cannot 
be excluded given the autoimmune pathogenesis of PD-1 inhibitor. The fact that the latest event is 
reported by the physician as related to pembrolizumab, with statements such as “with no other causative 
factor” further strengthens the signal. Further, the risk of VKH is listed for other products in the same 
class. Therefore, VKH should be added to SmPC section 4.8 as a new ADR with the frequency ‘rare’. 
Myasthenia gravis (including exacerbation): The ADR Myasthenia gravis is already included in the product 
information. With regard to the risk of exacerbation, the review of the cases led to the conclusion that also 
this risk should be reflected in the SmPC. In almost all cases the time to onset of the exacerbation was 
reported within the first 2 cycles of treatment, including a spontaneous fatal case of MG where the 
physician concludes “the severe exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, which was possibly related to the 
treatment with pembrolizumab, ultimately led to the patient's death.” Therefore, the wording ‘including 
exacerbation’ should be added to the existing ADR Myasthenia gravis in section 4.8 of the SmPC.  
Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA): The role of pembrolizumab triggering PRCA cannot be excluded in several 
cases. Furthermore, several case reports are published in literature regarding PRCA in patients treated 
with checkpoint inhibitors. Although the exact mechanism through which pembrolizumab may cause 
PRCA is not known, it is presumed to be related to widespread activation of cytotoxic T cells. Therefore, 
the ADR PRCA should be included in section 4.8 of the SmPC with frequency rare and the Package Leaflet 
should be updated accordingly.    
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pembrolizumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pembrolizumab is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
DOC_REF_ID 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
