London, 13 October 2016 
EMA/CHMP/637356/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Keytruda  
pembrolizumab 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/003820/P46/009 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects .............................................................................. 8 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation ............................ 9 
4. Additional clarification requested ............................................................ 9 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 10 May 2016, in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, the MAH 
submitted  the  final  study  report  of  study  PN002  (“Randomized,  Phase  II  Study  of  MK-3475  versus 
Chemotherapy  in  Patients  with  Advanced  Melanoma  “)  in  which  one  patient  at  the  start  of  treatment 
with KEYTRUDA was included. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  study  P002  “Randomized,  Phase  II  Study  of  MK-3475  versus  Chemotherapy  in 
Patients with Advanced Melanoma “ is stand-alone study. 
A  positive  PDCO  Opinion  was  granted  for  the  pembrolizumab  pediatric  investigation  plan  (PIP)  on  14 
Feb 2014 and the EMA decision was received on 7 Mar 2014. The condition for this PIP is treatment of 
all conditions included in the category of malignant neoplasms (except nervous system, haematopoietic 
and lymphoid tissue), with the two following indications: 
• 
• 
Treatment of advanced, untreatable or previously treated malignant melanoma in children from 
12 year old to <18 years of age 
Treatment  as  monotherapy  of  a  PD-L1  positive  paediatric  malignant  solid  tumor  in  children 
from 6 months to less than 18 years of age 
The pembrolizumab development in paediatric solid tumors is currently ongoing in the Phase 1/2 study 
P051.  Because  melanoma  is  rare  in  children,  as  many  children  with  melanoma  as  feasible  will  be 
enrolled  in  this  study,  and  efficacy  results  will  be  compared  to  data  with  pembrolizumab  in  the  adult 
melanoma studies. The PIP also seeks to identify additional paediatric tumors that could be amenable 
to  anti-PD-1  therapy.  Thus,    study  P051  will  also  enroll  any  advanced,  relapsed  or  refractory  PDL1- 
positive solid tumor or lymphoma to look for signals of efficacy within a given tumor indication. A safe 
and  tolerated  dose  in  children  will  be  selected  that  assures  a  similar  exposure  to  adults  at  the 
recommended phase 2 dose, and that the pharmacodynamic (IL-2 release assay) target is also met.  
At  the  conclusion  of  Study  P051  (Part  2),  responses  in  each  enrolled  tumor  type  will  be  evaluated  in 
order to select a solid tumor for further efficacy and safety investigation. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Pembrolizumab was provided as 50 mg lyophilized drug in vials to be reconstituted in sterile water and 
then diluted further in normal saline for IV administration.  
A  specific  formulation  will  not  be  developed,  as  the  available  IV  is  considered  appropriate  for  the 
paediatric population. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The  final  results  of  study  P002  have  been  submitted  as  a  Clinical  Study  Report  (CSR),  in  accordance 
with  Article  46  of  the  EU  Paediatric  Regulation  (EC  No  1901/2006)  which  requires  that  any  MAH-
sponsored study which involves the use in the paediatric population of a medicinal product covered by 
a marketing authorization, whether or not they are conducted in compliance with an agreed paediatric 
investigation plan, is to be submitted to the competent authority within 6 months of study completion 
(last subject last visit for P002 was 16-Nov-2015).  
2.3.2.  Clinical study  
Study P002: Randomized, Phase II Study of MK-3475 versus Chemotherapy in Patients with Advanced 
Melanoma 
Description 
P002  is  a  randomized,  Phase  2  study  of  pembrolizumab  vs.  chemotherapy  in  subjects  with  advanced 
melanoma refractory to ipilimumab (IPI). Subjects were randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive blinded 
pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg, pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg, or chemotherapy (Investigator choices).  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The study objective was to evaluate the overall benefit of pembrolizumab compared to control. 
Study population /Sample size 
The study included male and female subjects ≥18 years old, with a histological or cytological diagnosis 
of  melanoma  and  progressive  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  disease  that  was  not  amenable  to 
definitive local therapy with curative intent.  
Patients  were  eligible  only  if  ipilimumab-refractory  (progression  documented  in  two  separate 
assessment and following at least 2 doses of IPI  at a minimum dose of 3 mg/kg and within 6 months 
of the last dose of IPI). In addition, patients with BRAF V600 mutant melanoma must have had a prior 
treatment  regimen  that  included  vemurafenib,  dabrafenib,  or  other  approved  BRAF  and/or  MEK 
inhibitors. 
The age eligibility in the original protocol of ≥16 years old was amended (version 01) to ≥18 years due 
to difficulty enrolling younger subjects as well as requests from country agencies and IRBs/IRCs.  
At the time that study eligibility required that subjects be≥18 years old, an exception was granted for 
oneyea  younger  subject  with  advanced,  IPI-refractory  melanoma.  This  protocol  deviation  was 
requested  based  on  there  being  no  available  alternative  therapies.  The  subject  was  allowed  to  be 
randomized in the trial by the IRB/IEC and this was authorized by the Sponsor based on the medical 
need.  
The sample size calculation (510 patients randomized 1:1:1, with 170 subjects per arm) was based on 
the assumption of an HR of 0.65 between each of the MK-3475 arms and chemotherapy arm.  
Treatments 
Patients were randomized to one of the following 3 treatment arms:  
a) Pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg every three weeks  
b) Pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg every three weeks  
c)  Investigator-choice  standard  of  care  (SOC)  chemotherapy  (supplied  locally).  The  chemotherapy 
options  were  initially  carboplatin  in  combination  with  paclitaxel,  carboplatin  monotherapy,  paclitaxel 
monotherapy, dacarbazine, temozolomide IV, or oral temozolomide. Protocol amendment 01 removed 
carboplatin monotherapy and temozolomide IV in response to regulatory agency feedback. 
An integrated radiology and oncology (IRO) assessment was used as the primary method of analysis. 
This assessment included the review of images by independent radiologists and the review of objective 
clinical  data  by  an  independent  oncologist  (e.g.  qualitative  skin  photographs,  biopsy  reports  from 
suspicious lesions if performed) when such data were available.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Radiological assessment per RECIST 1.1 of tumor response status was performed starting at Week 12 
following  the  initial  dose  of  study  medication,  and  then  every  6  weeks  until  Week  48  and  every  12 
weeks thereafter. Crossover to pembrolizumab was  permitted starting at Week 12 for subjects in the 
chemotherapy control arm who had PD confirmed by central imaging review. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
There  were  two  primary  endpoints  in  this  study,  progression-free  survival  (PFS)  and  overall  survival 
(OS).  The  overall  type  I  error  rate  for  this  study  was  strictly  controlled  at  2.5%  (one-sided)  that 
allowed  the  trial  to  declare  positive  in  either  or  both  of  the  two  primary  endpoints  (PFS  and  OS)  at 
either of the two pembrolizumab dose levels. 
Progression-Free-Survival: PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD 
(based  on  assessment  from  a  central  imaging  vendor  using  the  RECIST  1.1  criteria)  or  death  due  to 
any  cause,  whichever  occurs  first.  For  the  primary  PFS  analysis,  subjects  without  PD,  death,  or  new 
anti-cancer  treatment  were  censored  at  the  last  disease  assessment;  for  subjects  who  started  new 
anti-cancer treatment, subjects were censored at the last disease assessment before starting new anti-
cancer treatment; for subjects with missing disease assessments, events were considered on the date 
PD or death was documented.  
Analysis  of  PFS  based  on  Investigator  assessment  using  RECIST  1.1  was  performed  as  a  supportive 
analysis.  For  subjects  whose  subsequent  assessments  right  after  RECIST-defined  PD  showed  stable 
disease or better and who remained on study treatment, a sensitivity analysis was conducted that did 
not count the initial RECIST-defined PD assessment as an event. 
Overall Survival: OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Subjects 
without documented death at the time of the analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up. 
The  secondary  endpoints  were  Overall  response  rate  (ORR)  based  on  confirmed  assessments  from  a 
central imaging vendor review using the RECIST 1.1 criteria and Response Duration. 
Additional exploratory endpoints included: 
•  Response rate, response duration, PFS and OS following crossover to pembrolizumab. 
•  Response rate by Week 12, PFS and OS in the biomarker (PD-L1 high expression) subgroup. 
• 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 
(EORTC-QLQ  C30),  European  Quality  of  Life  five  dimensions  questionnaire  (EuroQoL  EQ-5D), 
and tumor volumetric changes at Week 12. 
For  the  evaluation  of  OS,  PFS  and  ORR  in  the  PD-L1  positive  subgroup,  the  PD-L1  cutoff  point  was 
defined and validated using data from the melanoma subjects in P001. PD-L1 positive was defined as 
Allred proportion score (APS) of 2 or higher and PD-L1 negative is defined as APS of 0 or 1.  
Statistical Methods 
An outline of the efficacy analysis strategy is shown in the following Table: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Analysis Strategy for Key Efficacy Endpoints 
There were two planned interim analyses for which strategy and timing are reported below: 
Table: Summary of Interim Analysis Strategy 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Baseline data 
The  only  paediatric  patient  enrolled  in  the  trial  was  a  male  subject  with  BRAF  wild-type  mucosal 
melanoma metastatic at baseline. For advanced melanoma, the subject had ipilimumab induction and 
maintenance treatment. 
Efficacy results 
The  patient  was  randomized  in  the  pembrolizumab  2  mg/kg  Q3W  arm.  He  received  8  doses  of 
pembrolizumab  (last  dose  on  Day  148)  and  had  a  best  response  of  stable  disease  based  on 
independent central review of imaging. Treatment was discontinued due to progressive disease on Day 
175 and eventually the patient died on Day 272 due to progression of advanced melanoma. 
Safety results 
The AEs are all Grade 1 in severity, and none were considered to be related to study treatment by the 
investigator. No action was taken with respect to study medication for any of the AEs recorded for this 
subject.  
It is notable that the subject developed hypothyroidism on day 42 of study treatment, managed with 
levothyroxine.  Although  this  AE  was  reported  as  unrelated  to  study  treatment  by  the  investigator, 
hypothyroidism is an identified risk for pembrolizumab. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
This  application,  submitted  in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  does  not 
provide  any  additional  and  relevant  information  on  the  use  of  pembrolizumab  in  the  paediatric 
population. According to the agreed PIP for Keytruda (EMEA- 001474-PIP01-13), study  KEYNOTE- 051 
(A  Phase  I/II  study  of  Pembrolizumab  in  children  with  advanced  melanoma  or  a  PD-L1  positive 
advanced, relapsed or refractory solid tumor or lymphoma) is at present ongoing and it is expected to 
be completed by January 2019.  
Indeed,  the  submitted  study  P002,  a  phase  2  trial  comparing  pembrolizumab  and  chemotherapy  in 
advanced IPI-refractory melanoma patients, was not designed to evaluate the pembrolizumab efficacy 
and  safety  in  the  paediatric  population,  and  the  only  subject  enrolled  was  considered  as  a  protocol 
deviation.  Due  to  this  single  case  report,  any  comparison  of  available  data  in  the  young  patient  with 
those  in  the  adult  population  is  of  very  limited  value.  Overall,  a  consistent  pembrolizumab  safety 
profile, that does not seem to be influenced by the young age of the patient, was registered. However, 
even  if  considered  by  the  investigator  not-treatment  related,  a  newly  occurred  event  (Testicular 
atrophy), never observed in the adult population, was reported. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In  the  pembrolizumab  non-clinical  development,  no  studies  were  specifically  conducted  in  juvenile 
animals.  However,  in  a  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  (SN  08396:  One-month  IV  bolus  toxicity  and 
toxicokinetic  study  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  with  a  four-month  recovery  period)  conducted  in  juvenile 
to  young  adult  cynomolgus  monkeys,  Testicular  atrophy  was  observed  in  one  animal  (N.  3003)  that 
was treated with pembrolizumab 200 mg/kg.  
More  details  on  the  Testicular  atrophy  event  reported  in  the  young  patient  in  study  P002  have  been 
submitted  by  the  MAH.  Due  to  the  lack  of  baseline  information,  regarding  the  size  measurements  of 
the testes and the levels of testosterone, LH, and FSH, the pembrolizumab contribution to the reported 
testicular  atrophy  cannot  be  characterized.  In  addition,  no  additional  testicular  atrophy  events  are 
reported  in  the  overall  22  male  children  enrolled  in  study  P051  up  to  27  July  2016  .  Any  further 
occurrence of Testicular atrophy should be carefully monitored. 
The final results from study P002, that were requested as post-marketing measure at the time of the 
initial MA, will be evaluated within a specific variation for the fulfilment of the Annex II condition by 1Q 
2017.  
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
No  meaningful  information  on  the  use  of  pembrolizumab  in  paediatric  patients  can  be  obtained  from 
the single  melanoma patient included as protocol violation in study P002. It is therefore agreed that 
no change of the SmPC is requested at present 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
  Not fulfilled: 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should address the following questions as part of this procedure: 
• 
• 
The MAH should provide more details on the Testicular Atrophy event, including the narrative, 
and  explain  on  which  basis  the  investigator  classified  the  event  as  not  related  to 
pembrolizumab.  
The  MAH  should  clarify  whether  additional  Testicular  atrophy  events  have  been  registered  in 
the ongoing paediatric study P051. 
The timetable is a 30 day response timetable without clock stop.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
Question 1 
The  MAH  should  provide  more  details  on  the  Testicular  Atrophy  event,  including  the  narrative,  and 
explain on which basis the investigator classified the event as not related to pembrolizumab.  
MAH’s response 
The subject who entered the trial  had BRAF wild type melanoma of the mucosa with metastases .. He 
was noted to have Grade 1 testicular atrophy approximately 3 and a half months after having received 
the first dose, which was considered not related to pembrolizumab.). The patient continued to receive 
study treatment without interruption. 
Since the adverse event  was Grade 1 and  not related to pembrolizumab, data supporting a  narrative 
was not required to be submitted to the Inform database by the investigator. We have since contacted 
the investigator for additional information and rationale for assessing the event as not drug-related.  
No  prior  size  measurements  of  the  testes  nor  previous  levels  of  testosterone,  LH,  and  FSH  were 
obtained before entry onto P002, so it is not possible to determine whether the findings of small testes  
predated the patient’s participation in P002. 
The  MAH agrees  with  the  assessment  of  the  investigator that  the  adverse event  of  testicular  atrophy 
was  not  drug  related.  There  are  no  prior  physical  examination  findings  or  laboratory  evaluations  to 
show that the patient had normal testicular size and/or gonadal function at baseline, and to show that 
the testicular atrophy did not predate the initiation of therapy on pembrolizumab.  
Assessment of MAH’s response 
The lack of baseline information, regarding the  size  measurements  of  the  testes  and  the  levels  of 
testosterone,  LH,  and  FSH,  do  not  allow  to  characterize  the  pembrolizumab  contribution  to  the 
reported testicular atrophy. 
Issue solved 
Question 2 
The  MAH  should  clarify  whether  additional  Testicular  atrophy  events  have  been  registered  in  the 
ongoing paediatric study P051. 
MAH’s response 
There  are  currently  43  pediatric  patients  enrolled  in  study  P051,  22  of  those  patients  are  male.  The 
adverse event listings were reviewed on 27-Jul-2016, and there were no reports of testicular atrophy 
within the clinical database. 
Assessment of MAH’s response 
At present, no additional testicular atrophy events were reported in study P051. 
Issue solved  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Keytruda 
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
