26 March 2020 
EMA/201657/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pembrolizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010403/201909 
Period covered by the PSUR: 3 September 2018 to 3 September 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pembrolizumab, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Seven cases of glomerulonephritis were identified by the MAH, of which 4 had biopsy confirmation 
together with improvement of the event following steroid treatment, suggesting that the mechanism of 
action was an immune-related event. As a result, the term ‘glomerulonephritis’ is included to the 
footnotes of the table of ADRs in SmPC section 4.8 under the description of the term nephritis. 
A review on the risk of gastric ulceration showed a relatively high number of reported cases. Of the 15 
cases of gastric ulcer and duodenal ulcer that were reviewed, in several cases a recovery following steroid 
therapy was observed or the event was reported as related to the therapy, indicating pembrolizumab 
having a role in causing ulceration. Ulceration is a known listed risk in the SmPC of other class products. 
The SmPC of pembrolizumab already lists small intestinal perforation (in section 4.8) and potential risk of 
gastrointestinal perforation (section 4.4), and it is considered plausible that perforation follows ulceration. 
Taken together, a causal association between pembrolizumab and gastrointestinal ulceration is considered 
plausible. The term ‘gastrointestinal ulceration’ is included to the SmPC section 4.8 with frequency 
‘uncommon’. 
Of the 24 cases of myelitis retrieved from the MAH’s safety database, 4 cases (three reporting PT 
“myelitis transverse” and one “myelitis”) present positive de-challenge from pembrolizumab and/or 
improvement with steroid treatment, supporting a causal association between myelitis and 
pembrolizumab use. The term ‘myelitis’ is included to the table of ADRs in the SmPC section 4.8 with 
frequency ‘rare’, based on CT data for pembrolizumab monotherapy (2 cases (1 case of myelitis and 1 
case of myelitis transverse) in 5,884 treated patients (0.03%)). The term ‘myelitis transverse’ is also 
added to the footnotes of the table linked to the risk of myelitis. In addition, the term ‘myelitis’ is included 
in the Warnings and Precautions of section 4.4 of the SmPC under the “Other immune-related adverse 
reactions” subheading. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pembrolizumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pembrolizumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/201657/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
