28 March 2019 
EMA/271608/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): pembrolizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010403/201809 
Period covered by the PSUR: 4 March 2018 to 3 September 2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for pembrolizumab, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows: 
Review of the cases reporting haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) resulted in the identification of 
four cases where a causal association between HLH and pembrolizumab is considered reasonably possible. 
Furthermore, considering the mechanism of action of pembrolizumab, it could be argued that 
pembrolizumab, through enhancing T-cell responses and cytokine production, can lead to an uncontrolled 
proliferation of T lymphocytes and well-differentiated macrophages that are the cause of HLH. It is 
considered that a causal association between HLH and pembrolizumab exists.  As a result, section 4.8 of the 
Summary of Products Characteristics should be updated to add Haemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis to 
the list of adverse reactions with a frequency rare. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for pembrolizumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing pembrolizumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/271608/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
