EMA/128686/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004929 
Kimmtrak (tebentafusp) 
An overview of Kimmtrak and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kimmtrak and what is it used for? 
Kimmtrak is a medicine used to treat adults with a type of eye cancer called ‘uveal melanoma’. It is 
used when the uveal melanoma cannot be removed by surgery or has spread to other parts of the 
body. 
Uveal melanoma is rare, and Kimmtrak was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 19 February 2021. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu-3-21-2397.  
Kimmtrak contains the active substance tebentafusp. 
How is Kimmtrak used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given under the supervision of a 
doctor experienced in the use of cancer medicines and the treatment of cytokine release syndrome 
(CRS - a potentially life-threatening condition that can cause fever, vomiting, shortness of breath, 
headache and low blood pressure), which can occur after treatment with Kimmtrak. It should be given 
in a setting where CRS can be managed. 
Kimmtrak is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. The recommended dose is 20 micrograms on 
day 1, 30 micrograms on day 8, 68 micrograms on day 15, and 68 micrograms once every week 
thereafter. The patient should be hospitalised while receiving the first three doses of Kimmtrak. 
To reduce the risk of low blood pressure linked to CRS the patient may be given fluids into a vein 
before receiving Kimmtrak. 
Treatment can continue for as long as the patient benefits from it and does not develop unacceptable 
side effects. 
For more information about using Kimmtrak, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Kimmtrak work? 
The active substance in Kimmtrak is tebentafusp, a protein that recognises and attaches to two targets 
simultaneously: the proteins gp100 on the surface of uveal melanoma cancer cells and CD3 on the 
surface of T cells (which are part of the body’s natural defences). By attaching to these proteins, 
tebentafusp brings the tumour cells and T cells into contact, which triggers killing of melanoma cells by 
T cells. 
What benefits of Kimmtrak have been shown in studies? 
A study in 378 adults with advanced uveal melanoma investigated Kimmtrak and compared it with 
other medicines (either dacarbazine, ipilimumab or pembrolizumab). Patients given Kimmtrak survived 
for 21.7 months compared with 16.0 months for patients given a comparator medicine. Patients 
treated with Kimmtrak lived on average 3.3 months before their cancer came back, a new melanoma 
occurred or they died, compared with 2.9 months for patients treated with comparator medicines. 
What are the risks associated with Kimmtrak? 
The most common side effects with Kimmtrak (which may affect more than 3 in 10 people) are 
cytokine release syndrome, rash, fever, itching, tiredness, nausea, chills, abdominal (belly) pain, 
oedema (swelling), hypo/hyperpigmentation (change in colouring of the skin), hypotension (low blood 
pressure), dry skin, headache and vomiting. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Kimmtrak, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kimmtrak authorised in the EU? 
There is no standard of care for patients with uveal melanoma, and  therefore a high unmet medical 
need exists for new and effective treatments. The main study showed meaningful improvements with 
Kimmtrak in terms of overall survival. The side effects are considered manageable but can be serious, 
especially during the first 3 treatments and patients should therefore be hospitalised for their first 3 
doses.  
The European Medicines Agency decided that Kimmtrak’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kimmtrak? 
The company that markets Kimmtrak will provide educational materials for healthcare professionals 
expected to use the medicine with information on its safety, including the potential risk of CRS and 
how to manage the risks. Patients will also receive a guide describing the symptoms of CRS and when 
to seek medical attention.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kimmtrak have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kimmtrak are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Kimmtrak are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Kimmtrak (tebentafusp)  
EMA/128686/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Kimmtrak 
Kimmtrak received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 01 April 2022. 
Further information on Kimmtrak can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kimmtrak.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2022. 
Kimmtrak (tebentafusp)  
EMA/128686/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
