ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse 
reactions. See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KIMMTRAK 100 micrograms/0.5 mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One 0.5 mL vial contains 100 micrograms of tebentafusp, corresponding to a concentration before 
dilution of 200 mcg/mL. 
Tebentafusp is a fusion protein, produced by recombinant DNA technology in Escherichia coli cells. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear, colourless to slightly yellowish solution in a single-dose vial. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
KIMMTRAK is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA)-A*02:01-positive adult patients with unresectable or metastatic uveal melanoma. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
KIMMTRAK should be administered under the direction and supervision of a physician experienced 
in the use of anti-cancer agents and who is prepared to manage cytokine release syndrome in an 
environment where full resuscitation facilities are immediately available. Hospitalisation is 
recommended for at least the first three infusions of KIMMTRAK (see section 4.4).   
Patients treated with KIMMTRAK must have HLA-A*02:01 genotype determined by any validated 
HLA genotyping assay. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of KIMMTRAK is 20 micrograms on Day 1, 30 micrograms on Day 8, 
68 micrograms on Day 15, and 68 micrograms once every week thereafter (see section 6.6). Treatment 
with KIMMTRAK should be continued while patient is deriving clinical benefit and in the absence of 
unacceptable toxicities (see section 5.1). 
Premedication 
To minimize the risk of hypotension associated with cytokine release syndrome (CRS), intravenous 
fluids should be administered prior to starting KIMMTRAK infusion based on clinical evaluation and 
the volume status of the patient. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients with preexisting adrenal insufficiency on maintenance systemic corticosteroids, adjusting 
the corticosteroid dose should be considered to manage the risk of hypotension. 
Dose adjustments 
No dose reductions of KIMMTRAK are recommended. KIMMTRAK should be withheld or 
discontinued to manage adverse reactions as described in Table 1 and Table 2. 
If CRS is suspected, the symptoms should be identified and promptly managed according to 
recommendations in Table 1. See Table 2 for management guidelines for acute skin reactions. 
Table 1: CRS grading and management guidance 
CRS grade* 
Grade 1 
Temperature ≥ 38 °C 
No hypotension or hypoxia 
Grade 2 
Temperature ≥ 38 °C 
Hypotension that responds to fluids and does 
not require vasopressors 
Oxygen requirement includes low flow nasal 
cannula (delivery of oxygen ≤ 6 L/min) or 
blow-by 
Grade 3 
Temperature ≥ 38 °C 
Require a vasopressor with or without 
vasopressin 
Require high flow nasal cannula (delivery of 
oxygen > 6 L/min), face mask or non-rebreather 
mask or Venturi mask 
Management 
•  Continue treatment and provide symptomatic 
support. Monitor for escalation in CRS 
severity. 
•  Continue treatment and administer bolus 
intravenous fluids and oxygen by low flow 
nasal canula or blow-by oxygen as needed. 
• 
If hypotension and hypoxia do not improve 
within 3 hours or CRS worsens administer 
high-dose intravenous corticosteroid (e.g. 
2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone or 
equivalent). 
•  For Grade 2 CRS that is persistent (lasting 
2--3 hours) or recurrent (occurrence of ≥ 
Grade 2 CRS with more than one dose), 
administer corticosteroid premedication (e.g. 
dexamethasone 4 mg or equivalent) at least 
30 minutes prior to next dose 
•  Withhold KIMMTRAK until CRS and 
sequelae have resolved  
•  Administer high-dose intravenous 
corticosteroid (e.g. 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone or equivalent). 
•  Administer tocilizumab as needed 
-  Patient weight ≤ 30 kg: 12 mg/kg 
intravenously over 1 hour 
-  Patient weight ≥ 30 kg: 8 mg/kg 
intravenously over 1 hour (maximum dose 
800 mg) 
•  Resume KIMMTRAK at same dose level 
(i.e., do not escalate if Grade 3 CRS occurred 
during initial dose escalation; resume 
escalation once dosage is tolerated) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  For Grade 3 CRS, administer corticosteroid 
premedication (e.g. dexamethasone 4 mg or 
equivalent) at least 30 minutes prior to next 
dose 
•  Permanently discontinue KIMMTRAK 
•  Administer intravenous corticosteroid (e.g., 
2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone or 
equivalent) 
Grade 4 
Temperature ≥ 38 °C 
Require multiple vasopressors (excluding 
vasopressin) 
Requiring positive pressure (e.g. CPAP, 
BiPAP, intubation and mechanical ventilation). 
* Based on American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) consensus grading 
of CRS criteria (Lee et. al 2019). 
4 
 
 
 
Table 2: Recommended management and dose modifications for acute skin reactions 
Severitya  
Adverse reactions 
Acute skin reactions 
(see section 4.4) 
Grade 2 
Management 
•  Withhold KIMMTRAK until Grade 
≤ 1 or baseline. 
•  Administer antipruritic regimen 
(e.g., non-sedating long-acting 
antihistamine) 
•  Administer topical corticosteroid 
treatment for symptomatic rash that 
does not respond to anti-pruritic 
regimen.  
•  For persistent symptoms, 
administer systemic steroids  
•  Resume KIMMTRAK escalation if 
the current dose is less than 68 mcg, 
or resume at same dose level if dose 
escalation has completed 
Grade 3 
•  Withhold KIMMTRAK until Grade 
≤ 1 or baseline. 
•  Administer topical corticosteroid 
and oral corticosteroids 
•  For persistent reactions not 
responding to oral steroids, consider 
intravenous corticosteroid (e.g., 2 
mg/kg/day methylprednisolone or 
equivalent) 
•  Resume KIMMTRAK at same dose 
level (i.e., do not escalate if Grade 3 
skin reactions occurred during 
initial dose escalation; resume 
escalation once dosage is tolerated) 
•  Permanently discontinue 
KIMMTRAK 
•  Administer intravenous 
Grade 4 
corticosteroid (e.g., 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone or equivalent) 
a Based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 
version 4.03 (NCI CTCAEv4.03). 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of KIMMTRAK in children under the age of 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required for elderly patients (≥ 65 years of age). 
Renal impairment 
Based on safety and efficacy analyses, dose adjustment is not necessary in patients with mild to 
moderate renal dysfunction. No dose recommendations can be made for patients with severe renal 
impairment because of the lack of pharmacokinetic data; therefore, dosing in patients with severe renal 
impairment should be done with caution and careful monitoring (see section 5.2). 
Patients with history of cardiac disease 
KIMMTRAK has not been studied in patients with history of significant cardiac disease. Patients with 
cardiac disease, QT prolongation and risk factors for cardiac failure should be monitored carefully (see 
section 4.4). 
Method of administration 
KIMMTRAK is for intravenous use. The recommended infusion period is 15 to 20 minutes. 
KIMMTRAK requires dilution with sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection 
containing human albumin for intravenous infusion. Each vial of KIMMTRAK is intended for use as 
single-dose only. Do not shake the KIMMTRAK vial. 
For instructions on dilution and administration of the medicinal product, see section 6.6. 
First three treatment doses 
First three doses of KIMMTRAK should be administered in a hospital setting with overnight 
monitoring for signs and symptoms of CRS for at least 16 hours. Vital signs should be monitored pre 
dose and at a minimum of every 4 hours until resolution of symptoms. If clinically indicated, more 
frequent monitoring or prolongation of hospitalization should be performed.  
If patients experience Grade 3 or 4 hypotension during any of the first three KIMMTRAK infusions, 
patients should be monitored every hour for at least 4 hours in an outpatient setting for the next three 
infusions.  
Subsequent treatment doses 
After 68 mcg dose level is tolerated (i.e., absence of Grade ≥ 2 hypotension requiring medical 
intervention), subsequent doses can be administered in appropriate outpatient ambulatory care setting. 
Patients should be observed for a minimum of 60 minutes following each infusion. For patients who 
have received outpatient treatment with KIMMTRAK for at least 3 months and have not experienced 
any interruptions greater than 2 weeks, outpatient monitoring following infusion may be decreased to 
a minimum of 30 minutes for subsequent doses. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) 
Most patients experienced CRS following tebentafusp infusions. Diagnosis of CRS was most 
frequently based on pyrexia followed by hypotension and infrequently hypoxia. Other commonly 
observed symptoms with CRS included chills, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and headache.  
In the majority of cases, CRS started on the day of infusion with median time to resolution of 2 days. 
Pyrexia was noted in nearly all cases of CRS, and in these patients, an increase in body temperature 
generally occurred within the first 8 hours after tebentafusp infusion. CRS rarely (1.2 %) led to 
treatment discontinuation.  
Patients should be monitored for signs or symptoms of CRS for at least 16 hours following first three 
infusions of tebentafusp in a hospital setting with immediate access to medicinal products and 
resuscitative equipment to manage CRS. If CRS is observed, prompt treatment with supportive care 
including antipyretics, intravenous fluids, tocilizumab, or corticosteroids should be initiated to avoid 
escalation to severe or life-threatening events and monitoring should be continued until resolution.  
At subsequent doses, patients should be closely monitored after treatment for early identification of 
signs and symptoms of CRS (see section 4.2, Method of administration). Patients with co-morbidities, 
including cardiovascular disorders, may be at increased risk for sequalae associated with CRS.  
Treatment with tebentafusp has not been studied in patients with clinically significant cardiac disease 
(see section 5.1). Depending on persistence and severity of CRS tebentafusp treatment should be 
withheld or discontinued (see section 4.2, Table 1). 
Acute skin reactions 
Acute skin reactions have been reported with tebentafusp infusion, which may be based on its 
mechanism of action and gp100 expression in normal melanocytes in the skin. Acute skin reactions 
mainly included rash, pruritus, erythema and cutaneous oedema (see section 4.8).  
Acute skin reactions typically occurred following each of the first three tebentafusp infusions and 
decreased in severity and frequency over time. Majority of symptoms resolved without any systemic 
corticosteroid or any long term sequalae.  
Acute skin reactions can be managed with antihistamine and topical corticosteroids. For persistent or 
severe symptoms, systemic steroids should be considered. Management of signs and symptoms of skin 
reactions may require temporary delays of subsequent tebentafusp treatments (see section 4.2, Table 
2). 
Cardiac disease 
Cardiac  events  such  as  sinus  tachycardia  and  arrhythmia  have  been  observed  in  patients  who  have 
received tebentafusp treatment (see section 4.8).  Patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disorders may 
be at increased risk for sequalae associated with CRS and should be monitored carefully. Any patient 
with  signs or  symptoms  consistent  with  cardiac  events  should  be  evaluated  and promptly treated.  In 
addition, appropriate treatment should be administered for any underlying CRS as a precipitating factor.  
Cases  of  QT  interval  prolongation  were  reported  following  tebentafusp  treatment  (see  section  4.8). 
Tebentafusp treatment should be administered with caution in patients with history of or predisposition 
to QT interval prolongation and in patients who are taking medicinal products that are known to prolong 
QT interval. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An electrocardiogram (ECG) should be performed in all patients before and after tebentafusp treatment 
during the first 3 weeks of treatment and subsequently as clinically indicated. If QTcF exceeds 500 msec 
or increases by ≥ 60 msec from baseline value tebentafusp treatment should be withheld and patients 
should  be  treated  for  any  underlying  precipitating  factors  including  electrolyte  abnormalities. 
Tebentafusp treatment should be resumed once QTcF interval improves to <500 msec or is < 60 msec 
from baseline value. Depending on persistence and severity of the cardiac event and any associated CRS 
tebentafusp treatment should be withheld or discontinued (see section 4.2, Table 1). 
Contraception  
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during and for at least 1 week 
after last dose of tebentafusp treatment (see section 4.6) 
Excipients  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per mL, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’ 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal drug interaction studies have been performed with tebentafusp. 
Initiation of tebentafusp treatment causes transient release of cytokines that may suppress CYP450 
enzymes. The highest drug-drug interaction risk is during the first 24 hours of the first three doses of 
tebentafusp in patients who are receiving concomitant CYP450 substrates, particularly those with a 
narrow therapeutic index. These patients should be monitored for toxicity (e.g., warfarin) or drug 
concentrations (e.g., cyclosporine). The dose of the concomitant medicines should be adjusted as 
needed. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception 
Women of childbearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with tebentafusp 
and for at least 1 week after last dose of tebentafusp. 
Pregnancy 
There are no data from the use of tebentafusp in pregnant women. Animal reproduction studies have 
not been conducted with tebentafusp (see section 5.3). 
Tebentafusp is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. The pregnancy status in females of reproductive potential should be verified prior to 
initiating tebentafusp treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
There is insufficient information on the excretion of tebentafusp/metabolites in human milk. A risk to 
the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
tebentafusp. 
Fertility 
No fertility studies have been conducted with tebentafusp (see section 5.3). The effect of tebentafusp 
on male and female fertility is unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tebentafusp has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of safety profile 
The most common adverse drug reactions in patients treated with KIMMTRAK were cytokine release 
syndrome (88 %), rash (85 %), pyrexia (79 %), pruritus (72 %), fatigue (66 %), nausea (56 %), chills 
(55 %), abdominal pain (49 %), oedema (49 %), hypo/hyperpigmentation (48 %), hypotension (43 %), 
dry skin (35 %), headache (32 %) and vomiting (34 %). 
Adverse reactions led to permanent discontinuation in 4 % of patients receiving KIMMTRAK. The 
most common adverse reaction that led to discontinuation of KIMMTRAK was cytokine release 
syndrome.  
Adverse reactions resulting in at least one dose interruption occurred in 26 % of KIMMTRAK-treated 
patients (dosed weekly) and resulted in a median of one skipped dose. Adverse reactions requiring 
dosage interruption in ≥ 2 % of patients included fatigue (3 %; Grade 1--3), pyrexia (2.7 %; Grade 
1-3), alanine aminotransferase increase (2.4 %; Grade 1-4), aspartate aminotransferase increase (2.4 
%; Grade 1-3) abdominal pain (2.1 %; Grade 1-3), and lipase increased (2.1 %; Grade 1-3).   
Adverse reactions leading to at least one dose modification occurred in 4.2 % of patients in 
KIMMTRAK-treated group. Adverse reactions which required dose modification in ≥ 1 % of patients 
were cytokine release syndrome (1.9 %; Grade 1-3), and hypotension (1.1 %; Grade 2-4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 3 summarizes adverse reactions that occurred in 378 metastatic uveal melanoma patients from 
two clinical studies (IMCgp100-102 and IMCgp100-202) that received the recommended dosing 
KIMMTRAK dosing regimen of 20 micrograms on Day 1, 30 micrograms on Day 8 and 
68 micrograms on Day 15 and 68 micrograms weekly thereafter. 
The adverse drug reaction frequency is listed by MedDRA System Organ Class (SOC) at the preferred 
term level. Frequencies of occurrence of adverse reactions are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very 
rare (< 1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of 
decreasing seriousness.  
Table 3: Adverse reactions in patients treated with KIMMTRAK monotherapy 
Infections and infestations 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Very common 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common 
Uncommon 
Psychiatric disorders 
Very Common 
Common 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Cardiac disorders 
Very common 
Adverse reactions 
Nasopharyngitis 
Cytokine release syndrome1 
Decreased appetite, hypomagnesaemia, 
hyponatraemia, hypocalcaemia, hypokalaemia 
Tumour lysis syndrome 
Insomnia 
Anxiety  
Headache2 , dizziness, paraesthesia 
Taste disorder 
Tachycardia2 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Very common 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Arrhythmia2, atrial fibrillation2 
Angina pectoris2, cardiac failure2 
Hypotension2, flushing, hypertension 
Cough, dyspnoea 
Oropharyngeal pain, hypoxia2 
Nausea2, vomiting2, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, 
constipation, dyspepsia 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Rash, pruritus, dry skin, hypo/ hyperpigmentation4, 
erythema 
Alopecia, night sweats 
Arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, pain in extremity 
Muscle spasm 
Pyrexia2, fatigue3, chills2, oedema5, Influenza like 
illness 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased, alanine 
aminotransferase increased, blood bilirubin 
increased, lipase increased, anaemia,  lymphocyte 
count decreased, blood phosphate decreased, blood 
creatinine increased 
Amylase increased, gamma glutamyltransferase 
increased, white blood cell count increased, blood 
alkaline phosphatase increased, blood glucose 
increased 
Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Uncommon  
1 CRS was adjudicated using the ASTCT consensus grading of CRS criteria (Lee et.al 2019). 
Adjudicated CRS is provided in lieu of investigator reported CRS. 
2 Some of the events may be associated with CRS or may be isolated reported events. 
3 Includes fatigue and asthenia. 
4 Includes achromotrichia acquired, ephelides, eyelash discolouration, eyelash hypopigmentation, hair 
colour changes, lentigo, pigmentation disorder, retinal depigmentation, skin depigmentation, skin 
discolouration, skin hyperpigmentation, skin hypopigmentation, solar lentigo, vitiligo. 
5 Includes eye oedema, eye swelling, eyelid oedema, periorbital swelling, periorbital oedema, swelling 
of eyelid, pharyngeal oedema, lip oedema, lip swelling, face oedema, generalized oedema, localized 
oedema, oedema, oedema peripheral, peripheral swelling, swelling, swelling face. 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) 
In clinical study IMCgp100-202, cytokine release syndrome (adjudicated based on ASTCT consensus 
grading 2019) occurred in 89 % of KIMMTRAK treated patients. The overall incidence of CRS 
included 12 % Grade 1, 76 % Grade 2 and 0.8 % Grade 3 events. Most commonly observed symptoms 
with CRS included chills, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, hypotension, and headache. Grade 3 events that 
may be observed in association with CRS include tachycardia, hypoxia, angina pectoris, atrial flutter, 
and left ventricular dysfunction. 
The majority (84 %) of episodes of CRS started the day of infusion. The median time to resolution of 
CRS was 2 days. CRS rarely (1.2 %) led to treatment discontinuation. All CRS symptoms were 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
reversible and were mostly managed with intravenous fluids, antipyretics, or a single dose of 
corticosteroid. Two patients (0.8 %) received tocilizumab. 
For clinical management of CRS, see section 4.2, Table 1. 
Acute skin reactions 
In Study IMCgp100-202, acute skin reactions occurred in 91 % of patients treated with KIMMTRAK. 
including any grade rash (83 %), pruritis (69 %), erythema (25 %) and cutaneous oedema (27 %). 
Most skin reactions were Grade 1 (28 %) or 2 (44 %) and some KIMMTRAK treated patients 
experienced Grade 3 (21 %) events. Among patients with observed rash, patients commonly 
experienced rash (55 %), rash maculo-papular (31 %) and skin exfoliation (21 %). Grade 3 adverse 
reactions of rash were reported in 5 % of patients and included rash (2.4 %) and rash maculopapular 
(1.6 %).  
Acute skin reactions typically occurred following each of the first three KIMMTRAK infusions, with 
decreasing frequency of ≥ Grade 3 reactions (dose 1; 17 %, dose 2; 10 %, dose 3; 8 %, dose 4; 3 %). 
The median time to onset of acute skin reactions was 1 day in the KIMMTRAK treated patients and 
median time to improvement to ≤ Grade 1 was 6 days.  
For clinical management of acute skin reactions, see section 4.2, Table 2. 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In Study IMCgp100-202 where 95 % of patients had preexisting liver metastasis, ALT/AST increase 
to ≥ Grade 1 were observed in 65 % of patients treated with KIMMTRAK. Elevations in bilirubin 
have been reported in 27 % of patients and these were primarily associated with increase in size of 
liver metastasis. The majority Grade 3 or 4 ALT/AST elevations generally occurred within the first 3 
KIMMTRAK infusions. Most patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 ALT/AST elevations had 
improvement to ≤ Grade 1 within 7 days.  
Immunogenicity 
Treatment-emergent anti-drug antibodies (ADA) against tebentafusp were detected in 33 % and 29 % 
of patients receiving tebentafusp across all doses in study IMCgp100-102 and study IMCgp100-202, 
respectively. The median onset time to ADA formation was 6 to 9 weeks after start of tebentafusp 
treatment.  
There was no evidence of ADA impact on safety or efficacy of tebentafusp, although the small 
number of patients who developed high titer ADA precludes firm conclusions regarding their clinical 
impact. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no information on overdose with tebentafusp. In case of overdose, patients should be closely 
monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse reactions and appropriate symptomatic treatment should 
be instituted immediately. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: not yet 
assigned 
Mechanism of action 
Tebentafusp is a bispecific fusion protein, comprised of a T cell receptor (TCR; targeting domain) 
fused to an antibody fragment targeting CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3; effector domain). The TCR 
end binds with high affinity to a gp100 peptide presented by human leukocyte antigen – A*02:01 
(HLA-A*02:01) on the cell surface of uveal melanoma tumour cells, and the effector domain binds to 
the CD3 receptor on the polyclonal T cell. 
An immune synapse is formed when the TCR targeting domain of tebentafusp binds to uveal 
melanoma cells and the CD3 effector domain binds to polyclonal T cells. This immune synapse results 
in redirection and activation of polyclonal T cells regardless of their native TCR specificity. 
Tebentafusp activated polyclonal T cells release inflammatory cytokines and cytolytic proteins, which 
result in direct lysis of uveal melanoma tumour cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Transient and clinically nonsignificant reduction in lymphocyte counts in blood was observed after 
treatment with tebentafusp. Lymphocytes decreased the day after the first 3 doses and returned to 
baseline prior to subsequent doses. 
After treatment with tebentafusp, transient increases in serum levels of proinflammatory cytokines and 
chemokines were observed in samples collected after the first three doses. Peak levels were observed 
between 8 to 24 hours after treatment with tebentafusp and levels returned to baseline prior to 
subsequent doses. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Study IMCgp100-202: Previously untreated metastatic uveal melanoma  
Study IMCgp100-202 was a randomised, open label, multicentre study that enrolled HLA-A*02:01 
positive metastatic uveal melanoma patients who were naïve to systemic therapy. Patient could not 
have received previous systemic treatment or localized (liver--directed) therapy for metastatic uveal 
melanoma except for a prior surgical resection of oligometastatic disease. Patient were excluded for 
presence of symptomatic or untreated brain metastasis, symptomatic congestive heart failure, QT 
interval corrected by Fridericia’s formula (QTcF) > 470 msec or congenital long QT syndrome, acute 
myocardial infarction, or unstable angina pectoris less than 6 months prior to treatment initiation.    
Patients were randomised (2:1) to receive tebentafusp weekly by intravenous infusion according to the 
recommended intra-patient dosing regimen section 4.2 or investigator’s choice treatment 
(pembrolizumab, ipilimumab, or dacarbazine) at the approved doses of these agents until disease 
progression or unacceptable toxicity. 
Patients could receive tebentafusp, pembrolizumab, or ipilimumab treatment beyond disease 
progression if the patients were clinically stable, deriving clinical benefit and showed no signs of 
unacceptable toxicity as determined by the investigator. Treatment breaks for up to 2 consecutive 
weeks were allowed.  Randomisation was stratified by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) status, a known 
prognostic factor for unresectable or metastatic UM. 
The primary efficacy outcome was overall survival (OS) in all patients randomised in the study. 
Tumour assessments were conducted every 12 weeks. Additional efficacy outcomes were investigator 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assessed progression free survival (PFS) A total of 378 patients were randomised; 252 to 
tebentafusp- treated group and 126 to the investigator’s choice treated group (pembrolizumab: 82 %; 
ipilimumab: 12 %; or dacarbazine: 6 %). The median age was 64 years (range 23 to 92 years); with 
49.5 % of patients ≥ 65 years, 87 % were white, 50 % were female. Baseline ECOG performance 
status was 0 (72 %) or 1 (20.4 %) or 2 (0.3 %), 36 % had elevated LDH level, and 95 % had liver 
metastasis. 
In this study IMCgp100-202, 43 % of patients received treatment beyond progression with tebentafusp 
with no new safety signals identified. Median duration of tebentafusp treatment beyond progression 
was 8 weeks. Of the total tebentafusp infusions during the study, 21.5 % was administered after 
progression. 
After  completion  of  the  primary  efficacy  analysis,  patients  from  the  investigator’s  choice  arm  were 
permitted to crossover to the tebentafusp treatment. With a median duration of follow up of 22.4 months, 
the updated OS continued to favour the tebentafusp arm (HR= 0.58; 95% CI: 0.44, 0.77). At the time of 
analysis, 16 patients had crossed over to tebentafusp treatment. 
The efficacy results are summarized in Table 4 and Figure 1. 
Table 4: Efficacy results in study IMCgp100-202 
Primary and secondary 
endpoints 
KIMMTRAK 
(N = 252) 
Investigator`s choice 
therapy 
(N = 126) 
Overall survival (OS) 1 
Number of deaths 
Median months (95 % CI) 
HR (95 % CI)2, 4 
Stratified log-rank p-value2 
Progression free survival (PFS)3, 4 
Number (%) of patients with 
event 
Median in months (95 % CI) 
HR (95 % CI)4 
Stratified log-rank p-value2 
Objective response rate (ORR)6 
n (%)  
95% CI 
Complete Response (CR) 
Partial Response (PR) 
Stable Disease (SD)5 
Median duration of response  
Months (95% CI) 
87 (34.5 %) 
21.7 (18.6, 28.6) 
63 (50 %) 
16.0 (9.7, 18.4) 
0.51 (0.37, 0.71) 
p = <0.0001 
198 (78.6 %) 
3.3 (3.0, 5.0) 
97 (77 %) 
2.9 (2.8, 3.0) 
0.73 (0.58, 0.94) 
p = 0.0139 
26 (10.3) 
6.9, 14.8 
1 (0.4) 
25 (9.9) 
52 (20.6) 
6 (4.8) 
1.8, 10.1 
0 
6 (4.8) 
16 (12.7) 
9.9 (5.6, 22.1) 
9.7 (2.7, --) 
CI = Confidence interval, HR = Hazard ratio 
1 At a prespecified interim analysis, 150 OS events were observed, and a p-value boundary for 
declaring efficacy (0.006) was determined by a Lan-Demets alpha spending function with O’Brien 
Fleming type boundary. 
2 Two-sided p-value based on log rank test stratified by LDH. 
3 As assessed by investigator using RECIST v1.1 criteria. 
4 Hazard ratio is from a proportional hazards model stratified by LDH status 
5 Based on ≥24 weeks.  
6 Updated based on all patients having opportunity for at least 3 radiological assessments  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier curves of overall survival in the study IMCgp100-202 
Study IMCgp100-102: Previously treated metastatic uveal melanoma 
Study IMCgp100-102 was an open-label, Phase 2 multicentre study conducted in 127 patients, who 
were treated with the dosing scheme recommended in section 4.2. Patients were required to be 
HLA-A*02:01 positive. Patients were eligible if they had experienced disease progression following at 
least 1 or more prior lines of liver directed therapy or systemic therapy including immune check point 
inhibitors in the metastatic setting. Patients were excluded for clinically significant cardiac disease and 
presence of symptomatic or untreated brain metastasis. 
Major efficacy outcome measures included confirmed ORR as assessed by Independent Central 
Review (ICR) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) v1.1. Secondary 
efficacy outcomes included PFS, DCR, DOR and OS. 
The median age was 61 years, 50 % were female, 99 % were white, the ECOG performance score was 
0 (70 %) or 1 (30 %) and 96 % of patients had liver metastasis. Prior treatments included 
immunotherapy (73 % of patients) including immune checkpoint inhibitors (PD-1/PD-L1; 65 %; 
CTLA-4; 31 %) and liver directed therapy 45%. Efficacy results from study IMCgp100-102 are 
summarised in Table 5. 
Table 5: Efficacy results in study IMCgp100-102 
Primary and secondary endpoints 
Confirmed objective response rate1 
(95% CI) 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial Response (PR) 
Stable Disease (SD) 2 
Median duration of response 
Months (95% CI) 
KIMMTRAK 
(N = 127) 
6 (4.7 %) 
(1.8 %, 10 %) 
0 
6 (4.7 %) 
23 (18.1 %) 
8.7 (5.6, 24.5) 
1 As assessed by independent central review using RECIST v1.1 criteria.   
2 Based on ≥24 weeks  
Paediatric population 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
KIMMTRAK in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of ocular melanoma (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The pharmacokinetics of tebentafusp appear linear and dose proportional over a dose range of 20 mcg 
to 68 mcg. Following weekly intravenous infusion in metastatic uveal melanoma patients, the 
maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) reached 4.2 ng/mL - 13.7 ng/mL immediately at the end of 
infusion (T = 0.5 hours). No accumulation was observed with a weekly dosing regimen at the target 
therapeutic doses. 
Distribution 
Tebentafusp did not distribute extensively and displayed a volume of distribution comparable to blood 
volume (5.25 L). 
Biotransformation 
The metabolic pathway of tebentafusp has not been characterised. Like other protein therapeutics, 
tebentafusp is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways. 
Elimination 
The excretion of tebentafusp is not fully characterised. Based on its molecular size that is close to the 
glomerular filtration size exclusion threshold, small amounts of tebentafusp may be excreted in the 
urine. 
Following administration of tebentafusp in metastatic uveal melanoma patients the estimated systemic 
clearance was 4. 29 L/d, with a terminal half-life of 6 to 8 hours. 
Special populations 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that there was no significant effect of weight (43 to 
163 kg), gender, race, and age (23 to 91 years) on tebentafusp clearance. 
Renal impairment 
No formal pharmacokinetic studies of tebentafusp have been conducted in patients with renal 
impairment. 
No impact on safety or efficacy parameters was identified in patients with mild (creatinine clearance 
[CrCL] ranging 60 to 89 mL/min) to moderate (CrCL ranging 30 to 59 mL/min) renal impairment and 
no dose adjustments are recommended. There are limited data from patients (< 5%) with moderate 
renal impairment and there is no information available from patients with severe renal impairment 
(CrCL < 30 mL/min). 
Hepatic impairment 
No formal pharmacokinetic studies of tebentafusp have been conducted in patients with hepatic 
impairment. Population PK analyses demonstrated that baseline and on treatment ALT/AST elevations 
did not impact tebentafusp pharmacokinetics. No dose adjustments based on ALT/AST levels are 
recommended. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Tebentafusp is a human--specific protein and there are no relevant animal species in which nonclinical 
toxicology of tebentafusp could be tested. 
No carcinogenicity, genotoxicity, or developmental and reproductive toxicity studies have been 
conducted with tebentafusp. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Citric acid monohydrate (E330) 
Di-sodium hydrogen phosphate (E339) 
Mannitol (E421) 
Trehalose 
Polysorbate 20 (E432) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years.  
After opening 
From a microbiological point of view, once opened, the medicinal product should be diluted and 
infused immediately.  
After preparation of solution for infusion 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2 °C to 8 °C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store and transport refrigerated (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I glass vial with a bromobutyl rubber stopper and an aluminium/plastic flip-off seal, containing 
0.5 mL concentrate. 
Pack size of 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
General precautions 
The solution for infusion should be prepared by a healthcare professional using proper aseptic 
technique throughout the handling of this medicinal product 
Use aseptic technique for dilution and preparation of dosing solutions. 
Closed system transfer devices (CSTDs) must not be used for dose preparation of KIMMTRAK 
solution for infusion. 
Parenteral medicinal products and infusion bags should be inspected visually for particulate matter and 
discolouration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit. 
Preparation 
KIMMTRAK must be diluted prior to intravenous administration.  
Ensure the following supplies are available prior to preparing KIMMTRAK for administration: 
• 
• 
• 
1 mL sterile syringes with graduations of 2 decimal places. 
Sterile needles. 
Human albumin; use concentration as per local availability. Local concentrations include but 
not restricted to 4 % (40 g/L), 5 % (50 g/L), 20 % (200 g/L), 25 % (250 g/L). 
A 100 mL infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection: 
o 
The infusion bag should be constructed of polyolefins (PO) [such as polyethylene (PE) 
and polypropylene (PP)] or polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 
A sterile, nonpyrogenic, low protein binding 0.2 micron in-line filter infusion set for 
administration of the final infusion bag. 
• 
• 
Dilution and Administration 
A 2-step process is required for preparation of the final KIMMTRAK dose: 
Step 1: Prepare the infusion bag 
Using aseptic technique, prepare the infusion bag as follows: 
a. 
Using a 1 mL syringe and a sterile needle, withdraw the calculated volume of human albumin into 
the syringe (see Table 6 below) and add to the 100 mL infusion bag containing sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection to make a final human albumin concentration between 
225 mcg/mL and 275 mcg/mL. 
Table 6: Examples of human albumin concentration and acceptable withdrawal volumes 
Human albumin concentration 
Acceptable volume range for addition to 100 mL 
infusion bag for human albumin concentration 
between 225 mcg/mL to 275 mcg/ mL 
0.63 mL (0.57 mL to 0.69 mL) 
0.50 mL (0.45 mL to 0.55 mL) 
0.13 mL (0.12 mL to 0.14 mL) 
0.10 mL (0.09 mL to 0.11 mL) 
Gently homogenize the diluted solution by completing the following steps: 
4 % (40 g/L) 
5 % (50 g/L) 
20 % (200 g/L) 
25 % (250 g/L) 
b. 
i.  Invert the infusion bag so that the entry port is positioned at the top of the bag and tap the 
side of port tubing to ensure that any residual solution is released into the bulk solution. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii.  Mix by gently rotating the bag lengthwise 360 degrees from the inverted position at least 
5 times. Do NOT shake the infusion bag. 
iii.  Repeat (i) and (ii) an additional three times. 
Step 2: Preparation of KIMMTRAK solution for infusion 
c. 
Using a 1 mL syringe and a sterile needle, withdraw the required volume of KIMMTRAK 
100 micrograms/ 0.5 mL as per the dose required (shown in Table 6 below) and add to the 
prepared 100 mL infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for 
injection, plus human albumin. 
d.  Do NOT flush the needle and syringe on transfer. Discard the vial containing the unused portion 
of KIMMTRAK in accordance with local requirements. Do not prepare more than one dose 
from the vial. 
Table 7: KIMMTRAK volumes required for addition to infusion bag 
Day of treatment 
Day 1 
Day 8 
Day 15 and weekly 
thereafter 
Dose (mcg) of 
KIMMTRAK 
20 
30 
68 
Volume (mL) of 
KIMMTRAK 
0.10 
0.15 
0.34 
e.  Mix the infusion bag by following the same procedure outlined in Step 1b. 
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
Administer KIMMTRAK as intravenous infusion only. 
Immediately administer the infusion over 15 to 20 minutes through a dedicated intravenous line. 
A sterile, nonpyrogenic, low protein binding 0.2 micron in line filter infusion set should be 
used. Administer the entire contents of the KIMMTRAK infusion bag to the patient. 
Upon completion of KIMMTRAK infusion, flush the infusion line with adequate volume of 
sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection, to ensure that the entire contents 
of the infusion bag are administered. Do not administer KIMMTRAK as an intravenous push or 
bolus. Do not mix KIMMTRAK with other drugs or administer other drugs through the same 
intravenous line. 
Storage of prepared infusion bag 
• 
• 
• 
KIMMTRAK does not contain a preservative. The prepared infusion bag should be 
administered within 4 hours from the time of preparation including the duration of infusion. 
During the 4 hour window, the KIMMTRAK infusion bag should remain below 30 °C. 
If not used immediately, store the KIMMTRAK infusion bag in a refrigerator at 2 °C to 8 °C for 
up to 24 hours from the time of preparation which includes the time allowed for equilibration of 
the infusion bag to room temperature and the duration of the infusion. 
Once removed from the refrigerator, KIMMTRAK infusion bag must not be refrigerated again. 
Discard unused KIMMTRAK solution beyond the recommended storage time. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Immunocore Ireland Limited 
Unit 1, Sky Business Centre 
Dublin 17, D17 FY82 
Ireland 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1630/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
AGC Biologics A/S 
Vandtaarnsvej 83B, 
DK-2860 Soeborg, Copenhagen  
Denmark 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
ProPharma Group The Netherlands B.V.,  
Schipholweg 73 
2316 ZL Leiden 
The Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c (7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of KIMMTRAK in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) 
must agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The educational programme is aimed at highlighting the monitoring process and facilitating the 
prompt diagnosis and treatment of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) to reduce its severity.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where KIMMTRAK is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients who are expected to prescribe or use KIMMTRAK have access to/are 
provided with the following educational materials: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient information pack 
Physician educational material: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics  
•  Treatment Guide for Healthcare Professionals  
Treatment Guide for Healthcare Professionals: 
o  Details on how to monitor patients for the first three infusions and for subsequent 
infusions. 
o  Details of how to minimise the risk of hypotension associated with CRS.  
o  Description of the symptoms of CRS, including severity, frequency, time to onset, 
treatment, and resolution, in patients treated with KIMMTRAK. 
o  Details on how to manage CRS based on severity grade, including the recommendation to 
administer corticosteroid premedication for Grade 2 CRS that is persistent or recurrent or 
any Grade 3 CRS.  
o  Description of the ECG schedule and management requirements based on the ECG 
results.  
o  Recommendation to carefully monitor patients with cardiac disease, QT prolongation and 
risk factors for cardiac failure.  
Information on the importance of informing patients of the risk of CRS and the need to 
immediately contact their doctor or nurse if they develop symptoms of CRS.  
Information on the importance of reporting adverse reactions with details of how to report. 
o 
o 
The patient information pack: 
•  Package leaflet 
•  Patient Guide 
Patient Guide: 
o 
o 
Information on the risk of CRS associated with KIMMTRAK with a description of the 
symptoms.  
Information on the importance of immediately contacting a doctor or nurse if the patient 
develops symptoms of CRS. 
o  Details of what the patient should expect regarding the monitoring schedule.  
o 
Information on the importance of reporting side effects with details of how to report. 
22 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
KIMMTRAK 100 micrograms/0.5 mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
tebentafusp 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial of 0.5 mL contains 100 micrograms of tebentafusp 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Citric acid monohydrate (E 330), Di-sodium hydrogen phosphate (E 339), Mannitol (E 421), 
Trehalose, Polysorbate 20 (E 432), and Water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after dilution.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store and transport refrigerated (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Immunocore Ireland Limited 
Unit 1, Sky Business Centre 
Dublin 17, D17 FY82 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1630/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
KIMMTRAK 100 mcg/0.5 mL sterile concentrate 
tebentafusp 
IV after dilution  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
KIMMTRAK 100 micrograms/0.5 mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
tebentafusp 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What KIMMTRAK is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given KIMMTRAK 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How KIMMTRAK is given  
Possible side effects  
How to store KIMMTRAK  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What KIMMTRAK is and what it is used for 
KIMMTRAK contains the active substance tebentafusp.Tebentafusp is an anticancer medicine made 
from two different proteins that are fused together. One of these proteins recognises and attaches to an 
antigen (a target protein) called ‘gp100’. Gp100 is found at high levels in uveal melanoma cancer 
cells. The other protein recognises and attaches to a protein called CD3. CD3 is found on certain cells 
of the body’s immune system. By binding to gp100 and CD3, KIMMTRAK activates your immune 
system to recognise and destroy the cancer cells. 
KIMMTRAK is used to treat adults with a rare eye cancer called ‘uveal melanoma’. The medicine is 
used when the uveal melanoma has grown despite local treatment, or has spread to other parts of the 
body. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given KIMMTRAK 
Do not use KIMMTRAK if you are allergic to tebentafusp or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). If you are not sure whether you are allergic to any of the ingredients, 
talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given KIMMTRAK. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given KIMMTRAK, about all of your medical conditions, 
particularly if you have following: 
−  heart problems including a change in the electrical activity of your heart (QT interval 
prolongation) 
Your doctor may give you a blood test called HLA genotyping before treatment to determine if 
KIMMTRAK is suitable for you. 
Tell your doctor before being given KIMMTRAK if you are taking corticosteroid medication to treat 
adrenal insufficiency (also known as ‘Addison’s disease’). Your doctor may need to adjust your 
corticosteroid dose while you are being treated with KIMMTRAK. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately or seek urgent medical attention if you have any of the 
following side effects during or after your treatment: 
− 
− 
fever, dizziness, light headedness. These may be symptoms of a serious condition called 
cytokine release syndrome. Other symptoms of cytokine release syndrome are difficulty 
breathing, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, muscle pain, joint pain, swelling, low blood pressure, 
rapid heart rate, or headache. 
itchy skin, rash, severe hives (itchy swellings under the skin), peeling or flaking skin, or 
swelling of body and/or skin around the eyes which may be symptoms of skin reactions. 
−  heart problems such as rapid or irregular heart beat or a change in the electrical activity of the 
heart that can cause serious irregular heart rhythms which can manifest as palpitations, 
shortness of breath, light headedness or dizziness, or chest pain. 
Your doctor or nurse will monitor you for signs and symptoms of these reactions during and after each 
dose. If you have any severe problems, your treatment may be temporarily stopped and started again 
when you feel better. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children under the age of 18 years. This is because there is limited 
information on how well it works in this age group. 
Other medicines and KIMMTRAK 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
KIMMTRAK should not be used in pregnancy unless you and your doctor agree the benefit of taking 
this medicine outweighs any potential risks. If you are a woman who can become pregnant, your 
doctor or nurse will give you a pregnancy test before you start treatment with KIMMTRAK. If you 
become pregnant during KIMMTRAK treatment, inform your doctor or nurse immediately. 
Contraception 
If you are female and of child bearing age, you must use effective birth control (contraception) to 
avoid becoming pregnant during KIMMTRAK treatment and for at least 1 week after your last dose. 
Discuss with your doctor the most appropriate methods of birth control. 
Breast-feeding 
You should not breast-feed during treatment with KIMMTRAK. It is not known if KIMMTRAK 
passes into your breast milk.  
Driving and using machines 
KIMMTRAK is unlikely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. If you feel unwell while being 
treated with this medicine you should not drive or operate machinery until you feel well again. 
KIMMTRAK contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per mL, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How KIMMTRAK is given 
This medicine will be given to you by a doctor or nurse in a hospital or an outpatient setting. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You may be given fluids by infusion (drip) before each KIMMTRAK infusion to help prevent low 
blood pressure due to cytokine release syndome (see section 2 and 4). 
Your doctor or nurse will give you KIMMTRAK through an infusion (drip) into your vein 
(intravenous) over 15 to 20 minutes. You will be given KIMMTRAK once a week, for as long your 
doctor thinks you are benefitting from the treatment. 
The recommended dose of KIMMTRAK is: 
• 
• 
• 
Once every week thereafter: 68 micrograms 
Day 1: 20 micrograms 
Day 8: 30 micrograms 
Day 15: 68 micrograms 
The first three doses will be given to you in hospital. You will be monitored for any side effects during 
treatment and for at least 16 hours after each dose. 
If the first three doses do not cause any serious or unmanageable side effects, your next doses may be 
given in an outpatient setting. You will be monitored for any side effects during treatment and for at 
least 60 minutes after each dose. If you have received KIMMTRAK treatment in an outpatient setting 
for at least 3 months without a break lasting longer than 2 weeks, then monitoring may be decreased 
after each dose to at least 30 minutes. 
If you miss an appointment for your next KIMMTRAK dose, contact your doctor or nurse as soon 
as possible to reschedule your appointment.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately or seek urgent medical attention if you experience any of the 
following very common side effects during or after treatment:  
• 
Fever, dizziness, light headedness. These may be symptoms of a serious condition called 
‘cytokine release syndrome’. Other symptoms of cytokine release syndrome are difficulty 
breathing, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, muscle pain, joint pain, swelling, low blood pressure, rapid 
heart rate, or headache. These symptoms mostly occur after the first three infusions. 
Itchy skin, rash, severe hives(itchy swellings under the skin, peeling or flaking skin, swelling of 
the body and/or skin around the eyes, which may be symptoms of skin reactions.These 
symptoms mostly occur after the first three infusions. 
Heart problems such as rapid or irregular heart beat or a change in the electric activity of the 
heart that can cause serious irregular heart rhythms which can manifest as palpitations, shortness 
of breath, light headedness or dizziness, or chest pain. 
• 
• 
Other side effects 
Tell your doctor if you notice any of the following side effects: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Decreased appetite 
Prickling, tingling or numbness in any part of the body 
Cough 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Indigestion 
Stomach pain 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Chills 
Trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
Flu like symptoms 
Inability to sleep 
Flushing of the skin 
High blood pressure 
Dry skin 
Changes in skin colour 
Redness of skin 
Decreased level of phosphate in the blood 
Decreased level of magnesium in the blood 
Decreased level of sodium in the blood 
Decreased level of calcium in the blood 
Decreased level of potassium in the blood 
Decreased haemoglobin in the blood 
Increased levels of liver enzymes in the blood, which may be a sign of liver problems 
Increased levels of bilirubin in the blood, which may be a sign of liver problems 
Increased level of the pancreatic enzyme lipasein the blood, which may be a sign of pancreas 
problems  
Decreased level of white blood cells in the blood 
Pain in back, arms or legs 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Infection of the nose and throat 
Pain in the mouth and throat 
Hair loss 
Excessive sweating during the night 
Anxiety 
Changes in ability to taste 
Changed or irregular heart beat 
Shortness of breath 
Muscle spasms 
Increased level of the pancreatic enzyme, amylase in the blood 
Increased level of creatinine in the blood, which may be sign of the kidney problems 
Increased level of the liver enzyme gamma glutamyltransferase in the blood 
Increased level of white blood cells in the blood 
Increased level of liver enzymes in the blood  
Increased level of alkaline phosphatase in the blood 
Increased level of blood glucose in the blood 
Uncommon side effects (may effect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Increased levels of potassium, phosphate, and uric acid in the blood, which are signs of cancer 
cells dying 
Chest discomfort or pain, which may be a sign of heart problems 
Heart failure (shortness of breath, chest discomfort, swelling of legs and ankles) 
Changes in the electrical activity of the heart that can lead to serious irregular heart rhythms. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store KIMMTRAK  
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Unopened vials should be stored at 2 °C to 8 °C. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton to protect from light. 
If not used immediately, the prepared infusion may be stored below 30 °C for up to 4 hours or at 2 °C 
to 8 °C for 24 hours from the time of preparation/dilution until the end of administration. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice visible signs of deterioration (i.e. particles, discolouration). 
Do not store any unused medicine for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste material should be 
disposed of in accordance with local requirements. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What KIMMTRAK contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is tebentafusp. One vial of 0.5 mL concentrate contains 100 micrograms of 
tebentafusp. 
The other ingredients are citric acid monohydrate (E330), di-sodium hydrogen phosphate 
(E339), mannitol (E421), trehalose, polysorbate 20 (E432), and water for injections (see section 
2). 
What KIMMTRAK looks like and contents of the pack 
KIMMTRAK concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) is a clear, colourless to slightly 
yellowish solution in a single-dose vial. 
The pack size is 1 glass vial per carton. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Immunocore Ireland Limited 
Unit 1, Sky Business Centre 
Dublin 17, D17 FY82 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Baxter Oncology GmbH 
Kantstraße 2 
33790 Halle/Westfalen 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
BE, BG, CZ, DE. DK, EE, IE, FR, HR, IT, CY, 
LV, LT, LU, HU, MT, NL, AT, PL, PT, RO, SI, 
SK, FI, SE, UK-NI: 
Immunocore Ireland Limited 
EL: 
Medison Pharma Greece Μονοπροσωπη 
Ανωνυμη Εταιρεία 
Τηλ: +30 210 0100 188 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ирландия/Irsko/Irland/Ιρλανδία/Iirimaa/Irlanti/Irl
ande/Irska/Írország/Írland/Irlanda/Airija/Īrija/L-
Irlanda/Ierland/Irlandia/Írsko/Irska 
Tél/Tel/Tel./Teл./Tlf/Τηλ/Sími/Puh: +3531 691 
5450 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website.  
---------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Important: Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) before using. 
General precautions  
The solution for infusion should be prepared by a healthcare professional using proper aseptic 
technique throughout the handling of this medicinal product.  
Closed system transfer devices (CSTDs) must not be used for dose preparation of KIMMTRAK 
solution for infusion. 
Parenteral drug products and infusion bags should be inspected visually for particulate matter and 
discolouration prior to administration, whenever solution and container permit.  
Preparation 
KIMMTRAK must be diluted prior to intravenous administration. Each vial of KIMMTRAK is 
intended for single-use only. Do NOT shake the KIMMTRAK vial. 
Ensure the following supplies are available prior to preparing KIMMTRAK for administration: 
• 
• 
• 
1 mL sterile syringes with graduations of 2 decimal places. 
Sterile needles. 
Human albumin; use concentration as per local availability. Local concentrations include but 
not restricted to 4 % (40 g/L, 5 % (50 g/L), 20 % (200 g/L), 25 % (250 g/L). 
A 100 mL infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection. 
o 
The infusion bag should be constructed of polyolefins (PO) [such as polyethylene (PE) 
and polypropylene (PP)] or polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 
A sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein binding 0.2 micron in-line filter infusion set for 
administration of the final infusion bag. 
• 
• 
Dilution and Administration 
A 2-step process is required for preparation of the final KIMMTRAK dose: 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1: Prepare the infusion bag 
Using aseptic technique, prepare the infusion bag as follows: 
a. 
Using a 1 mL syringe and a sterile needle, withdraw the calculated volume of human albumin into 
the syringe (see Table 1 below) and add to the 100 mL infusion bag containing sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection to make a final human albumin concentration between 
225 mcg/mL and 275 mcg/mL. 
Table 1: Examples of human albumin concentration and acceptable withdrawal volumes 
Human albumin concentration 
4 % (40 g/L) 
5 % (50 g/L) 
20 % (200 g/L) 
25 % (250 g/L) 
Acceptable volume range for addition to 100 mL 
infusion bag for human albumin concentration 
between 225 mcg/mL to 275 mcg/mL 
0.63 mL (0.57 mL to 0.69 mL) 
0.50 mL (0.45 mL to 0.55 mL) 
0.13 mL (0.12 mL to 0.14 mL) 
0.10 mL (0.09 mL to 0.11 mL) 
b. 
Gently homogenize the diluted solution by completing the following steps: 
i. 
Invert the infusion bag so that the entry port is positioned at the top of the bag and tap the 
side of port tubing to ensure that any residual solution is released into the bulk solution.  
ii.  Mix by gently rotating the bag lengthwise 360 degrees from the inverted position at least 5 
times. Do NOT shake the infusion bag.  
iii.  Repeat (i) and (ii) an additional three times. 
Step 2: Preparation of KIMMTRAK solution for infusion 
c. 
d. 
Using a 1 mL syringe and a sterile needle, withdraw the required volume of KIMMTRAK 
100 micrograms/0.5 mL as per the dose required (shown in Table 2 below) and add to the 
prepared 100 mL infusion bag containing sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for 
injection, plus human albumin. 
Do NOT flush the needle and syringe on transfer. Discard the vial containing the unused portion 
of KIMMTRAK in accordance with local requirements. Do not prepare more than one dose 
from the vial. 
Table 2: KIMMTRAK volumes required for addition to infusion Bag 
Day of treatment 
Day 1 
Day 8 
Day 15 and weekly thereafter 
Dose (mcg) of 
KIMMTRAK 
20 
30 
68 
Volume (mL) of 
KIMMTRAK 
0.10 
0.15 
0.34 
e.  Mix the infusion bag by following the same procedure outlined in Step 1b. 
Administration 
• 
• 
• 
Administer KIMMTRAK as intravenous infusion only. 
Immediately administer the infusion over 15 to 20 minutes through a dedicated intravenous line. 
A sterile, nonpyrogenic, low protein binding 0.2 micron in line filter infusion set should be 
used. Administer the entire contents of the KIMMTRAK infusion bag to the patient. 
Upon completion of KIMMTRAK infusion, flush the infusion line with adequate volume of 
sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9 %) solution for injection, to ensure that the entire contents 
of the infusion bag are administered. Do not administer KIMMTRAK as an intravenous push or 
bolus. Do not mix KIMMTRAK with other drugs or administer other drugs through the same 
intravenous line. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Storage of prepared infusion bag 
• 
• 
• 
KIMMTRAK does not contain a preservative. The prepared infusion bag should be 
administered within 4 hours from the time of preparation including the duration of infusion. 
During the 4 hour window, the KIMMTRAK infusion bag should remain below 30 °C. 
If not used immediately, store the KIMMTRAK infusion bag in a refrigerator at 2 °C to 8 °C for 
up to 24 hours from the time of preparation which includes the time allowed for equilibration of 
the infusion bag to room temperature and the duration of the infusion. 
Once removed from the refrigerator, KIMMTRAK infusion bag must not be refrigerated again. 
Discard unused KIMMTRAK solution beyond the recommended storage time. 
36 
 
 
 
