Summary of risk management plan for KIMMTRAK (tebentafusp) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for KIMMTRAK. The RMP details 
important risks of KIMMTRAK, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about KIMMTRAK’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
KIMMTRAK’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how KIMMTRAK should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for KIMMTRAK should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
KIMMTRAK’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
KIMMTRAK is authorised for the treatment of HLA-A*02:01-positive adult patients with 
unresectable or metastatic uveal melanoma (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
tebentafusp as the active substance and it is given intravenously. 
Further information about the evaluation of KIMMTRAK’s benefits can be found in 
KIMMTRAK’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kimmtrak. 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise these risks  
Important risks of KIMMTRAK, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about KIMMTRAK’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of KIMMTRAK, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including periodic safety updated report (PSUR) assessment - so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of KIMMTRAK is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of KIMMTRAK are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of KIMMTRAK. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
•  Cytokine release syndrome 
•  Acute skin reactions  
Important potential risks 
•  None 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
•  Use in patients with clinically significant cardiac disease 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk 1: Cytokine release syndrome 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) is an expected adverse 
reaction related to immune cell activation caused by tebentafusp. 
When immune cells are activated, they produce proteins called 
cytokines. This can cause low blood pressure, fever, chills, 
nausea, vomiting, tiredness and headache, and less frequently 
low oxygen levels in the body (hypoxia).  
Cytokine release syndrome occurred in 88.6% of patients treated 
with tebentafusp in Study 202. They were mainly non-serious 
and mild or moderate in severity with only 0.8% patients 
experiencing severe (Grade 3) reactions. The duration of CRS 
was generally short (3 days) and only 1.2% patients discontinued 
tebentafusp because of CRS. CRS typically occurred in the first 3 
weekly doses and then reduced in frequency and severity with 
the next infusions. 
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and 
nature of an adverse reaction that is expected to occur in clinical 
practice.  
No risk factors or patient groups were found to have an increased 
risk of CRS in the clinical studies. The first three infusions of 
tebentafusp are associated with a greater frequency and severity 
of CRS.  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Guidance on premedication, monitoring and management for 
CRS based on severity in SmPC section 4.2 
 
 
 
•  Warning that tebentafusp can cause CRS, what to expect and 
how to manage CRS in SmPC section 4.4 
•  Warning to monitor patients with cardiac disease, QT 
prolongation and risk factors for cardiac failure in 
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4 
•  Recommendation to perform an ECG in all patients before 
and after treatment with KIMMTRAK in SmPC section 4.4 
•  Warning for the patient to inform their doctor or nurse 
immediately or seek urgent medical attention if they develop 
symptoms of CRS in PL section 2 
•  Guidance that the patient may be given fluids by infusion and 
the dose of corticosteroids adjusted to help prevent low blood 
pressure from CRS in SmPC section 4.2 and PL sections 2 
and 3 
•  Warning for the patient to talk to their doctor or nurse before 
they are given tebentafusp about heart problems including QT 
interval prolongation in PL section 2 
•  Adverse reaction in SmPC section 4.8 
•  Side effect in PL section 4 
•  Restricted prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Treatment Guide for Healthcare Professionals 
•  Patient Guide 
Important identified risk 2: Acute skin reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Tebentafusp targets the peptide gp100 on uveal melanoma 
tumour cells but can also bind to gp100 on normal melanocytes 
(melanin-producing cells) in the skin which may lead to acute 
skin reactions. The most common acute skin reactions include 
rash, pruritis (itchy rash), erythema (redness of the skin) and 
oedema (swelling of body). 
Acute skin reactions occurred in 91.4% of patients treated with 
tebentafusp in Study 202. They were mainly non-serious and 
mild or moderate in severity; 5.7% patients experienced serious 
and 20.0% severe (Grade 3) acute skin reactions. Only 2.0% 
patients experienced acute skin reactions that led to a dose 
interruption or a dose reduction and no acute skin reactions 
resulted in discontinuation of tebentafusp.  
Acute skin reactions typically occurred following the first three 
doses of tebentafusp. They were generally manageable with 
treatments such as oral antihistamines and topical corticosteroids, 
and reduced in severity with the next infusions.  
Clinical trials can provide an estimation of the frequency and 
nature of an adverse reaction that is expected to occur in clinical 
practice.  
No risk factors or patient groups were found to have an increased 
risk of acute skin reactions in the clinical studies. The first three 
infusions of tebentafusp are associated with a greater frequency 
and severity of acute skin reactions.  
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Guidance on management of acute skin reactions based on 
severity in SmPC section 4.2 
•  Warning that tebentafusp can cause acute skin reactions, 
what to expect and how to manage acute skin reactions in 
SmPC section 4.4 
•  Warning for the patient to inform their doctor or nurse 
immediately or seek urgent medical attention if they develop 
symptoms of skin reactions in PL section 2 
•  Adverse reaction in SmPC section 4.8 
•  Side effect in PL section 4 
•  Restricted prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Missing information 1: Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Warning not to use tebentafusp during pregnancy in SmPC 
section 4.6 and PL section 2 
•  Recommendation to use effective contraception in SmPC 
sections 4.4 and 4.6 and PL section 2 
•  Guidance that animal reproduction studies have not been 
conducted in SmPC sections 4.6 and 5.3 
•  Warning that breast-feeding should be discontinued during 
treatment with tebentafusp in SmPC section 4.6 and PL 
section 2 
•  Restricted prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Missing information 2: Use in patients with clinically significant cardiac disease 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Warning to monitor patients with cardiac disease, QT 
prolongation and risk factors for cardiac failure in SmPC 
sections 4.2 and 4.4 
•  Recommendation to perform an ECG in all patients before 
and after treatment with KIMMTRAK in SmPC section 4.4 
•  Information that patients with clinically significant cardiac 
disease were excluded from study participation in SmPC 
sections 4.2 and 5.1 
•  Warning for the patient to talk to their doctor or nurse before 
they are given tebentafusp about heart problems including QT 
interval prolongation in PL section 2 
•  Restricted prescription 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
 
 
 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of KIMMTRAK. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Physician Survey to Assess the Effectiveness of the additional Risk Minimisation 
Measures (aRMM) for KIMMTRAK (tebentafusp) 
Purpose of the study: 
The study will assess the following: 
a) Physicians’ understanding of the important safety information detailed in the Treatment 
Guide for Healthcare Professionals to minimise the severity of CRS with tebentafusp.  
b) Healthcare professionals’ distribution of the Patient Guide to patients treated with 
tebentafusp.  
 
 
