ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kineret 100 mg/0.67 ml solution for injection in pre-filled syringe. 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each graduated pre-filled syringe contains 100 mg of anakinra* per 0.67 ml (150 mg/ml). 
* Human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (r-metHuIL-1ra) produced in Escherichia coli cells by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear, colourless-to-white solution for injection that may contain some product-related translucent-
to-white amorphous particles. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) 
Kineret is indicated in adults for the treatment of the signs and symptoms of RA in combination with 
methotrexate, with an inadequate response to methotrexate alone. 
COVID-19 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in adult patients with 
pneumonia requiring supplemental oxygen (low- or high-flow oxygen) who are at risk of progressing 
to severe respiratory failure determined by plasma concentration of soluble urokinase plasminogen 
activator receptor (suPAR) ≥ 6 ng/ml (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Periodic fever syndromes 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of the following autoinflammatory periodic fever syndromes in 
adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a body weight of 10 kg or 
above: 
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of CAPS, including: 
- 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID) / Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA) 
Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) 
Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) 
- 
- 
Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) 
Kineret is indicated for the treatment of Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF). Kineret should be given 
in combination with colchicine, if appropriate. 
Still’s Disease 
Kineret is indicated in adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a body 
weight of 10 kg or above for the treatment of Still’s disease, including Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic 
Arthritis (SJIA) and Adult-Onset Still’s Disease (AOSD), with active systemic features of moderate to 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
high disease activity, or in patients with continued disease activity after treatment with non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or glucocorticoids. 
Kineret can be given as monotherapy or in combination with other anti-inflammatory drugs and 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Kineret treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of RA, COVID-19, CAPS, FMF and Still’s disease, respectively. 
suPAR testing 
If specified in the indication, patient selection for treatment with Kineret based on suPAR level 
≥ 6 ng/ml should be measured by a validated test (see sections 4.1, 4.4, and 5.1). 
Posology 
RA: Adults 
The recommended dose of Kineret is 100 mg administered once a day by subcutaneous injection. The 
dose should be administered at approximately the same time each day. 
COVID-19: Adults 
The recommended dose of Kineret is 100 mg administered once a day by subcutaneous injection for 
10 days. 
CAPS: Adults, adolescents, children and infants aged 8 months and older with a body weight of 10 kg 
or above 
Starting dose 
The recommended starting dose in all CAPS subtypes is 1-2 mg/kg/day by subcutaneous injection. 
The therapeutic response is primarily reflected by reduction in clinical symptoms such as fever, rash, 
joint pain, and headache, but also in inflammatory serum markers (CRP/SAA levels), or occurrence of 
flares. 
Maintenance dose in mild CAPS (FCAS, mild MWS) 
Patients are usually well-controlled by maintaining the recommended starting dose (1-2 mg/kg/day). 
Maintenance dose in severe CAPS (MWS and NOMID/CINCA) 
Dose increases may become necessary within 1-2 months based on therapeutic response. The usual 
maintenance dose in severe CAPS is 3-4 mg/kg/day, which can be adjusted to a maximum of 
8 mg/kg/day. 
In addition to the evaluation of clinical symptoms and inflammatory markers in severe CAPS, 
assessments of inflammation of the CNS, including the inner ear (MRI or CT, lumbar puncture, and 
audiology) and eyes (ophthalmological assessments) are recommended after an initial 3 months of 
treatment, and thereafter every 6 months, until effective treatment doses have been identified. When 
patients are clinically well-controlled, CNS and ophthalmological monitoring may be conducted 
yearly. 
FMF 
The recommended dose for patients weighing 50 kg or more is 100 mg/day by subcutaneous injection. 
Patients weighing less than 50 kg should be dosed by body weight with a recommended dose of 1-
2 mg/kg/day. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Still’s disease 
The recommended dose for patients weighing 50 kg or more is 100 mg/day by subcutaneous injection. 
Patients weighing less than 50 kg should be dosed by body weight with a starting dose of 
1-2 mg/kg/day. 
Response to treatment should be evaluated after 1 month: In case of persistent systemic manifestations 
dose may be adjusted in children or continued treatment with Kineret should be reconsidered by the 
treating physician. 
Elderly population (≥ 65 years) 
RA and COVID-19: No dose adjustment is required. Posology and administration are the same as for 
adults 18 to 64 years of age. 
CAPS: Data in elderly patients are limited. No dose adjustments are expected to be required. 
Still’s disease: Data in elderly patients are limited. No dose adjustment are expected to be required. 
Paediatric population (< 18 years) 
No data are available in children under the age of 8 months. 
RA: The efficacy of Kineret in children with RA (JIA) aged 0 to 18 years has not been established. 
COVID-19: The efficacy of Kineret in children with COVID-19 aged 0 to 18 years has not been 
established. 
CAPS: Posology and administration in children and infants aged 8 months and older with a body 
weight of 10 kg or above are the same as for adult CAPS patients, based on body weight. 
FMF: Children weighing less than 50 kg are dosed by body weight with a recommended dose of 
1-2 mg/kg/day, patients weighing 50 kg or more are dosed with 100 mg/day. In children with 
inadequate response the dose can be escalated up to 4 mg/kg/day. 
The efficacy data of Kineret in children under 2 years of age with FMF are limited. 
Still’s disease: Children weighing less than 50 kg are dosed by body weight with a starting dose of 
1-2 mg/kg/day, patients weighing 50 kg or more are dosed with 100 mg/day. In children with 
inadequate response the dose can be escalated up to 4 mg/kg/day. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B). 
Kineret should be used with caution in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr 60 to 89 ml/min). Kineret 
should be used with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr 30 to 59 ml/min). In 
patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 ml/min) or end stage renal disease, including 
dialysis, administration of the prescribed dose of Kineret every other day should be considered. 
Method of administration 
Kineret is administered by subcutaneous injection. 
Kineret is supplied ready for use in a graduated pre-filled syringe. The graduated pre-filled syringe 
allows for doses between 20 and 100 mg. As the minimum dose is 20 mg the syringe is not suitable for 
paediatric patients with a body weight below 10 kg. The pre-filled syringe should not be shaken. The 
instructions for use and handling are given in section 6.6. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alternating the injection site is recommended to avoid discomfort at the site of injection. Cooling of 
the injection site, warming the injection liquid to room temperature, use of cold packs (before and after 
the injection), and use of topical glucocorticoids and antihistamines after the injection can alleviate the 
signs and symptoms of injection site reactions. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 or to E. coli 
derived proteins. 
Kineret treatment must not be initiated in patients with neutropenia (ANC <1.5 x 109/l) (see 
section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions, including anaphylactic reactions and angioedema have been reported uncommonly. 
The majority of these reactions were maculopapular or urticarial rashes. 
If a severe allergic reaction occurs, administration of Kineret should be discontinued and appropriate 
treatment initiated. 
Hepatic Events 
In clinical studies transient elevations of liver enzymes have been seen. These elevations have not 
been associated with signs or symptoms of hepatocellular damage, except for one patient with SJIA 
that developed a serious hepatitis in connection with a cytomegalovirus infection. 
During post-marketing use hepatic events, not affecting liver function, have been reported. The 
majority of patients have been treated for Still’s disease or have had predisposing factors, e.g. a history 
of transaminase elevations. In addition cases of non-infectious hepatitis, including occasional events of 
acute liver failure, have been reported in patients with Still’s disease during Kineret treatment. 
Hepatic events in patients with Still’s disease predominantly occur during the first month of Kineret 
treatment. Routine testing of hepatic enzymes during the first month should be considered, especially 
if the patient has pre-disposing factors or develops symptoms indicating liver dysfunction. 
The efficacy and safety of Kineret in patients with AST/ALT ≥ 1.5 x upper level of normal have not 
been evaluated. 
Serious infections 
Kineret has been associated with an increased incidence of serious infections (1.8%) vs. placebo 
(0.7%) in RA patients. For a small number of patients with asthma, the incidence of serious infection 
was higher in Kineret-treated patients (4.5%) vs. placebo-treated patients (0%), these infections were 
mainly related to the respiratory tract. 
The safety and efficacy of Kineret treatment in patients with chronic and serious infections have not 
been evaluated. 
Kineret treatment should not be initiated in patients with active infections. Kineret treatment should be 
discontinued in RA patients if a serious infection develops. In Kineret treated CAPS or FMF patients, 
there is a risk for disease flares when discontinuing Kineret treatment. With careful monitoring, 
Kineret treatment can be continued also during a serious infection. Treatment with Kineret for 
COVID-19 can be continued despite (secondary) infections. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians should exercise caution when administering Kineret to patients with a history of recurring 
infections or with underlying conditions which may predispose them to infections. 
The safety of Kineret in individuals with latent tuberculosis is unknown. There have been reports of 
tuberculosis in patients receiving several biological anti-inflammatory treatment regimens. Patients 
should be screened for latent tuberculosis prior to initiating Kineret. The available medical guidelines 
should also be taken into account. 
Other anti-rheumatic therapies have been associated with hepatitis B reactivation. Therefore, screening 
for viral hepatitis should be performed in accordance with published guidelines also before starting 
therapy with Kineret. 
Renal impairment 
Kineret is eliminated by glomerular filtration and subsequent tubular metabolism. Consequently 
plasma clearance of Kineret decreases with decreasing renal function. 
No dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild renal impairment (CLcr 60 to 89 ml/min). Kineret 
should be used with caution in patients with moderate renal impairment (CLcr 30 to 59 ml/min). In 
patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 ml/min) or end stage renal disease, including 
dialysis, administration of the prescribed dose of Kineret every other day should be considered. 
Neutropenia 
Kineret was commonly associated with neutropenia (ANC < 1.5 x 109/l) in placebo-controlled studies 
in RA and cases of neutropenia have been observed in patients with COVID-19, CAPS and Still’s 
disease. For more information on neutropenia see section 4.3 and 4.8. 
Kineret treatment should not be initiated in patients with neutropenia (ANC < 1.5 x 109/l). It is 
recommended that neutrophil counts be assessed prior to initiating Kineret treatment, and while 
receiving Kineret, monthly during the first 6 months of treatment and quarterly hereafter. In patients 
who become neutropenic (ANC < 1.5 x 109/l) the ANC should be monitored closely and Kineret 
treatment should be discontinued. The safety and efficacy of Kineret in patients with neutropenia have 
not been evaluated. 
Pulmonary Events 
During post-marketing use events of interstitial lung disease, pulmonary alveolar proteinosis and 
pulmonary hypertension have been reported mainly in paediatric patients with Still’s disease treated 
with IL-6 and IL-1 inhibitors, including Kineret. Patients with trisomy 21 seem to be overrepresented. 
In company-sponsored clinical studies in Still’s disease no such events were reported. In a non-
interventional long-term safety study in 306 paediatric patients with Still’s disease one patient 
experienced a serious pulmonary event, an unspecified interstitial lung disease. There was no patient 
with pulmonary alveolar proteinosis or pulmonary hypertension in the study. A causal relationship 
between Kineret and pulmonary events has not been established. 
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) 
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) has rarely been reported in patients 
treated with Kineret, predominantly in patients with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA). 
Patients with DRESS may require hospitalization, as this condition may be fatal. If signs and 
symptoms of DRESS are present and an alternative aetiology cannot be established, Kineret should be 
discontinued and a different treatment considered. 
Immunosuppression 
The impact of treatment with Kineret on pre-existing malignancy has not been studied. Therefore the 
use of Kineret in patients with pre-existing malignancy is not recommended. 
Malignancies 
RA patients may be at a higher risk (on average 2-3 fold) for the development of lymphoma. In 
clinical studies, whilst patients treated with Kineret had a higher incidence of lymphoma than the 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expected rate in the general population, this rate is consistent with rates reported in general for RA 
patients. 
In clinical studies, the crude incidence rate of malignancy was the same in the Kineret-treated patients 
and the placebo-treated patients and did not differ from that in the general population. Furthermore, 
the overall incidence of malignancies was not increased during 3 years of patient exposure to Kineret. 
Vaccinations 
In a placebo-controlled clinical study (n = 126), no difference was detected in anti-tetanus antibody 
response between the Kineret and placebo treatment groups when a tetanus/diphtheria toxoid vaccine 
was administered concurrently with Kineret. No data are available on the effects of vaccination with 
other inactivated antigens, or COVID-19 vaccines, in patients receiving Kineret. 
No data are available on either the effects of live vaccination or on the secondary transmission of 
infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Kineret. Therefore, live vaccines should not be given 
concurrently with Kineret. 
Elderly population (≥ 65 years) 
A total of 752 RA patients ≥ 65 years of age, including 163 patients ≥ 75 years of age, and 173 
COVID-19 patients ≥ 65 years of age were studied in clinical studies. No overall differences in safety 
or effectiveness were observed between these patients and younger patients. There is limited 
experience in treating elderly CAPS, FMF and Still’s disease patients. Because there is a higher 
incidence of infections in the elderly population in general, caution should be used in treating elderly 
patients. 
Concurrent Kineret and TNF-α antagonist treatment 
Concurrent administration of Kineret and etanercept has been associated with an increased risk of 
serious infections and neutropenia compared to etanercept alone in RA patients. This treatment 
combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit. 
The concurrent administration of Kineret and etanercept or other TNF-α antagonists is not 
recommended (see section 4.5). 
COVID-19 Patients 
The effect of treatment with Kineret has not been established in COVID-19 patients with suPAR 
< 6 ng/ml. 
Kineret treatment should not be initiated in patients requiring non-invasive or invasive mechanical 
ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) as efficacy has not been established in 
these patient populations. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interactions between Kineret and other medicinal products have not been investigated in formal 
studies. In clinical studies, interactions between Kineret and other medicinal products (including 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products, glucocorticoids, and DMARDs) have not been 
observed. 
Concurrent Kineret and TNF-α antagonist treatment 
In a clinical study with RA patients receiving background methotrexate, patients treated with Kineret 
and etanercept were observed to have a higher rate of serious infections (7%) and neutropenia than 
patients treated with etanercept alone and higher than observed in previous studies where Kineret was 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
used alone. Concurrent Kineret and etanercept treatment has not demonstrated increased clinical 
benefit. 
The concurrent use of Kineret with etanercept or any other TNF-α antagonist is not recommended (see 
section 4.4). 
Cytochrome P450 Substrates 
The formation of CYP450 enzymes is suppressed by increased levels of cytokines (e.g., IL-1) during 
chronic inflammation. Thus, it may be expected that for an IL-1 receptor antagonist, such as anakinra, 
the  formation  of  CYP450  enzymes  could  be  normalized  during  treatment.  This  would  be  clinically 
relevant for CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. warfarin and phenytoin). Upon 
start or end of Kineret treatment in patients on these types of medicinal products, it may be relevant to 
consider therapeutic monitoring of the effect or concentration of these products and the individual dose 
of the medicinal product may need to be adjusted. 
For information on vaccinations see section 4.4. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are limited amount of data from the use of anakinra in pregnant women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). As a 
precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of anakinra during pregnancy and in woman of 
childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether anakinra/metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the newborns/ 
infants cannot be excluded. Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with Kineret. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Not relevant. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In placebo-controlled studies in RA patients, the most frequently reported adverse reactions with 
Kineret were injection site reactions (ISRs), which were mild to moderate in the majority of patients. 
The most common reason for withdrawal from study in Kineret-treated RA patients was injection site 
reaction. The subject incidence of serious adverse reactions in RA studies at the recommended dose of 
Kineret (100 mg/day) was comparable with placebo (7.1% compared with 6.5% in the placebo group). 
The incidence of serious infection was higher in Kineret-treated patients compared to patients 
receiving placebo (1.8% vs. 0.7%). Neutrophil decreases occurred more frequently in patients 
receiving Kineret compared with placebo.  
Adverse reactions data in COVID-19 are based on a randomized placebo-controlled study of 405 
Kineret-treated patients with COVID-19 pneumonia (SAVE-MORE study). The incidence of serious 
adverse reactions in the anakinra-treatment group was comparable with the placebo group. 
Neutropenia, elevation of liver function test, rash and injection site reactions were reported more 
frequently in patients receiving Kineret compared with placebo. The overall safety profile in patients 
with COVID-19 treated with Kineret is similar to that in Kineret-treated patients with RA. 
Adverse reactions data in CAPS patients are based on an open-label study of 43 patients with 
NOMID/CINCA treated with Kineret for up to 5 years, with a total Kineret exposure of 159.8 patient 
years. During the 5-year study 14 patients (32.6%) reported 24 serious events. Eleven serious events in 
4 (9.3%) patients were considered related to Kineret. No patient withdrew from Kineret treatment due 
to adverse reactions.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events data in patients with Still’s disease is based on a partially open-label and partially 
blinded, placebo-controlled study of 15 SJIA patients, treated for up to 1.5 years and a randomised 
double blind placebo-controlled study of 12 adult and paediatric patients with Still’s disease (6 Kineret 
and 6 placebo) treated for 12 weeks and followed for an additional 4 weeks. In addition, a non-
interventional long-term safety study in 306 paediatric patients with Still’s disease, post-marketing 
adverse event reports and published studies constitute supporting data. 
Adverse events data in patients with FMF are based on post-marketing adverse event reports and 
published studies. 
There are no indications either from these studies or from post-marketing adverse reaction reports that 
the overall safety profile in patients with CAPS, FMF or Still’s disease is different from that in 
patients with RA, with the exception of the postmarketing observation of a higher frequency of 
reported hepatic events in patients with Still’s disease. The adverse reactions table below therefore 
applies to Kineret treatment of RA, CAPS, FMF and Still’s disease. During long term treatment of 
RA, CAPS, and Still’s disease the safety profile remains unchanged over time. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class and frequency category. 
Frequency categories are defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare 
(< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
MedDRA Organ System 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Frequency 
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Undesirable Effect 
Serious infections 
Neutropenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  Allergic reactions including 
Nervous system disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Investigations 
anaphylactic reactions, 
angioedema, urticaria and 
pruritus 
Headache  
Very common (≥ 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  Hepatic enzyme increased 
Not known 
(cannot be estimated from the 
available data) 
Very common (≥ 1/10) 
Non-infectious hepatitis 
Injection site reaction 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100) 
Rash  
Very common (≥ 1/10) 
Blood cholesterol increased 
Serious infections 
The incidence of serious infections in RA studies conducted at the recommended dose (100 mg/day) 
was 1.8% in Kineret treated patients and 0.7% in placebo-treated patients. In observations up to 
3 years, the serious infection rate remained stable over time. The infections observed consisted 
primarily of bacterial events such as cellulitis, pneumonia, and bone and joint infections. Most patients 
continued on study medicinal product after the infection resolved. 
In the clinical study in COVID-19, secondary serious infections were common, however less 
frequently observed in patients treated with Kineret compared to placebo-treated patients. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a study with 43 CAPS patients followed for up to 5 years the frequency of serious infections was 
0.1/year, the most common being pneumonia and gastroenteritis. Kineret was temporarily stopped in 
one patient, all other patients continued Kineret treatment during the infections. 
In a study with 15 SJIA patients followed for up to 1.5 years, one patient developed a serious hepatitis 
in connection with a cytomegalovirus infection. In a study with 11 patients with Still’s disease (SJIA 
and AOSD) randomized to Kineret (6 patients) or Placebo (5 patients) and followed for 16 weeks, no 
serious infections were reported. In a non-interventional long-term safety study of Kineret in 
306 paediatric patients with Still’s disease followed for up to more than 9 years (mean duration of a 
treatment course with Kineret was 17.0 (standard deviation 21.1) months and the median duration was 
8.9 months), serious infections were reported in 13 patients. There are no indications from post-
marketing adverse event reports and published studies that types and severity of infections in patients 
with FMF differ from those in patients with RA, CAPS or Still’s disease. 
In clinical studies and during post-marketing use, rare cases of opportunistic infections have been 
observed and have included fungal, mycobacterial, bacterial, and viral pathogens. Infections have been 
noted in all organ systems and have been reported in patients receiving Kineret alone or in 
combination with immunosuppressive agents. 
Neutropenia 
In placebo-controlled RA studies with Kineret, treatment was associated with small reductions in the 
mean values for total white blood count and absolute neutrophil count (ANC). Neutropenia 
(ANC < 1.5 x 109/l) was reported in 2.4% patients receiving Kineret compared with 0.4% of placebo 
patients. None of these patients had serious infections associated with the neutropenia. 
In the clinical study in COVID-19, events of neutropenia were reported in 3.0% of Kineret-treated 
patients and 0.5% of patients receiving placebo. All adverse events of neutropenia were mild or 
moderate in severity. 
In a study with 43 CAPS patients followed for up to 5 years neutropenia was reported in 2 patients. 
Both episodes of neutropenia resolved over time with continued Kineret treatment. 
In a study with 15 SJIA patients followed for up to 1.5 years, one event of transient neutropenia was 
reported. In a study with 11 patients with Still’s disease (SJIA and AOSD) randomized to Kineret 
(6 patients) or Placebo (5 patients) and followed for 16 weeks, no neutropenia was reported. In a non-
interventional long-term safety study in 306 paediatric patients with Still’s disease followed for up to 
more than 9 years, (mean duration of treatment course with Kineret was 17.0 (standard deviation 21.1) 
months and the median duration was 8.9 months), 5 events of neutropenia including 1 event of febrile 
neutropenia, were reported. 
Thrombocytopenia 
In clinical studies in RA patients, thrombocytopenia has been reported in 1.9% of treated patients 
compared to 0.3% in the placebo group. The thrombocytopenias have been mild, i.e. platelet counts 
have been > 75 x109/l. Mild thrombocytopenia has also been observed in CAPS patients. 
During post-marketing use of Kineret, thrombocytopenia has been reported, including occasional case 
reports indicating severe thrombocytopenia (i.e. platelet counts <10 x109/l). 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions including anaphylactic reactions, angioedema, urticaria, rash, and pruritus have 
been reported uncommonly with Kineret. The majority of these reactions were maculopapular or 
urticarial rashes. 
In a study with 43 CAPS patients followed for up to 5 years, no allergic event was serious and no 
event required discontinuation of Kineret treatment. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a study with 15 SJIA patients followed for up to 1.5 years, no allergic event was serious and no 
event required discontinuation of Kineret. In a study with 11 patients with Still’s disease (SJIA and 
AOSD) randomised to Kineret (6 patients) or Placebo (5 patients) and followed for 16 weeks, no 
allergic reactions were reported. 
In a study with 12 FMF patients treated 4 months with Kineret in a published randomized controlled 
study no allergic event was reported as serious and no event required discontinuation of Kineret. 
In the clinical study in COVID-19, no allergic reaction was considered related to Kineret. 
Immunogenicity 
In clinical studies in RA, up to 3% of adult patients tested seropositive at least once during the study 
for neutralizing anti-anakinra antibodies. The occurrence of antibodies was typically transient and not 
associated with clinical adverse reactions or diminished efficacy. In addition, in a clinical study 6% of 
86 paediatric patients with JIA, whereof none of the 15 SJIA subtype patients, tested seropositive at 
least once during the study for neutralizing anti-anakinra antibodies. In a clinical study with 6 patients 
randomized to anakinra for 12 weeks for Still’s disease (SJIA and AOSD), all patients developed 
ADAs but none of the patients were tested seropositive for neutralizing anti anakinra antibodies. 
The majority of CAPS patients in Study 03-AR-0298 developed anakinra anti-drug antibodies. This 
was not associated with any clinically significant effects on pharmacokinetics, efficacy, or safety. 
Hepatic Events 
In clinical studies transient elevations of liver enzymes have been seen. These elevations have not 
been associated with signs or symptoms of hepatocellular damage, except for one patient with SJIA 
that developed serious hepatitis in connection with a cytomegalovirus infection. 
During post-marketing use isolated case reports indicating non-infectious hepatitis have been received. 
Hepatic events during post-marketing use have mainly been reported in patients that have been treated 
for Still’s disease and in patients with predisposing factors, e.g. a history of transaminase elevations 
before start of Kineret treatment. 
Injection site reactions 
ISRs typically appear within 2 weeks of therapy and disappear within 4-6 weeks. The development of 
ISRs in patients who had not previously experienced ISRs was uncommon after the first month of 
therapy. 
In RA patients the most common and consistently reported treatment-related adverse reactions 
associated with Kineret were ISRs. The majority (95%) of ISRs were reported as mild to moderate. 
These were typically characterised by 1 or more of the following: erythaema, ecchymosis, 
inflammation, and pain. At a dose of 100 mg/day, 71% of RA patients developed an ISR compared to 
28% of the placebo treated patients.  
In a study with 43 CAPS patients followed for up to 5 years no patient permanently or temporarily 
discontinued Kineret treatment due to injection site reactions. 
In a study with 15 SJIA patients followed for up to 1.5 years, the most common and consistently 
reported treatment-related adverse reactions associated with Kineret treatment were ISRs. One out of 
the 15 patients discontinued due to ISRs. In a placebo-controlled study with 11 patients with Still’s 
disease (SJIA and AOSD) randomized to Kineret (6 patients) or Placebo (5 patients) for 12 weeks, 
ISRs occurred in both treatment groups, of which all were mild in severity. No patient discontinued 
treatment due to ISRs. In a non-interventional long-term safety study in 306 paediatric patients with 
Still’s disease followed for up to more than 9 years (mean duration of a treatment course with Kineret 
was 17.0 (standard deviation 21.1) months and the median duration was 8.9 months), ISRs of 
moderate or severe intensity had an incidence rate of 1.6 per 100 patient years. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with FMF the types and frequencies of ISRs are similar to those seen in RA and SJIA. 
Discontinuations due to ISRs have occurred also in patients with FMF. 
In patients with COVID-19 treated with Kineret, injection site reactions were reported with low 
frequency. 
Blood cholesterol increase 
In clinical studies of RA, 775 patients treated with daily Kineret doses of 30 mg, 75 mg, 150 mg, 
1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg, there was an increase of 2.4% to 5.3% in total cholesterol levels 2 weeks after 
start of Kineret treatment, without a dose-response relationship. A similar pattern was seen after 
24 weeks Kineret treatment. Placebo treatment (n=213) resulted in a decrease of approximately 2.2% 
in total cholesterol levels at week 2 and 2.3% at week 24. No data are available on LDL or HDL 
cholesterol. 
Paediatric population 
Kineret has been studied in 36 patients with CAPS, 21 patients with SJIA and 71 patients with other 
forms of JIA, aged 8 months to <18 years, for up to 5 years. With the exception of infections and 
related symptoms that were more frequently reported in patients <2 years of age, the safety profile was 
similar in all paediatric age groups. In addition, 306 paediatric patients with Still’s disease have been 
followed for up to more than 9 years in a non-interventional long-term safety study. The safety profile 
in paediatric patients was similar to that seen in adult populations and no clinically relevant new 
adverse reactions were seen. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical studies. 
In studies of sepsis, 1,015 patients received Kineret at doses up to 2 mg/kg/hour i.v. (~35 times the 
recommended dose in RA) over a 72 hour treatment period. The adverse event profile from these 
studies show no overall difference from that seen in the rheumatoid arthritis studies. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Interleukin inhibitors, ATC code: L04AC03 
Mechanism of action 
Anakinra neutralises the biologic activity of interleukin-1α (IL-1α) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β) by 
competitively inhibiting their binding to interleukin-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI). Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is 
a pivotal pro-inflammatory cytokine mediating many cellular responses including those important in 
synovial inflammation. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
IL-1 is found in the plasma and synovial fluid of patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and a correlation 
has been reported between IL-1 concentrations in the plasma and the activity of the disease. 
Anakinra inhibits responses elicited by IL-1 in vitro, including the induction of nitric oxide and 
prostaglandin E2 and/or collagenase production by synovial cells, fibroblasts, and chondrocytes. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In COVID-19 patients, progression from lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) to severe respiratory 
failure (SRF) is dependent on the early release of IL-1α from virally infected lung epithelial cells, 
which in turn stimulates further cytokine production including IL-1β from alveolar macrophages. 
Spontaneous mutations in the CIAS1/NLRP3 gene have been identified in a majority of patients with 
CAPS. CIAS1/NLRP3 encodes for cryopyrin, a component of the inflammasome. The activated 
inflammasome results in proteolytic maturation and secretion of IL-1β, which has a broad range of 
effects including systemic inflammation. Untreated CAPS patients are characterized by increased 
CRP, SAA and IL-6 relative to normal serum levels. Administration of Kineret results in a decrease in 
the acute phase reactants and a decrease in IL-6 expression level has been observed. Decreased acute 
phase protein levels are noted within the first weeks of treatment. 
In patients with FMF, mutation of the MEFV gene encoding for pyrin is leading to malfunctioning and 
overproduction of interleukin-1β (IL-1β) in the FMF inflammasome. Untreated FMF is characterized 
by increased CRP and SAA. Administration of Kineret results in a decrease in acute phase reactants 
(e.g. CRP and SAA). 
Still’s disease, in addition to various degrees of arthritis, is characterised by systemic inflammatory 
features such as spiking fever, skin rash, hepatosplenomegaly, serositis, and increased acute phase 
reactants driven by IL-1 activity. Systemically, IL-1 is known to cause the hypothalamic fever 
response and promote hyperalgesia. The role of IL-1 in the pathogenesis of Still’s disease has been 
demonstrated by ex vivo and gene expression studies. 
Clinical efficacy and safety in RA 
The safety and efficacy of anakinra in combination with methotrexate have been demonstrated in 
1,790 RA patients ≥ 18 years of age with varying degrees of disease severity. 
A clinical response to anakinra generally appeared within 2 weeks of initiation of treatment and was 
sustained with continued administration of anakinra. Maximal clinical response was generally seen 
within 12 weeks after starting treatment. 
Combined anakinra and methotrexate treatment demonstrates a statistically and clinically significant 
reduction in the severity of the signs and symptoms of RA in patients who have had an inadequate 
response to methotrexate alone (38% vs. 22% responders as measured by ACR20 criteria). Significant 
improvements are seen in the pain, tender joint count, physical function (HAQ score), acute phase 
reactants and in the patient’s and physician’s global assessment. 
X-ray examinations have been undertaken in one clinical study with anakinra. These have shown no 
deleterious effect on joint cartilage. 
Clinical efficacy and safety in COVID-19 
The safety and efficacy of Kineret was evaluated in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia ≥ 18 years of 
age with a risk of developing severe respiratory failure in a randomized double-blind placebo-
controlled study. The patient population enrolled into the SAVE-MORE study was hospitalized with 
confirmed COVID-19 pneumonia (LRTI radiologically confirmed by chest X-ray or CT) and was 
considered to be at risk of developing SRF, determined by an elevation in suPAR (≥ 6 ng/ml). Patients 
had suPAR level ≥ 6 ng/ml measured by the suPARnostic Quick Triage kit. These patients had not yet 
progressed to SRF (i.e., exclusion criteria were: pO2/FiO2 ratio less than 150 mmHg or the 
requirement of mechanical ventilation, NIV, or ECMO). The majority of patients received low- or 
high-flow supplementary oxygen at screening (81.6%). The study enrolled 606 patients and efficacy 
analysis was performed in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population comprising of 594 patients of whom 
189 patients were randomized to the placebo+SoC arm and 405 patients to the anakinra+SoC arm. The 
majority of the patients (91.4%) had severe COVID-19 pneumonia and 8.6 % of patients had moderate 
COVID-19 pneumonia at start of treatment. 85.9% of patients received dexamethasone. The mean 
(SD) duration of Kineret treatment was 8.4 (2.1) days. The primary endpoint of the study was the 
comparative 11-point WHO Clinical Progression ordinal Scale (CPS) between the two arms of 
treatment by Day 28. The 11-point WHO CPS provides a measure of illness severity across a range 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from 0 (not infected); 1-3 (mild disease), 4-5 (hospitalized – moderate disease), 6-9 (hospitalized – 
severe disease with increasing degrees of NIV, MV and ECMO) to 10 (dead). Of the patients 
randomised in the SAVE-MORE study 8.6% had a baseline WHO-CPS of 4; 84.7% had a baseline 
WHO-CPS of 5 and 6.7% had a baseline WHO-CPS of 6. 
In patients treated with Kineret for up to 10 days a significant improvement of the clinical status 
according to the WHO-CPS was demonstrated by Day 28 compared to placebo (OR: 0.36 [95% CI 
0.26 to 0.50] P<0.001). Improvement of the patients’ clinical status was seen by Day 14. The 
treatment benefit of Kineret was supported by increase in the number of patients fully recovered and 
reduction in the number of patients who progressed to severe respiratory failure or death compared to 
placebo. No new safety signals or safety concerns were observed from the use of Kineret for treatment 
of COVID-19. 
Clinical efficacy and safety in CAPS 
The safety and efficacy of Kineret have been demonstrated in CAPS patients with varying degrees of 
disease severity. In a clinical study including 43 adult and paediatric patients (36 patients aged 
8 months to < 18 years) with severe CAPS (NOMID/CINCA and MWS), a clinical response to 
anakinra was seen within 10 days after initiation of treatment in all patients and was sustained for up 
to 5 years with the continued administration of Kineret. 
Kineret treatment significantly decreases the manifestations of CAPS, including a reduction in 
frequently occurring symptoms as fever, rash, joint pain, headache, fatigue, and eye redness. A rapid 
and sustained decrease in the levels of the inflammatory biomarkers; serum amyloid A (SAA), 
C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and a normalization of 
inflammatory hematological changes are seen. In the severe form of CAPS, long-term treatment 
improves the systemic inflammatory organ manifestations of the eye, inner ear, and CNS. Hearing and 
visual acuity did not deteriorate further during anakinra treatment. 
Analysis of treatment-emergent AEs classified by presence of CIAS1 mutation showed that there were 
no major differences between the CIAS1 and non-CIAS1 groups in overall AE reporting rates, 7.4 and 
9.2, respectively. Similar rates were obtained for the groups on the SOC level, except for eye disorders 
with 55 AEs (rate 0.5), whereof 35 ocular hyperemia (which could also be a symptom of CAPS) in the 
CIAS1 group, and 4 AEs in the non-CIAS1 group (rate 0.1). 
Clinical efficacy and safety in FMF 
The safety and efficacy of Kineret in the treatment of patients with colchicine resistant FMF has been 
demonstrated in a randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled published study with a treatment 
period of 4 months. Primary efficacy outcomes were number of attacks per month, and number of 
patients with a mean of <1 attack per month. 25 patients with colchicine resistant FMF were enrolled; 
12 randomized to receive Kineret and 13 to receive placebo. The mean number of attacks per patient 
per month was significantly lower in those receiving Kineret (1.7) compared to placebo (3.5). The 
number of patients with <1 attack per month was significantly higher in the Kineret group; 6 patients, 
compared to none in the placebo group. 
Additional published data in patients with FMF, intolerant to colchicine or with colchicine resistant 
FMF, demonstrate that the clinical effect of Kineret is evident in both clinical symptoms of attacks as 
well as in reduced levels of inflammatory markers, such as CRP and SAA. In the published studies the 
safety profile of anakinra in patients with FMF was generally similar to that in other indications. 
Clinical efficacy and safety in Still’s disease 
The efficacy and safety of Kineret for the treatment of Still’s disease (SJIA and AOSD) were 
evaluated in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled multi-center study of 11 patients (aged 1 to 
51 years) treated for 12 weeks, whereof 6 patients received Kineret. Kineret was efficacious in the 
treatment of Still’s disease as demonstrated by superiority to placebo in the primary endpoint ACR30 
response with absence of fever at Week 2 (p-value = 0.0022). The demonstrated efficacy of Kineret in 
ACR30, ACR50, ACR70 and ACR90 responses at Week 2 were sustained throughout the 12 weeks 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment period. No relevant unexpected safety findings were observed in the study, and the results 
were in line with the known safety profile of Kineret. 
The safety and efficacy have been demonstrated in a published randomized controlled study in 
24 SJIA patients treated with Kineret for up to 1 year. After a 1-month blinded phase, 8 of 12 patients 
in the Kineret treated group were identified as modified ACRpedi30 responders compared to 1 of 12 in 
the placebo group. At the same time point, 7 of 12 in the Kineret treated group were classified as 
ACRpedi50 and 5 of 12 as ACRpedi70 responders compared to none in the placebo group. 16 patients 
completed the subsequent open label phase and among 7 responders at month 12, 6 had stopped 
glucocorticoid treatment and 5 of them had inactive disease. 
In a published prospective, uncontrolled, observational cohort study of 20 patients with new-onset 
SJIA Kineret was used as initial therapy after failure to respond to NSAIDs, but before the use of 
DMARDs, systemic glucocorticoids, or other biologic agents. Treatment with Kineret resulted in 
normalization of body temperature in 18 of 20 patients. At 1 year follow-up, 18 of 20 patients showed 
at least an adapted ACRpedi 70 response, and 17 of 20 patients reached an adapted ACRpedi 90 
response as well as inactive disease. 
A non-interventional safety study in 306 paediatric patients with Still’s disease confirmed the long-
term safety profile of Kineret without any new safety findings. Approximately half (46.1%) of the 
patients were continuously treated with Kineret for at least 1 year, and 28.1% for at least 2 years. The 
pattern and frequency of AEs, including SAEs, were in line with the known safety profile of Kineret. 
In general, the rate of AEs was highest during the first 6 months of treatment and considerably lower 
during later time periods. There were no deaths during Kineret treatment. Few patients discontinued 
due to AEs. The main reason for Kineret discontinuation was inefficacy however, the second most 
common reason for discontinuation was disease remission. Long-term treatment with Kineret in SJIA 
patients was well tolerated, with no overall increase in incidence rate of AEs, including Macrophage 
activation syndrome (MAS), over time. 
The safety and efficacy of Kineret versus DMARD have been reported in a published 24-week 
multicenter, randomized, open-label study of 22 patients with glucocorticoid-dependent refractory 
AOSD. At Week 24, 6 of 12 patients on Kineret were in remission versus 2 of 10 patients on 
DMARDs. During an open-label extension phase, switching or add-on treatment with the comparator 
drug was possible if improvement did not occur within 24 weeks. 17 patients completed the open-label 
extension phase (Week 52), of which 7 of 14 Kineret-treated patients, and 2 of 3 patients on 
DMARDs, were in remission at that time point. 
Additional published data in Still’s disease indicate that Kineret induces a rapid resolution of systemic 
features such as fever, rash, and elevation of acute phase reactants. Glucocorticoid doses can in many 
cases be reduced after initiation of Kineret therapy. 
Paediatric population 
Overall, the efficacy and safety profile of Kineret is comparable in adult and paediatric patients with 
CAPS or Still’s disease. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Kineret in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in CAPS and RA (JIA) (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use). 
Safety in paediatric RA (JIA) patients 
Kineret was studied in a single randomized, blinded multi-center study in 86 patients with 
polyarticular course JIA (ages 2-17 years) receiving a dose of 1 mg/kg subcutaneously daily, up to a 
maximum dose of 100 mg. The 50 patients who achieved a clinical response after a 12-week open-
label run-in were randomized to Kineret (25 patients) or placebo (25 patients), administered daily for 
an additional 16 weeks. A subset of these patients continued open-label treatment with Kineret for up 
to 1 year in a companion extension study. An adverse event profile similar to that seen in adult RA 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients was observed in these studies. These study data are insufficient to demonstrate efficacy and, 
therefore, Kineret is not recommended for paediatric use in JIA. 
Immunogenicity 
See section 4.8. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The absolute bioavailability of anakinra after a 70 mg subcutaneous bolus injection in healthy subjects 
(n = 11) is 95%. The absorption process is the rate-limiting factor for the disappearance of anakinra 
from the plasma after subcutaneous injection. In subjects with RA, maximum plasma concentrations 
of anakinra occurred at 3 to 7 hours after subcutaneous administration of anakinra at clinically relevant 
doses (1 to 2 mg/kg; n = 18). The plasma concentration decreased with no discernible distribution 
phase and the terminal half-life ranged from 4 to 6 hours. In RA patients, no unexpected accumulation 
of anakinra was observed after daily subcutaneous doses for up to 24 weeks. Mean (SD) estimates of 
clearance (CL/F) and volume of distribution (Vd/F) by population analysis of data from two PK 
studies in 35 RA patients were 105(27) ml/min and 18.5(11) l, respectively. Human and animal data 
demonstrated that the kidney is the major organ responsible for elimination of anakinra. The clearance 
of anakinra in RA patients increased with increasing creatinine clearance. 
The influence of demographic covariates on the pharmacokinetics of anakinra was studied using 
population pharmacokinetic analysis encompassing 341 patients receiving daily subcutaneous 
injection of anakinra at doses of 30, 75, and 150 mg for up to 24 weeks. The estimated anakinra 
clearance increased with increasing creatinine clearance and body weight. Population pharmacokinetic 
analysis demonstrated that the mean plasma clearance value after subcutaneous bolus administration 
was approximately 14% higher in men than in women and approximately 10% higher in subjects 
< 65 years than in subjects ≥ 65 years. However, after adjusting for creatinine clearance and body 
weight, gender and age were not significant factors for mean plasma clearance. No dose adjustment is 
required based on age or gender. 
In general the pharmacokinetics in CAPS patients is similar to that in RA patients. In CAPS patients 
approximate dose linearity with a slight tendency to higher than proportional increase has been noted. 
Pharmacokinetic data in children < 4 years are lacking, but clinical experience is available from 
8 months of age, and when started at the recommended daily dose of 1-2 mg/kg, no safety concerns 
have been identified. Pharmacokinetic data are lacking in older CAPS patients. Distribution into the 
cerebrospinal fluid has been demonstrated. 
The median steady-state dose-normalized anakinra concentration in SJIA patients (aged 3 to 17 years) 
over 28 weeks was comparable to that observed in RA patients.  
Hepatic impairment 
A study including 12 patients with hepatic dysfunction (Child-Pugh Class B) given a single 1mg/kg 
intravenous dose has been performed. Pharmacokinetic parameters were not substantially different 
from healthy volunteers, other than a decrease in clearance of approximately 30% in comparison with 
data from a study with healthy volunteers. A corresponding decrease in creatinine clearance was seen 
in the hepatic failure population. Accordingly, the decrease in clearance is most likely explained by a 
decrease in renal function in this population. These data support that no dose adjustment is required 
for patients with hepatic dysfunction of Child-Pugh Class B. See section 4.2. 
Renal impairment 
The mean plasma clearance of Kineret in subjects with mild (creatinine clearance 50-80 ml / min) and 
moderate (creatinine clearance 30-49 ml/min) renal insufficiency was reduced by 16% and 50%, 
respectively. In severe renal insufficiency and end stage renal disease (creatinine clearance 
< 30 ml/min), mean plasma clearance declined by 70% and 75%, respectively. Less than 2.5% of the 
administered dose of Kineret was removed by hemodialysis or continuous ambulatory peritoneal 
dialysis. These data support that no dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild renal impairment 
(CLcr 50 to 80 ml/minute). See section 4.2. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Anakinra had no observed effect on the fertility, early development, embryo-foetal development, or 
peri- and postnatal development in the rat at doses up to 100 times the human dose (2 mg/kg/day). No 
effects on embryo-foetal development in the rabbit were observed at doses 100 times the human dose. 
In a standard battery of tests designed to identify hazards with respect to DNA, anakinra did not 
induce bacterial or mammalian cell gene mutations. Neither did anakinra increase the incidence of 
chromosomal abnormalities or micronuclei in bone marrow cells in mice. Long-term studies have not 
been performed to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of anakinra. Data from mice over expressing 
IL-1ra and IL-1ra mutant knock-out mice, did not indicate an increased risk of tumour development. 
A formal toxicologic and toxicokinetic interaction study in rats revealed no evidence that Kineret 
alters the toxicologic or pharmacokinetic profile of methotrexate. 
Juvenile rats treated at doses up to 100 times the human dose from day 7 postparturition up to 
adolescence did not show any signs of adverse effects of the treatment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Citric acid, anhydrous 
Sodium chloride 
Disodium edetate dihydrate 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium hydroxide 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original container in order to protect from light. 
For the purpose of ambulatory use, Kineret may be kept at room temperature up to 25 °C for a 
maximum of 72 hours. After removal from the refrigerator, Kineret must be used within 72 hours or 
discarded. Once stored at room temperature, Kineret should not be placed back in the refrigerator. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
0.67 ml of solution for injection in a graduated pre-filled syringe (Type I glass) with a plunger stopper 
(bromobutyl rubber) and 29 gauge needle. The pre-filled syringe has an outer rigid plastic needle 
shield attached to an inner needle cover. 
Pack sizes of 1, 7 or 28 (multipack containing 4 packs of 7 pre-filled syringes) pre-filled syringes. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Kineret is a sterile solution. For single use only. 
Do not shake. Allow the pre-filled syringe to reach room temperature before injecting. 
Before administration, visually inspect the solution for particulate matter and discolouration. Only 
clear, colourless-to-white solutions that may contain some product-related translucent-to-white 
amorphous particles should be injected. 
The presence of these particles does not affect the quality of the product. 
The pre-filled syringe is for single use only. Discard any unused medicinal product. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/203/005 – 1-pack  
EU/1/02/203/006 – 7-pack  
EU/1/02/203/007 – 28-pack  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 8 March 2002 
Date of latest renewal: 20 March 2007 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG 
Dr. Boehringer-Gasse 5-11 
A-1121 Vienna 
Austria 
Pfizer Health AB 
Mariefredsvägen 37 
SE-645 41 Strängnäs 
Sweden 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Kineret is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/caregivers who are expected to prescribe or use Kineret have access to/are 
provided with the following educational package: 
•  Physician educational material 
•  Patient and caregiver information pack 
The physician educational material should contain: 
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Guide for healthcare professionals 
The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
•  The importance of explaining the use of the syringe and correct injection technique to patients 
and/or caregivers 
•  The importance of providing patients and/or caregivers with the educational material 
The patient and caregiver information pack should contain: 
•  Patient information leaflet 
•  The patient and caregiver guide 
The patient and caregiver guide shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Instructions on use of the syringe 
•  Instructions on correct injection procedures and disposal of used syringes 
•  How to manage injection site reactions 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE CARTON (CONTAINS BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kineret 100 mg/0.67 ml solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Anakinra 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.67 ml graduated pre-filled syringe contains 100 mg of anakinra. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: anhydrous citric acid, sodium chloride, disodium edetate dihydrate, polysorbate 80, 
sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
1 GRADUATED pre-filled syringe 
7 GRADUATED pre-filled syringes 
Multipack: 28 (4 x 7) GRADUATED pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single use. 
For subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Store in the original container in order to protect from light. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/203/005 – 1-pack 
EU/1/02/203/006 – 7-pack 
EU/1/02/203/007 – 28-pack 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Kineret 100 mg 0.67 ml 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC {number} 
SN {number} 
NN {number} 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF 7 PRE-FILLED SYRINGES AS AN INTERMEDIATE PACK (WITHOUT 
BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Kineret 100 mg/0.67 ml solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Anakinra 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 0.67 ml graduated pre-filled syringe contains 100 mg of anakinra. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: anhydrous citric acid, sodium chloride, disodium edetate dihydrate, polysorbate 80, 
sodium hydroxide, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
7 GRADUATED pre-filled syringes 
This box containing 7 pre-filled syringes is part of a 28-multipack. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single use. 
For subcutaneous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Store in the original container in order to protect from light. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/203/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Kineret 100 mg 0.67 ml 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC {number} 
SN {number} 
NN {number} 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Kineret 100 mg/0.67 ml injection 
Anakinra 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.67 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Kineret 100 mg/0.67 ml solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Anakinra 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Kineret is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Kineret 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Kineret 
Possible side effects 
How to store Kineret 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Kineret is and what it is used for 
Kineret contains the active substance anakinra. This is a type of cytokine (an immunosuppressive 
agent) that is used to treat: 
- 
- 
- 
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) 
COVID-19 in patients who have pneumonia, need extra oxygen and are at risk of lung failure 
Periodic fever syndromes: 
- 
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) 
o 
Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID), also called Chronic 
Infantile Neurological, Cutaneous, Articular Syndrome (CINCA), 
o  Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), 
o 
Familial Mediterranean Fever (FMF) 
Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) 
- 
Still’s disease including Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (SJIA) and Adult-Onset Still’s 
Disease (AOSD) 
- 
Cytokines are proteins made by your body that co-ordinate communication between cells and help 
control cell activity. In RA, CAPS, FMF, Still’s disease, and in COVID-19 pneumonia, your body 
produces too much of a cytokine called interleukin-1. This results in harmful effects leading to 
inflammation, causing the symptoms of the disease. Normally, your body produces a protein that 
blocks the harmful effects of interleukin-1. The active substance of Kineret is anakinra, this works in 
the same way as your natural interleukin-1 blocking protein. Anakinra is produced by DNA 
technology using the micro-organism E. coli. 
For RA, Kineret is used to treat the signs and symptoms of the disease in adults (age 18 years and 
over) in combination with another medicine called methotrexate. Kineret is for patients whose 
response to methotrexate on its own is not good enough to control the rheumatoid arthritis. 
For COVID-19, Kineret is used to treat the hyperinflammation (stronger than the usual inflammation) 
associated with the disease in adults (age 18 years and over) who have pneumonia, need extra oxygen 
to help them breathe (low- or high-flow oxygen) and are at risk of lung failure. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For CAPS, Kineret is used to treat the signs and symptoms of inflammation associated with the 
disease such as rash, joint pain, fever, headache and fatigue in adults and children (age 8 months and 
older). 
For FMF, Kineret is used to treat the signs and symptoms of inflammation associated with the disease 
such as recurrent fever, fatigue, abdominal pain, muscle or joint pain and rash. Kineret can be used 
together with colchicine, if appropriate. 
For Still’s disease, Kineret is used to treat the signs and symptoms of inflammation associated with the 
disease such as rash, joint pain and fever. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Kineret 
Do not use Kineret 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to anakinra or any of the other ingredients of this medicine, listed in section 6; 
if you are allergic to other products that are produced by DNA technology using the micro-
organism E. coli; 
if you have neutropenia (low white blood cell count) determined after a blood test. 
Contact your doctor immediately 
- 
if you get a rash all over your body, shortness of breath, wheezing, fast pulse or sweating after 
your Kineret injection. These may be signs that you are allergic to Kineret. 
if you have ever developed an atypical, widespread rash or skin peeling after taking Kineret. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using Kineret: 
- 
if you have a history of recurring infections, or if you suffer from asthma. Kineret may worsen 
these conditions; 
if you have cancer. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given Kineret; 
if you have a history of increased levels of liver enzymes; 
if you require vaccinations. You must not be given live vaccines while being treated with 
Kineret. 
Still’s disease 
- 
In rare cases patients with Still’s disease, mainly children, may develop lung disease, also 
during Kineret treatment. The risk may be increased in patients with Down’s syndrome (trisomy 
21). Symptoms of lung disease can be e.g. shortness of breath during light exercise, morning 
cough, and difficulties breathing. If you develop signs of lung disease you should contact your 
health care provider as soon as possible.  
The serious skin reaction, DRESS (drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms), 
has rarely been reported in association with Kineret treatment, predominantly in patients with 
systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (SJIA). Seek medical attention immediately if you notice 
an atypical, widespread rash, which may occur in conjunction with high body temperature and 
enlarged lymph nodes. 
Children and adolescents 
- 
RA: Use of Kineret in children and adolescents with Rheumatoid Arthritis has not been fully 
investigated and therefore cannot be recommended. 
COVID-19: Use of Kineret in children and adolescents with COVID-19 has not been 
investigated and therefore cannot be recommended. 
CAPS, FMF, Still’s disease: Kineret is not recommended for children younger than 8 months of 
age because there is no data in this age group. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other medicines and Kineret 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicines called tumour necrosis factor (TNF-α) inhibitors, such as etanercept should not be used 
with Kineret because this may increase the risk of infections. 
When you start taking Kineret the chronic inflammation in your body will decrease. This could mean 
that the doses of some other medicines, e.g. warfarin or phenytoin, have to be adjusted. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Kineret has not been tested in pregnant women. Use of Kineret is not recommended during pregnancy 
and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. It is important to tell your doctor if 
you are pregnant, if you think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby. Your doctor will 
discuss with you the potential risks of taking Kineret during pregnancy. 
It is not known whether anakinra is excreted in human milk. You must not breast-feed if you use 
Kineret. 
Kineret contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 100 mg dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Kineret 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. Kineret must be injected under your skin (subcutaneous) daily. You should try to 
have the injection at the same time each day. 
The recommended dose is either 20 to 90 mg or 100 mg. Your doctor will tell you the dose that you 
need or whether you need a dose higher than 100 mg. 
COVID-19: The recommended dose is 100 mg injected under your skin (subcutaneous) daily for 
10 days. 
Injecting Kineret yourself 
Your doctor may decide that it would be more convenient for you to inject Kineret yourself. Your 
doctor or nurse will show you how to inject yourself. Do not try to inject yourself if you have not been 
trained. 
For instructions on how to inject yourself or your child with Kineret, please read the “Instructions for 
preparing and giving an injection of Kineret” section at the end of this leaflet. 
If you use more Kineret than you should 
You should have no serious problems if you accidentally take more Kineret than you need. However, 
you should contact your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if this does happen. If you feel unwell in any way 
you should contact your doctor or nurse immediately. 
If you forget to use Kineret 
If you have forgotten to take a dose of Kineret, you should contact your doctor to discuss when you 
should take the next dose. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Possible side effects are similar regardless if you are treated with Kineret for RA, CAPS, FMF, Still’s 
disease, or COVID-19. 
If any of the following happen, tell your doctor immediately: 
- 
- 
Serious infections such as pneumonia (a chest infection) or infections of the skin can occur 
during Kineret treatment. Symptoms might be persistent high fever, shivers, cough, headache, 
and redness and tenderness of the skin. Also persistent low-grade fever, weight loss, and 
persistent cough can be signs of an infection. 
Serious allergic reactions are uncommon. However, any of the following symptoms may 
indicate an allergic reaction to Kineret, so you should seek immediate medical attention. Do not 
inject more Kineret. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Swelling of the face, tongue or throat 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Suddenly feeling fast pulse or sweating 
Itchy skin or rash 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Redness, swelling, bruising or itching at the injection site. These symptoms are generally mild 
to moderate and are more common at the start of your treatment. 
Headaches. 
Increased total blood cholesterol levels. 
- 
- 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Neutropenia (low white blood cell count) determined after a blood test. This might increase the 
risk of you getting an infection. Symptoms of infection might include a fever or a sore throat. 
Serious infections such as pneumonia (a chest infection) or infections of the skin. 
Thrombocytopenia (low level of blood platelets). 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
Serious allergic reactions including swelling of the face, tongue or throat, trouble swallowing or 
breathing, suddenly feeling fast pulse or sweating and itchy skin or rash. 
Elevated levels of liver enzymes determined after a blood test. 
Side effects with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
Signs of liver disorders such as yellow skin and eyes, nausea, loss of appetite, dark-coloured 
- 
urine and light-coloured stools. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Kineret 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C to 8 °C). Do not freeze. 
Store in original carton in order to protect from light. 
33 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use Kineret if you think it has been frozen. Once a syringe has been removed from the 
refrigerator and has reached room temperature (up to 25 °C) it must either be used within 72 hours or 
discarded. Do not place it back in the refrigerator if it has been stored at room temperature. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Kineret contains 
- 
The active substance is anakinra. Each graduated pre-filled syringe contains 100 mg of 
anakinra. 
The other ingredients are anhydrous citric acid, sodium chloride, disodium edetate dihydrate, 
polysorbate 80 and sodium hydroxide and water for injections. 
- 
What Kineret looks like and contents of the pack 
Kineret is a clear, colourless-to-white solution for injection and is supplied ready for use in a pre-filled 
syringe. It may contain some translucent-to-white particles of protein. The presence of these particles 
does not affect the quality of the product. 
Pack sizes of 1, 7 or 28 (multipack containing 4 packs of 7 pre-filled syringes) pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARING AND GIVING AN INJECTION OF KINERET 
This section contains information on how to give yourself or your child an injection of Kineret. It is 
important that you do not try to give yourself or your child the injection unless you have received 
training from a doctor, nurse or pharmacist. If you have questions about how to inject, please ask your 
doctor, nurse or pharmacist for assistance. 
How do you or the person injecting you, use the Kineret pre-filled syringe? 
You will need to give yourself or your child an injection at the same time every day. Kineret is 
injected just under the skin. This is called a subcutaneous injection. 
Equipment: 
To give yourself or your child a subcutaneous injection you will need: 
• 
• 
• 
a pre-filled syringe of Kineret 
alcohol wipes or similar; and 
a sterile gauze or tissue 
What should you do before you give yourself or your child a subcutaneous injection of Kineret? 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Take your Kineret pre-filled syringe out of the refrigerator. 
Do not shake the pre-filled syringe. 
Check the expiry date on the pre-filled syringe label (EXP). Do not use it if the date has passed 
the last day of the month shown. 
Check the appearance of Kineret. It must be a clear, colourless-to-white solution. There may be 
some translucent-to-white particles of protein in the solution. The presence of these particles 
does not affect the quality of the product. The solution should not be used if it is discoloured or 
cloudy, or if any particles other than translucent-to-white particles are present. 
For a more comfortable injection, leave at room temperature for approximately 30 minutes or 
hold the pre-filled syringe gently in your hand for a few minutes. Do not warm Kineret in any 
other way (for example, do not warm it in a microwave or in hot water). 
6. 
Do not remove the cover from the syringe until you are ready to inject. 
7.  Wash your hands thoroughly. 
8. 
Find a comfortable, well-lit, clean surface and put all the equipment you need within reach. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Make sure you know what Kineret dose your doctor has prescribed; 20 to 90 mg, 100 mg or 
higher.  
• 
• 
If your doctor has prescribed a 100 mg dose you should continue to the “How to prepare a 
100 mg dose” section. 
If your doctor has prescribed a lower dose you should continue to the “How to prepare a 
20 to 90 mg dose” section. 
How to prepare a 100 mg dose 
Before you inject Kineret you must do the following: 
1. 
2. 
Hold the syringe barrel and gently remove the cover 
from the needle without twisting. Pull straight as 
shown in Figure A. Do not touch the needle or push 
the plunger. Immediately discard the needle cover. 
You may notice a small air bubble in the pre-filled 
syringe. You do not have to remove the air bubble 
before injecting. Injecting the solution with the air 
bubble is harmless. 
Figure A 
3. 
You can now use the pre-filled syringe as described in the “Where should you give your 
injection?” section and “How do you give your injection?” section.  
How to prepare a 20 to 90 mg dose 
Before you inject Kineret you must do the following: 
1.  Hold the syringe barrel and gently remove the cover from the 
needle without twisting. Pull straight as shown in Figure A. 
Do not touch the needle or push the plunger. Immediately 
discard the needle cover. 
2.  You should position the syringe in one hand with the needle 
pointing straight upwards as shown in Figure B. Put your 
thumb on the plunger rod and push slowly until you see a tiny 
liquid drop at the tip of the needle. 
3.  Turn the syringe so that the needle is now pointing 
downwards. Place a sterile gauze or tissue on a flat surface 
and hold the syringe above it with the needle pointing 
towards the gauze or tissue, as shown in Figure C. Make sure 
the needle does not touch the gauze or tissue. 
4.  Put your thumb on the plunger rod and push slowly until the 
plunger front has reached the scale mark of your Kineret 
dose. (Your doctor will have told you what dose you need to 
use.) The ejected liquid will be absorbed by the gauze or 
tissue as shown in Figure C. 
5.  If you are not able to set the correct dose, dispose of the 
syringe and use a new one. 
6.  You can now use the pre-filled syringe as described in the 
“Where should you give your injection?” section and the 
“How do you give your injection?” section. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where should you give your injection? 
The most suitable places to inject yourself or your child are (See Figure D): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the abdomen (except for the area around the navel) 
the top of the thighs 
the upper outer areas of the buttocks; and 
the outer area of the upper arms 
Adult 
Child 
Change the place that you inject each time so you don’t become sore in one area. If someone else is 
injecting for you, they can also use the back of your arms. 
Figure D 
How do you give your injection? 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Disinfect the skin by using the alcohol wipe and pinch the skin between your thumb and 
forefinger, without squeezing it. 
Put the needle fully into the skin as shown by your nurse or doctor. 
Inject the liquid slowly and evenly, always keeping the skin pinched as in Figure E. 
Figure E 
After injecting the liquid, remove the needle and let go of the skin. 
Any unused medicine must be discarded. Only use each syringe for one injection. Do not reuse 
a syringe as this can cause infection. 
Remember 
If you have any problems, please do not be afraid to ask your doctor or nurse for help and advice. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposing of used syringes and supplies 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Do not put the cover back on used needles. 
Keep used syringes out of reach and sight of children. 
Never put the pre-filled syringes that you have used into your normal household rubbish bin. 
If you had a dose lower than 100 mg you will have been told to eject liquid from the syringe 
onto a gauze or tissue. After your injection discard the wet gauze or tissue with your syringe and 
clean the surface with a fresh tissue. 
The used pre-filled syringe and any gauze or tissue with Kineret solution should be disposed of 
in accordance with local requirements. Ask your pharmacist how to dispose of medicines no 
longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
