10 June 2021 
EMA/385270/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Kineret  
International non-proprietary name: anakinra 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000363/II/0078 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status of this report and steps taken for the assessment 
Description 
Start of procedure 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC members comments 
CHMP members comments 
Updated PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
Actual Date 
15 December 2020 
25 January 2021 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
Start of written procedure 
09 February 2021 
PRAC endorsed relevant sections of the assessment report 
09 February 2021 
Submission of MAH responses 
Restart of procedure 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
Comments from PRAC 
Comments from CHMP 
Updated PRAC Rapp AR 
PRAC Outcome 
Opinion 
06 April 2021 
13 April 2021 
25 May 2021 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
08 June 2021 
10 June 2021 
Assessment report 
EMA/385270/2021 
Page 2/35 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
2. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ..................... 4 
3. Recommendations ................................................................................... 6 
4. EPAR changes .......................................................................................... 7 
5. Introduction ............................................................................................ 9 
6. Non-interventional Post-Authorisation Safety Study (PASS) results ....... 9 
6.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted ..................................................................... 9 
6.2. Results .............................................................................................................. 16 
6.3. Discussion ......................................................................................................... 23 
7. Risk management plan .......................................................................... 24 
7.1. Overall conclusion on the RMP ............................................................................. 27 
8. Request for supplementary information ................................................ 27 
8.1. Major objections ................................................................................................. 27 
8.2. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 27 
9. Assessment of the responses to the request for supplementary 
information ............................................................................................... 28 
9.1. Other concerns .................................................................................................. 28 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 3/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB 
(publ) submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 25 November 2020 an application for a 
variation. 
The following changes were proposed: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.13  
C.I.13 - Other variations not specifically covered 
Type II 
None 
elsewhere in this Annex which involve the submission of 
studies to the competent authority 
Submission of the final report from study (Sobi-ANAKIN-201) listed as a category 3 study in the RMP. 
This is a non-interventional post-authorisation safety study to evaluate the safety of Kineret in the 
treatment of Cryopyrin Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in routine clinical care with regard to 
serious infections, malignancies, injection site reactions, allergic reactions and medication errors, 
including reuse of syringe. The RMP version 5.4 has been submitted to reflect completion of this study. 
In addition, the RMP is updated to include information about a completed paediatric study 
(Sobi.ANAKIN-301) assessed as per Article 46 of Reg No 1901/2006 (EMEA/H/C/000363/P46/031). 
This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, phase 3 study which evaluated 
the efficacy, the safety, pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of anakinra as compared to placebo in 
newly diagnosed Still’s disease patients (including systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis [SJIA] and 
adult-onset Still’s disease [AOSD]). 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Risk Management Plan (RMP). 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
With this variation the MAH submitted the results of the multicentre, non-interventional, non-
controlled, post-authorisation safety study (PASS) (Sobi.ANAKIN-201) that collected prospective data 
in patients with a diagnosis of CAPS and treated with anakinra syringe according to body weight. This 
study was listed as a category 3 in the RMP.  
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the safety of Kineret treatment in CAPS patients in 
routine clinical care with focus on serious infections, malignancies, injection site reactions (ISRs), 
allergic reactions and medication errors, including re-use of the syringe. These are safety concerns 
listed in the RMP. The secondary objectives of the study were to evaluate the Kineret dosage over 
time, the proportions of patients who discontinue Kineret treatment temporarily or permanently and 
the proportion of patients who are transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment. 
A total of 15 to 20 patients were planned to be enrolled in the study. Patients were identified via the 
Eurofever Registry, organised and maintained by PRINTO. By September 2013, 225 CAPS patients had 
been enrolled in the Eurofever Registry. Of these 225 patients, treatment information was available for 
only 94 patient and of these, 61 patients received treatment with anakinra. Thus, within the Eurofever 
Registry, a total of 61 patients were potential candidates to be included in the PASS. However, only 
European patients were to be included and recruitment sites were limited to Germany, France, Italy, 
Netherlands and United-Kingdom which further limited the total number of potential patients to be 
included. Despite prolongation of the study and other efforts to reach a higher number of patients to 
be included, it was decided to close the study when a total of 12 patients were included. EMA was 
consulted when it was decided to close the study and the EMA agreed to this decision.  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 4/35 
 
 
 
The majority (11) of all (12) included patient were already in treatment with Kineret at baseline, and 
only one patient initiated Kineret treatment at the beginning of this study. This may have affected 
(lowered) the frequency of ISRs but is not expected to have affected other primary endpoints. Among 
the primary endpoints only 7 cases of infections were reported. These events were reported in a single 
patient and were not associated with neutropenia. However, only few results of neutrophil counts were 
available, but these appeared to be within the range of ‘Normal’. While this may be considered 
reassuring, it is not sufficient to draw any conclusions. Importantly, both ‘Serious infections’ and 
‘Neutropenia’ are mentioned as common (frequency: ≥1/100 to <1/10) adverse reactions in the 
tabulated list of adverse reactions in section 4.8 of the SmPC and both ‘Serious infections’ and 
‘Neutropenia’ are also addressed in the SmPC section 4.4 ‘Special warning and precautions for use’. 
Thus, the topics are sufficiently addressed in the product information (SmPC).  
There were no reports of the other pre-defined primary outcomes (i.e. malignancies, ISRs, allergic 
reactions and medication errors, including re-use of the syringe) during the study period. Though 
reassuring, it is speculated if lack of cases of these other pre-defined primary endpoints may be 
explained by small number of patients in this study.  
With regard to malignancies, this brief study was not designed to investigate induction of malignancies 
in patients undergoing anakinra treatment. Such events are considered rare, as the overall frequency 
of malignancies in clinical studies in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, including long-term follow-up 
data, has not been observed to be higher in anakinra-treated patients. Nevertheless, since most of the 
patients in study Sobi.ANAKIN-201 had begun anakinra treatment prior to enrolment, the total 
exposure time and hence the potential for malignancy induction, if any, was in principle longer than 
the exposure they received during the study. In addition, malignancies in patients with CAPS and other 
auto-inflammatory disorders receiving anakinra treatment are captured and reported as a consequence 
of post-marketing pharmacovigilance activities. Malignancies are described as an important potential 
risk in the RMP and are monitored as a Target medical event. 
With regard to the secondary objectives, in total, 6 (50%) patients permanently discontinued 
treatment with Kineret. Of those, 2 patients discontinued at Year 1; 3 patients at Year 2; and 1 patient 
at Year >3; there were no permanent discontinuations of Kineret at Year 3. The reason for permanent 
discontinuation included change to another IL-1 blocking treatment (5 patients), inefficacy (1 patient) 
and non-compliance (1 patient). All 5 patients that transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment 
reported to have switched to canakinumab. 
Only 1 patient temporarily discontinued treatment with Kineret; the discontinuation occurred during 
Year 2, due to non-compliance. The patient discontinued treatment with Kineret after the laboratory 
results indicated that the patient had developed neutropenia. The AE was assessed as non-serious and 
the Kineret dose was adjusted. However, after registering the AE the laboratory results were reviewed 
and the investigator confirmed that the patient did not had neutropenia as previously reported, as 
consequence the treatment with Kineret was reintroduced in the original dose. 
The majority of the patients increased in weight during the anakinra treatment. For the children (n=5), 
this weight gain is considered to be due to normal growth and is as such not a concern. Among the 7 
adult patients (aged >18 years), a total of 6 patients gained weight during the treatment with anakinra 
as they are expected to have obtained target height and weight according to their age. One (1) patient 
lost 11 kg during treatment with anakinra, 1 patient increased weight with 19 kg whereas the 
remaining 4 patients increased weight with 2-5 kg. The patients were treated for 2.5–3.2 years. Of 
note, in 2016 ‘Weight gain’ was noted as a potential safety issue related to the treatment with IL-1 
blocking agents including anakinra. The signal detection was however, closed without confirmation of a 
causal relationship between increased weight and the IL-1 blocking agents. There was no request of 
updating the product information and thus, currently there is no information regarding weight gain in 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 5/35 
 
 
 
the Kineret SmPC. Based on the few data included in the present PASS and the outcome of the signal 
detection in 2016, no further action is currently considered necessary. 
In conclusion, the present PASS included a total of 12 patients all treated with anakinra due to CAPS. 
One patient experienced a total of 7 infections (not associated with neutropenia); no other events 
mentioned as primary endpoints were reported. The majority of patients increased their weight during 
treatment with anakinra however, it is unclear if it was related to the anakinra treatment. A signal 
detection of a causal relationship between increased weight and the IL-1 blocking agents raised in 
2016 was not confirmed.  
Overall, the results from the present PASS does not raise any concerns and no amendments to the 
product information is considered necessary.  
The summary of safety concerns remains unchanged upon completion of the PASS Sobi.ANAKIN-201, 
since the results of the PASS did not provide significant new information to any of the risks due to the 
low power of the study.  
The RMP version 5.4 has been updated to reflect completion of this study. The Data lock point of the 
RMP was updated from May 1, 2018 to May 1, 2020. 
Furthermore, during this time period the anaSTILLs study (Sobi.ANAKIN-301) was completed and 
therefore part II and VI of the RMP have been updated with information from this study. In addition, 
the exposure sections have been updated due to the updated Data lock point as well as the follow-up 
forms in Annex 4 (minor modifications). This is agreed.  
The benefit-risk balance of Kineret remains positive. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, this application regarding the following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.13  
C.I.13 - Other variations not specifically covered 
Type II 
None 
elsewhere in this Annex which involve the submission 
of studies to the competent authority 
Submission of the final report from study (Sobi-ANAKIN-201) listed as a category 3 study in the RMP. 
This is a non-interventional post-authorisation safety study to evaluate the safety of Kineret in the 
treatment of Cryopyrin Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS) in routine clinical care with regard to 
serious infections, malignancies, injection site reactions, allergic reactions and medication errors, 
including reuse of syringe. The RMP version 5.4 has been updated to reflect completion of this study.  
In addition, the RMP is updated to include information about a completed paediatric study 
(Sobi.ANAKIN-301) assessed as per Article 46 of Reg No 1901/2006 (EMEA/H/C/000363/P46/031). 
This was  a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, phase 3 study which evaluated 
the efficacy, the safety, pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of anakinra as compared to placebo in 
newly diagnosed Still’s disease patients (including systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis [SJIA] and 
adult-onset Still’s disease [AOSD]). 
is recommended for approval. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
The variation requires amendments to the Risk Management Plan. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 6/35 
 
 
 
4.  EPAR changes 
The table in Module 8b of the EPAR will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above  
Summary 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion EMEA/H/C/000363/II/0078. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 7/35 
 
 
 
 
Annex: Rapporteur’s assessment comments on the type II 
variation 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 8/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Introduction 
Kineret (anakinra) is indicated for different diseases, including treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, 
periodic fever syndromes, CAPS, Familial Mediterranean Fever, Still’s Disease. Anakinra is a human IL-
1 receptor antagonist that blocks the biological activity of cytokine IL-1 (IL-1α and IL-1β) by 
competitively inhibiting its binding to the IL-1 receptor type 1, thereby controlling active inflammation. 
Kineret can be given as monotherapy or in combination with other anti-inflammatory drugs and 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), is a rare disease, caused by an autosomal dominant 
mutation in the NLRP3 gene, which leads to overproduction of IL-1β, and generates a life-long 
autoinflammatory syndrome. It consists of three distinct clinical diseases: Familial Cold 
Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS), Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) and Cutaneous Articular 
Syndrome/Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (CINCA/NOMID), recognized as a 
severity spectrum rather than separate entities.  
In November 2013 the European Commission approved Kineret in adults, adolescents, children and 
infants aged 8 months and older with a body weight of 10 kg or above, for the treatment of CAPS, 
including Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID)/ Chronic Infantile Neurological, 
(CINCA), Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS) and Familial Cold Autoinflammatory Syndrome (FCAS). 
The primary objective of Sobi.ANAKIN-201 was to evaluate the safety of Kineret treatment in CAPS 
patients in routine clinical care with focus on serious infections, malignancies, injection site reactions 
(ISRs), allergic reactions and medication errors, including re-use of the syringe. 
The secondary objectives of the study were to evaluate the Kineret dosage over time, the proportions 
of patients who discontinue Kineret treatment temporarily or permanently and the proportion of 
patients who are transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment. 
CHMP comments 
The MAH has sufficiently described the product, the disease (CAPS) and the background for the present 
Post-Approval Safety Study (PASS).  
6.  Non-interventional Post-Authorisation Safety Study 
(PASS) results 
6.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
6.1.1.  Study design 
This was a multicenter, non-interventional, non-controlled PASS to collect prospective data in routine 
clinical care where CAPS patients are treated with the Kineret graduated syringe. The planned duration 
of the follow-up period for each patient was to be 3 years. Patients were to be treated according to the 
approved dose recommendation for CAPS in the SmPC (Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration). In case the patient discontinued the Kineret treatment prematurely before 3 years, 
the data collection was to be discontinued (see below) and the patient was to be withdrawn from the 
study. Data was captured at least once every year. However, investigators were encouraged to collect 
data at 6 months intervals if the patient had routine visits more frequently than once a year. 
If the patient permanently discontinued the Kineret treatment before the 3-year visit, study data was 
to be collected up to and including the last day of Kineret treatment. The recording of this data could, 
however, be performed at the next scheduled doctor’s appointment/contact. If the patient had a 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 9/35 
 
 
 
planned or spontaneous temporary discontinuation of Kineret treatment, the patient could stay in the 
study. Other reasons for discontinuation/withdrawal of a patient from the study could be lost to follow-
up, withdrawal of consent or incorrect enrollment, i.e. the subject did not meet the required eligibility 
criteria for the study at the time of inclusion. 
Data capture 
At the first time point of data capture, the following baseline data was to be collected: 
•  Visit date.  
•  Date of informed consent by the patient and/or caregiver. 
•  Gender. 
•  Date of birth. 
•  Race. 
•  CAPS subtype (FCAS, MWS or NOMID/CINCA, or combination of subtypes. 
•  Date of onset of CAPS symptoms. 
•  Date of CAPS diagnosis. 
•  Date of initiation of Kineret treatment. 
•  Date of initiation of Kineret treatment with graduated syringe. 
•  Kineret dose administered (mg/day) and body weight. 
•  History of other IL-1 blocking treatment. 
•  History of malignancies. 
Date of birth, date of onset of CAPS symptoms and date of CAPS diagnosis were to be used to 
calculate age, disease duration and time since onset of CAPS symptoms. 
The following data was to be collected at each post-Baseline visit: 
•  Visit date. 
•  Occurrence of AEs related to serious infections, malignancies, ISRs and allergic reactions. 
•  Medication errors, including re-use of the syringe. 
•  Kineret dose administered (mg/day) and body weight. 
•  Start and stop date of any temporary discontinuation of Kineret treatment. 
•  Start date for permanent discontinuation of Kineret treatment. 
•  Reason for temporary or permanent discontinuation of Kineret treatment, including but not 
limited to, any AE leading to treatment discontinuation. 
• 
Transfer to any another IL-1 blocking treatment at discontinuation of Kineret treatment. 
Pre-specified adverse events 
For patients who have already used the Kineret graduated syringe before enrollment into the study, 
pre-specified non-serious AEs were collected from when the patient has signed the (informed consent 
form) ICF until the last Year 3 data entry. For patients who have not used the Kineret graduated 
syringe previously, the pre-specified non-serious AEs were collected from the first day that the patient 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 10/35 
 
 
 
use the Kineret graduated syringe after ICF until the last Year 3 data entry. For patients who 
permanently discontinued Kineret treatment before the Year 3 data entry, any pre-specified nonserious 
AEs occurring within 3 days after the last dose were collected. 
The pre-specified AEs (serious infections, new malignancies, ISRs and allergic reactions), both non-
serious and serious, related and not related to Kineret, were reported during the study period as part 
of the primary endpoint of the study, see Section 6.2.3 (Main results). 
The following pre-specified AEs, both non-serious and serious, related and not related to Kineret, 
reported during the study period were to be captured in the study database. 
•  Serious infections. 
•  Malignancies. 
• 
ISRs. 
•  Allergic reactions. 
All other (non-pre-specified) non-serious AEs were to be reported through routine pharmacovigilance 
procedures and not via the (electronic case report form) eCRF. 
All SAEs were to be entered into the study database (eCRF) as well as the Sobi safety database and 
required reconciliation. 
Medication errors 
Medication errors were to be collected by asking about the presence of infections of the injection site, 
re-use of syringe, overdosing, under-dosing or other medication errors since the previous recording. 
Other medications errors were to be collected by asking the patient if they have had any other 
problems with using the syringe or administering the right dose. All medication errors were to be 
reported as AEs, independent of outcome. 
Kineret dose 
To calculate the Kineret dose in mg/kg/day, the Kineret dose (mg/day) was to be recorded at Baseline 
visit and on visits at year 1, 2 and 3 (and if applicable, at 6 months interval visits and/or at the time of 
permanent discontinuation of Kineret treatment). 
Body weight 
The body weight was to be recorded at Baseline visit and on visits at year 1, 2 and 3 (and if applicable, 
at 6 months interval visits and/or at the time of permanent discontinuation of Kineret treatment). Body 
weight was used to calculate the administered Kineret dose in mg/kg/day.  
Permanent discontinuation of Kineret treatment 
Permanent discontinuation of Kineret treatment was to be recorded, including the reasons for the 
permanent discontinuation and the date of the last dose taken. The primary reason for the treatment 
discontinuation was classified as one of the following: 
•  AE (to be specified). 
•  Other reason (to be specified). 
In case the primary reason for the treatment discontinuation is an AE, the AE was to be recorded in 
the study database, even if it is not one of the pre-specified AEs.  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 11/35 
 
 
 
Patients registered as having permanently discontinued Kineret treatment were not to re-enter the 
study even if the Kineret treatment was re-instituted. 
Temporary discontinuation of Kineret treatment 
Temporary discontinuation of Kineret treatment was to be recorded, including the reasons for the 
temporary discontinuation and the start date of the temporary discontinuation. In addition, the date of 
the re-institution of the Kineret treatment was to be recorded. The primary reason for the temporary 
treatment discontinuation was classified as one of the following: 
•  AE (to be specified). 
•  Other reason (to be specified). 
In case the primary reason for the temporary treatment discontinuation was an AE, the AE was to be 
recorded in the study database, even if it is not one of the pre-specified AEs. 
Patients transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment 
If the patient was transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment after the discontinuation of the 
Kineret treatment, the IL-1 blocking treatment was to be recorded together with the date of the 
discontinuation. The IL-1 blocking treatment was then classified as one of the following: 
•  Canakinumab. 
•  Other IL-1 blocking treatment (to be specified). 
CHMP comments 
The study design was a multicenter, non-interventional, non-controlled trial, that collected 
prospective data in patients with a diagnosis of CAPS, and treated with anakinra syringe according 
to body weight. Follow up was 3 years. Data were collected every 6th or 12th Months.  
The study was conducted with a primary objective to evaluate the safety, with focus on serious 
infections, malignancies, ISRs, allergic reactions and medication errors, including re-use of the 
syringe. The secondary objective was to evaluate the Kineret dosage over time, hereunder to assess 
the proportions of patients who discontinue Kineret treatment, and the proportion of patients who 
are transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment.  
The above defined endpoints match this purpose of both the primary and secondary study 
objectives.  
6.1.2.  Setting 
Patients were enrolled according to the approved treatment recommendation for CAPS in the SmPC 
(Section 4.1, Therapeutic indications and 4.2 Posology and method of administration). If the patient 
received Kineret outside of the approved treatment recommendations for CAPS (e.g. patient treated 
despite contraindication) the patient was not to be enrolled in this study. CAPS patients eligible for 
inclusion in the study could either already be using the Kineret graduated syringe or just about to start 
Kineret treatment with the graduated syringe. 
The study inclusion criteria that applied at enrollment were: 
1) Informed consent by the patient and/or caregiver; 
2) Kineret treatment according to the SmPC, as confirmed by the investigator. 
No specific exclusion criteria were applied. Hence the study population should be representative of the 
population of CAPS patients treated in routine clinical care. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 12/35 
 
 
 
Clinical sites and investigators treating CAPS paediatric and adult patients were identified via the 
Eurofever registry, organized and maintained by PRINTO. By September 2013, 225 CAPS patients had 
been enrolled in the Eurofever registry. The site feasibility was done by the Pediatric Rheumatology 
International Trials Organization (PRINTO) by asking a number of investigators in the Eurofever 
registry for their interest and capability to recruit patients in this non-interventional PASS. 
The selection of participating countries, clinical sites and investigators was based on; 
•  Availability of the Kineret graduated syringe (Kineret 100 mg/0.67 ml solution for injection in 
pre-filled syringe) during the period of study enrollment; 
• 
Location of larger clinical sites treating CAPS patients with Kineret. 
The study could include both pediatric and adult patients.  
CHMP comments 
The setting is well described and achieves the best opportunities to include as many individuals with 
a diagnosis of CAPS as possible. Due to the rarity of the disease, it can be difficult to include enough 
patients, however, as the Eurofever registry has 225 CAPS patients registered, it should be possible 
to include more individuals with a diagnosis of CAPS. Therefore, the MAH is asked to explain why 
only 12 out of the 225 individuals with CAPS were included in this study. (see other concerns 
sections (OC))  
6.1.3.  Variables 
Primary endpoints 
The primary endpoints of the study were: 
•  Rate of serious infections;  
•  Rate of new malignancies; 
•  Rate of injection side reactions (ISRs); 
•  Rate of allergic reactions; 
•  Rate of medication errors including re-use of syringe. 
Medication errors were to be further classified as infections of the injection site, re-use of syringe, 
over- or under-dosing, or other medication errors. 
The rates were calculated for events which are treatment-emergent, defined as events which start 
after the date of the first dose of Kineret using the graduated syringe and after the date of informed 
consent (i.e., after the later of the two dates). The events which start after the Kineret treatment had 
been terminated, start during a temporary discontinuation of Kineret treatment or after the completion 
of the study are not be included for the calculation of the rates.  
The rates were calculated as the number of events divided by the total cumulative exposure to Kineret 
treatment in the study (patient years). The cumulative exposure to the Kineret treatment were 
calculated for the period corresponding to the evaluation period of the treatment-emergent AEs, i.e. 
from the date of the first dose of Kineret using the graduated syringe or date of informed consent 
(later of the two dates) until the date of temporary discontinuation of the Kineret treatment or study 
completion (first of the two dates). The period during which Kineret treatment had been temporarily 
discontinued was excluded from the cumulative exposure. 
Secondary endpoints 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 13/35 
 
 
 
The secondary endpoints of the study were: 
•  Kineret dose (mg/kg/day) at Baseline visit and at year 1, 2 and 3. 
• 
• 
• 
Proportion of patients who discontinued Kineret treatment permanently including the reasons 
for the permanent discontinuations. 
Proportion of patients who discontinued Kineret treatment temporarily including the reasons 
for the temporary discontinuations. 
Proportion of patients who were transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment.  
CHMP comments 
Concerning the outcome new malignancies, it is of relevance to make a longer follow up than 3 
years. Most malignancies have a long induction period, and therefore, they do not necessarily 
appear before the end of this study. An analysis with an outcome of malignancy, can with advantage 
include time with temporarily discontinuation, due to long induction periods of most cancers. 
However, in this setting, temporarily discontinuation was excluded from the categorization of time in 
exposure. This is of relevance in all the immediate appearing outcomes (including rate of serious 
infections, rate of injection side reactions, rate of allergic reactions, and rate of medication errors 
including re-use of syringe), but not concerning the rate of malignancies. Thus, due to safety 
concerns about appearance of new cancers, which must be of great importance in the safety follow 
up perspective, the MAH should explain how this safety concern about risk of malignancies will be 
followed in future safety studies. (OC)  
Of note, the above described secondary endpoint “Kineret dose at Baseline and visit 1, 2 and 3”, 
may more adequately be described as a ‘variable’ rather than an ‘endpoint’ – this will however, not 
be pursued.   
6.1.4.  Data sources 
The PRINTO network organized the data collection. The source for all data was the patients’ medical 
records. The investigators verified the transfer of relevant prospective data to the eCRF designed for 
the study in a web-based data entry tool. English was the official language used for all forms 
completed by the investigators.  
CHMP comments 
The MAH has sufficiently described the data sources.  
6.1.5.  Bias 
The uncontrolled study design was deemed acceptable for this non-interventional PASS. Accordingly, 
the study design carried the general limitations inherent in an uncontrolled design, e.g., statistical 
inference and generalizability. More particularly, the study design allowed patients previously treated 
with Kineret to take part in the study. This might potentially give rise to bias, since patients who 
discontinued Kineret treatment early might be underrepresented.  
CHMP comments 
The design allowed patients previously treated with Kineret to take part in the study. This is also of 
importance according to both the primary and secondary endpoint. It is a baseline characteristic, 
that should be measured, and as a minimum be reported in the results section, to enable to clarify if 
it has an impact on the results of the analyses. In the above sections, it is not specified how this 
was handled and therefore, the MAH is asked to clarify how they handled patients that previously 
used Kineret, and how this possibly affected the results of the analyses. The MAH should also inform 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 14/35 
 
 
 
how the timing and duration of the patients were treated with Kineret before entry into this study 
(OC).  
6.1.6.  Study size 
The planned duration of the enrollment period was 1 year and the study was estimated to enroll 15 to 
20 CAPS patients. The study could include both paediatric and adult patients.  
CHMP comments 
The study was estimated to enroll 15 to 20 CAPS patients.  The MAH is asked to clarify what this 
estimated number of CAPS patients, is based on. (OC)  
6.1.7.  Data transformation 
The data was collected on-line via the secured PRINTO website on a dedicated server. Technical 
management of the database was handled by PRINTO. The web system has been accessible only to 
authorized personnel through unique individual usernames and passwords to allow record traceability. 
The completed eCRFs are the sole property of the Giannina Gaslini Institute and should not be made 
available in any form to third parties, except for authorized representatives of appropriate Regulatory 
Authorities, ECs and if applicable a monitor appointed by SOBI.  
Investigators’ access to the eCRFs has been restricted to the patients under their care. The data was 
cleaned and remotely monitored by PRINTO on an ongoing basis to check the accuracy of data. If 
necessary, PRINTO asked for additional or more precise information from the sites. 
The data management process was documented in the data management plan.  
CHMP comments 
The MAH has sufficiently described the process for data transformation.   
6.1.8.  Statistical methods 
Main summary measures 
The presence of serious infections, new malignancies, ISRs, allergic reactions and medications errors 
are presented as rates, calculated as the number of events divided by the total cumulative exposure to 
Kineret treatment in the study (patient years). 95 % confidence intervals are calculated for the rate of 
each of the five event types. In addition to the rate, the distribution of the severity, relationship to 
Kineret treatment and seriousness are presented. 
Main statistical methods 
All enrolled patients were included in the analysis. The analyses were conducted primarily for the total 
study population. In addition, the subgroup of patients who were already using Kineret at baseline and 
the subgroup who initiated Kineret treatment at baseline were to be analysed separately. In the 
primary analyses, the analysis period covered the time from Baseline visit until the last visit. For the 
rate of malignancies, a secondary analysis was conducted by including the time from the initiation of 
Kineret treatment until the last study visit. 
All endpoints were summarized using 95% confidence intervals and descriptive statistics. No formal 
statistical comparison was to be done. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 15/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing values 
For incompletely recorded dates, a missing day was replaced by 15 and a missing month by 6. 
However, in case of missing data on the date of onset of an AE, if it was not obvious whether the AE is 
treatment-emergent or not, the AE was classified as treatment-emergent. 
Sensitivity analyses 
No sensitivity analyses have been planned for this study. 
Amendments to the statistical analysis plan 
A separate statistical analysis plan SAP was written for this study, there were no amendments to the 
original SAP.  
CHMP comments 
Overall, the MAH has sufficiently described the statistical methods used in the study.  
In the section above, it is stated that a secondary analysis was conducted, which included the time 
from initiation of Kineret treatment until the last study visit. The MAH is asked to clarify if the 
analyses include time of Kineret treatment before entry into the study, and how long these periods 
of exposures were concerning the exposed individuals (see previous OC). As the design is setup 
now, regarding the time of exposure with Kineret, it is impossible to rule out a cancer risk on the 
long-term basis.   
6.1.9.  Quality control 
The collection of data followed the routine clinical care in treatment of the patients. The source for all 
collected data was the patients’ medical records. It was the responsibility of the investigator to ensure 
completion and to review and approve all eCRFs. At all times, the investigator had the final 
responsibility for the accuracy and authenticity of all patient data entered into the eCRFs. 
The web system used for data collection provided validation control and it is not expected to have 
missing data related to mandatory questions. However, all the data entered into the web system was 
reviewed by the PRINTO Coordinating Centre for completeness and accuracy. 
PRINTO personnel checked the completeness and coherence of the data and if any relevant query was 
raised during the check, PRINTO was to contact the investigator to verify the correctness and 
consistency of the data and retrieve missing data if available. In case of discrepancies, specific queries 
were to be issued and solved through the Query Ticket system. 
Data could be updated or modified only upon request to the PRINTO helpdesk. Issues that arise and 
that were not possible to resolve within the entry tool may be managed by a site review. Data were 
validated on an ongoing basis, and, a specific validation process was applied. All validation of data was 
described in detail in the DMP. 
CHMP comments 
The MAH has sufficiently described the processes for data quality control. 
6.2.  Results 
6.2.1.  Participants 
All CAPS patients treated at the selected sites and meeting the inclusion criteria were eligible for entry. 
The duration of the enrollment period was 1 year and 11 months and the study enrolled a total of 12 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 16/35 
 
 
 
CAPS patients. Table 1 presents the characteristics of the study patient population at the Baseline visit. 
The median (Q1; Q3) age at baseline was 25.3 (5.4; 50.2). 
Of the 12 patients, 9 (75 %) were males and 3 (25%) females. 8 (66.6%) patients had been 
diagnosed with MWS, 2 (16.7%) with FCAS and 2 (16.7%) with NOMID/CINCA. The median (Q1; Q3) 
age at CAPS onset vas 2.5 (0.0; 11.4) years while the median (Q1; Q3) age at CAPS diagnosis was 
24.4 (5.0; 47.2) years. The median (Q1; Q3) disease duration (years from onset to Baseline visit) was 
15.5 (2.5; 45.2) years. There were no patients with history of malignancies.  
Table 1 Characteristics of the study patient population at Baseline visit 
CHMP comments 
Due to the rarity of this disease, it was expected that it could be difficult to include enough patients 
in this study. Twelve (12) patients are not many, and due to small number bias, it can be difficult to 
evaluate the purpose of this study properly. Within the Eurofever Registry, there are 225 CAPS 
patients available. The MAH is asked, if there are any plans of keeping this safety study running, 
with a purpose to secure longer follow periods, and to include more patients. (OC) 
6.2.2.  Descriptive data-Kineret treatment at Baseline 
Table 2 presents the patients characteristics with regards to Kineret treatment at Baseline visit. Of the 
12 patients included in this study, 1 (8.3%) patient initiated Kineret treatment at baseline and 11 
(91.7%) patients were already using Kineret graduated prefilled syringe at baseline. 3 (25%) patients 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 17/35 
 
 
 
 
  
had a history of using other IL-1 blocking treatments. The median (Q1; Q3) Kineret dose at baseline 
was 1.7 (1.4; 2.1) mg/kg/day; with 7 (58.3%) patients taking less than 2 mg/kg/day and 5 (41.7%) 
patients between 2 and 3 mg/kg/day. 
Table 2 Study population characteristics with regards to Kineret treatment at Baseline visit 
CHMP comments 
The majority (11) of all (12) included patient were already in treatment with Kineret at baseline, and 
only one patient initiated Kineret treatment at the beginning of this study. This further emphasizes 
the need for clarification of the time of exposure with Kineret at baseline of this study.  
6.2.3.  Main results 
Outcome data 
All 12 patients enrolled in this study have been included in the analysis of results. 
Primary endpoint 
All treatment emergent AEs (as defined in Section 8.3.1) reported during the study period are 
presented in Table 3. 
A total of 7 treatment emergent AEs were reported during a total of 26.1 patient years of treatment, 
with an overall rate of 26.8 (95% CI 4.2-169.6) per 100 patient years. All treatment emergent AEs 
were observed in 1 patient and considered unrelated to Kineret by the investigator. 2 AEs were 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 18/35 
 
 
 
  
considered serious treatment emergent AEs due to hospitalization (1 tonsillitis and 1 urinary tract 
infection. 
No AE were considered severe, 6 (85.7%) AEs were considered of moderate severity and 1 (14.3%) 
was considered of mild severity, see Table 4. 
Table 3 All treatment-emergent adverse events reported during the study period 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 19/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 All pre-specific treatment-emergent adverse events by severity reported during the study 
period 
Table 5 presents a detailed list of all pre-specified treatment emergent AEs reported during the study. 
All 7 reported AEs were classified as infections: 5 (71.4%) tonsillitis, 1 (14.3%) urinary tract infection 
and 1 (14.3%) upper respiratory tract infection. All 7 pre-specified treatment-emergent AEs were 
observed in 1 patient. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 20/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 Details of all pre-specific treatment-emergent adverse events reported during the study period 
Secondary endpoints 
Table 6 presents the characteristics of the study patient population during follow-up period (1, 2, 3 and 
>3 years). The median (Q1; Q3) Kineret dose at Year 1, Year 2, Year 3 and Year >3 was 1.6 (1.5;2.3), 
1.6 (1.2;2.0), 2.6 (1.7; 3.6) and 1.4 (1.1; 2.0) mg/kg/day, respectively.  
In total, 6 (50%) patients permanently discontinued treatment with Kineret. Of those, 2 patients 
discontinued at Year 1; 3 patients at Year 2; and 1 patient at Year >3; there were no permanent 
discontinuations of Kineret at Year 3. The reason for permanent discontinuation included change to 
another IL-1 blocking treatment (5 patients), inefficacy (1 patient) and non-compliance (1 patient). All 
5 patients that transferred to another IL-1 blocking treatment reported to have switched to 
canakinumab. 
Only 1 patient temporarily discontinued treatment with Kineret; the discontinuation occurred during 
Year 2, due to non-compliance. The patient discontinued treatment with Kineret after the laboratory 
results indicated that the patient had developed neutropenia. The AE was assessed as non-serious and 
the Kineret dose was adjusted. However, after registering the AE the laboratory results were reviewed 
and the investigator confirmed that the patient did not had neutropenia as previously reported, as 
consequence the treatment with Kineret was reintroduced in the original dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 21/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 Characteristics of the study patient population during follow-up (during yeara 1, 2, 3 and Year> 
3b) 
CHMP comments 
According to Table 5 above, all the 7 pre-specified reported adverse events during the study period, 
were infections. Due to the known adverse event of Kineret inducing neutropenia, it is considered of 
interest to know the level of neutrophil granulocytes prior to and during the time with infections. 
Please provide data if available. (OC) 
There were no reports of the other pre-defined primary outcomes (i.e. malignancies,, allergic 
reactions and medication errors, including re-use of the syringe) during the study period. Though 
reassuring, it is speculated if lack of cases of these other pre-defined primary endpoints may be 
explained by small number of patients in this study. 
According to Table 6, it seems like a majority of the patients included gained weight during the 
study period. This is a bit reassuring. The MAH is asked to discuss if ‘Weight gain’ may be an 
adverse event to Kineret and whether this has been observed in other clinical studies. (OC)  
6.2.4.  Other analyses 
Since 11 patients were treated with Kineret graduated prefilled syringe prior to study start, further 
analysis was done in order to calculate the total Kineret treatment duration (see Table 7).  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 22/35 
 
 
 
 
  
All 12 patients were included the analysis. The median (min;max) Kineret treatment duration with 
Kineret was 1154.5 (167;2556) days (approximately 3.1 years). 
Table 7 Kineret treatment duration of anakinra 
CHMP comments 
Table 7 gives information about the duration of treatment with Kineret. This includes the 11 patients 
who were previously treated with Kineret. The design allowed patients previously treated with 
Kineret to take part in the study, and this is accepted, however, the MAH should present information 
regarding the timing and duration of previous Kineret-treatment, and clarify, how this previous 
treatment has an impact on the estimated endpoints of interest. Please see list of questions (OC).   
6.2.5.  Adverse events/adverse reaction 
Since the primary objective of the study was to evaluate the safety of Kineret treatment in CAPS 
patients, all AE results are described in the Section 6.2.3. 
CHMP comments 
Please see CHMP comments regarding Main results above.  
6.3.  Discussion 
This PASS study was conducted to address the pre-specified risks from the RMP that included serious 
infection, malignancies, ISRs and allergic reactions.  
The MAH has performed a well conducted multi-centre, non-interventional, non-controlled trial, that 
samples data prospectively, and that on this background has tried to measure all relevant issues. The 
primary objective was to evaluate the safety of Kineret treatment in CAPS patients with focus on 
serious infections, malignancies, ISRs, allergic reactions and medication errors, including re-use of the 
syringe.  
Overall, there are no results that lead to great safety concerns. However, some Other Concerns needs 
to be addressed by the MAH.  
As reported in the results section of the Sobi.ANAKIN-201 study report, there were only included 12 
patients. As CAPS is an extremely rare disease it was expected that it could be difficult to include a 
sufficient number of patients. As the Eurofever registry included 225 CAPS patients, it should be 
possible to include more individuals with a diagnosis of CAPS. Therefore, the MAH is asked to explain 
why only 12 out of the 225 individuals with CAPS were included in this study. (OC)  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 23/35 
 
 
 
  
 
Concerning the outcome ‘New malignancies’, it is of relevance to make a longer follow up period than 3 
years. Most malignancies have a long induction period, and are also a rare outcome, and therefore, 
they do not necessarily appear before the end of the present study. Thus, due to safety concerns about 
appearance of new cancers, which must be of great importance in the safety follow up perspective, it 
would be of relevance for the MAH to clarify how this safety concern is planned to be followed in future 
safety studies. (OC)   
Further, the study design allowed patients previously treated with Kineret to take part in the study. 
This is also of importance according to both the primary and secondary endpoints and as such 
endorsed. It is a baseline characteristic, that should be measured, and as a minimum be reported in 
the results section, to enable to clarify if it has an impact on the results of the analyses. As neither the 
study protocol nor the study report provides information of how this was handled, the MAH is asked to 
clarify how they handled patients that previously used Kineret, and how it possibly affected the results 
of the analyses. It would especially be of interest to report how the duration and timing of treatment 
with Kineret before entry into this study, and clarify how this influences the results. (OC)  
As already mentioned, it would have been optimal if the study included more participants. The study 
was estimated to enrol 15 to 20 CAPS patients, and included only 12 patients. The MAH is asked to 
clarify what this estimated number of CAPS patients, is based on, and if there are any plans of keeping 
this safety study running, with a purpose to secure longer follow periods, and to include more patients. 
(OC)  
Furthermore, and due to small number bias, it can be difficult to evaluate the purpose of this study 
properly. Therefore, the MAH additionally is asked, if there are any plans of keeping this safety study 
running, with a purpose to secure longer follow periods, and to include more. (OC) 
One of the primary objectives of the study was to evaluate the safety of Kineret treatment and the risk 
of serious infections. The study reports 7 pre-specified adverse events classified as infections (i.e. 1 
mild, and 2 moderate infections). Due to the known adverse event of Kineret inducing neutropenia 
described within the SmPC, it is considered of interest to know the level of neutrophil granulocytes 
prior to and during the time with infections. (OC)  
During the study, it was noted that the median weight at baseline was 63.0 kg and increased to a 
median of 90.4 kg at study end. While it is expected that the included children will increase in weight 
during the 3-years study period, it would not be expected for the adults. According to the SmPC, this is 
not a known adverse event. The MAH is asked to discuss if ‘Weight gain’ may be an adverse event to 
Kineret and whether this has been observed in other clinical studies. (OC) 
7.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted an updated RMP version 5.4 with this application, with data lock point (DLP) 01 
May 2020, signed 17 November 2020. The (main) proposed RMP changes were the following: 
• 
The PASS in CAPS (Sobi.ANAKIN-201) has been completed. The Data lock point of the RMP 
was updated from May 1, 2018 to May 1, 2020. During this time period the anaSTILLs study 
(Sobi.ANAKIN-301) was completed and therefore part II and VI of the RMP have been updated 
with information from this study. In addition, the exposure sections have been updated due to 
the updated Data lock point as well as the follow-up forms in Annex 4 (minor modifications). 
The currently approved RMP version is 5.3, approved in procedure EMEA/H/C/000363/II/0073 (opinion 
date 14 May 2020). 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 24/35 
 
 
 
 
PART II: SAFETY SPECIFICATION 
Part II Module SIII.2 – Clinical trial exposure 
The subsection “Clinical trial safety data in Still’s disease” was updated with information from a 
completed study “anaSTILLs” (Sobi.ANAKIN-301), a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
multicenter phase 3 efficacy and safety study in pediatric and adult patients with Still’s disease (SJIA 
and AOSD): Totally 12 patients received study treatment, 6 patients received anakinra and 6 patients 
received placebo. One of the patients in the placebo group was diagnosed with lymphoma rather than 
Still’s disease. The study duration was 16 weeks which included a 12-week treatment period and a 4-
week follow-up period. 
Exposure data was updated to reflect estimated exposure in clinical trials until DLP (6 480 PY). 
Part II: Module SIV - Populations not studied in clinical trials 
The Table “Exposure of special populations included or not in clinical trial development programmes” 
was adjusted to reflect data from Sobi.ANAKIN-301 and updated post marketing experience. 
Part II: Module SV - Post-authorisation experience 
Exposure data was updated to reflect estimated exposure in post marketing use until DLP (126 789 
PY). 
Part II: Module SVII - Identified and potential risks 
Throughout this section, reference to Sobi.ANAKIN-301 was added where relevant, and reference to 
ongoing PASS (Sobi.ANAKIN-201) was removed. These additions do not significantly change the 
characterisations of the risks. 
Part II: Module SVIII - Summary of the safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns remains unchanged upon completion of the PASS Sobi.ANAKIN-201, since 
the results of the PASS did not provide significant new information to any of the risks due to the low 
power of the study.  
The safety profile of the 12 patients with CAPS included in the study did not differ markedly from the 
safety profile of the overall Kineret patient population, but extrapolation of results from this study to 
the entire CAPS subpopulation should be done with caution due to the limitations of the evidence. 
Thus, it is agreed that the safety concerns remain unchanged. 
The unchanged summary of safety concerns is given below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 25/35 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risks 
Injection site reactions (ISRs) 
Immunogenicity 
Serious infections 
Neutropenia 
Allergic conditions 
Hepatic disorders 
Important potential risks 
Malignancies 
Macrophage activation syndrome (MAS) 
Medication errors including reuse of syringe 
Pulmonary events (Interstitial lung disease, pulmonary 
hypertension, alveolar proteinosis) 
Missing information 
Pregnant women 
Lactating women 
Use in patients with chronic infections 
Use in patients with pre-existing cancers 
Interaction with living vaccines 
PART III: PHARMACOVIGILANCE PLAN 
III.2 Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Reference to PASS Sobi.ANAKIN-201 was removed from the pharmacovigilance plan. There are no 
longer any ongoing additional pharmacovigilance activities.  
III.3 Summary table of additional pharmacovigilance activities 
The table was deleted from the RMP, as no additional pharmacovigilance activities remain. 
Questions were raised, based on the assessment of the PASS results, which potentially impact on the 
pharmacovigilance plan, i.e. a clarification is sought on the future follow up of the IPR “malignancies”. 
A final conclusion on the pharmacovigilance plan is therefore conditional on the outcome of the 
discussion within this procedure.  
PART V: RISK MINIMISATION MEASURES 
V.3 Summary of risk minimisation measures 
Reference to PASS Sobi.ANAKIN-201 was removed as additional pharmacovigilance activity from the 
following risks: Injection site reactions, Serious infections, Allergic conditions, Malignancies, Medication 
errors including reuse of syringe. 
 PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
The summary was updated in line with the changes outlined above. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 26/35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEXES 
Annex 2 - updated to reflect the completed status of PASS Sobi.ANAKIN-201. 
Annex 3 – the protocol of PASS Sobi.ANAKIN-201 was deleted. 
Annex 8 – updated to reflect changes in RMP version 5.4. 
7.1.  Overall conclusion on the RMP 
 The changes to the RMP version 5.4 are acceptable. 
8.  Request for supplementary information 
8.1.  Major objections 
Clinical aspects 
None. 
RMP aspects 
None. 
8.2.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
1.  Within the Eurofever registry, there are 225 CAPS patients available but the MAH has only 
included 12 patients in the present study. Please explain why only 12 of the 225 patients were 
included in the present study.  
2.  Due to the long induction period and the rare occurrence of malignancies, the evaluated 
association to Kineret (anakinra) treatment of this endpoint, in the present study, was not 
expected to find any significant increased risk. The MAH is asked to discuss how to address this 
issue further. 
3.  The design allowed patients previously treated with Kineret to take part in the study. This is 
accepted, however, the MAH should present information regarding the timing and duration of 
previous Kineret-treatment, and clarify, how this previous treatment has an impact on the 
estimated endpoints of interest. 
4.  The study was estimated to enroll 15 to 20 CAPS patients.  The MAH is asked to clarify what 
this estimated number of CAPS patients, is based on.  
5.  Due to the risk of small number bias the MAH is asked, if there are any plans of keeping this 
safety study running, with a purpose to secure longer follow periods, and to include more 
patients.  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 27/35 
 
 
 
 
6.  All the observed 7 pre-specified reported adverse events during the study period, was 
infections. Due to the known adverse event of Kineret inducing neutropenia, it is considered of 
interest to know the level of neutrophil granulocytes prior to and during the time with 
infections. Please provide data if available.  
7.  The majority of patients included in the study gained weight during the study period. According 
to the SmPC, this is not a known adverse event. The MAH is asked to discuss if ‘Weight gain’ 
may be an adverse event to Kineret and whether this has been observed in other clinical 
studies.  
RMP aspects 
None. 
9.  Assessment of the responses to the request for 
supplementary information 
9.1.  Other concerns 
Clinical aspects 
Question 1: 
Within the Eurofever registry, there are 225 CAPS patients available but the MAH has only included 12 
patients in the present study. Please explain why only 12 of the 225 patients were included in the 
present study. 
MAH’s response: 
CAPS is a rare disease, which indeed limits the size of the population that could be included in the 
study. The Eurofever registry enrolled 225 patients (PRINTO Newsletter 2013)1 with a validated and 
confirmed diagnosis of CAPS. Information on treatment was available in 94 patients2. 
Among the 94 patients with CAPS, that were analyzed in the Eurofever registry, 86 received at least 
one anti-IL-1 agent. 61 patients were under anakinra treatment2, which was also one of the 
Sobi.ANAKIN-201 study eligibility criteria. 
The Eurofever registry is an international initiative which encompasses auto-inflammatory data from 
33 countries world-wide, whereas the Sobi.ANAKIN-201 study was limited to the EU. The feasibility 
study to identify recruiting sites was primarily targeted to UK, France, Germany, the Netherlands, and 
Italy. This explains a lower number of patients with CAPS. 
Furthermore, only patients who provided their consent and who met the eligibility criteria could enter 
the study, and patients who received Kineret outside of the approved treatment recommendations for 
CAPS (for example patients treated despite contraindication) were not included in the study. Therefore, 
there was a low number of patients with CAPS who were potentially eligible for the study compared to 
the total number of patients with CAPS in the Eurofever registry. 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 28/35 
 
 
 
This establishes the scarce recruitment conditions prior to study start, which also were in line with the 
site feasibility which was done by the Pediatric Rheumatology International Trials Organisation 
(PRINTO) by asking a number of investigators in the Eurofever registry for their interest and capability 
to recruit patients in this non-interventional PASS. All CAPS patients treated at the selected sites and 
meeting the inclusion criteria were eligible for entry in the study. 
The duration of the enrollment period was planned to be 1 year and the study was estimated to enroll 
15-20 CAPS patients, both of which were agreed to by the EMA during procedure EMEA/H/C/363/X/42 
(CAPS indication) and the EMA approved RMP v 3.2. As a consequence, the slow enrolment rate after 
the study initiation reflected this limited patient population circumstance. 
Between Nov 2014 and the end of 2015, a total of 7 study sites had been initiated in France, the UK, 
and the Netherlands. However, by Oct 2016 only 3 sites had enrolled a total of 12 patients (1 site in 
the Netherlands and 2 sites in the UK). Despite regular inquiries at sites that had not enrolled patients, 
no additional patients appeared to be available for inclusion. Faced with these realities, the MAH 
requested to close the study for enrolment, and this was agreed to by the EMA on 24 October 2016. 
Taken all together, these reasons explain the limited number of patients in the study, i.e. 12 patients. 
CHMP comment 
The MAH has clarified that though the Eurofever Registry had a total of 225 CAPS patients, only 12 
of these 225 patients were included in the present PASS.  
Of the 225 patients, treatment information was available for only 94 patient and of these, 61 
patients received treatment with anakinra. Thus, within the Eurofever Registry, a total of 61 patients 
were potential candidates to be included in the PASS. However, only European patients were to be 
included and recruitment sites were limited to DE, FR, IT, NL and UK which further limited the total 
number of potential patients to be included.  
The MAH states that the reasons mentioned above together with the inclusion criteria in general 
were the main reason for the few (and lower than expected) number of patients actual included in 
the PASS. Of note, the expected number of patients to be included was 15-20 thus, only three (3) 
patients were lacking to obtain the expected number of patients to be included. Further of note, the 
planned number of 15-20 patients were agreed by the EMA and likewise, EMA was also consulted 
when it was decided to close the study when a total of 12 patients were included. Before the 
decision of closing the study, efforts were made to reach a higher number of patients to be included 
and for the same reason, the study had been prolonged. However, these actions did not result in 
inclusion of more patients.  
Conclusion: The MAH has sufficiently explained the reasons for the low number (n=12) of 
patients included in the PASS. Issue solved.  
Question 2: 
Due to the long induction period and the rare occurrence of malignancies, the evaluated association to 
Kineret (anakinra) treatment of this endpoint, in the present study, was not expected to find any 
significant increased risk. The MAH is asked to discuss how to address this issue further. 
MAH’s response: 
In the primary analyses, the analysis period covered the time from the Baseline visit until the last visit. 
For the rate of malignancies, a secondary analysis was conducted by including the time from initiation 
of the Kineret treatment until the last study visit. Although any malignancies that occurred during the 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 29/35 
 
 
 
study were to be reported, this brief study was not designed to investigate induction of malignancies in 
patients undergoing anakinra treatment. Such events must be considered rare, as the overall 
frequency of malignancies in clinical studies in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, including long-term 
follow-up data, has not been observed to be higher in anakinra-treated patients. 
The Sobi.ANAKIN-201 PASS study was designed to address the effectiveness of the risk minimization 
measures for medication errors, including re-use of the syringe. The study also addresses the pre-
specified risks from the RMP which can be captured at the patients’ routine visits to the clinic (i.e. 
serious infections, malignancies, ISRs and allergic reactions). In a previous CAPS study 03-AR-0298, 
there were no adverse reactions denoting malignancies. 
Nevertheless, since most of the patients in study Sobi.ANAKIN-201 had begun anakinra treatment 
prior to enrolment, the total exposure time and hence the potential for malignancy induction, if any, 
was in principle longer than the exposure they received during the study. In addition, malignancies in 
patients with CAPS and other auto-inflammatory disorders receiving anakinra treatment are captured 
and reported as a consequence of post-marketing pharmacovigilance activities. 
Malignancies are described as an important potential risk in the RMP and are monitored as a Target 
medical event. 
CHMP comment 
The MAH informs that though ‘malignancies’ were included as an event of interest, it was not 
expected to find any events; this is due to the short observation time and the low number of 
patients included in the study. This is acknowledged. Malignancies are included as an important 
potential risk in the RMP and as such, there is still focus on a potential increased risk of developing 
malignancies related to the anakinra treatment. This is considered sufficient.  
Conclusion: Issue solved.  
Question 3: 
The design allowed patients previously treated with Kineret to take part in the study. This is accepted, 
however, the MAH should present information regarding the timing and duration of previous Kineret-
treatment, and clarify, how this previous treatment has an impact on the estimated endpoints of 
interest. 
MAH’s response: 
Since CAPS is a rare disease with a limited number of patients available for clinical trials, previous use 
of Kineret was not an exclusion criterion for study participation. In the study, only 1 of the 12 patients 
started anakinra treatment at baseline; the other 11 patients had started treatment with Kineret prior 
to enrolment (see Figure 1). 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 30/35 
 
 
 
 
It is known that the development of ISRs in patients who had not previously experienced ISRs is 
uncommon after the first month of therapy (currently approved Kineret SmPC). In general, allergic 
reactions usually occur early in treatment. Thus, for these two primary endpoints, such reactions would 
not be expected for most of the patients included in this study. The absence of any reported ISRs and 
allergic reactions in the study is likely a reflection of the fact that only 1 patient started with Kineret 
treatment at baseline. 
For the other primary endpoints of the study, rates of serious infections, new malignancies, and 
medication errors including syringe re-use, the impacts of previous Kineret exposure and subcutaneous 
administration experience are likely to differ. The impact of these factors on development of serious 
infections was likely minimal since infections can arise at any time during treatment. However, all of 
the infection-related events reported in the study (7 events, 2 serious, none severe, and none 
considered related to treatment) occurred in the one patient (Patient #4) who was Kineret-naïve at 
baseline. For malignancies, the impact is discussed in our response to question #2 above. For 
medication errors, these events were likely to be lower in patients with previous experience with the 
Kineret syringe than in patients naïve to this treatment. 
For the secondary endpoints related to treatment discontinuation, many factors are involved in the 
decision to withdraw treatment temporarily or permanently, or to transfer to another IL-1 antagonist, 
and it is unclear how exposure to Kineret prior to the study would have affected these events. 
CHMP comment 
The MAH has presented the requested data (Figure 1 in the response above). Only 1 patient of the 
total 12 included patients were treatment naïve when included in the study. The MAH correctly 
concludes that this may have affected the reporting of ISR as these tend to occur early in the 
treatment. On the other hand, serious infections, malignancies and medication errors (all these 
being other primary endpoints) may occur at any time during the treatment and therefore, the fact 
that the majority of patients had been treated with anakinra prior to inclusion into the study is not 
considered to have influenced the results. On the contrary, malignancies may tend to occur as a late 
adverse reaction and the risk may accumulate with the treatment exposure. Thus, this primary 
endpoint may have the highest likelihood to have a higher risk of being reported due to the 
treatment prior to enrolment.  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 31/35 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion: Issue solved.  
Question 4: 
The study was estimated to enrol 15 to 20 CAPS patients. The MAH is asked to clarify what this 
estimated number of CAPS patients, is based on. 
MAH’s response: 
See response to Q1. 
The study population was agreed with EMA in procedure EMEA/H/C/363/X/42 (CAPS indication) and 
the EMA approved RMP v 3.2 in the same procedure. EMA was consulted and accepted to stop 
recruitment at 12 patients. 
CHMP comment 
In the response to Question 1, the MAH has sufficiently described the basis for the estimate of 
including 15-20 patients in the study. Likewise, the MAH has sufficiently described the efforts to 
include this number (15-20) of patients in the study and the reasons for the lower than anticipated 
number (n=12) of patients who were actually included in the PASS.  
Conclusion: Issue solved.  
Question 5: 
Due to the risk of small number bias the MAH is asked, if there are any plans of keeping this safety 
study running, with a purpose to secure longer follow periods, and to include more patients. 
MAH’s response: 
This non-interventional PASS was designed to evaluate the safety of Kineret treatment in CAPS 
patients in routine clinical care. The duration of the follow up for each patient enrolled in the study was 
planned to be 3 years. Six patients were followed for 3 years, seven patients were followed for 2 or 
more years and 10 patients were followed for 1 year or more. The start of data collection was in April 
2015, and the recruitment period was planned to end in Oct 2015 but was extended by 3 years until 
Nov 2018. The end of data collection was planned to be October 2018 but was continued until 
September 2019. Based on the efforts Sobi has taken as regards the multiple study period extensions, 
as well as the positive study outcome and the EMA approved study plans, Sobi does not consider a new 
study warranted. 
CHMP comment 
The MAH informs that there are no plans of keeping the PASS running. Considered the challenges 
with recruiting patients, the small number (n=12) it was succeeded to include, the results of the 
study and last but not least, the usual safety measures which are still ongoing (related to the RMP 
and the PSURs), it is considered acceptable not to continue with the study. Of note, also the EMA 
agreed to close the study, well-knowing the data (i.e. the total number of patients actual included 
and the follow-up time). 
Conclusion: Issue solved.  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 32/35 
 
 
 
Question 6: 
All the observed 7 pre-specified reported adverse events during the study period, was infections. Due 
to the known adverse event of Kineret inducing neutropenia, it is considered of interest to know the 
level of neutrophil granulocytes prior to and during the time with infections. Please provide data if 
available. 
MAH’s response: 
All of the 7 infections reported in the study occurred in a single patient (Patient #4), a child who was 
1.4 years old at baseline. The patient experienced 2 serious infections requiring hospitalisation. One 
was a urinary tract infection and the neutrophil count was reported to be 1.71 x 109/L at a follow-up 
visit several weeks after this infection had resolved. This was initially interpreted to be non-serious 
neutropenia and the Kineret dose was reduced from 20 to 16 mg/day, though the original dose of 20 
mg/day was reinstated 1 month later. However, on subsequent review, the investigator confirmed that 
the patient had not had neutropenia (as was previously reported), since a neutrophil count of 1.71 x 
109/L is not considered to be neutropenia. Consequently, the event was deleted from the study AE 
database. In the second infection (tonsillitis), that required hospitalisation for tonsillectomy (SAE), the 
neutrophil count was also reported to be normal (4.41 x 109/L, Ref. range 1.5–8.5 x 109/L). Hence, 
none of the infections that occurred in the study were reported to be associated with confirmed 
neutropenia and there were no abnormal neutrophil counts reported during the study. 
CHMP comment 
The MAH informs that all 7 AEs of infections were reported in a single patient. Only few results of 
neutrophil counts were available but these appeared to be within the range of ‘Normal’. While this 
may be considered reassuring, it is not sufficient to draw any conclusions. Importantly, both ‘Serious 
infections’ and ‘Neutropenia’ are mentioned as common (frequency: ≥1/100 to <1/10) adverse 
reactions in the tabulated list of adverse reactions in section 4.8 of the SmPC and both ‘Serious 
infections’ and ‘Neutropenia’ are also addressed in the SmPC section 4.4 ‘Special warning and 
precautions for use’. Thus, the topics are sufficiently addressed in the product information (SmPC).  
Conclusion: Issue solved.  
Question 7: 
The majority of patients included in the study gained weight during the study period. According to the 
SmPC, this is not a known adverse event. The MAH is asked to discuss if ‘Weight gain’ may be an 
adverse event to Kineret and whether this has been observed in other clinical studies. 
MAH’s response: 
Body weight was used to calculate the administered Kineret dose in mg/kg/day and was not intended 
to be a safety evaluation. 
CAPS, particularly the more severe form NOMID, causes growth retardation in children, and heights 
below the third percentile can be seen in about 75% of patients3. Body weights below the 3rd 
percentile were also described in children with CAPS4. In the study by Sibley et al. 2012, 62% of 
patients with growth below the 3rd percentile at baseline, and who were treated with anakinra showed 
the largest percentile increases, indicating catch-up growth at 36 months and 60 months (P=0.018 and 
P=0.021, respectively, versus baseline)4. This was also observed for weight gain in 58% of patients 
(P=0.001 at 36 months and 60 months, versus baseline). 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 33/35 
 
 
 
Neven et al. retrospectively analysed the medical records of 10 NOMID/CINCA syndrome patients who 
had been treated with anakinra for 26-42 months5. All patients gained height and exhibited increased 
BMI. Given that CAPS is associated with growth retardation (including low body weight), the increase 
in the BMI in patients treated with anakinra should be viewed as a beneficial effect of the medication 
rather than an AE. 
In the Sobi.ANAKIN-201 study, the gain of weight in the paediatric patients is consistent with normal 
growth curves. Whereas there is a slight tendency to the weight increase in the adult patients (>18 
years old). However, the limited number of patients participating to this study cannot conclude to the 
accountability of anakinra in the weight gain. The table below summarizes the reported weights at 
baseline and at the time of Kineret discontinuation. 
In May 2016, Sobi received a notification from EMA (PRAC) regarding a potential safety issue, weight 
increase in connection with use of IL-1 blocking drugs, such as anakinra. A signal of weight increase 
was therefore opened. A review of post-marketing and study data, and a literature review could not 
confirm the signal. In agreement with the EMA, the signal of weight increase was refuted and closed in 
September 2016. The signal did not result in changes, either in the Core Data Sheet or in local labels. 
CHMP comment 
As mentioned in the Question 7 the majority of the included patients gained weight during treatment 
with anakinra. For the children, this weight gain is considered to be due to normal growth and is as 
such not a concern. Among the 7 adult patients (aged >18 years), a total of 6 patients gained 
weight during the treatment with anakinra despite this population should be considered to maintain 
but not increase weight. One (1) patient lost 11 kg. during treatment with anakinra, 1 patient 
increased weight with 19 kg whereas the remaining 4 patients increased weight with 2-5 kg. The 
patients were treated for 2.5–3.2 years.  
As mentioned by the MAH, in 2016 ‘Weight gain’ was noted as a potential safety issue related to the 
treatment with IL-1 blocking agents including anakinra. The signal detection was however, closed 
without confirmation of a causal relationship between increased weight and the IL-1 blocking agents. 
There was no request of updating the product information (SmPC) and thus, currently there is no 
information regarding weight gain in the Kineret SmPC. Based on the few data included in the 
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 34/35 
 
 
 
 
present PASS and the outcome of the signal detection in 2016, no further action is currently 
considered necessary. 
Conclusion: Issue solved.  
References 
1. PRINTO. Newsletter No 20 - September 2013. Available from: 
https://www.printo.it/news/newsletters. 
2. Ter Haar N, Lachmann H, Ozen S, Woo P, Uziel Y, Modesto C, et al. Treatment of autoinflammatory 
diseases: results from the Eurofever Registry and a literature review. Ann Rheum Dis. 
2013;72(5):678-85. 
3. Goldbach-Mansky R. Current status of understanding the pathogenesis and management of patients 
with NOMID/CINCA. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2011;13(2):123-31. 
4. Sibley CH, Plass N, Snow J, Wiggs EA, Brewer CC, King KA, et al. Sustained response and 
prevention of damage progression in patients with neonatal-onset multisystem inflammatory disease 
treated with anakinra: a cohort study to determine three- and five-year outcomes. Arthritis Rheum. 
2012;64(7):2375-86. 
5. Neven B, Marvillet I, Terrada C, Ferster A, Boddaert N, Couloignier V, et al. Long-term efficacy of 
the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist anakinra in ten patients with neonatal onset multisystem 
inflammatory disease/chronic infantile neurologic, cutaneous, articular syndrome. Arthritis Rheum. 
2010;62(1):258-67. 
Conclusion 
Overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance has/have been updated accordingly 
No need to update overall conclusion and impact on benefit-risk balance  
Assessment report  
EMA/385270/2021  
Page 35/35 
 
 
 
 
