Summary of the risk management plan 
This is a summary of the RMP for Kinpeygo. The RMP describes important risks of Kinpeygo and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Kinpeygo's SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how Kinpeygo should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Kinpeygo  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information, 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Kinpeygo’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Kinpeygo is a new treatment that has been developed by Calliditas Therapeutics AB to specifically 
target the disease mechanisms of primary immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy (IgAN). Kinpeygo 
is an oral, modified release hard capsule formulation of the glucocorticosteroid budesonide which 
combines  a  delayed  capsule  disintegration  with  a  prolonged  release  of  the  active  substance 
budesonide  in  the  ileum.  By  directing  the  release  of  budesonide  to  the  ileum,  where  Peyer’s 
patches reside in high density, a local pharmacological effect is anticipated. 
Kinpeygo  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  primary  IgAN  in  adults  at  risk  of  rapid  disease 
progression with a urine protein-to-creatinine ratio (UPCR) ≥1.5 g/gram. 
For further information, refer to https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/kinpeygo 
II.  Risk  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimize  or  further 
characterize the risks 
Important  risks  of  Kinpeygo,  together  with  measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Kinpeygo's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  (PSUR)  assessment  so  that 
routine 
immediate  action  can  be 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
 
II.A List of important and missing information 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
•  None 
•  None 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
II.B Summary of important risks 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
•  None 
•  None 
Missing information 
•  Use in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
-  SmPC section 4.6, 5.3 
-  Legal status: Prescription only medicinal product 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
-  None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorization: 
Study/  
Status 
Summary of objectives 
Efficacy 
uncertainties 
addressed 
Milestones  Due Date 
Efficacy studies which are Specific Obligations in the context of a conditional marketing 
authorisation or a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances 
Pivotal Phase 3 
Clinical Study 
NefIgArd (NEF-301) 
Efficacy and Safety 
of Nefecon* in 
Patients With 
Primary IgAN 
Study Part B: 12-
This is a Phase 3, randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-
controlled, multicenter study to 
evaluate the efficacy, safety, 
and tolerability of oral 
Nefecon* compared to 
matching placebo in patients 
with primary IgAN on a 
Long-term 
efficacy 
(difference in 
eGFR over 2-
year period) 
Last Patient 
In (LPI) 
21/01/2021 
Q1/2023 
Last Patient 
Last Visit 
(LPLV) 
 
 
Efficacy 
uncertainties 
addressed 
Milestones  Due Date 
Final Study 
Report 
Q2/2023 
Study/  
Status 
month observational 
follow up period 
Status: ongoing 
(Note: Part A of 
NefIgArd Study 
serves as basis for 
conditional 
marketing 
authorisation 
application) 
Summary of objectives 
background of optimized RAS 
inhibitor therapy. The study 
consists of 2 parts, Part A and 
Part B.  
Results from Part A are used 
for the marketing authorisation 
application (conditional 
approval).  
Part B of the study consists of 
a 12-month observational 
Follow up Period; no study 
drug will be administered 
during Part B. Part A and B will 
be blinded. Safety will be 
monitored by an independent 
Data Safety Monitoring Board. 
*Kinpeygo is referred to as “Nefecon” in clinical studies 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no other studies required for Kinpeygo. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
