EMEA/H/C/005653 
Kinpeygo (budesonide) 
An overview of Kinpeygo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kinpeygo and what is it used for? 
Kinpeygo is a medicine used to treat adults with primary immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) whose 
disease is at risk rapidly getting worse. IgAN is a disease where the kidneys gradually stop working 
and eventually fail, requiring patients to undergo dialysis or have a kidney transplant. 
Kinpeygo is a ‘hybrid medicine’. It is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the same active 
substance, but is used for a different disease and is given in a different way. The reference medicine 
for Kinpeygo is Entocort.  
IgAN is rare, and Kinpeygo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
18 November 2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu-3-16-1778. 
Kinpeygo contains the active substance budesonide. 
How is Kinpeygo used? 
Kinpeygo can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as capsules to be taken by mouth. 
The recommended dose is 16 mg once a day in the morning, at least one hour before a meal, for 9 
months. A 9-month cycle can be repeated if deemed necessary by the treating doctor. When stopping 
treatment, the dose should be reduced to 8 mg once a day for 2 weeks, which may be further reduced 
to 4 mg once a day for an additional 2 weeks, at the discretion of the treating doctor.  
For more information about using Kinpeygo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Kinpeygo work? 
IgAN is caused by the immune system (the body's natural defences) producing a faulty version of 
immunoglobulin A (IgA), a protein in the blood that identifies and attaches to specific foreign 
substances. In patients with this condition, faulty IgA builds up in the kidney, damaging them and 
preventing them from working properly.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The active substance in Kinpeygo, budesonide, is a corticosteroid. Corticosteroids have a wide range of 
effects that suppress the immune system. In particular, Kinpeygo is designed to release budesonide 
when it reaches the intestine, where it reduces the production of faulty IgA and thereby reducing IgA 
build-up and damage to the kidneys. 
What benefits of Kinpeygo have been shown in studies? 
A main study involving 199 patients with IgAN showed that, after 9 months of treatment, patients 
taking Kinpeygo had a 31% reduction in proteinuria (excess protein in the urine, which can be a sign of 
kidney damage) compared with a 5% reduction in patients taking placebo (a dummy treatment). 
Additional data showed that the benefits of Kinpeygo were less evident in patients with less advanced 
disease; the use of Kinpeygo is therefore limited to patients at risk of their kidney function rapidly 
getting worse.  
What are the risks associated with Kinpeygo? 
The most common side effects with Kinpeygo are acne (which may affect around 1 in 10 people), and 
high blood pressure, peripheral or face oedema (build-up of fluids in the extremities or in the face) and 
dyspepsia (indigestion), each of which may affect around 1 in 20 people. In clinical trials, these side 
effects were of mild or moderate severity and resolved with time. For the full list of side effects of 
Kinpeygo, see the package leaflet. 
Kinpeygo must not be used in patients with severe liver impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). For the full 
list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kinpeygo authorised in the EU? 
Kinpeygo was shown to be effective at lowering the level of excess protein in the urine in patients with 
IgAN, indicating an improvement in kidney function. Treatment with Kinpeygo was generally well 
tolerated, and side effects were in line with the known safety profile of budesonide. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Kinpeygo’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Kinpeygo has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the Agency will review any 
new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Kinpeygo? 
Since Kinpeygo has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Kinpeygo has to 
submit additional results from the main study, which is still ongoing, in order to confirm the 
effectiveness and safety of the medicine in patients with IgAN. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kinpeygo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kinpeygo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kinpeygo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Kinpeygo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Kinpeygo (budesonide)  
EMA/625390/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Kinpeygo 
Kinpeygo received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 July 2022. 
Further information on Kinpeygo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kinpeygo   
This overview was last updated in 07-2022.  
Kinpeygo (budesonide)  
EMA/625390/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
