ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Each tablet contains 40 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Each tablet contains 80 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
Excipients with known effect
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Each tablet contains 112 mg of lactose monohydrate equivalent to 107 mg lactose anhydrous.
Each tablet contains 169 mg sorbitol (E420).
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Each tablet contains 112 mg of lactose monohydrate equivalent to 107 mg lactose anhydrous.
Each tablet contains 338 mg sorbitol (E420).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Tablet. 
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Red and white oblong shaped two layer tablet of 5.2 mm engraved with the code number 'H4'.  
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Red and white oblong shaped two layer tablet of 6.2 mm engraved with the code number 'H8'.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications  
Treatment of essential hypertension.  
Kinzalkomb fixed dose combination (40 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) and 
80 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg HCTZ) is indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled on telmisartan alone.
4.2
Posology and method of administration  
Posology
The fixed dose combination should be taken in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled by telmisartan alone. Individual dose titration with each of the two components is 
recommended before changing to the fixed dose combination. When clinically appropriate, direct 
change from monotherapy to the fixed combination may be considered. 
2
•
•
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg may be administered once daily in patients whose blood pressure is 
not adequately controlled by Kinzalmono 40 mg 
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg may be administered once daily in patients whose blood pressure is 
not adequately controlled by Kinzalmono 80 mg 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is necessary.  
Renal impairment
Periodic monitoring of renal function is advised (see section 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
In patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment the posology should not exceed 
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The fixed dose combination is contraindicated in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic 
function (see section 4.4).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of the fixed dose combination in children and adolescents aged below 18 have 
not been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
The fixed dose combination tablets are for once-daily oral administration and should be taken with 
liquid, with or without food.
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product
Kinzalkomb should be kept in the sealed blister due to the hygroscopic property of the tablets. Tablets 
should be taken out of the blister shortly before administration (see section 6.6).
4.3 Contraindications  







Hypersensitivity to any of the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Hypersensitivity to other sulphonamide-derived substances (since HCTZ is a sulphonamide-
derived medicinal product).
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).  
Cholestasis and biliary obstructive disorders.  
Severe hepatic impairment.  
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min).  
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia.  
The concomitant use of telmisartan/HCTZ with aliskiren-containing products is contraindicated in 
patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (GFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.5 and 
5.1).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use  
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless continued 
angiotensin II receptor antagonist therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should 
be changed to alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use 
in pregnancy. When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with angiotensin II receptor antagonists should 
be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 
4.6).
3
Hepatic impairment
Telmisartan/HCTZ must not be given to patients with cholestasis, biliary obstructive disorders or 
severe hepatic insufficiency (see section 4.3) since telmisartan is mostly eliminated with the bile. 
These patients can be expected to have reduced hepatic clearance for telmisartan.
In addition, telmisartan/HCTZ should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function 
or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate 
hepatic coma. There is no clinical experience with telmisartan/HCTZ in patients with hepatic 
impairment.
Renovascular hypertension
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with medicinal 
products that affect the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation
Telmisartan/HCTZ must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). There is no experience regarding the administration of 
telmisartan/HCTZ in patients with recent kidney transplantation. Experience with telmisartan/HCTZ is 
modest in the patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, therefore periodic monitoring of 
potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. Thiazide diuretic-associated 
azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function.
Intravascular hypovolaemia
Symptomatic hypotension, especially after the first dose, may occur in patients who are volume and/or 
sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such 
conditions should be corrected before the administration of telmisartan/HCTZ.  
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS)
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, 
angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1).
If dual blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure.
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy.
Other conditions with stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with medicinal products that affect this system has 
been associated with acute hypotension, hyperazotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see 
section 4.8). 
Primary aldosteronism
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of telmisartan/HCTZ is 
not recommended.  
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.  
4
Metabolic and endocrine effects
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance, whereas hypoglycaemia may occur in diabetic patients 
under insulin or antidiabetic therapy and telmisartan treatment. Therefore, in these patients blood 
glucose monitoring should be considered; a dose adjustment of insulin or antidiabetics may be 
required, when indicated. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy.
An increase in cholesterol and triglyceride levels has been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however, at the 12.5 mg dose contained in the medicinal product, minimal or no effects were reported. 
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in some patients receiving thiazide 
therapy.  
Electrolyte imbalance
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals.  
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (including 
hypokalaemia, hyponatraemia and hypochloraemic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte 
imbalance are dryness of mouth, thirst, asthenia, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or 
cramps, muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as 
nausea or vomiting (see section 4.8).  
Hypokalaemia
-
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
telmisartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greater in patients 
with cirrhosis of liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving inadequate 
oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or 
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (see section 4.5).
Hyperkalaemia
-
Conversely, due to the antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors by the telmisartan component 
of the medicinal product, hyperkalaemia might occur. Although clinically significant hyperkalaemia 
has not been documented with telmisartan/HCTZ, risk factors for the development of hyperkalaemia 
include renal insufficiency and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Potassium-sparing diuretics, 
potassium supplements or potassium-containing salt substitutes should be co-administered cautiously 
with telmisartan/HCTZ (see section 4.5).
Hyponatraemia and hypochloraemic alkalosis
-
There is no evidence that telmisartan/HCTZ would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. 
Chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment.  
Hypercalcaemia
-
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function.  
Hypomagnesaemia
-
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnesaemia (see section 4.5). 
Ethnic differences
As with all other angiotensin II receptor antagonists, telmisartan is apparently less effective in 
lowering blood pressure in black patients than in non blacks, possibly because of higher prevalence of 
low renin states in the black hypertensive population. 
Other
As with any antihypertensive agent, excessive reduction of blood pressure in patients with ischaemic 
cardiopathy or ischaemic cardiovascular disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
5
General
Hypersensitivity reactions to HCTZ may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or 
bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history.  
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics, including HCTZ.  
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazide diuretics (see section 4.8). If a 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA.
Choroidal Effusion, Acute Myopia and Angle-Closure Glaucoma
Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms 
include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks 
of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The 
primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or 
surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk 
factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or 
penicillin allergy.
Non-melanoma skin cancer
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of HCTZ exposure has been observed in two 
epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. Photosensitising actions of 
HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC.
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their 
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimise the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8).
Acute Respiratory Toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Kinzalkomb
should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered 
to patients who previously experienced ARDS following hydrochlorothiazide intake.
Lactose
Each tablet contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total 
lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.
Sorbitol
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets contain 169 mg sorbitol in each tablet.
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets contain 338 mg sorbitol in each tablet. Patients with hereditary 
fructose intolerance (HFI) should not take this medicinal product.
Each tablet contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.
6
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Lithium
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Rare cases have 
also been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including telmisartan/HCTZ). Co-
administration of lithium and telmisartan/HCTZ is not recommended (see section 4.4). If this 
combination proves essential, careful monitoring of serum lithium level is recommended during 
concomitant use.
Medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other kaliuretic diuretics, 
laxatives, corticosteroids, ACTH, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium, salicylic acid and 
derivatives)
If these substances are to be prescribed with the HCTZ-telmisartan combination, monitoring of 
potassium plasma levels is advised. These medicinal products may potentiate the effect of HCTZ on 
serum potassium (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products that may increase potassium levels or induce hyperkalaemia (e.g. ACE inhibitors, 
potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, cyclosporin 
or other medicinal products such as heparin sodium)
If these medicinal products are to be prescribed with the HCTZ-telmisartan combination, monitoring 
of potassium plasma levels is advised. Based on the experience with the use of other medicinal 
products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, concomitant use of the above medicinal products 
may lead to increases in serum potassium and is, therefore, not recommended (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium and ECG is recommended when telmisartan/HCTZ is 
administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances (e.g. digitalis 
glycosides, antiarrhythmics) and the following torsades de pointes inducing medicinal products (which 
include some antiarrhythmics), hypokalaemia being a predisposing factor to torsades de pointes. 
-
-
-
class Ia antiarrythmics (e.g. quinidine, hydroquinidine, disopyramide) 
class III antiarrythmics (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide)
some antipsychotics (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, levomepromazine, trifluoperazine, 
cyamemazine, sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol)
others (e.g. bepridil, cisapride, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, 
pentamidine, sparfloxacine, terfenadine, vincamine IV.)
-
Digitalis glycosides
Thiazide-induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia favours the onset of digitalis-induced 
arrhythmia (see section 4.4).  
Digoxin
When telmisartan was co-administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma 
concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. When initiating, adjusting, and 
discontinuing telmisartan, monitor digoxin levels in order to maintain levels within the therapeutic 
range.
Other antihypertensive agents
Telmisartan may increase the hypotensive effect of other antihypertensive agents. 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).
7
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulin)
Dose adjustment of the antidiabetic medicinal products may be required (see section 4.4).
Metformin
Metformin should be used with precaution: risk of lactic acidosis induced by a possible functional 
renal failure linked to HCTZ.
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins
Absorption of HCTZ is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins. 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products
NSAIDs (i.e. acetylsalicylic acid at anti-inflammatory dose regimens, COX-2 inhibitors and non-
selective NSAIDs) may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide 
diuretics and the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
In some patients with compromised renal function (e.g. dehydrated patients or elderly patients with 
compromised renal function) the co-administration of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and agents 
that inhibit cyclo-oxygenase may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible 
acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Therefore the combination should be administered with 
caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be 
given to monitoring of renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy and periodically 
thereafter.
In one study the co-administration of telmisartan and ramipril led to an increase of up to 2.5 fold in the 
AUC0-24 and Cmax of ramipril and ramiprilat. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known.
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline)
The effect of pressor amines may be decreased. 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine)
The effect of nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants may be potentiated by HCTZ.
Medicinal products used in the treatment for gout (e.g. probenecid, sulfinpyrazone and allopurinol)
Dose adjustment of uricosuric medications may be necessary as HCTZ may raise the level of serum 
uric acid. Increase in dose of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of 
thiazide may increase the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions of allopurinol. 
Calcium salts
Thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to the decreased excretion. If calcium 
supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be prescribed, 
serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dose adjusted accordingly.
Beta-blockers and diazoxide
The hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by thiazides.
Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, biperiden) may increase the bioavailability of thiazide-type 
diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate.
Amantadine
Thiazides may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine.
Cytotoxic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate)
Thiazides may reduce the renal excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects.
8
Based on their pharmacological properties it can be expected that the following medicinal products 
may potentiate the hypotensive effects of all antihypertensives including telmisartan: Baclofen, 
amifostine.
Furthermore, orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or 
antidepressants.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy
The use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists is not recommended during the first trimester of 
pregnancy (see section 4.4). The use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists is contraindicated during 
the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
There are no adequate data from the use of telmisartan/HCTZ in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with angiotensin II 
receptor antagonists, similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued angiotensin II 
receptor antagonist therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with angiotensin II receptor antagonists should be stopped 
immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be started.
Exposure to angiotensin II receptor antagonist therapy during the second and third trimesters is known 
to induce human foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification 
retardation) and neonatal toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3).
Should exposure to angiotensin II receptor antagonists have occurred from the second trimester of 
pregnancy, ultrasound check of renal function and skull is recommended.
Infants whose mothers have taken angiotensin II receptor antagonists should be closely observed for 
hypotension (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
There is limited experience with HCTZ during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester. Animal 
studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the pharmacological 
mechanism of action of HCTZ its use during the second and third trimester may compromise foeto-
placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like icterus, disturbance of electrolyte 
balance and thrombocytopenia.
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease.
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used.
Breast-feeding
Because no information is available regarding the use of telmisartan/HCTZ during breast-feeding, 
telmisartan/HCTZ is not recommended and alternative treatments with better established safety 
profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of telmisartan/HCTZ during breast-feeding is 
not recommended. If telmisartan/HCTZ is used during breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as 
possible.
9
Fertility
In preclinical studies, no effects of telmisartan and HCTZ on male and female fertility were observed.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Kinzalkomb can have influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness or drowsiness may 
occasionally occur when taking telmisartan/HCTZ. . 
4.8 Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile
The most commonly reported adverse reaction is dizziness. Serious angioedema may occur rarely 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000).
The overall incidence of adverse reactions reported with telmisartan/HCTZ was comparable to those 
reported with telmisartan alone in randomised controlled trials involving 1,471 patients randomised to 
receive telmisartan plus HCTZ (835) or telmisartan alone (636). Dose-relationship of adverse 
reactions was not established and they showed no correlation with gender, age or race of the patients.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions reported in all clinical trials and occurring more frequently (p  0.05) with 
telmisartan plus HCTZ than with placebo are shown below according to system organ class. Adverse 
reactions known to occur with each component given singly but which have not been seen in clinical 
trials may occur during treatment with telmisartan/HCTZ.
Adverse reactions have been ranked under headings of frequency using the following convention:
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). 
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Infections and infestations
Rare:
Immune system disorders 
Rare:
Bronchitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus1
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Uncommon:
Rare: 
Hypokalaemia 
Hyperuricaemia, hyponatraemia
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Anxiety
Depression
Nervous system disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Dizziness
Syncope, paraesthesia
Insomnia, sleep disorders
Eye disorders
Rare:
Visual disturbance, vision blurred
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Uncommon:
Vertigo
10
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon:
Tachycardia, arrhythmias
Vascular disorders
Uncommon:
Hypotension, orthostatic hypotension
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Dyspnoea
Respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary 
oedema)
Gastrointestinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Diarrhoea, dry mouth, flatulence 
Abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, vomiting, gastritis
Hepatobiliary disorders
Rare:
Abnormal hepatic function/liver disorder2
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Rare:
Angioedema (also with fatal outcome), erythema, pruritus, rash, 
hyperhidrosis, urticaria
Muscoloskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Back pain, muscle spasms, myalgia
Arthralgia, muscle cramps, pain in limb
Reproductive system and breast disorders
Uncommon:
Erectile dysfunction
General disorders and administration site conditions
Uncommon:
Rare:
Chest pain
Influenza-like illness, pain
Investigations
Uncommon:
Rare:
Blood uric acid increased
Blood creatinine increased, blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased, hepatic enzyme increased
1: Based on post-marketing experience
2: For further description, please see sub-section “Description of selected adverse reactions”
Additional information on individual components  
Adverse reactions previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse 
reactions with Kinzalkomb, even if not observed in clinical trials with this product.
Telmisartan:
Adverse reactions occurred with similar frequency in placebo and telmisartan treated patients.
The overall incidence of adverse reactions reported with telmisartan (41.4%) was usually comparable 
to placebo (43.9%) in placebo controlled trials. The following adverse reactions listed below have 
been accumulated from all clinical trials in patients treated with telmisartan for hypertension or in 
patients 50 years or older at high risk of cardiovascular events.
11
Infections and infestations
Uncommon:
Rare:
Upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection including 
cystitis
Sepsis including fatal outcome3
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Anaemia 
Eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia
Immune system disorders
Rare:
Hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reactions
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hyperkalaemia
Hypoglycaemia (in diabetic patients)
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon:
Bradycardia
Nervous system disorders
Rare:
Somnolence
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Very rare: 
Cough
Interstitial lung disease3
Gastrointestinal disorders
Rare:
Stomach discomfort
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Rare:
Eczema, drug eruption, toxic skin eruption
Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders
Rare: 
Arthrosis, tendon pain
Renal and urinary disorders
Uncommon:
Renal impairment (including acute renal failure)
General disorders and administration site conditions
Uncommon:
Asthenia
Investigations
Rare:
Haemoglobin decreased
3: For further description, please see sub-section“Description of selected adverse reactions”
Hydrochlorothiazide:
Hydrochlorothiazide may cause or exacerbate hypovolaemia which could lead to electrolyte imbalance 
(see section 4.4).
Adverse reactions of unknown frequency reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone include:
Infections and infestations
Not known:
Sialadenitis
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps)
Not known:
Non-melanoma skin cancer (Basal cell carcinoma and Squamous cell 
12
carcinoma)
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Rare: 
Not known:
Thrombocytopenia (sometimes with purpura)
Aplastic anaemia, haemolytic anaemia, bone marrow failure, 
leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, 
Immune system disorders
Not known:
Anaphylactic reactions, hypersensitivity
Endocrine disorders
Not known:
Diabetes mellitus inadequate control
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Rare:
Very rare:
Not known:
Hypomagnesaemia
Hypercalcaemia
Hypochloraemic alkalosis
Anorexia, appetite decreased, electrolyte imbalance, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperglycaemia, hypovolaemia. 
Psychiatric disorders
Not known:
Restlessness
Nervous system disorders
Rare:
Not known:
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders
Very rare:
Eye disorders
Not known
Headache
Light-headedness
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (see section 4.4)
Xanthopsia, acute myopia, acute angle-closure glaucoma, choroidal 
effusion
Vascular disorders
Not known:
Vasculitis necrotizing
Gastrointestinal disorders
Common:
Not known:
Nausea
Pancreatitis, stomach discomfort
Hepatobiliary disorders
Not known:
Jaundice hepatocellular, jaundice cholestatic
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Not known:
Lupus-like syndrome, photosensitivity reactions, skin vasculitis, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme
Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders
Not known:
Weakness
Renal and urinary disorders
Not known:
Nephritis interstitial, renal dysfunction, glycosuria 
General disorders and administration site conditions
Not known:
Pyrexia
Investigations
13
Not known:
Triglycerides increased
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatic function abnormal/liver disorder
Most cases of hepatic function abnormal/liver disorder from post-marketing experience with 
telmisartan occurred in Japanese patients. Japanese patients are more likely to experience these 
adverse reactions.
Sepsis
In the PRoFESS trial, an increased incidence of sepsis was observed with telmisartan compared with 
placebo. The event may be a chance finding or related to a mechanism currently not known (see 
section 5.1).
Interstitial lung disease
Cases of interstitial lung disease have been reported from post-marketing experience in temporal 
association with the intake of telmisartan. However, a causal relationship has not been established.
Non-melanoma skin cancer
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose-dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose  
There is limited information available for telmisartan with regard to overdose in humans. The degree 
to which HCTZ is removed by haemodialysis has not been established.  
Symptoms
The most prominent manifestations of telmisartan overdose were hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia, dizziness, vomiting, increase in serum creatinine, and acute renal failure have also been 
reported. Overdose with HCTZ is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloraemia) and hypovolaemia resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common signs and 
symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle spasms and/or 
accentuate arrhythmia associated with the concomitant use of digitalis glycosides or certain anti-
arrhythmic medicinal products.  
Treatment
Telmisartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The patient should be closely monitored, and the 
treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion 
and the severity of the symptoms. Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric 
lavage. Activated charcoal may be useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and 
creatinine should be monitored frequently. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a 
supine position, with salt and volume replacements given quickly. 
14
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Angiotensin II antagonists and diuretics, ATC code: C09DA07  
Kinzalkomb is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, telmisartan, and a thiazide 
diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an additive antihypertensive 
effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component alone. Kinzalkomb once 
daily produces effective and smooth reductions in blood pressure across the therapeutic dose range.  
Mechanism of action
Telmisartan is an orally effective and specific angiotensin II receptor subtype 1 (AT1) antagonist. 
Telmisartan displaces angiotensin II with very high affinity from its binding site at the AT1 receptor 
subtype, which is responsible for the known actions of angiotensin II. Telmisartan does not exhibit any 
partial agonist activity at the AT1 receptor. Telmisartan selectively binds the AT1 receptor. The 
binding is long-lasting.  Telmisartan does not show affinity for other receptors, including AT2 and 
other less characterised AT receptors. The functional role of these receptors is not known, nor is the 
effect of their possible overstimulation by angiotensin II, whose levels are increased by telmisartan. 
Plasma aldosterone levels are decreased by telmisartan. Telmisartan does not inhibit human plasma 
renin or block ion channels. Telmisartan does not inhibit angiotensin converting enzyme (kininase II), 
the enzyme which also degrades bradykinin. Therefore, it is not expected to potentiate bradykinin-
mediated adverse effects.  
An 80 mg dose of telmisartan administered to healthy volunteers almost completely inhibits the 
angiotensin II evoked blood pressure increase. The inhibitory effect is maintained over 24 hours and 
still measurable up to 48 hours.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides have an effect on the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte 
reabsorption, directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent 
amounts. The diuretic action of HCTZ reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
system, co-administration of telmisartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With HCTZ, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at about 4 hours, 
while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours 
Pharmacodynamic effects
Treatment of essential hypertension
After the first dose of telmisartan, the antihypertensive activity gradually becomes evident within 
3 hours. The maximum reduction in blood pressure is generally attained 4-8 weeks after the start of 
treatment and is sustained during long-term therapy. The antihypertensive effect persists constantly 
over 24 hours after dosing and includes the last 4 hours before the next dose as shown by ambulatory 
blood pressure measurements. This is confirmed by measurements made at the point of maximum 
effect and immediately prior to the next dose (through to peak ratios consistently above 80% after 
doses of 40 mg and 80 mg of telmisartan in placebo controlled clinical studies).  
In patients with hypertension telmisartan reduces both systolic and diastolic blood pressure without 
affecting pulse rate. The antihypertensive efficacy of telmisartan is comparable to that of agents 
representative of other classes of antihypertensive medicinal products (demonstrated in clinical trials 
comparing telmisartan to amlodipine, atenolol, enalapril, hydrochlorothiazide, and lisinopril).  
Upon abrupt cessation of treatment with telmisartan, blood pressure gradually returns to pre-treatment 
values over a period of several days without evidence of rebound hypertension.  
15
The incidence of dry cough was significantly lower in patients treated with telmisartan than in those 
given angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in clinical trials directly comparing the two 
antihypertensive treatments.  
Clinical efficacy and safety
Cardiovascular prevention
ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in Combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) 
compared the effects of telmisartan, ramipril and the combination of telmisartan and ramipril on 
cardiovascular outcomes in 25,620 patients aged 55 years or older with a history of coronary artery 
disease, stroke, TIA, peripheral arterial disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence 
of end-organ damage (e.g. retinopathy, left ventricular hypertrophy, macro- or microalbuminuria), 
which is a population at risk for cardiovascular events.
Patients were randomised to one of the three following treatment groups: telmisartan 80 mg 
(n = 8,542), ramipril 10 mg (n = 8,576), or the combination of telmisartan 80 mg plus ramipril 10 mg 
(n = 8,502), and followed for a mean observation time of 4.5 years. 
Telmisartan showed a similar effect to ramipril in reducing the primary composite endpoint of 
cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, or hospitalisation for 
congestive heart failure. The incidence of the primary endpoint was similar in the telmisartan (16.7%) 
and ramipril (16.5%) groups. The hazard ratio for telmisartan vs. ramipril was 1.01 (97.5% 
CI 0.93-1.10, p (non-inferiority) = 0.0019 at a margin of 1.13). The all-cause mortality rate was 11.6% 
and 11.8% among telmisartan and ramipril treated patients, respectively.
Telmisartan was found to be similarly effective to ramipril in the pre-specified secondary endpoint of 
cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and non-fatal stroke [0.99 (97.5% CI 0.90-1.08),
p (non-inferiority) = 0.0004], the primary endpoint in the reference study HOPE (The Heart Outcomes 
Prevention Evaluation Study), which had investigated the effect of ramipril vs. placebo. 
TRANSCEND randomised ACE-I intolerant patients with otherwise similar inclusion criteria as 
ONTARGET to telmisartan 80 mg (n = 2,954) or placebo (n = 2,972), both given on top of standard 
care. The mean duration of follow up was 4 years and 8 months. No statistically significant difference 
in the incidence of the primary composite endpoint (cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial 
infarction, non-fatal stroke, or hospitalisation for congestive heart failure) was found [15.7% in the 
telmisartan and 17.0% in the placebo groups with a hazard ratio of 0.92 (95% CI 0.81-1.05, p = 0.22)]. 
There was evidence for a benefit of telmisartan compared to placebo in the pre-specified secondary 
composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and non-fatal stroke 
[0.87 (95% CI 0.76-1.00, p = 0.048)]. There was no evidence for benefit on cardiovascular mortality
(hazard ratio 1.03, 95% CI 0.85-1.24).
Cough and angioedema were less frequently reported in patients treated with telmisartan than in 
patients treated with ramipril, whereas hypotension was more frequently reported with telmisartan. 
Combining telmisartan with ramipril did not add further benefit over ramipril or telmisartan alone. CV 
mortality and all cause mortality were numerically higher with the combination. In addition, there was 
a significantly higher incidence of hyperkalaemia, renal failure, hypotension and syncope in the 
combination arm. Therefore the use of a combination of telmisartan and ramipril is not recommended 
in this population.
In the "Prevention Regimen For Effectively avoiding Second Strokes" (PRoFESS) trial in patients 
50 years and older, who recently experienced stroke, an increased incidence of sepsis was noted for 
telmisartan compared with placebo, 0.70% vs. 0.49% [RR 1.43 (95% confidence interval 1.00-2.06)]; 
the incidence of fatal sepsis cases was increased for patients taking telmisartan (0.33%) vs. patients 
taking placebo (0.16%) [RR 2.07 (95% confidence interval 1.14-3.76)]. The observed increased 
occurrence rate of sepsis associated with the use of telmisartan may be either a chance finding or 
related to a mechanism not currently known.
16
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker.
ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular 
disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of end-organ damage. For more detailed 
information see above under the heading “Cardiovascular prevention”.
VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy.
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers.
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy.
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group.
Epidemiological studies have shown that long-term treatment with HCTZ reduces the risk of 
cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.  
The effects of fixed dose combination of telmisartan/HCTZ on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity 
are currently unknown.
Non-melanoma skin cancer
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose-dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥ 50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29 
(95% CI: 1.23-1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose 
response relationship was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible 
association between lip cancer (SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched 
with 63,067 population controls, using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response 
relationship was demonstrated with an adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI: 1.7-2.6) increasing to 
OR 3.9 (3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose 
(~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Kinzalkomb in all subsets of the paediatric population in hypertension (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use).
5.2. Pharmacokinetic properties  
Concomitant administration of HCTZ and telmisartan does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics 
of either substance in healthy subjects.
Absorption
Telmisartan: Following oral administration peak concentrations of telmisartan are reached in 0.5-1.5 h 
after dosing. The absolute bioavailability of telmisartan at 40 mg and 160 mg was 42% and 58%, 
respectively. Food slightly reduces the bioavailability of telmisartan with a reduction in the area under 
17
the plasma concentration time curve (AUC) of about 6% with the 40 mg tablet and about 19% after a 
160 mg dose. By 3 hours after administration plasma concentrations are similar whether telmisartan is 
taken fasting or with food. The small reduction in AUC is not expected to cause a reduction in the 
therapeutic efficacy. Telmisartan does not accumulate significantly in plasma on repeated 
administration.  
Hydrochlorothiazide: Following oral administration of the fixed dose combination peak concentrations 
of HCTZ are reached in approximately 1.0-3.0 hours after dosing. Based on cumulative renal 
excretion of HCTZ the absolute bioavailability was about 60%.  
Distribution
Telmisartan is highly bound to plasma proteins (> 99.5%) mainly albumin and alpha l-acid 
glycoprotein. The apparent volume of distribution for telmisartan is approximately 500 litres 
indicating additional tissue binding.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% protein bound in the plasma and its apparent volume of distribution is 
0.83-1.14 l/kg.  
Biotransformation
Telmisartan is metabolised by conjugation to form a pharmacologically inactive acylglucuronide. The 
glucuronide of the parent compound is the only metabolite that has been identified in humans. After a 
single dose of 14C-labelled telmisartan the glucuronide represents approximately 11% of the measured 
radioactivity in plasma. The cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are not involved in the metabolism of 
telmisartan.
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolised in man. 
Elimination
Telmisartan: Following either intravenous or oral administration of 14C-labelled telmisartan most of 
the administered dose (> 97%) was eliminated in faeces via biliary excretion. Only minute amounts 
were found in urine. Total plasma clearance of telmisartan after oral administration is > 1,500 ml/min. 
Terminal elimination half-life was > 20 hours.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted almost entirely as unchanged substance in urine. About 60% of the 
oral dose is eliminated within 48 hours. Renal clearance is about 250-300ml/min. The terminal 
elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide is 10-15 hours.  
Linearity/non-linearity
Telmisartan: The pharmacokinetics of orally administered telmisartan are non-linear over doses from 
20-160 mg with greater than proportional increases of plasma concentrations (Cmax and AUC) with 
increasing doses.
Hydrochlorothiazide exhibits linear pharmacokinetics. 
Pharmacokinetics in specific populations
Elderly
Pharmacokinetics of telmisartan do not differ between the elderly and those younger than 65 years.
Gender
Plasma concentrations of telmisartan are generally 2-3 times higher in females than in males. In 
clinical trials however, no significant increases in blood pressure response or in the incidence of 
orthostatic hypotension were found in women. No dose adjustment is necessary. There was a trend 
towards higher plasma concentrations of HCTZ in female than in male subjects. This is not considered 
to be of clinical relevance.  
Renal impairment
Renal excretion does not contribute to the clearance of telmisartan. Based on modest experience in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30-60 ml/min, mean about 
50 ml/min) no dose adjustment is necessary in patients with decreased renal function. Telmisartan is 
not removed from blood by haemodialysis. In patients with impaired renal function the rate of HCTZ 
elimination is reduced. In a typical study in patients with a mean creatinine clearance of 90 ml/min the 
18
elimination half-life of HCTZ was increased. In functionally anephric patients the elimination half-life 
is about 34 hours.  
Hepatic impairment
Pharmacokinetic studies in patients with hepatic impairment showed an increase in absolute 
bioavailability up to nearly 100%. The elimination half-life is not changed in patients with hepatic 
impairment.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
In preclinical safety studies performed with co-administration of telmisartan and HCTZ in 
normotensive rats and dogs, doses producing exposure comparable to that in the clinical therapeutic 
range caused no additional findings not already observed with administration of either substance 
alone. The toxicological findings observed appear to have no relevance to human therapeutic use.
Toxicological findings also well known from preclinical studies with angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists were: a reduction of red cell parameters 
(erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit), changes of renal haemodynamics (increased blood urea 
nitrogen and creatinine), increased plasma renin activity, hypertrophy/hyperplasia of the 
juxtaglomerular cells and gastric mucosal injury. Gastric lesions could be prevented/ameliorated by 
oral saline supplementation and group housing of animals. In dogs renal tubular dilation and atrophy 
were observed. These findings are considered to be due to the pharmacological activity of telmisartan.
No clear evidence of a teratogenic effect was observed, however at toxic dose levels of telmisartan an 
effect on the postnatal development of the offsprings such as lower body weight and delayed eye 
opening was observed.
Telmisartan showed no evidence of mutagenicity and relevant clastogenic activity in in vitro studies 
and no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats and mice. Studies with HCTZ have shown equivocal 
evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect in some experimental models. However, the extensive 
human experience with HCTZ has failed to show an association between its use and an increase in 
neoplasms.
For the foetotoxic potential of the telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination see section 4.6.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1 List of excipients  
Lactose monohydrate
Magnesium stearate
Maize starch
Meglumine
Microcrystalline cellulose
Povidone (K25)
Red ferric oxide (E172)
Sodium hydroxide
Sodium starch glycollate (type A)
Sorbitol (E420).
6.2
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3
Shelf life  
3 years  
19
6.4
Special precautions for storage  
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the 
original package in order to protect from moisture.  
6.5 Nature and contents of container  
Aluminium/aluminium blisters (PA/Al/PVC/Al or PA/PA/Al/PVC/Al). One blister contains 7 or 
10 tablets. 
Pack sizes:
-
-
Blister with 14, 28, 56, or 98 tablets or 
Perforated unit dose blisters with 28 x 1 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Kinzalkomb should be kept in the sealed blister due to the hygroscopic property of the tablets. Tablets 
should be taken out of the blister shortly before administration. Occasionally, the outer layer of the 
blister pack has been observed to separate from the inner layer between the blister pockets. No action 
needs to be taken if this is observed.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
8.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
EU/1/02/214/001-005
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
EU/1/02/214/006-010
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 19 April 2002
Date of latest renewal: 23 April 2007
10.
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
20
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets  
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each tablet contains 80 mg telmisartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
Excipients with known effect
Each tablet contains 99 mg of lactose monohydrate equivalent to 94 mg lactose anhydrous.
Each tablet contains 338 mg sorbitol (E420).
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Tablet. 
Yellow and white oblong shaped tablet of 6.2 mm engraved with the code 'H9'.  
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications  
Treatment of essential hypertension.  
Kinzalkomb fixed dose combination (80 mg telmisartan/25 mg hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ)) is 
indicated in adults whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg 
(80 mg telmisartan/12.5 mg HCTZ) or patients who have been previously stabilised on telmisartan and 
HCTZ given separately.
4.2
Posology and method of administration  
Posology  
The fixed dose combination should be taken in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately 
controlled by telmisartan alone. Individual dose titration with each of the two components is 
recommended before changing to the fixed dose combination. When clinically appropriate, direct 
change from monotherapy to the fixed combination may be considered

Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg may be administered once daily in patients whose blood pressure is 
not adequately controlled by Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg or in patients who have been 
previously stabilised on telmisartan and HCTZ given separately.
Kinzalkomb is also available at the dose strengths 40 mg/12.5 mg and 80 mg/12.5 mg
Elderly
No dose adjustment is necessary.  
Renal impairment
Periodic monitoring of renal function is advised (see section 4.4).  
21
Hepatic impairment
In patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment the posology should not exceed Kinzalkomb
40 mg/12.5 mg once daily. The fixed dose combination is contraindicated in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. Thiazides should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function 
(see section 4.4).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of the fixed dose combination in children and adolescents aged below 18 have 
not been established. No data are available.
Method of administration 
The fixed dose combination tablets are for once-daily oral administration and should be taken with 
liquid, with or without food.
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product
Kinzalkomb should be kept in the sealed blister due to the hygroscopic property of the tablets. Tablets 
should be taken out of the blister shortly before administration (see section 6.6).
4.3 Contraindications  







Hypersensitivity to any of the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Hypersensitivity to other sulphonamide-derived substances (since HCTZ is a sulphonamide-
derived medicinal product).
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.4 and 4.6).  
Cholestasis and biliary obstructive disorders.  
Severe hepatic impairment.  
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min).  
Refractory hypokalaemia, hypercalcaemia.  
The concomitant use of telmisartan/HCTZ with aliskiren-containing products is contraindicated in 
patients with diabetes mellitus or renal impairment (GFR < 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.5 and 
5.1).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use  
Pregnancy 
Angiotensin II receptor antagonists should not be initiated during pregnancy. Unless continued 
angiotensin II receptor antagonist therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should 
be changed to alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use 
in pregnancy. When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with angiotensin II receptor antagonists should 
be stopped immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be started (see sections 4.3 and 
4.6).
Hepatic impairment
Telmisartan/HCTZ must not be given to patients with cholestasis, biliary obstructive disorders or 
severe hepatic insufficiency (see section 4.3) since telmisartan is mostly eliminated with the bile. 
These patients can be expected to have reduced hepatic clearance for telmisartan.
In addition, telmisartan/HCTZ should be used with caution in patients with impaired hepatic function 
or progressive liver disease, since minor alterations of fluid and electrolyte balance may precipitate 
hepatic coma. There is no clinical experience with telmisartan/HCTZ in patients with hepatic 
impairment.
22
Renovascular hypertension
There is an increased risk of severe hypotension and renal insufficiency when patients with bilateral 
renal artery stenosis or stenosis of the artery to a single functioning kidney are treated with medicinal 
products that affect the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
Renal impairment and kidney transplantation
Telmisartan/HCTZ must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 30 ml/min) (see section 4.3). There is no experience regarding the administration of 
telmisartan/HCTZ in patients with recent kidney transplantation. Experience with telmisartan/HCTZ is 
modest in the patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, therefore periodic monitoring of 
potassium, creatinine and uric acid serum levels is recommended. Thiazide diuretic-associated 
azotaemia may occur in patients with impaired renal function.
Intravascular hypovolaemia
Symptomatic hypotension, especially after the first dose, may occur in patients who are volume and/or 
sodium depleted by vigorous diuretic therapy, dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Such 
conditions should be corrected before the administration of telmisartan/HCTZ.  
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS)
There is evidence that the concomitant use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or 
aliskiren increases the risk of hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including 
acute renal failure). Dual blockade of RAAS through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, 
angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is therefore not recommended (see sections 4.5 and 5.1).
If dual blockade therapy is considered absolutely necessary, this should only occur under specialist 
supervision and subject to frequent close monitoring of renal function, electrolytes and blood pressure.
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should not be used concomitantly in patients with 
diabetic nephropathy.
Other conditions with stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
In patients whose vascular tone and renal function depend predominantly on the activity of the renin-
angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g. patients with severe congestive heart failure or underlying renal 
disease, including renal artery stenosis), treatment with medicinal products that affect this system has 
been associated with acute hypotension, hyperazotaemia, oliguria, or rarely acute renal failure (see 
section 4.8). 
Primary aldosteronism
Patients with primary aldosteronism generally will not respond to antihypertensive medicinal products 
acting through inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system. Therefore, the use of telmisartan/HCTZ is 
not recommended.  
Aortic and mitral valve stenosis, obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
As with other vasodilators, special caution is indicated in patients suffering from aortic or mitral 
stenosis, or obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. 
Metabolic and endocrine effects
Thiazide therapy may impair glucose tolerance, whereas hypoglycaemia may occur in diabetic patients 
under insulin or antidiabetic therapy and telmisartan treatment. Therefore, in these patients blood 
glucose monitoring should be considered; a dose adjustment of insulin or antidiabetics may be 
required, when indicated. Latent diabetes mellitus may become manifest during thiazide therapy.
An increase in cholesterol and triglyceride levels has been associated with thiazide diuretic therapy; 
however, at the 12.5 mg dose contained in the medicinal product, minimal or no effects were reported.  
Hyperuricaemia may occur or frank gout may be precipitated in some patients receiving thiazide 
therapy.  
23
Electrolyte imbalance
As for any patient receiving diuretic therapy, periodic determination of serum electrolytes should be 
performed at appropriate intervals.  
Thiazides, including hydrochlorothiazide, can cause fluid or electrolyte imbalance (including 
hypokalaemia, hyponatraemia, and hypochloraemic alkalosis). Warning signs of fluid or electrolyte 
imbalance are dryness of mouth, thirst, asthenia, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, muscle pain or 
cramps, muscular fatigue, hypotension, oliguria, tachycardia, and gastrointestinal disturbances such as 
nausea or vomiting (see section 4.8).  
Hypokalaemia
-
Although hypokalaemia may develop with the use of thiazide diuretics, concurrent therapy with 
telmisartan may reduce diuretic-induced hypokalaemia. The risk of hypokalaemia is greater in patients 
with cirrhosis of liver, in patients experiencing brisk diuresis, in patients who are receiving inadequate 
oral intake of electrolytes and in patients receiving concomitant therapy with corticosteroids or 
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (see section 4.5). 
Hyperkalaemia
-
Conversely, due to the antagonism of the angiotensin II (AT1) receptors by the telmisartan component 
of the medicinal product, hyperkalaemia might occur. Although clinically significant hyperkalaemia 
has not been documented with telmisartan/HCTZ, risk factors for the development of hyperkalaemia 
include renal insufficiency and/or heart failure, and diabetes mellitus. Potassium-sparing diuretics, 
potassium supplements or potassium-containing salt substitutes should be co-administered cautiously 
with telmisartan/HCTZ (see section 4.5).
Hyponatraemia and hypochloraemic alkalosis
-
There is no evidence that telmisartan/HCTZ would reduce or prevent diuretic-induced hyponatraemia. 
Chloride deficit is generally mild and usually does not require treatment.  
Hypercalcaemia
-
Thiazides may decrease urinary calcium excretion and cause an intermittent and slight elevation of 
serum calcium in the absence of known disorders of calcium metabolism. Marked hypercalcaemia 
may be evidence of hidden hyperparathyroidism. Thiazides should be discontinued before carrying out 
tests for parathyroid function.  
Hypomagnesaemia
-
Thiazides have been shown to increase the urinary excretion of magnesium, which may result in 
hypomagnesaemia (see section 4.5). 
Ethnic differences
As with all other angiotensin II receptor antagonists, telmisartan is apparently less effective in 
lowering blood pressure in black patients than in non blacks, possibly because of higher prevalence of 
low renin states in the black hypertensive population. 
Other
As with any antihypertensive agent, excessive reduction of blood pressure in patients with ischaemic 
cardiopathy or ischaemic cardiovascular disease could result in a myocardial infarction or stroke. 
General
Hypersensitivity reactions to HCTZ may occur in patients with or without a history of allergy or 
bronchial asthma, but are more likely in patients with such a history.  
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported with the use of thiazide 
diuretics, including HCTZ.  
Cases of photosensitivity reactions have been reported with thiazide diuretics (see section 4.8). If a 
photosensitivity reaction occurs during treatment, it is recommended to stop the treatment. If a re-
administration of the diuretic is deemed necessary, it is recommended to protect exposed areas to the 
sun or to artificial UVA.
24
Choroidal Effusion, Acute Myopia and Angle-Closure Glaucoma
Hydrochlorothiazide, a sulfonamide, can cause an idiosyncratic reaction, resulting in choroidal 
effusion with visual field defect, acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma. Symptoms 
include acute onset of decreased visual acuity or ocular pain and typically occur within hours to weeks 
of drug initiation. Untreated acute angle-closure glaucoma can lead to permanent vision loss. The 
primary treatment is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide as rapidly as possible. Prompt medical or 
surgical treatments may need to be considered if the intraocular pressure remains uncontrolled. Risk 
factors for developing acute angle-closure glaucoma may include a history of sulfonamide or 
penicillin allergy.
Non-melanoma skin cancer
An increased risk of non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) [basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous 
cell carcinoma (SCC)] with increasing cumulative dose of HCTZ exposure has been observed in two 
epidemiological studies based on the Danish National Cancer Registry. Photosensitising actions of 
HCTZ could act as a possible mechanism for NMSC.
Patients taking HCTZ should be informed of the risk of NMSC and advised to regularly check their
skin for any new lesions and promptly report any suspicious skin lesions. Possible preventive 
measures such as limited exposure to sunlight and UV rays and, in case of exposure, adequate 
protection should be advised to the patients in order to minimise the risk of skin cancer. Suspicious 
skin lesions should be promptly examined potentially including histological examinations of biopsies. 
The use of HCTZ may also need to be reconsidered in patients who have experienced previous NMSC 
(see also section 4.8).
Acute Respiratory Toxicity 
Very rare severe cases of acute respiratory toxicity, including acute respiratory distress syndrome 
(ARDS) have been reported after taking hydrochlorothiazide. Pulmonary oedema typically develops 
within minutes to hours after hydrochlorothiazide intake. At the onset, symptoms include dyspnoea, 
fever, pulmonary deterioration and hypotension. If diagnosis of ARDS is suspected, Kinzalkomb
should be withdrawn and appropriate treatment given. Hydrochlorothiazide should not be administered 
to patients who previously experienced ARDS following hydrochlorothiazide intake.
Lactose
Each tablet contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total 
lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.
Sorbitol
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets contain 338 mg sorbitol in each tablet. Patients with hereditary 
fructose intolerance (HFI) should not take this medicinal product.
Each tablet contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
Lithium
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Rare cases have 
also been reported with angiotensin II receptor antagonists (including telmisartan/HCTZ). Co-
administration of lithium and telmisartan/HCTZ is not recommended (see section 4.4). If this 
combination proves essential, careful monitoring of serum lithium level is recommended during 
concomitant use.
Medicinal products associated with potassium loss and hypokalaemia (e.g. other kaliuretic diuretics, 
laxatives, corticosteroids, ACTH, amphotericin, carbenoxolone, penicillin G sodium, salicylic acid and 
derivatives)
25
If these substances are to be prescribed with the HCTZ-telmisartan combination, monitoring of 
potassium plasma levels is advised. These medicinal products may potentiate the effect of HCTZ on 
serum potassium (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products that may increase potassium levels or induce hyperkalaemia (e.g. ACE inhibitors, 
potassium-sparing diuretics, potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, cyclosporin 
or other medicinal products such as heparin sodium)
If these medicinal products are to be prescribed with the HCTZ-telmisartan combination, monitoring 
of potassium plasma levels is advised. Based on the experience with the use of other medicinal 
products that blunt the renin-angiotensin system, concomitant use of the above medicinal products 
may lead to increases in serum potassium and is, therefore, not recommended (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances
Periodic monitoring of serum potassium and ECG is recommended when telmisartan/HCTZ is 
administered with medicinal products affected by serum potassium disturbances (e.g. digitalis 
glycosides, antiarrhythmics) and the following torsades de pointes inducing medicinal products (which 
include some antiarrhythmics), hypokalaemia being a predisposing factor to torsades de pointes. 
-
-
-
class Ia antiarrythmics (e.g. quinidine, hydroquinidine, disopyramide) 
class III antiarrythmics (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide)
some antipsychotics (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, levomepromazine, trifluoperazine, 
cyamemazine, sulpiride, sultopride, amisulpride, tiapride, pimozide, haloperidol, droperidol)
others (e.g. bepridil, cisapride, diphemanil, erythromycin IV, halofantrin, mizolastin, 
pentamidine, sparfloxacine, terfenadine, vincamine IV.)
-
Digitalis glycosides
Thiazide-induced hypokalaemia or hypomagnesaemia favours the onset of digitalis-induced 
arrhythmia (see section 4.4).  
Digoxin
When telmisartan was co-administered with digoxin, median increases in digoxin peak plasma 
concentration (49%) and in trough concentration (20%) were observed. When initiating, adjusting, and 
discontinuing telmisartan, monitor digoxin levels in order to maintain levels within the therapeutic 
range.
Other antihypertensive agents
Telmisartan may increase the hypotensive effect of other antihypertensive agents. 
Clinical trial data has shown that dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system (RAAS) 
through the combined use of ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers or aliskiren is associated 
with a higher frequency of adverse events such as hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal 
function (including acute renal failure) compared to the use of a single RAAS-acting agent (see 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).
Antidiabetic medicinal products (oral agents and insulin)
Dose adjustment of the antidiabetic medicinal products may be required (see section 4.4).
Metformin
Metformin should be used with precaution: risk of lactic acidosis induced by a possible functional 
renal failure linked to HCTZ.
Cholestyramine and colestipol resins
Absorption of HCTZ is impaired in the presence of anionic exchange resins.  
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products
NSAIDs (i.e. acetylsalicylic acid at anti-inflammatory dose regimens, COX-2 inhibitors and non-
selective NSAIDs) may reduce the diuretic, natriuretic and antihypertensive effects of thiazide 
diuretics and the antihypertensive effects of angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
26
In some patients with compromised renal function (e.g. dehydrated patients or elderly patients with 
compromised renal function) the co-administration of angiotensin II receptor antagonists and agents 
that inhibit cyclo-oxygenase may result in further deterioration of renal function, including possible 
acute renal failure, which is usually reversible. Therefore the combination should be administered with 
caution, especially in the elderly. Patients should be adequately hydrated and consideration should be 
given to monitoring of renal function after initiation of concomitant therapy and periodically 
thereafter.
In one study the co-administration of telmisartan and ramipril led to an increase of up to 2.5 fold in the 
AUC0-24 and Cmax of ramipril and ramiprilat. The clinical relevance of this observation is not known.
Pressor amines (e.g. noradrenaline)
The effect of pressor amines may be decreased. 
Nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants (e.g. tubocurarine)
The effect of nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxants may be potentiated by HCTZ.
Medicinal products used in the treatment for gout (e.g. probenecid, sulfinpyrazone and allopurinol)
Dose adjustment of uricosuric medications may be necessary as HCTZ may raise the level of serum 
uric acid. Increase in dose of probenecid or sulfinpyrazone may be necessary. Co-administration of 
thiazide may increase the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions of allopurinol. 
Calcium salts
Thiazide diuretics may increase serum calcium levels due to the decreased excretion. If calcium 
supplements or calcium sparing medicinal products (e.g. vitamin D therapy) must be prescribed, 
serum calcium levels should be monitored and calcium dose adjusted accordingly.
Beta-blockers and diazoxide
The hyperglycaemic effect of beta-blockers and diazoxide may be enhanced by thiazides.
Anticholinergic agents (e.g. atropine, biperiden) may increase the bioavailability of thiazide-type 
diuretics by decreasing gastrointestinal motility and stomach emptying rate.
Amantadine
Thiazides may increase the risk of adverse effects caused by amantadine.
Cytotoxic agents (e.g. cyclophosphamide, methotrexate)
Thiazides may reduce the renal excretion of cytotoxic medicinal products and potentiate their 
myelosuppressive effects.
Based on their pharmacological properties it can be expected that the following medicinal product may 
potentiate the hypotensive effects of all antihypertensives including telmisartan: Baclofen, amifostine.
Furthermore, orthostatic hypotension may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or 
antidepressants.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy
The use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists is not recommended during the first trimester of 
pregnancy (see section 4.4). The use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists is contraindicated during 
the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
There are no adequate data from the use of telmisartan/HCTZ in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
27
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with angiotensin II 
receptor antagonists, similar risks may exist for this class of drugs. Unless continued angiotensin II 
receptor antagonist therapy is considered essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to 
alternative antihypertensive treatments which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. 
When pregnancy is diagnosed, treatment with angiotensin II receptor antagonists should be stopped 
immediately, and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be started.
Exposure to angiotensin II receptor antagonist therapy during the second and third trimesters is known 
to induce human foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification 
retardation) and neonatal toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia) (see section 5.3).
Should exposure to angiotensin II receptor antagonists have occurred from the second trimester of 
pregnancy, ultrasound check of renal function and skull is recommended.
Infants whose mothers have taken angiotensin II receptor antagonists should be closely observed for 
hypotension (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
There is limited experience with HCTZ during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester. Animal 
studies are insufficient. Hydrochlorothiazide crosses the placenta. Based on the pharmacological
mechanism of action of HCTZ its use during the second and third trimester may compromise foeto-
placental perfusion and may cause foetal and neonatal effects like icterus, disturbance of electrolyte 
balance and thrombocytopenia.
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for gestational oedema, gestational hypertension or 
preeclampsia due to the risk of decreased plasma volume and placental hypoperfusion, without a 
beneficial effect on the course of the disease.
Hydrochlorothiazide should not be used for essential hypertension in pregnant women except in rare 
situations where no other treatment could be used.
Breast-feeding
Because no information is available regarding the use of telmisartan/HCTZ during breast-feeding, 
telmisartan/HCTZ is not recommended and alternative treatments with better established safety 
profiles during breast-feeding are preferable, especially while nursing a newborn or preterm infant. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted in human milk in small amounts. Thiazides in high doses causing 
intense diuresis can inhibit the milk production. The use of telmisartan/HCTZ during breast-feeding is 
not recommended. If telmisartan/HCTZ is used during breast-feeding, doses should be kept as low as 
possible.
Fertility
In preclinical studies, no effects of telmisartan and HCTZ on male and female fertility were observed.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Kinzalkomb can have influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness or drowsiness may 
occasionally occur when taking telmisartan/HCTZ..
4.8 Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile
The most commonly reported adverse reaction is dizziness. Serious angioedema may occur rarely 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000).
The overall incidence and pattern of adverse reactions reported with Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg was 
comparable with Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg. A dose-relationship of adverse reactions was not 
established and they showed no correlation with gender, age or race of the patients.
28
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions reported in all clinical trials and occurring more frequently (p  0.05) with 
telmisartan plus HCTZ than with placebo are shown below according to system organ class. Adverse 
reactions known to occur with each component given singly but which have not been seen in clinical 
trials may occur during treatment with telmisartan/HCTZ.
Adverse reactions have been ranked under headings of frequency using the following convention:
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data).
Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
Infections and infestations
Rare:
Immune system disorders 
Rare:
Bronchitis, pharyngitis, sinusitis
Exacerbation or activation of systemic lupus erythematosus1
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hypokalaemia
Hyperuricaemia, hyponatraemia
Psychiatric disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Anxiety
Depression
Nervous system disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Rare:
Dizziness
Syncope, paraesthesia
Insomnia, sleep disorders
Eye disorders
Rare:
Visual disturbance, vision blurred
Ear and labyrinth disorders
Uncommon:
Vertigo
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon:
Tachycardia, arrhythmias
Vascular disorders
Uncommon:
Hypotension, orthostatic hypotension
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Dyspnoea
Respiratory distress (including pneumonitis and pulmonary 
oedema)
Gastrointestinal disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Diarrhoea, dry mouth, flatulence
Abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, vomiting, gastritis
Hepatobiliary disorders
Rare:
Abnormal hepatic function/liver disorder2
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
29
Rare:
Angioedema (also with fatal outcome), erythema, pruritus, rash, 
hyperhidrosis, urticaria
Muscoloskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Back pain, muscle spasms, myalgia
Arthralgia, muscle cramps, pain in limb
Reproductive system and breast disorders
Uncommon:
Erectile dysfunction
General disorders and administration site conditions
Uncommon:
Rare:
Chest pain
Influenza-like illness, pain
Investigations
Uncommon:
Rare:
Blood uric acid increased
Blood creatinine increased, blood creatine phosphokinase 
increased, hepatic enzyme increased
1: Based on post-marketing experience
2: For further description, please see sub-section ”Description of selected adverse reactions”
Additional information on individual components  
Adverse reactions previously reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse 
reactions with Kinzalkomb, even if not observed in clinical trials with this product.
Telmisartan:
Adverse reactions occurred with similar frequency in placebo and telmisartan treated patients.
The overall incidence of adverse reactions reported with telmisartan (41.4%) was usually comparable 
to placebo (43.9%) in placebo controlled trials. The following adverse reactions listed below have 
been accumulated from all clinical trials in patients treated with telmisartan for hypertension or in 
patients 50 years or older at high risk of cardiovascular events.
Infections and infestations
Uncommon:
Rare:
Upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection including 
cystitis
Sepsis including fatal outcome3
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Anaemia 
Eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia
Immune system disorders
Rare:
Hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reactions
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Uncommon:
Rare:
Hyperkalaemia
Hypoglycaemia (in diabetic patients)
Cardiac disorders
Uncommon:
Bradycardia
Nervous system disorders
Rare:
Somnolence
30
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Uncommon:
Very rare:
Cough
Interstitial lung disease3
Gastrointestinal disorders
Rare:
Stomach discomfort
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Rare:
Eczema, drug eruption, toxic skin eruption
Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders
Rare: 
Arthrosis, tendon pain
Renal and urinary disorders
Uncommon:
Renal impairment (including acute renal failure)
General disorders and administration site conditions
Uncommon:
Asthenia
Investigations
Rare:
Haemoglobin decreased
3: For further descriptions, please see sub-section”Description of selected adverse reactions”
Hydrochlorothiazide:
Hydrochlorothiazide may cause or exacerbate hypovolaemia which could lead to electrolyte imbalance 
(see section 4.4).
Adverse reactions of unknown frequency reported with the use of hydrochlorothiazide alone include:
Infections and infestations
Not known:
Sialadenitis
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts and polyps)
Not known:
Non-melanoma skin cancer (Basal cell carcinoma and Squamous cell 
carcinoma)
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
Rare:
Not known:
Thrombocytopenia (sometimes with purpura)
Aplastic anaemia, haemolytic anaemia, bone marrow failure, 
leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, 
Immune system disorders
Not known:
Anaphylactic reactions, hypersensitivity
Endocrine disorders
Not known:
Diabetes mellitus inadequate control
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Rare:
Very rare:
Not known:
Hypomagnesaemia
Hypercalcaemia
Hypochloraemic alkalosis
Anorexia, appetite decreased, electrolyte imbalance, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperglycaemia, hypovolaemia. 
Psychiatric disorders
Not known:
Restlessness
31
Nervous system disorders
Rare:
Not known:
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders
Very rare:
Eye disorders
Not known:
Headache
Light-headedness
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (see section 4.4)
Xanthopsia, acute myopia, acute angle-closure glaucoma, choroidal 
effusion
Vascular disorders
Not known:
Vasculitis necrotizing
Gastrointestinal disorders
Common:
Not known:
Nausea
Pancreatitis, stomach discomfort
Hepatobiliary disorders
Not known:
Jaundice hepatocellular, jaundice cholestatic
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Not known:
Lupus-like syndrome, photosensitivity reactions, skin vasculitis, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme
Musculoskeletal, connective tissue and bone disorders
Not known:
Weakness
Renal and urinary disorders
Not known:
Nephritis interstitial, renal dysfunction, glycosuria 
General disorders and administration site conditions
Not known:
Pyrexia
Investigations
Not known:
Triglycerides increased
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatic function abnormal/liver disorder
Most cases of hepatic function abnormal/liver disorder from post-marketing experience with 
telmisartan occurred in Japanese patients. Japanese patients are more likely to experience these 
adverse reactions.
Sepsis
In the PRoFESS trial, an increased incidence of sepsis was observed with telmisartan compared with 
placebo. The event may be a chance finding or related to a mechanism currently not known (see 
section 5.1).
Interstitial lung disease
Cases of interstitial lung disease have been reported from post-marketing experience in temporal 
association with the intake of telmisartan. However, a causal relationship has not been established.
32
Non-melanoma skin cancer
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose-dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed (see also sections 4.4 and 5.1).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose  
There is limited information available for telmisartan with regard to overdose in humans. The degree 
to which HCTZ is removed by haemodialysis has not been established.  
Symptoms
The most prominent manifestations of telmisartan overdose were hypotension and tachycardia; 
bradycardia, dizziness, vomiting, increase in serum creatinine, and acute renal failure have also been 
reported. Overdose with HCTZ is associated with electrolyte depletion (hypokalaemia, 
hypochloraemia) and hypovolaemia resulting from excessive diuresis. The most common signs and 
symptoms of overdose are nausea and somnolence. Hypokalaemia may result in muscle spasms and/or 
accentuate arrhythmia associated with the concomitant use of digitalis glycosides or certain anti-
arrhythmic medicinal products.  
Treatment
Telmisartan is not removed by haemodialysis. The patient should be closely monitored, and the 
treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. Management depends on the time since ingestion 
and the severity of the symptoms. Suggested measures include induction of emesis and/or gastric 
lavage. Activated charcoal may be useful in the treatment of overdose. Serum electrolytes and 
creatinine should be monitored frequently. If hypotension occurs, the patient should be placed in a 
supine position, with salt and volume replacements given quickly. 
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Angiotensin II antagonists and diuretics, ATC code: C09DA07  
Kinzalkomb is a combination of an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, telmisartan, and a thiazide 
diuretic, hydrochlorothiazide. The combination of these ingredients has an additive antihypertensive 
effect, reducing blood pressure to a greater degree than either component alone. Kinzalkomb once 
daily produces effective and smooth reductions in blood pressure across the therapeutic dose range.  
Mechanism of action
Telmisartan is an orally effective and specific angiotensin II receptor subtype 1 (AT1) antagonist. 
Telmisartan displaces angiotensin II with very high affinity from its binding site at the AT1 receptor 
subtype, which is responsible for the known actions of angiotensin II. Telmisartan does not exhibit any 
partial agonist activity at the AT1 receptor. Telmisartan selectively binds the AT1 receptor. The 
binding is long-lasting. Telmisartan does not show affinity for other receptors, including AT2 and 
other less characterised AT receptors. The functional role of these receptors is not known, nor is the 
effect of their possible overstimulation by angiotensin II, whose levels are increased by telmisartan. 
Plasma aldosterone levels are decreased by telmisartan. Telmisartan does not inhibit human plasma 
renin or block ion channels. Telmisartan does not inhibit angiotensin converting enzyme (kininase II), 
the enzyme which also degrades bradykinin. Therefore, it is not expected to potentiate bradykinin-
mediated adverse effects.  
33
An 80 mg dose of telmisartan administered to healthy volunteers almost completely inhibits the 
angiotensin II evoked blood pressure increase. The inhibitory effect is maintained over 24 hours and 
still measurable up to 48 hours.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is a thiazide diuretic. The mechanism of the antihypertensive effect of thiazide 
diuretics is not fully known. Thiazides have an effect on the renal tubular mechanisms of electrolyte 
reabsorption, directly increasing excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent 
amounts. The diuretic action of HCTZ reduces plasma volume, increases plasma renin activity, 
increases aldosterone secretion, with consequent increases in urinary potassium and bicarbonate loss, 
and decreases in serum potassium. Presumably through blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone
system, co-administration of telmisartan tends to reverse the potassium loss associated with these 
diuretics. With HCTZ, onset of diuresis occurs in 2 hours, and peak effect occurs at about 4 hours, 
while the action persists for approximately 6-12 hours. 
Pharmacodynamic effects
Treatment of essential hypertension
After the first dose of telmisartan, the antihypertensive activity gradually becomes evident within 
3 hours. The maximum reduction in blood pressure is generally attained 4-8 weeks after the start of 
treatment and is sustained during long-term therapy. The antihypertensive effect persists constantly 
over 24 hours after dosing and includes the last 4 hours before the next dose as shown by ambulatory 
blood pressure measurements. This is confirmed by measurements made at the point of maximum 
effect and immediately prior to the next dose (through to peak ratios consistently above 80% after 
doses of 40 mg and 80 mg of telmisartan in placebo controlled clinical studies).  
In patients with hypertension telmisartan reduces both systolic and diastolic blood pressure without 
affecting pulse rate. The antihypertensive efficacy of telmisartan is comparable to that of agents 
representative of other classes of antihypertensive medicinal products (demonstrated in clinical trials 
comparing telmisartan to amlodipine, atenolol, enalapril, hydrochlorothiazide, and lisinopril).  
In a double-blind controlled clinical trial (n=687 patients evaluated for efficacy) in non-responders to 
the 80 mg/12.5 mg combination, an incremental blood pressure lowering effect of the 80 mg/25 mg 
combination compared to continued treatment with the 80 mg/12.5 mg combination of 2.7/1.6 mm Hg 
(SBP/DBP) was demonstrated (difference in adjusted mean changes from baseline). In a follow-up
trial with the 80 mg/25 mg combination, blood pressure was further decreased (resulting in an overall
reduction of 11.5/9.9 mm Hg (SBP/DBP).  
In a pooled analysis of two similar 8 week double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials vs. 
valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide 160 mg/25 mg (n=2,121 patients evaluated for efficacy) a significantly 
greater blood pressure lowering effect of 2.2/1.2 mm Hg (SBP/DBP) was demonstrated (difference in 
adjusted mean changes from baseline, respectively) in favour of telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
80 mg/25 mg combination. 
Upon abrupt cessation of treatment with telmisartan, blood pressure gradually returns to pre-treatment 
values over a period of several days without evidence of rebound hypertension.  
The incidence of dry cough was significantly lower in patients treated with telmisartan than in those 
given angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in clinical trials directly comparing the two 
antihypertensive treatments.  
Clinical efficacy and safety
Cardiovascular prevention
ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in Combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) 
compared the effects of telmisartan, ramipril and the combination of telmisartan and ramipril on 
cardiovascular outcomes in 25,620 patients aged 55 years or older with a history of coronary artery 
disease, stroke, TIA, peripheral arterial disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence 
of end-organ damage (e.g. retinopathy, left ventricular hypertrophy, macro- or microalbuminuria), 
which is a population at risk for cardiovascular events.
34
Patients were randomised to one of the three following treatment groups: telmisartan 80 mg 
(n = 8,542), ramipril 10 mg (n = 8,576), or the combination of telmisartan 80 mg plus ramipril 10 mg 
(n = 8,502), and followed for a mean observation time of 4.5 years. 
Telmisartan showed a similar effect to ramipril in reducing the primary composite endpoint of 
cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, or hospitalisation for 
congestive heart failure. The incidence of the primary endpoint was similar in the telmisartan (16.7%) 
and ramipril (16.5%) groups. The hazard ratio for telmisartan vs. ramipril was 1.01 (97.5% 
CI 0.93-1.10, p (non-inferiority) = 0.0019 at a margin of 1.13). The all-cause mortality rate was 11.6% 
and 11.8% among telmisartan and ramipril treated patients, respectively.
Telmisartan was found to be similarly effective to ramipril in the pre-specified secondary endpoint of 
cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and non-fatal stroke [0.99 (97.5% CI 0.90-1.08), 
p (non-inferiority) = 0.0004], the primary endpoint in the reference study HOPE (The Heart Outcomes 
Prevention Evaluation Study), which had investigated the effect of ramipril vs. placebo. 
TRANSCEND randomised ACE-I intolerant patients with otherwise similar inclusion criteria as 
ONTARGET to telmisartan 80 mg (n = 2,954) or placebo (n = 2,972), both given on top of standard 
care. The mean duration of follow up was 4 years and 8 months. No statistically significant difference 
in the incidence of the primary composite endpoint (cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial 
infarction, non-fatal stroke, or hospitalisation for congestive heart failure) was found [15.7% in the 
telmisartan and 17.0% in the placebo groups with a hazard ratio of 0.92 (95% CI 0.81-1.05, p = 0.22)]. 
There was evidence for a benefit of telmisartan compared to placebo in the pre-specified secondary 
composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and non-fatal stroke 
[0.87 (95% CI 0.76-1.00, p = 0.048)]. There was no evidence for benefit on cardiovascular mortality
(hazard ratio 1.03, 95% CI 0.85-1.24).
Cough and angioedema were less frequently reported in patients treated with telmisartan than in 
patients treated with ramipril, whereas hypotension was more frequently reported with telmisartan. 
Combining telmisartan with ramipril did not add further benefit over ramipril or telmisartan alone. CV 
mortality and all cause mortality were numerically higher with the combination. In addition, there was 
a significantly higher incidence of hyperkalaemia, renal failure, hypotension and syncope in the 
combination arm. Therefore the use of a combination of telmisartan and ramipril is not recommended 
in this population.
In the "Prevention Regimen For Effectively avoiding Second Strokes" (PRoFESS) trial in patients 
50 years and older, who recently experienced stroke, an increased incidence of sepsis was noted for 
telmisartan compared with placebo, 0.70% vs. 0.49% [RR 1.43 (95% confidence interval 1.00-2.06)]; 
the incidence of fatal sepsis cases was increased for patients taking telmisartan (0.33%) vs. patients 
taking placebo (0.16%) [RR 2.07 (95% confidence interval 1.14-3.76)]. The observed increased 
occurrence rate of sepsis associated with the use of telmisartan may be either a chance finding or 
related to a mechanism not currently known.
Two large randomised, controlled trials (ONTARGET (ONgoing Telmisartan Alone and in 
combination with Ramipril Global Endpoint Trial) and VA NEPHRON-D (The Veterans Affairs 
Nephropathy in Diabetes)) have examined the use of the combination of an ACE-inhibitor with an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker.
ONTARGET was a study conducted in patients with a history of cardiovascular or cerebrovascular 
disease, or type 2 diabetes mellitus accompanied by evidence of end-organ damage. For more detailed 
information see above under the heading “Cardiovascular prevention”.
VA NEPHRON-D was a study in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and diabetic nephropathy.
These studies have shown no significant beneficial effect on renal and/or cardiovascular outcomes and 
mortality, while an increased risk of hyperkalaemia, acute kidney injury and/or hypotension as 
compared to monotherapy was observed. Given their similar pharmacodynamic properties, these 
results are also relevant for other ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers.
35
ACE-inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers should therefore not be used concomitantly in 
patients with diabetic nephropathy.
ALTITUDE (Aliskiren Trial in Type 2 Diabetes Using Cardiovascular and Renal Disease Endpoints) 
was a study designed to test the benefit of adding aliskiren to a standard therapy of an ACE-inhibitor 
or an angiotensin II receptor blocker in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney 
disease, cardiovascular disease, or both. The study was terminated early because of an increased risk 
of adverse outcomes. Cardiovascular death and stroke were both numerically more frequent in the 
aliskiren group than in the placebo group and adverse events and serious adverse events of interest 
(hyperkalaemia, hypotension and renal dysfunction) were more frequently reported in the aliskiren 
group than in the placebo group.
Epidemiological studies have shown that long-term treatment with HCTZ reduces the risk of 
cardiovascular mortality and morbidity.  
The effects of fixed dose combination of telmisartan/HCTZ on mortality and cardiovascular morbidity 
are currently unknown.
Non-melanoma skin cancer
Based on available data from epidemiological studies, cumulative dose-dependent association between 
HCTZ and NMSC has been observed. One study included a population comprised of 71,533 cases of 
BCC and of 8,629 cases of SCC matched to 1,430,833 and 172,462 population controls, respectively. 
High HCTZ use (≥ 50,000 mg cumulative) was associated with an adjusted OR of 1.29
(95% CI: 1.23-1.35) for BCC and 3.98 (95% CI: 3.68-4.31) for SCC. A clear cumulative dose 
response relationship was observed for both BCC and SCC. Another study showed a possible 
association between lip cancer (SCC) and exposure to HCTZ: 633 cases of lip-cancer were matched 
with 63,067 population controls, using a risk-set sampling strategy. A cumulative dose-response 
relationship was demonstrated with an adjusted OR 2.1 (95% CI:1.7-2.6) increasing to OR 3.9 
(3.0-4.9) for high use (~25,000 mg) and OR 7.7 (5.7-10.5) for the highest cumulative dose 
(~100,000 mg) (see also section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Kinzalkomb in all subsets of the paediatric population in hypertension (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use).
5.2. Pharmacokinetic properties  
Concomitant administration of HCTZ and telmisartan does not appear to affect the pharmacokinetics 
of either substance in healthy subjects.
Absorption
Telmisartan: Following oral administration peak concentrations of telmisartan are reached in 0.5-1.5 h 
after dosing. The absolute bioavailability of telmisartan at 40 mg and 160 mg was 42% and 58%, 
respectively. Food slightly reduces the bioavailability of telmisartan with a reduction in the area under 
the plasma concentration time curve (AUC) of about 6% with the 40 mg tablet and about 19% after a 
160 mg dose. By 3 hours after administration plasma concentrations are similar whether telmisartan is 
taken fasting or with food. The small reduction in AUC is not expected to cause a reduction in the 
therapeutic efficacy. Telmisartan does not accumulate significantly in plasma on repeated 
administration.  
Hydrochlorothiazide: Following oral administration of the fixed dose combination peak concentrations 
of HCTZ are reached in approximately 1.0-3.0 hours after dosing. Based on cumulative renal 
excretion of HCTZ the absolute bioavailability was about 60%.  
36
Distribution
Telmisartan is highly bound to plasma proteins (> 99.5%) mainly albumin and alpha l-acid 
glycoprotein. The apparent volume of distribution for telmisartan is approximately 500 litres 
indicating additional tissue binding.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is 68% protein bound in the plasma and its apparent volume of distribution is 
0.83-1.14 1/kg.  
Biotransformation
Telmisartan is metabolised by conjugation to form a pharmacologically inactive acylglucuronide. The 
glucuronide of the parent compound is the only metabolite that has been identified in humans. After a 
single dose of 14C-labelled telmisartan the glucuronide represents approximately 11% of the measured 
radioactivity in plasma. The cytochrome P450 isoenzymes are not involved in the metabolism of 
telmisartan.
Hydrochlorothiazide is not metabolised in man. 
Elimination
Telmisartan: Following either intravenous or oral administration of 14C-labelled telmisartan most of 
the administered dose (> 97%) was eliminated in faeces via biliary excretion. Only minute amounts 
were found in urine. Total plasma clearance of telmisartan after oral administration is > 1,500 ml/min. 
Terminal elimination half-life was > 20 hours.  
Hydrochlorothiazide is excreted almost entirely as unchanged substance in urine. About 60% of the 
oral dose is eliminated within 48 hours. Renal clearance is about 250-300 ml/min. The terminal 
elimination half-life of hydrochlorothiazide is 10-15 hours.  
Linearity/non-linearity
Telmisartan: The pharmacokinetics of orally administered telmisartan are non-linear over doses from 
20-160 mg with greater than proportional increases of plasma concentrations (Cmax and AUC) with 
increasing doses.
Hydrochlorothiazide exhibits linear pharmacokinetics.
Pharmacokinetics in specific populations
Elderly
Pharmacokinetics of telmisartan do not differ between the elderly and those younger than 65 years.
Gender
Plasma concentrations of telmisartan are generally 2-3 times higher in females than in males. In 
clinical trials however, no significant increases in blood pressure response or in the incidence of 
orthostatic hypotension were found in women. No dose adjustment is necessary. There was a trend 
towards higher plasma concentrations of HCTZ in female than in male subjects. This is not considered 
to be of clinical relevance.  
Renal impairment
Renal excretion does not contribute to the clearance of telmisartan. Based on modest experience in 
patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance of 30-60 ml/min, mean about 
50 ml/min) no dose adjustment is necessary in patients with decreased renal function. Telmisartan is 
not removed from blood by haemodialysis. In patients with impaired renal function the rate of HCTZ 
elimination is reduced. In a typical study in patients with a mean creatinine clearance of 90 ml/min the 
elimination half-life of HCTZ was increased. In functionally anephric patients the elimination half-life 
is about 34 hours.  
Hepatic impairment
Pharmacokinetic studies in patients with hepatic impairment showed an increase in absolute 
bioavailability up to nearly 100%. The elimination half-life is not changed in patients with hepatic 
impairment.  
37
5.3
Preclinical safety data  
No additional preclinical studies have been performed with the fixed dose combination product 
80 mg/25 mg. Previous preclinical safety studies performed with co-administration of telmisartan 
and HCTZ in normotensive rats and dogs, in doses producing exposure comparable to that in the 
clinical therapeutic range, caused no additional findings not already observed with administration of 
either substance alone. The toxicological findings observed appear to have no relevance to human 
therapeutic use.
Toxicological findings also well known from preclinical studies with angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor antagonists were: a reduction of red cell parameters 
(erythrocytes, haemoglobin, haematocrit), changes of renal haemodynamics (increased blood urea 
nitrogen and creatinine), increased plasma renin activity, hypertrophy/hyperplasia of the 
juxtaglomerular cells and gastric mucosal injury. Gastric lesions could be prevented/ameliorated by 
oral saline supplementation and group housing of animals. In dogs renal tubular dilation and atrophy 
were observed. These findings are considered to be due to the pharmacological activity of telmisartan.
No clear evidence of a teratogenic effect was observed, however at toxic dose levels of telmisartan an 
effect on the postnatal development of the offsprings such as lower body weight and delayed eye 
opening was observed. 
Telmisartan showed no evidence of mutagenicity and relevant clastogenic activity in in vitro studies 
and no evidence of carcinogenicity in rats and mice. Studies with HCTZ have shown equivocal 
evidence for a genotoxic or carcinogenic effect in some experimental models. However, the extensive 
human experience with HCTZ has failed to show an association between its use and an increase in 
neoplasms.
For the foetotoxic potential of the telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination see section 4.6.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1 List of excipients  
Lactose monohydrate
Magnesium stearate
Maize starch
Meglumine
Microcrystalline cellulose
Povidone (K25)
Yellow ferric oxide (E172)
Sodium hydroxide
Sodium starch glycollate (type A)
Sorbitol (E420).
6.2
Incompatibilities  
Not applicable.  
6.3
Shelf life  
3 years  
6.4
Special precautions for storage  
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the 
original package in order to protect from moisture. 
38
6.5 Nature and contents of container  
Aluminium/aluminium blisters (PA/Al/PVC/Al or PA/PA/Al/PVC/Al). One blister contains 7 or 
10 tablets.
Pack sizes: 
-
-
Blister with 14, 28, 56, or 98 tablets or 
Perforated unit dose blisters with 28 x 1 tablets
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Kinzalkomb should be kept in the sealed blister due to the hygroscopic property of the tablets. Tablets 
should be taken out of the blister shortly before administration. Occasionally, the outer layer of the 
blister pack has been observed to separate from the inner layer between the blister pockets. No action 
needs to be taken if this is observed.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/02/214/011-015
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation:19 April 2002
Date of latest renewal: 23 April 2007
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
39
ANNEX II
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORIZATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
40
A. MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Bayer AG
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.

OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORIZATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.

CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP shall be submitted every three years.
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
41
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
42
A. LABELLING
43
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 40 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose monohydrate and sorbitol (E420).
Read the package leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 tablets
28 tablets
56 tablets
98 tablets
28 x 1 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
44
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/02/214/001
EU/1/02/214/002
EU/1/02/214/003
EU/1/02/214/004
EU/1/02/214/005
14 tablets
28 tablets
28 x 1 tablets
56 tablets
98 tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Batch 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
45
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC: {number} {product code}
SN: {number} {serial number}
NN: {number} {national reimbursement number or other national number identifying the medicinal 
product}
46
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Blister of 7 tablets
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer (Logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
MON
TUE
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
SUN
47
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Unit dose blister (28x1 tablets pack) or any non 7 count blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer (Logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
48
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 80 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose monohydrate and sorbitol (E420).
Read the package leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 tablets
28 tablets
56 tablets
98 tablets
28 x 1 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and raech of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
49
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/02/214/006
EU/1/02/214/007
EU/1/02/214/008
EU/1/02/214/009
EU/1/02/214/010
14 tablets
28 tablets
28 x 1 tablets
56 tablets
98 tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Batch 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
50
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC: {number} {product code}
SN: {number} {serial number}
NN: {number} {national reimbursement number or other national number identifying the medicinal 
product}
51
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Blister of 7 tablets
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer (Logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
MON
TUE
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
SUN
52
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Unit dose blister (28x1 tablets pack) or any non 7 count blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer (Logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
53
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
Carton
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 80 mg telmisartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide. 
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains lactose monohydrate and sorbitol (E420).
Read the package leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
14 tablets
28 tablets
56 tablets
98 tablets
28 x 1 tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Oral use
Read the package leaflet before use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
54
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/02/214/011
EU/1/02/214/012
EU/1/02/214/013
EU/1/02/214/014
EU/1/02/214/015
14 tablets
28 tablets
28 x 1 tablets
56 tablets
98 tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Batch 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
55
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC: {number} {product code}
SN: {number} {serial number}
NN: {number} {national reimbursement number or other national number identifying the medicinal 
product}
56
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Blister of 7 tablets
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer (Logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
MON
TUE
WED
THU
FRI
SAT
SUN
57
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
Unit dose blister (28x1 tablets pack) or any non 7 count blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Bayer (Logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
58
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
59
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Kinzalkomb is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Kinzalkomb
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Kinzalkomb
Possible side effects
How to store Kinzalkomb
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Kinzalkomb is and what it is used for
Kinzalkomb is a combination of two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in one 
tablet. Both of these substances help to control high blood pressure.
-
-
Telmisartan belongs to a group of medicines called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. 
Angiotensin-II is a substance produced in your body which causes your blood vessels to narrow
thus increasing your blood pressure. Telmisartan blocks the effect of angiotensin II so that the 
blood vessels relax, and your blood pressure is lowered.
Hydrochlorothiazide belongs to a group of medicines called thiazide diuretics, which cause your 
urine output to increase, leading to a lowering of your blood pressure.
High blood pressure, if not treated, can damage blood vessels in several organs, which could lead 
sometimes to heart attack, heart or kidney failure, stroke, or blindness. There are usually no symptoms 
of high blood pressure before damage occurs. Thus it is important to regularly measure blood pressure 
to verify if it is within the normal range.
Kinzalkomb is used to treat high blood pressure (essential hypertension) in adults whose blood 
pressure is not controlled enough when telmisartan is used alone. 
2. What you need to know before you take Kinzalkomb
Do not take Kinzalkomb

if you are allergic to telmisartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or to any other sulfonamide-derived medicines.
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Kinzalkomb in early 
pregnancy – see pregnancy section.)
if you have severe liver problems such as cholestasis or biliary obstruction (problems with 
drainage of the bile from the liver and gall bladder) or any other severe liver disease.
if you have severe kidney disease.




60


if your doctor determines that you have low potassium levels or high calcium levels in your 
blood that do not get better with treatment.
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren.
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor or pharmacist before taking Kinzalkomb.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor before taking Kinzalkomb if you are suffering or have ever suffered from any of 
the following conditions or illnesses:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Low blood pressure (hypotension), likely to occur if you are dehydrated (excessive loss of body 
water) or have salt deficiency due to diuretic therapy (water tablets), low-salt diet, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, or haemodialysis.
Kidney disease or kidney transplant.
Renal artery stenosis (narrowing of the blood vessels to one or both kidneys).
Liver disease.
Heart trouble.
Diabetes.
Gout.
Raised aldosterone levels (water and salt retention in the body along with imbalance of various 
blood minerals).
Systemic lupus erythematosus (also called “lupus” or “SLE”) a disease where the body’s 
immune system attacks the body.
The active ingredient hydrochlorothiazide can cause an unusual reaction, resulting in a decrease 
in vision and eye pain. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of 
the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye and can happen within hours 
to weeks of taking Kinzalkomb. This can lead to permanent vision impairment, if not treated.
If you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Kinzalkomb.
Talk to your doctor before taking Kinzalkomb:

if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure:
- an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems.
- aliskiren.
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes 
(e.g. potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. See also information under the heading “Do 
not take Kinzalkomb”.
if you are taking digoxin.
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Kinzalkomb, seek medical attention immediately.


You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are more than 3 months pregnant, as it 
may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see pregnancy section).
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide may cause electrolyte imbalance in your body. Typical symptoms 
of fluid or electrolyte imbalance include dry mouth, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, 
muscle pain or cramps, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, tired muscles, and an abnormally fast heart 
rate (faster than 100 beats per minute). If you experience any of these you should tell your doctor.
61
You should also tell your doctor, if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with 
symptoms of sunburn (such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than 
normal.
In case of surgery or anaesthetics, you should tell your doctor that you are taking Kinzalkomb.
Kinzalkomb may be less effective in lowering the blood pressure in black patients.
Children and adolescents
The use of Kinzalkomb in children and adolescents up to the age of 18 years is not recommended.
Other medicines and Kinzalkomb
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. Your doctor may need to change the dose of these other medications or take other 
precautions. In some cases you may have to stop taking one of the medicines. This applies especially 
to the medicines listed below taken at the same time with Kinzalkomb:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Lithium containing medicines to treat some types of depression.
Medicines associated with low blood potassium (hypokalaemia) such as other diuretics, ('water 
tablets'), laxatives (e.g. castor oil), corticosteroids (e.g. prednisone), ACTH (a hormone), 
amphotericin (an antifungal medicine), carbenoxolone (used to treat mouth ulcers), penicillin G 
sodium (an antibiotic), and salicylic acid and derivatives.
Medicines that may increase blood potassium levels such as potassium-sparing diuretics, 
potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, ACE inhibitors cyclosporin (an 
immunosuppressant medicine) and other medicinal products such as heparin sodium (an 
anticoagulant)..
Medicines that are affected by changes of the blood potassium level such as heart medicines 
(e.g. digoxin) or medicines to control the rhythm of your heart (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, 
amiodarone, sotalol), medicines used for mental disorders (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, 
levomepromazine) and  other medicines such as certain antibiotics (e.g. sparfloxacine, 
pentamidine) or certain medicines to treat allergic reactions (e.g. terfenadine).
Medicines for the treatment of diabetes (insulins or oral agents such as metformin).
Cholestyramine and colestipol, medicines for lowering blood fat levels.
Medicines to increase blood pressure, such as noradrenaline .
Muscle relaxing medicines, such as tubocurarine.
Calcium supplements and/or vitamin D supplements.
Anti-cholinergic medicines (medicines used to treat a variety of disorders such as 
gastrointestinal cramps, urinary bladder spasm, asthma, motion sickness, muscular spasms, 
Parkinson's disease and as an aid to anaesthesia) such as atropine and biperiden.
Amantadine (medicine used to treat Parkinson’s disease and also used to treat or prevent certain 
illnesses caused by viruses).
Other medicines used to treat high blood pressure, corticosteroids, painkillers (such as non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]), medicines to treat cancer, gout, or arthritis.
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not 
take Kinzalkomb” and “Warnings and precautions”).
Digoxin.
Kinzalkomb may increase the blood pressure lowering effect of other medicines used to treat high 
blood pressure or of medicines with blood pressure lowering potential (e.g. baclofen, amifostine). 
Furthermore, low blood pressure may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or 
antidepressants. You may notice this as dizziness when standing up. You should consult with your 
doctor if you need to adjust the dose of your other medicine while taking Kinzalkomb.
The effect of Kinzalkomb may be reduced when you take NSAIDs (non steroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicines, e.g. aspirin or ibuprofen).
62
Kinzalkomb with food and alcohol
You can take Kinzalkomb with or without food.
Avoid taking alcohol until you have talked to your doctor. Alcohol may make your blood pressure fall 
more and/or increase the risk of you becoming dizzy or feeling faint.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Pregnancy
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Kinzalkomb before you become pregnant or as soon as you know you are 
pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Kinzalkomb. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended during pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may 
cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment for 
you if you wish to breast-feed.
Driving and using machines
Some people feel dizzy or tired when taking Kinzalkomb.  If you feel dizzy or tired, do not drive or 
operate machinery.
Kinzalkomb contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.
Kinzalkomb contains milk sugar (lactose)
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
Kinzalkomb contains sorbitol
This medicine contains 169 mg sorbitol in each tablet.
3.
How to take Kinzalkomb
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
The recommended dose is one tablet a day. Try to take a tablet at the same time each day. You can 
take Kinzalkomb with or without food. The tablets should be swallowed with some water or other 
non-alcoholic drink. It is important that you take Kinzalkomb every day until your doctor tells you 
otherwise.
If your liver is not working properly, the usual dose should not exceed 40 mg/12.5 mg once a day.
If you take more Kinzalkomb than you should
If you accidentally take too many tablets you may experience symptoms such as low blood pressure 
and rapid heartbeat. Slow heartbeat, dizziness, vomiting, reduced kidney function including kidney 
failure, have also been reported. Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, markedly low blood 
pressure and low blood levels of potassium can also happen, which may result in nausea, sleepiness 
and muscle cramps and/or irregular heartbeat associated with the concomitant use of medicines such 
as digitalis or certain anti-arrhythmic treatments. Contact your doctor, pharmacist, or your nearest 
hospital emergency department immediately.
63
If you forget to take Kinzalkomb
If you forget to take a dose, do not worry. Take it as soon as you remember then carry on as before. If 
you do not take your tablet on one day, take your normal dose on the next day. Do not take a double 
dose to make up for forgotten individual doses.
If you have further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects can be serious and need immediate medical attention:
You should see your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:
Sepsis* (often called "blood poisoning", is a severe infection with whole-body inflammatory 
response), rapid swelling of the skin and mucosa (angioedema), blistering and peeling of the top layer 
of skin (toxic epidermal necrolysis; these side effects are rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) or 
of unknown frequency (toxic epidermal necrolysis) but are extremely serious and patients should stop 
taking the medicine and see their doctor immediately. If these effects are not treated they could be 
fatal. Increased incidence of sepsis has been observed with telmisartan only, however can not be ruled 
out for Kinzalkomb.
Possible side effects of Kinzalkomb:
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
Dizziness 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
Decreased blood potassium levels, anxiety, fainting (syncope), sensation of tingling, pins and needles
(paraesthesia), feeling of spinning (vertigo), fast heart beat (tachycardia), heart rhythm disorders, low 
blood pressure, a sudden fall in blood pressure when you stand up, shortness of breath (dyspnoea),
diarrhoea, dry mouth, flatulence, back pain, muscle spasm, muscle pain, erectile dysfunction (inability 
to get or keep an erection), chest pain, increased blood uric acid levels.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Inflammation of the lung (bronchitis), activation or worsening of systemic lupus erythematosus (a 
disease where the body’s immune system attacks the body, which causes joint pain, skin rashes and 
fever); sore throat, inflamed sinuses, feeling sad (depression), difficulty falling asleep (insomnia), 
impaired vision, difficulty breathing, abdominal pain, constipation, bloating (dyspepsia), feeling sick
(vomiting), inflammation of the stomach (gastritis), abnormal liver function (Japanese patients are 
more likely to experience this side effect), redness of the skin (erythema), allergic reactions such as 
itching or rash, increased sweating, hives (urticaria), joint pain (arthralgia) and pain in extremities, 
muscle cramps, flu-like-illness, pain, low levels of sodium, increased levels of creatinine, hepatic 
enzymes or creatine phosphokinase in the blood.
Adverse reactions reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions 
with Kinzalkomb, even if not observed in clinical trials with this product.   
Telmisartan
In patients taking telmisartan alone the following additional side effects have been reported:
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
Upper respiratory tract infection (e.g. sore throat, inflamed sinuses, common cold), urinary tract 
infections, deficiency in red blood cells (anaemia), high potassium levels, slow heart rate 
(bradycardia), cough, kidney impairment including acute kidney failure, weakness.
64
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia), increase in certain white blood cells (eosinophilia), serious 
allergic reaction (e.g. hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction, drug rash), low blood sugar levels (in 
diabetic patients), somnolence, upset stomach, eczema (a skin disorder), arthrosis, inflammation of the 
tendons, decreased haemoglobin (a blood protein).
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
Progressive scarring of lung tissue (interstitial lung disease) **
* The event may have happened by chance or could be related to a mechanism currently not known.
** Cases of progressive scarring of lung tissue have been reported during intake of telmisartan. 
However, it is not known whether telmisartan was the cause. 
Hydrochlorothiazide
In patients taking hydrochlorothiazide alone the following additional side effects have been reported:
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
Feeling sick (nausea), low blood magnesium level.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Reduction in blood platelets, which increases risk of bleeding or bruising (small purple-red marks in 
skin or other tissue caused by bleeding), high blood calcium level, headache.
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
Increased pH (disturbed acid-base balance) due to low blood chloride level, acute respiratory distress 
(signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and confusion).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
Inflammation of the salivary gland, skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer), decreases in the 
number (or even lack) of cells in the blood, including low red and white blood cell count,  serious 
allergic reactions (e.g. hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction), decreased or loss of appetite,
restlessness, light-headedness, blurred or yellowing of vision, decrease in vision and eye pain (possible 
signs of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute myopia or
acute-angle closure glaucoma), inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis necrotising), inflamed 
pancreas, upset stomach, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), lupus-like syndrome (a condition 
mimicking a disease called systemic lupus erythematosus where the body’s immune system attacks the 
body); skin disorders such as inflamed blood vessels in the skin, increased sensitivity to sunlight, rash, 
redness of the skin, blistering of the lips, eyes or mouth, skin peeling, fever (possible signs of
erythema multiforme), weakness, kidney inflammation or impaired kidney function, glucose in the 
urine (glycosuria), fever, impaired electrolyte balance, high blood cholesterol levels, decreased blood 
volume, increased blood levels of glucose, difficulties in controlling blood/ urine levels of glucose in 
patients with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, or fat in the blood.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Kinzalkomb
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
65
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from moisture. Remove your Kinzalkomb tablet from the blister only 
directly prior to intake.
Occasionally, the outer layer of the blister pack separates from the inner layer between the blister 
pockets. You do not need to take any action if this happens.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Kinzalkomb contains


The active substances are telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide.
Each tablet contains 40 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, maize starch, meglumine, 
microcrystalline cellulose, povidone K25, red iron oxide (E172), sodium hydroxide, sodium 
starch glycollate (type A), sorbitol (E420)
What Kinzalkomb looks like and contents of the pack
Kinzalkomb 40 mg/12.5 mg tablets are red and white, oblong-shaped two-layer tablets engraved with 
the code number 'H4'.
Kinzalkomb is available in blisters packs containing 14, 28, 56, or 98 tablets, or unit dose blister packs 
containing 28 x 1 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
Manufacturer
Bayer AG
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
66
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder.
+30 210 618 75 00
België / Belgique / Belgien
Bayer SA-NV
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11
България
Байер България ЕООД
Тел. +359 (0)2-424 72 80
Česká republika
Bayer s.r.o.
Tel: +420 266-101-111
Danmark
Bayer A/S
Tlf: +45-45 23 50 00
Deutschland
Bayer Vital GmbH
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48
Eesti
Bayer OÜ
Tel: +372 655 85 65
Ελλάδα
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ
Τηλ:
España
Bayer Hispania S.L.
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00
France
Bayer HealthCare
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54
Hrvatska
Bayer d.o.o.
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900
Ireland
Bayer Limited
Tel: +353-1-216-3300
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Bayer S.p.A.
Tel: +39-02-397 81
Κύπρος
NOVAGEM Limited
Τηλ: + 357 22 48 38 58
Latvija
SIA Bayer
Tel: +371 67 84 55 63
Lietuva
UAB Bayer
Tel. +37 05 23 36 868
Luxembourg / Luxemburg
Bayer SA-NV
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11
Magyarország
Bayer Hungária Kft.
Tel.:+36-14 87-41 00
Malta
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd.
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05
Nederland
Bayer B.V.
Tel: +31-(0)297-28 06 66
Norge
Bayer AS
Tlf. +47 23 13 05 00
Österreich
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H.
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 46-0
Polska
Bayer Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48-22-572 35 00
Portugal
Bayer Portugal Lda
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00
România
SC Bayer SRL
Tel.: +40 21 528 59 00
Slovenija
Bayer d. o. o.
Tel.: +386-1-58 14 400
Slovenská republika
Bayer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +421 2 59 21 31 11
Suomi/Finland
Bayer Oy
Puh/Tel.: +358-20 785 21
Sverige
Bayer AB
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Bayer AG
Tel: +44 (0) 118 206 30 00
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
67
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Kinzalkomb is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Kinzalkomb
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Kinzalkomb
Possible side effects
How to store Kinzalkomb
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Kinzalkomb is and what it is used for
Kinzalkomb is a combination of two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in one 
tablet. Both substances help to control high blood pressure.
-
-
Telmisartan belongs to a group of medicines called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. 
Angiotensin-II is a substance produced in your body which causes your blood vessels to narrow, 
thus increasing your blood pressure. Telmisartan blocks the effect of angiotensin II so that the 
blood vessels relax, and your blood pressure is lowered.
Hydrochlorothiazide belongs to a group of medicines called thiazide diuretics, which cause your 
urine output to increase leading to a lowering of your blood pressure.
High blood pressure, if not treated, can damage blood vessels in several organs, which could lead 
sometimes to heart attack, heart or kidney failure, stroke, or blindness. There are usually no symptoms 
of high blood pressure before damage occurs. , Thus it is important to regularly measure blood 
pressure to verify if it is within the normal range.
Kinzalkomb is used to treat high blood pressure (essential hypertension) in adults whose blood 
pressure is not controlled enough when telmisartan is used alone. 
2. What you need to know before you take Kinzalkomb
Do not take Kinzalkomb

if you are allergic to telmisartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or to any other sulfonamide-derived medicines.
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Kinzalkomb in early 
pregnancy – see pregnancy section.)
if you have severe liver problems such as cholestasis or biliary obstruction (problems with 
drainage of the bile from the liver and gall bladder) or any other severe liver disease.
if you have severe kidney disease.




68


if your doctor determines that you have low potassium levels or high calcium levels in your 
blood that do not get better with treatment.
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren.
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor or pharmacist before taking Kinzalkomb.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor before taking Kinzalkomb if you are suffering or have ever suffered from any of 
the following conditions or illnesses:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Low blood pressure (hypotension), likely to occur if you are dehydrated (excessive loss of body 
water) or have salt deficiency due to diuretic therapy (water tablets), low-salt diet, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, or haemodialysis.
Kidney disease or kidney transplant.
Renal artery stenosis (narrowing of the blood vessels to one or both kidneys).
Liver disease.
Heart trouble.
Diabetes.
Gout.
Raised aldosterone levels (water and salt retention in the body along with imbalance of various 
blood minerals).
Systemic lupus erythematosus (also called “lupus” or “SLE”) a disease where the body’s 
immune system attacks the body.
The active ingredient hydrochlorothiazide can cause an unusual reaction, resulting in a decrease 
in vision and eye pain. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of 
the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye and can happen within hours 
to weeks of taking Kinzalkomb. This can lead to permanent vision impairment, if not treated.
If you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin 
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Kinzalkomb.
Talk to your doctor before taking Kinzalkomb:

if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure:
- an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems.
- aliskiren.
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes 
(e.g. potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. See also information under the heading “Do 
not take Kinzalkomb”.
if you are taking digoxin.
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Kinzalkomb, seek medical attention immediately.


You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are more than 3 months pregnant, as it 
may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see pregnancy section).
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide may cause electrolyte imbalance in your body. Typical symptoms 
of fluid or electrolyte imbalance include dry mouth, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, 
muscle pain or cramps, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, tired muscles, and an abnormally fast heart 
rate (faster than 100 beats per minute). If you experience any of these you should tell your doctor.
69
You should also tell your doctor, if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with 
symptoms of sunburn (such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than 
normal.
In case of surgery or anaesthetics, you should tell your doctor that you are taking Kinzalkomb.
Kinzalkomb may be less effective in lowering the blood pressure in black patients.
Children and adolescents
The use of Kinzalkomb in children and adolescents up to the age of 18 years is not recommended.
Other medicines and Kinzalkomb
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. Your doctor may need to change the dose of these other medications or take other 
precautions. In some cases you may have to stop taking one of the medicines. This applies especially 
to the medicines listed below taken at the same time with Kinzalkomb:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Lithium containing medicines to treat some types of depression.
Medicines associated with low blood potassium (hypokalaemia) such as other diuretics, ('water 
tablets'), laxatives (e.g. castor oil), corticosteroids (e.g. prednisone), ACTH (a hormone), 
amphotericin (an antifungal medicine), carbenoxolone (used to treat mouth ulcers), penicillin G 
sodium (an antibiotic), and salicylic acid and derivatives.
Medicines that may increase blood potassium levels such as potassium-sparing diuretics, 
potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, ACE inhibitors, cyclosporin (an 
immunosuppressant medicine) and other medicinal products such as heparin sodium (an 
anticoagulant).
Medicines that are affected by changes of the blood potassium level such as heart medicines 
(e.g. digoxin) or medicines to control the rhythm of your heart (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, 
amiodarone, sotalol), medicines used for mental disorders (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, 
levomepromazine) and  other medicines such as certain antibiotics (e.g. sparfloxacine, 
pentamidine) or certain medicines to treat allergic reactions (e.g. terfenadine).
Medicines for the treatment of diabetes (insulins or oral agents such as metformin).
Cholestyramine and colestipol, medicines for lowering blood fat levels.
Medicines to increase blood pressure, such as noradrenaline.
Muscle relaxing medicines, such as tubocurarine.
Calcium supplements and/or vitamin D supplements.
Anti-cholinergic medicines (medicines used to treat a variety of disorders such as 
gastrointestinal cramps, urinary bladder spasm, asthma, motion sickness, muscular spasms, 
Parkinson's disease and as an aid to anaesthesia) such as atropine and biperiden.
Amantadine (medicine used to treat Parkinson’s disease and also used to treat or prevent certain 
illnesses caused by viruses).
Other medicines used to treat high blood pressure, corticosteroids, painkillers (such as non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]), medicines to treat cancer, gout, or arthritis.
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not 
take Kinzalkombs” and “Warnings and precautions”).
Digoxin.
Kinzalkomb may increase the blood pressure lowering effect of other medicines used to treat high 
blood pressure or of medicines with blood pressure lowering potential (e.g. baclofen, amifostine). 
Furthermore, low blood pressure may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or 
antidepressants. You may notice this as dizziness when standing up. You should consult with your 
doctor if you need to adjust the dose of your other medicine while taking Kinzalkomb.
The effect of Kinzalkomb may be reduced when you take NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicines, e.g. aspirin or ibuprofen).
70
Kinzalkomb with food and alcohol
You can take Kinzalkomb with or without food.
Avoid taking alcohol until you have talked to your doctor. Alcohol may make your blood pressure fall 
more and/or increase the risk of you becoming dizzy or feeling faint.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Pregnancy
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Kinzalkomb before you become pregnant or as soon as you know you are 
pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Kinzalkomb. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended during pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may 
cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment for 
you if you wish to breast-feed.
Driving and using machines
Some people feel dizzy or tired when taking Kinzalkomb. If you feel dizzy or tired, do not drive or 
operate machinery.
Kinzalkomb contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.
Kinzalkomb contains milk sugar (lactose)
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
Kinzalkomb contains sorbitol
This medicine contains 338 mg sorbitol in each tablet. Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If your doctor 
has told you that you have an intolerance to some sugars or if you have been diagnosed with hereditary 
fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare genetic disorder in which a person cannot break down fructose, talk 
to your doctor before you take or receive this medicine.
3.
How to take Kinzalkomb
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
The recommended dose is one tablet a day. Try to take the tablet at the same time each day.
You can take Kinzalkomb with or without food. The tablets should be swallowed with some water or 
other non-alcoholic drink. It is important that you take Kinzalkomb every day until your doctor tells 
you otherwise.
If your liver is not working properly, the usual dose should not exceed 40 mg/12.5 mg once a day.
71
If you take more Kinzalkomb than you should
If you accidentally take too many tablets you may experience symptoms such as low blood pressure 
and rapid heartbeat. Slow heartbeat, dizziness, vomiting, reduced kidney function including kidney 
failure, have also been reported. Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, markedly low blood 
pressure and low blood levels of potassium can also happen, which may result in nausea, sleepiness 
and muscle cramps and/or irregular heartbeat associated with the concomitant use of medicines such 
as digitalis or certain anti-arrhythmic treatments. Contact your doctor, pharmacist, or your nearest 
hospital emergency department immediately. 
If you forget to take Kinzalkomb
If you forget to take a dose, do not worry. Take it as soon as you remember then carry on as before. If 
you do not take your tablet on one day, take your normal dose on the next day. Do not take a double 
dose to make up for forgotten individual doses.
If you have further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects can be serious and need immediate medical attention:
You should see your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:
Sepsis* (often called "blood poisoning"), is a severe infection with whole-body inflammatory 
response, rapid swelling of the skin and mucosa (angioedema), blistering and peeling of the top layer 
of skin (toxic epidermal necrolysis); these side effects are rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) or 
of unknown frequency (toxic epidermal necrolysis) but are extremely serious and patients should stop 
taking the medicine and see their doctor immediately. If these effects are not treated they could be 
fatal. Increased incidence of sepsis has been observed with telmisartan only, however can not be ruled 
out for Kinzalkomb.
Possible side effects of Kinzalkomb:
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in10 people)
Dizziness 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
Decreased blood potassium levels, anxiety fainting (syncope), sensation of tingling, pins and needles
(paraesthesia), feeling of spinning (vertigo), fast heart beat (tachycardia), heart rhythm disorders, low 
blood pressure, a sudden fall in blood pressure when you stand up, shortness of breath (dyspnoea),
diarrhoea, dry mouth, flatulence, back pain, muscle spasm, muscle pain, erectile dysfunction (inability 
to get or keep an erection), chest pain, increased blood uric acid levels.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Inflammation of the lung (bronchitis), activation or worsening of systemic lupus erythematosus (a 
disease where the body’s immune system attacks the body, which causes joint pain, skin rashes and 
fever); sore throat, inflamed sinuses, feeling sad (depression), difficulty falling asleep (insomnia), 
impaired vision, difficulty breathing, abdominal pain, constipation, bloating (dyspepsia), feeling sick
(vomiting), inflammation of the stomach (gastritis), abnormal liver function (Japanese patients are 
more likely to experience this side effect); redness of the skin (erythema), allergic reactions such as 
itching or rash, increased sweating, hives (urticaria), joint pain (arthralgia) and pain in extremities, 
muscle cramps, flu-like-illness, pain, low levels of sodium, increased levels of creatinine, hepatic 
enzymes or creatine phosphokinase in the blood.
72
Adverse reactions reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions 
with Kinzalkomb, even if not observed in clinical trials with this product.   
Telmisartan
In patients taking telmisartan alone the following additional side effects have been reported:
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
Upper respiratory tract infection (e.g. sore throat, inflamed sinuses, common cold), urinary tract 
infections, deficiency in red blood cells (anaemia), high potassium levels, slow heart rate 
(bradycardia), cough, kidney impairment including acute kidney failure, weakness.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia), increase in certain white blood cells (eosinophilia), serious 
allergic reaction (e.g. hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction, drug rash), low blood sugar levels (in 
diabetic patients), somnolence, upset stomach, eczema (a skin disorder), arthrosis, inflammation of the 
tendons, decreased haemoglobin (a blood protein).
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
Progressive scarring of lung tissue (interstitial lung disease)**
* The event may have happened by chance or could be related to a mechanism currently not known.
** Cases of progressive scarring of lung tissue have been reported during intake of telmisartan. 
However, it is not known whether telmisartan was the cause. 
Hydrochlorothiazide
In patients taking hydrochlorothiazide alone the following additional side effects have been reported:
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
Feeling sick (nausea), low blood magnesium level,
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Reduction in blood platelets, which increases risk of bleeding or bruising (small purple-red marks in 
skin or other tissue caused by bleeding), high blood calcium level, headache
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
Increased pH (disturbed acid-base balance) due to low blood chloride level, acute respiratory distress 
(signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and confusion).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
Inflammation of the salivary gland, skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer), decreases in the 
number (or even lack) of cells in the blood, including low red and white blood cell count, , serious 
allergic reactions (e.g. hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction), decreased or loss of appetite,
restlessness, light-headedness, blurred or yellowing of vision, decrease in vision and eye pain (possible 
signs of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute myopia or 
acute-angle closure glaucoma), inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis necrotising), inflamed 
pancreas, upset stomach, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), lupus-like syndrome (a condition 
mimicking a disease called systemic lupus erythematosus where the body’s immune system attacks the 
body); skin disorders such as inflamed blood vessels in the skin, increased sensitivity to sunlight, rash, 
redness of the skin, blistering of the lips, eyes or mouth, skin peeling, fever (possible signs of
erythema multiforme), weakness, kidney inflammation or impaired kidney function, glucose in the 
urine (glycosuria), fever, impaired electrolyte balance, high blood cholesterol levels, decreased blood 
volume, increased blood levels of glucose, difficulties in controlling blood/ urine levels of glucose in 
patients with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, or fat in the blood. 
73
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Kinzalkomb
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from moisture. Remove your Kinzalkomb tablet from the blister only 
directly prior to intake.
Occasionally, the outer layer of the blister pack separates from the inner layer between the blister 
pockets. You do not need to take any action if this happens. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Kinzalkomb contains


The active substances are telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide.
Each tablet contains 80 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, maize starch, meglumine, 
microcrystalline cellulose, povidone K25, red iron oxide (E172), sodium hydroxide, sodium 
starch glycollate (type A), sorbitol (E420).
What Kinzalkomb looks like and contents of the pack
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/12.5 mg tablets are red and white, oblong-shaped, two-layer tablets engraved with 
the code number 'H8'.
Kinzalkomb is available in blisters packs containing 14, 28, 56, or 98 tablets, or unit dose blister packs 
containing 28 x 1 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
Manufacturer
Bayer AG
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
74
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder.
+30 210 618 75 00
België / Belgique / Belgien
Bayer SA-NV
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11
България
Байер България ЕООД
Тел. +359 (0)2-424 72 80
Česká republika
Bayer s.r.o.
Tel: +420 266-101-111
Danmark
Bayer A/S
Tlf: +45-45 23 50 00
Deutschland
Bayer Vital GmbH
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48
Eesti
Bayer OÜ
Tel: +372 655 85 65
Ελλάδα
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ
Τηλ:
España
Bayer Hispania S.L.
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00
France
Bayer HealthCare
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54
Hrvatska
Bayer d.o.o.
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900
Ireland
Bayer Limited
Tel: +353-1-216-3300
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Bayer S.p.A.
Tel: +39-02-397 81
Κύπρος
NOVAGEM Limited
Τηλ: + 357 22 48 38 58
Latvija
SIA Bayer
Tel: +371 67 84 55 63
Lietuva
UAB Bayer
Tel. +37 05 23 36 868
Luxembourg / Luxemburg
Bayer SA-NV
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11
Magyarország
Bayer Hungária Kft.
Tel.:+36-14 87-41 00
Malta
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd.
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05
Nederland
Bayer B.V.
Tel: +31-(0)297-28 06 66
Norge
Bayer AS
Tlf. +47 23 13 05 00
Österreich
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H.
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 46-0
Polska
Bayer Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48-22-572 35 00
Portugal
Bayer Portugal Lda
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00
România
SC Bayer SRL
Tel.: +40 21 528 59 00
Slovenija
Bayer d. o. o.
Tel.: +386-1-58 14 400
Slovenská republika
Bayer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +421 2 59 21 31 11
Suomi/Finland
Bayer Oy
Puh/Tel.: +358-20 785 21
Sverige
Bayer AB
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Bayer AG
Tel: +44 (0) 118 206 30 00
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
75
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Kinzalkomb is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Kinzalkomb
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Kinzalkomb
Possible side effects
How to store Kinzalkomb
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Kinzalkomb is and what it is used 
Kinzalkomb is a combination of two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide in one 
tablet. Both substances help to control high blood pressure.
-
-
Telmisartan belongs to a group of medicines called angiotensin II receptor antagonists. 
Angiotensin-II is a substance produced in your body which causes your blood vessels to narrow, 
thus increasing your blood pressure. Telmisartan blocks the effect of angiotensin II so that the 
blood vessels relax, and your blood pressure is lowered.
Hydrochlorothiazide belongs to a group of medicines called thiazide diuretics, which cause your 
urine output to increase leading to a lowering of your blood pressure.
High blood pressure, if not treated, can damage blood vessels in several organs, which could lead 
sometimes to heart attack, heart or kidney failure, stroke, or blindness. There are usually no symptoms 
of high blood pressure before damage occurs. Thus it is important to regularly measure blood pressure 
to verify if it is within the normal range. 
Kinzalkomb is used to treat high blood pressure (essential hypertension) in adults whose blood 
pressure is not adequately controlled by Kinzalkomb 80/12.5 mg or in patients who have been 
previously stabilised by telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide given separately.  
2. What you need to know before you take Kinzalkomb
Do not take Kinzalkomb

if you are allergic to telmisartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are allergic to hydrochlorothiazide or to any other sulfonamide-derived medicines.
if you are more than 3 months pregnant. (It is also better to avoid Kinzalkomb in early 
pregnancy – see pregnancy section.)
if you have severe liver problems such as cholestasis or biliary obstruction (problems with 
drainage of the bile from the liver and gall bladder), or any other severe liver disease.



76



if you have severe kidney disease.
if your doctor determines that you have low potassium levels or high calcium levels in your 
blood that do not get better with treatment.
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren.
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor or pharmacist before taking Kinzalkomb.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor before taking Kinzalkomb if you are suffering or have ever suffered from any of 
the following conditions or illnesses:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Low blood pressure (hypotension), likely to occur if you are dehydrated (excessive loss of body 
water) or have salt deficiency due to diuretic therapy (water tablets), low-salt diet, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, or haemodialysis.
Kidney disease or kidney transplant.
Renal artery stenosis (narrowing of the blood vessels to one or both kidneys).
Liver disease.
Heart trouble.
Diabetes.
Gout.
Raised aldosterone levels (water and salt retention in the body along with imbalance of various 
blood minerals).
Systemic lupus erythematosus (also called “lupus” or “SLE”) a disease where the body’s 
immune system attacks the body.
The active ingredient hydrochlorothiazide can cause an unusual reaction, resulting in a decrease 
in vision and eye pain. These could be symptoms of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of 
the eye (choroidal effusion) or an increase of pressure in your eye and can happen within hours 
to weeks of taking Kinzalkomb. This can lead to permanent vision impairment, if not treated.
If you have had skin cancer or if you develop an unexpected skin lesion during the treatment. 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, particularly long term use with high doses, may increase 
the risk of some types of skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer). Protect your skin
from sun exposure and UV rays while taking Kinzalkomb.
Talk to your doctor before taking Kinzalkomb:

if you are taking any of the following medicines used to treat high blood pressure:
- an ACE-inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril, ramipril), in particular if you have 
diabetes-related kidney problems.
- aliskiren.
Your doctor may check your kidney function, blood pressure, and the amount of electrolytes 
(e.g. potassium) in your blood at regular intervals. See also information under the heading “Do
not take Kinzalkomb”.
if you are taking digoxin.
if you experienced breathing or lung problems (including inflammation or fluid in the lungs) 
following hydrochlorothiazide intake in the past. If you develop any severe shortness of breath 
or difficulty breathing after taking Kinzalkomb, seek medical attention immediately.


You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken if you are more than 3 months pregnant, as it 
may cause serious harm to your baby if used at that stage (see pregnancy section). 
Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide may cause electrolyte imbalance in your body. Typical symptoms 
of fluid or electrolyte imbalance include dry mouth, weakness, lethargy, drowsiness, restlessness, 
muscle pain or cramps, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, tired muscles, and an abnormally fast heart 
rate (faster than 100 beats per minute). If you experience any of these you should tell your doctor.
77
You should also tell your doctor, if you experience an increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun with 
symptoms of sunburn (such as redness, itching, swelling, blistering) occurring more quickly than 
normal.
In case of surgery or anaesthetics, you should tell your doctor that you are taking Kinzalkomb.
Kinzalkomb may be less effective in lowering the blood pressure in black patients.
Children and adolescents
The use of Kinzalkomb in children and adolescents up to the age of 18 years is not recommended.
Other medicines and Kinzalkomb
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. Your doctor may need to change the dose of these other medications or take other 
precautions. In some cases you may have to stop taking one of the medicines. This applies especially 
to the medicines listed below taken at the same time with Kinzalkomb:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Lithium containing medicines to treat some types of depression.
Medicines associated with low blood potassium (hypokalaemia) such as other diuretics, ('water 
tablets'), laxatives (e.g. castor oil), corticosteroids (e.g. prednisone), ACTH (a hormone), 
amphotericin (an antifungal medicine), carbenoxolone (used to treat mouth ulcers), penicillin G 
sodium (an antibiotic), and salicylic acid and derivatives.
Medicines that may increase blood potassium levels such as potassium-sparing diuretics, 
potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, ACE inhibitors, cyclosporin (an 
immunosuppressant medicine) and other medicinal products such as heparin sodium (an 
anticoagulant).
Medicines that are affected by changes of the blood potassium level such as heart medicines 
(e.g. digoxin) or medicines to control the rhythm of your heart (e.g. quinidine, disopyramide, 
amiodarone, sotalol), medicines used for mental disorders (e.g. thioridazine, chlorpromazine, 
levomepromazine) and  other medicines such as certain antibiotics (e.g. sparfloxacine, 
pentamidine) or certain medicines to treat allergic reactions (e.g. terfenadine).
Medicines for the treatment of diabetes (insulins or oral agents such as metformin).
Cholestyramine and colestipol, medicines for lowering blood fat levels.
Medicines to increase blood pressure, such as noradrenaline.
Muscle relaxing medicines, such as tubocurarine.
Calcium supplements and/or vitamin D supplements.
Anti-cholinergic medicines (medicines used to treat a variety of disorders such as 
gastrointestinal cramps, urinary bladder spasm, asthma, motion sickness, muscular spasms, 
Parkinson's disease and as an aid to anaesthesia) such as atropine and biperiden.
Amantadine (medicine used to treat Parkinson’s disease and also used to treat or prevent certain 
illnesses caused by viruses).
Other medicines used to treat high blood pressure, corticosteroids, painkillers (such as non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]), medicines to treat cancer, gout, or arthritis.
If you are taking an ACE-inhibitor or aliskiren (see also information under the headings “Do not 
take Kinzalkomb” and “Warnings and precautions”).
Digoxin.
Kinzalkomb may increase the blood pressure lowering effect of other medicines used to treat high 
blood pressure or of medicines with blood pressure lowering potential (e.g. baclofen, amifostine). 
Furthermore, low blood pressure may be aggravated by alcohol, barbiturates, narcotics or 
antidepressants. You may notice this as dizziness when standing up. You should consult with your 
doctor if you need to adjust the dose of your other medicine while taking Kinzalkomb.
The effect of Kinzalkomb may be reduced when you take NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicines, e.g. aspirin or ibuprofen).
78
Kinzalkomb with food and alcohol
You can take Kinzalkomb with or without food.
Avoid taking alcohol until you have talked to your doctor. Alcohol may make your blood pressure fall 
more and/or increase the risk of you becoming dizzy or feeling faint.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Pregnancy
You must tell your doctor if you think you are (or might become) pregnant.,Your doctor will normally 
advise you to stop taking Kinzalkomb before you become pregnant or as soon as you know you are 
pregnant and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Kinzalkomb. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended during pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 3 months pregnant, as it may 
cause serious harm to your baby if used after the third month of pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. Kinzalkomb is not 
recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding, and your doctor may choose another treatment for 
you if you wish to breast-feed.
Driving and using machines
Some people feel dizzy or tired when taking Kinzalkomb. If you feel dizzy or tired, do not drive or 
operate machinery.
Kinzalkomb contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.
Kinzalkomb contains milk sugar (lactose)
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine.
Kinzalkomb contains sorbitol
This medicine contains 338 mg sorbitol in each tablet. Sorbitol is a source of fructose. If your doctor 
has told you that you have an intolerance to some sugars or if you have been diagnosed with hereditary 
fructose intolerance (HFI), a rare genetic disorder in which a person cannot break down fructose, talk 
to your doctor before you take or receive this medicine.
3.
How to take Kinzalkomb
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
The recommended dose is one tablet a day. Try to take the tablet at the same time each day.
You can take Kinzalkomb with or without food. The tablets should be swallowed with some water or 
other non-alcoholic drink. It is important that you take Kinzalkomb every day until your doctor tells 
you otherwise.
If your liver is not working properly, the usual dose should not exceed 40 mg/12.5 mg once a day.
If you take more Kinzalkomb than you should
If you accidentally take too many tablets you may experience symptoms such as low blood pressure 
and rapid heartbeat. Slow heartbeat, dizziness, vomiting, reduced kidney function including kidney 
failure, have also been reported. Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component, markedly low blood 
pressure and low blood levels of potassium can also happen, which may result in nausea, sleepiness 
and muscle cramps and/or irregular heartbeat associated with the concomitant use of medicines such 
as digitalis or certain anti-arrhythmic treatments. Contact your doctor, pharmacist, or your nearest 
hospital emergency department immediately.
79
If you forget to take Kinzalkomb
If you forget to take a dose, do not worry. Take it as soon as you remember then carry on as before. If 
you do not take your tablet on one day, take your normal dose on the next day. Do not take a double 
dose to make up for forgotten individual doses.
If you have further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects can be serious and need immediate medical attention:
You should see your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following symptoms:
Sepsis* (often called "blood poisoning", is a severe infection with whole-body inflammatory response, 
rapid swelling of the skin and mucosa (angioedema), blistering and peeling of the top layer of skin 
(toxic epidermal necrolysis); these side effects are rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) or of 
unknown frequency (toxic epidermal necrolysis) but are extremely serious and patients should stop 
taking the medicine and see their doctor immediately. If these effects are not treated they could be 
fatal. Increased incidence of sepsis has been observed with telmisartan only, however can not be ruled 
out for Kinzalkomb.
Possible side effects of Kinzalkomb:
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in10 people)
Dizziness 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
Decreased blood potassium levels, anxiety, fainting (syncope), sensation of tingling, pins and needles
(paraesthesia), feeling of spinning (vertigo), fast heart beat (tachycardia), heart rhythm disorders, low 
blood pressure, a sudden fall in blood pressure when you stand up, shortness of breath (dyspnoea),
diarrhoea, dry mouth, flatulence, back pain, muscle spasm, muscle pain, erectile dysfunction (inability 
to get or keep an erection), chest pain, increased blood uric acid levels.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Inflammation of the lung (bronchitis), activation or worsening of systemic lupus erythematosus (a 
disease where the body’s immune system attacks the body, which causes joint pain, skin rashes and 
fever); sore throat, inflamed sinuses, feeling sad (depression), difficulty falling asleep (insomnia), 
impaired vision, difficulty breathing, abdominal pain, constipation, bloating (dyspepsia), feeling sick
(vomiting), inflammation of the stomach (gastritis), abnormal liver function (Japanese patients are 
more likely to experience this side effect), redness of the skin (erythema), allergic reactions such as 
itching or rash, increased sweating, hives (urticaria), joint pain (arthralgia) and pain in extremities, 
muscle cramps, flu-like-illness, pain, low levels of sodium, increased levels of creatinine, hepatic 
enzymes or creatine phosphokinase in the blood.
Adverse reactions reported with one of the individual components may be potential adverse reactions 
with Kinzalkomb, even if not observed in clinical trials with this product.
Telmisartan
In patients taking telmisartan alone the following additional side effects have been reported:
80
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
Upper respiratory tract infection (e.g. sore throat, inflamed sinuses, common cold), urinary tract 
infections, deficiency in red blood cells (anaemia), high potassium levels, slow heart rate 
(bradycardia), cough, kidney impairment including acute kidney failure, weakness.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia), increase in certain white blood cells (eosinophilia), serious 
allergic reaction (e.g. hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction, drug rash), low blood sugar levels (in 
diabetic patients), somnolence, upset stomach, eczema (a skin disorder), arthrosis, inflammation of the 
tendons, decreased haemoglobin (a blood protein).
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
Progressive scarring of lung tissue (interstitial lung disease)**
* The event may have happened by chance or could be related to a mechanism currently not known.
** Cases of progressive scarring of lung tissue have been reported during intake of telmisartan. 
However, it is not known whether telmisartan was the cause. 
Hydrochlorothiazide
In patients taking hydrochlorothiazide alone the following additional side effects have been reported:
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
Feeling sick (nausea), low blood magnesium level.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
Reduction in blood platelets, which increases risk of bleeding or bruising (small purple-red marks in 
skin or other tissue caused by bleeding), high blood calcium level, headache.
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)
Increased pH (disturbed acid-base balance) due to low blood chloride level, acute respiratory distress 
(signs include severe shortness of breath, fever, weakness, and confusion).
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
Inflammation of the salivary gland, skin and lip cancer (non-melanoma skin cancer), decreases in the 
number (or even lack) of cells in the blood, including low red and white blood cell count, , serious 
allergic reactions (e.g. hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction), decreased or loss of appetite,
restlessness, light-headedness, blurred or yellowing of vision, decrease in vision and eye pain (possible 
signs of fluid accumulation in the vascular layer of the eye (choroidal effusion) or acute myopia or 
acute-angle closure glaucoma), inflammation of blood vessels (vasculitis necrotising), inflamed 
pancreas, upset stomach, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice), lupus-like syndrome (a condition 
mimicking a disease called systemic lupus erythematosus where the body’s immune system attacks the 
body); skin disorders such as inflamed blood vessels in the skin, increased sensitivity to sunlight, rash, 
redness of the skin, blistering of the lips, eyes or mouth, skin peeling, fever (possible signs of
erythema multiforme), weakness, kidney inflammation or impaired kidney function, glucose in the 
urine (glycosuria), fever, impaired electrolyte balance, high blood cholesterol levels, decreased blood 
volume, increased blood levels of glucose, difficulties in controlling  blood/ urine levels of glucose in 
patients with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, or fat in the blood. 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
81
5.
How to store Kinzalkomb
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Store in the original 
package in order to protect from moisture. Remove your Kinzalkomb tablet from the blister only 
directly prior to intake.
Occasionally, the outer layer of the blister pack separates from the inner layer between the blister 
pockets. You do not need to take any action if this happens. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Kinzalkomb contains


The active substances are telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide.
Each tablet contains 80 mg telmisartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide.
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, maize starch, meglumine, 
microcrystalline cellulose, povidone K25, yellow iron oxide (E172), sodium hydroxide, sodium 
starch glycollate (type A), sorbitol (E420).
What Kinzalkomb looks like and contents of the pack
Kinzalkomb 80 mg/25 mg tablets are yellow and white, oblong-shaped, two-layer tablets engraved 
with the code 'H9'.
Kinzalkomb is available in blister packs containing 14, 28, 56, or 98 tablets, or unit dose blister packs 
containing 28 x 1 tablets
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Bayer AG
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
Manufacturer
Bayer AG
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee
51368 Leverkusen
Germany
82
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder.
+30 210 618 75 00
België / Belgique / Belgien
Bayer SA-NV
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11
България
Байер България ЕООД
Тел. +359 (0)2-424 72 80
Česká republika
Bayer s.r.o.
Tel: +420 266-101-111
Danmark
Bayer A/S
Tlf: +45-45 23 50 00
Deutschland
Bayer Vital GmbH
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48
Eesti
Bayer OÜ
Tel: +372 655 85 65
Ελλάδα
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ
Τηλ:
España
Bayer Hispania S.L.
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00
France
Bayer HealthCare
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54
Hrvatska
Bayer d.o.o.
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900
Ireland
Bayer Limited
Tel: +353-1-216-3300
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Bayer S.p.A.
Tel: +39-02-397 81
Κύπρος
NOVAGEM Limited
Τηλ: + 357 22 48 38 58
Latvija
SIA Bayer
Tel: +371 67 84 55 63
Lietuva
UAB Bayer
Tel. +37 05 23 36 868
Luxembourg / Luxemburg
Bayer SA-NV
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11
Magyarország
Bayer Hungária Kft.
Tel.:+36-14 87-41 00
Malta
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd.
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05
Nederland
Bayer B.V.
Tel: +31-(0)297-28 06 66
Norge
Bayer AS
Tlf. +47 23 13 05 00
Österreich
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H.
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 46-0
Polska
Bayer Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48-22-572 35 00
Portugal
Bayer Portugal Lda
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00
România
SC Bayer SRL
Tel.: +40 21 528 59 00
Slovenija
Bayer d. o. o.
Tel.: +386-1-58 14 400
Slovenská republika
Bayer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +421 2 59 21 31 11
Suomi/Finland
Bayer Oy
Puh/Tel.: +358-20 785 21
Sverige
Bayer AB
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Bayer AG
Tel: +44 (0) 118 206 30 00
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
83
