EMA/563326/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000415 
EPAR summary for the public 
Kinzalkomb 
telmisartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Kinzalkomb. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Kinzalkomb. 
What is Kinzalkomb? 
Kinzalkomb is a medicine that contains two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide. It 
is available as tablets (40 mg or 80 mg telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide; 80 mg 
telmisartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide). 
What is Kinzalkomb used for? 
Kinzalkomb is used in adult patients who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not 
adequately controlled by telmisartan alone. ‘Essential’ means that the hypertension has no obvious 
cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Kinzalkomb used? 
Kinzalkomb is taken by mouth once a day with liquid, with or without food. The dose of Kinzalkomb to 
be used depends on the dose of telmisartan that the patient was taking before: patients who were 
receiving 40 mg telmisartan should take the 40/12.5 mg tablets, and patients who were receiving 80 
mg telmisartan should take the 80/12.5 mg tablets. The 80/25 mg tablets are used in patients whose 
blood pressure is not controlled using the 80/12.5 mg tablets or who have been stabilised using the 
two active substances taken separately before switching to Kinzalkomb. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Kinzalkomb work? 
Kinzalkomb contains two active substances, telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide. 
Telmisartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a 
hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance 
that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, 
telmisartan stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic, which is another type of treatment for hypertension. It works by 
increasing urine output, reducing the amount of fluid in the blood and reducing blood pressure. 
The combination of the two active substances has an additive effect, reducing the blood pressure more 
than either medicine alone. By lowering blood pressure, the risks associated with high blood pressure, 
such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
How has Kinzalkomb been studied? 
Kinzalkomb has been studied in five main studies involving a total of 2,985 patients with mild to 
moderate hypertension. In four of these studies, Kinzalkomb was compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment) and with telmisartan taken alone in a total of 2,272 patients. The fifth study compared the 
effects of remaining on the 80/12.5 mg tablet with switching to the 80/25 mg tablet in 713 patients 
who had not responded to the 80/12.5 mg tablet. In all studies, the main measure of effectiveness was 
the reduction in diastolic blood pressure (the blood pressure measured between two heartbeats). 
What benefit has Kinzalkomb shown during the studies? 
Kinzalkomb was more effective at reducing diastolic blood pressure than telmisartan taken alone and 
than placebo. In patients who were not controlled on the 80/12.5 mg tablet, switching to the 80/25 mg 
tablet was more effective in reducing diastolic blood pressure than remaining on the lower dose. 
What is the risk associated with Kinzalkomb? 
The most common side effect with Kinzalkomb (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) is dizziness. 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Kinzalkomb, see the Package Leaflet. 
Kinzalkomb must not be used in women who are more than three months pregnant. Its use during the 
first three months of pregnancy is not recommended. Kinzalkomb must also not be used in people who 
have severe liver, kidney or bile problems, blood potassium levels that are too low, or blood calcium 
levels that are too high. In patients with type 2 diabetes or in patients with moderate or severe kidney 
impairment, Kinzalkomb must also not be used in combination with aliskiren-containing medicines 
(also used to treat essential hypertension). For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Care must be taken when using Kinzalkomb with other medicines that have an effect on blood 
potassium levels. The full list of these medicines is given in the package leaflet. 
Why has Kinzalkomb been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Kinzalkomb’s benefits are greater than its risks for the treatment of essential 
hypertension in patients whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on telmisartan alone. The 
Committee recommended that Kinzalkomb be given marketing authorisation. 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kinzalkomb? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Kinzalkomb is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Kinzalkomb, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Kinzalkomb 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Kinzalkomb on 19 April 2002.  
The full EPAR for Kinzalkomb can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Kinzalkomb, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2015. 
 
