SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which have been finalised before 1 August 2003. For scientific information on procedures after 
this date please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
The  goal  of  management  of  hypertension is to reduce morbidity  and mortality  by the least intrusive 
means possible. This may be accomplished by achieving and maintaining the systolic blood pressure 
(SBP)  below  140  mmHg  and  the  diastolic  blood  pressure  (DBP)  below  90  mmHg  and  lower  if 
tolerated.  The  other  modifiable  risks  factors  for  cardiovascular  disease  should  also  be  controlled.  In 
addition,  the  management  of  hypertension  is  aimed  at  preventing,  detecting  and  treating  the 
complications  of  hypertension. Finally,  the  adherence to  hypertensive therapy should be encouraged 
since this remains a major therapeutic challenge contributing to the lack of adequate control in more 
than  two-thirds  of  the  patients  with  hypertension.  In  addition  to  the  lifestyle  modifications  (such  as 
weight  loss,  limitation  of  alcohol  and  sodium  intake)  the  decision  to  initiate  a  pharmacological 
treatment  of  hypertension  requires  consideration  of  several  factors:  the  degree  of  blood  pressure 
elevation, the presence of target organ damage and the presence of clinical cardiovascular disease or 
other  risks  factors.  Evidence  of  beneficial  effects  on  overall  mortality  and  fatal  and  non-fatal 
cardiovascular  events  has  been  observed  mainly  for  three  classes  of  antihypertensives:  diuretics,  β-
blockers and ACE inhibitors.  
The current guidelines concerning the clinical assessment of the efficacy of a medicinal product in the 
treatment  of  hypertension  include  the  assessment  of  efficacy  in  lowering  blood  pressure,  effects  on 
morbidity and mortality and target organ damage.  
The application is a new combination of two active ingredients telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide. 
Telmisartan  is  an  antagonist  of  the  subtype  1  of  the  angiotensin II  receptor  (known  as  the  AT1 
receptor)  already  approved  in  the  EU  through  the  centralised  procedure  on  11 December 1998.  The 
currently  approved 
treatment  of  essential  hypertension. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic belonging to the family of thiazide diuretics. These two substances 
have  been  developed  in  fixed  dose  combinations  containing  40-mg/12.5  mg  and  80-mg/12.5  mg  of 
telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide.  The  proposed  combination  of  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
reflects a combination treatment already in clinical use. 
indication  of 
telmisartan 
the 
is 
Four such combinations of angiotensin II antagonists and hydrochlorothiazide are already authorised 
irbesartan  or  candesartan  with  12.5 mg  of 
in 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
the  European  Union: 
losartan,  valsartan, 
The  Applicant  presented  a  dossier  consisting  of  results  of  tests  and  trials  with  telmisartan  as  mono-
component  and  in  combination  with  hydrochlorothiazide,  together  with  published  literature  on 
hydrochlorothiazide as mono-component. Therefore the application was submitted in accordance with 
Article  4.8a)  ii)  of  Council  Directive  65/65/EEC  requiring  the  demonstration  of  a  “well  established 
use”  of  hydrochlorothiazide,  as  required  by  Commission  Directive  1999/83/EC.  The  scientific 
assessment  of  the  application  confirmed  that  hydrochlorothiazide has been widely  used with regular 
application  in  patients  in  the  European  Union.  Hydrochlorothiazide  has  been  made  available  in  the 
European  Union  for  more  than  40  years  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension  (either  alone  or,  more 
recently,  in  combination  with  other  medicinal  products  such  as  ß-blockers,  angiotensin-converting 
enzyme inhibitors and now with angiotensin II receptor antagonists). It still attracts a high degree of 
scientific  interest  as  shown  by  publications,  the  availability  of  new  combination  treatments  with 
hydrochlorothiazide and its inclusion in therapeutic guidelines on the treatment of high blood pressure. 
The  documentation  submitted  by  the  applicant  for  hydrochlorothiazide  covered  all  aspects  of  the 
safety and efficacy assessment (as detailed in the sections below on Part III and Part IV).  
1/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  extent  of  the  post  marketing  experience  with  hydrochlorothiazide  in  the  European  Union  was 
reflected in the literature presented in the application.  
It  can  therefore  be  concluded  that  the  applicant  demonstrated  that  hydrochlorothiazide  has  a  “well-
established use”, with an acceptable level of safety and recognised efficacy in the proposed indication 
and suitable for use in combination therapy with telmisartan. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
This  application  concerns  a  new  combination  of  two  previously  authorised  active  substances 
telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  in  the  combinations  40 mg/12.5 mg  and  80-mg/12.5 mg 
respectively, in the form of two-layer tablets. The tablets are packed in foil/laminate blisters. 
Active substance 
Boehringer-Ingelheim International has developed Telmisartan, and all relevant quality characteristics 
of this active substance have previously been evaluated for the product Micardis. Hydrochlorothiazide 
is a well-known substance, which is the subject of a European Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.) monograph. 
Information  on this active substance has been provided in the form of a European Drug Master File 
(EDMF). 
Telmisartan 
(Information  on  the  synthesis,  control  and  stability  of  this  active  substance  has  already  been 
considered as being satisfactory when the product Micardis was authorised in the EU). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide  is  6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazine-7-sulphonamide-1,1-dioxide. 
It is a white or almost odourless white, crystalline powder free from visible contaminations and there 
are no asymmetric centres and the molecule is freely soluble in aqueous solutions. A detailed quality 
document  concerning  the  synthesis  and  control  has  been  provided  by  the  AIM  in  the  form  of  an 
EDMF.  
Specification  
The specification is in accordance with the Ph. Eur. Monograph. 
Stability 
The stability results for three production batches packed in double polyethylene bags in HDPE drums 
for 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 °C / 75 % r.h.) and under ‘ambient’ conditions for 36 
months (25 °C / 60 % r.h.) indicate the satisfactory stability of this established pharmacopoeial active 
substance.  
No degradation products could be detected and no significant changes were observed in any of the test 
parameters (e.g. description, loss on drying, related substances, assay) when examined by validated 
methods. The results support the retest period. 
Other ingredients 
The other ingredients are listed in Section 6.1 of the SPC. 
The  most  excipients  used  in  the  production  of  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  oblong-tablets  were 
tested  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.  Eur.  (in  current  edition)  or  other  recognized 
pharmacopoeias.  
2/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meglumine  (N-methyl-D-glucamine)  is  specified  according  to  the  monographs  of  BP,  Ph.  France 
(current edition). 
Sorbitol as a diluent in the tablet compressing process has an additional specification for sieve analysis 
when used for the manufacture of telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide tablets.  
Magnesium stearate was tested in accordance with the Ph. Eur., contains the monograph on Products 
with risk of transmitting agents of animal spongiform encephalopathies (Ph. Eur. Suppl. 2001).  
Adequate  information  has  been  provided  concerning  transmissible  spongiform  encephalopathies 
(TSE) safety for magnesium stearate and lactose monohydrate. No other ingredients of bovine origin 
are used in the production of telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide tablets.  
Product development and finished product 
The pharmaceutical properties of the active substance telmisartan have already been reviewed in the 
centralised  procedure.  Telmisartan  is  characterised  by  a  poor  aqueous  solubility  and  an  important 
polymorphism. Developing a two-layer tablet solved compatibility problems between the two actives 
substances. 
Bioequivalence  of  the  bilayer  tablet  with  both  components  to  the  separate  single  entity  tablets  as 
applied in phase III- clinical studies, has been demonstrated. 
Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process  is  systematically  described,  supported  by  three  flow-charts  of  the 
manufacturing process. 
Product Specification 
limits  proposed  for 
The 
tablet  strengths  of 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide tablets at the time of release and throughout shelf life have been well 
justified. All quantitative tests have been validated and shown to be suitable for the intended purpose. 
This is in agreement with the EU-guidelines.  
the  chemical  and  physical 
tests  for  both 
Batch  analytical  data  confirm  that  the  process  is  under  control,  and  indicate  a  uniform  product  in 
compliance with the agreed specifications. 
Stability of the Product 
Information supplied in this context includes data on the stability of the intermediate product, the SD 
granulate. During storage no significant decomposition or loss in content has been observed. 
Concerning the finished product, a stability program for the both tablet strengths was developed and 
was concordant with the ICH guideline. The testing program was based on three registration batches, 
packed in aluminium blisters for climatic zones II and I.  
At the time of submission, two years data were available for the long-term studies, and 6 months for 
the accelerated studies. 
The results indicate that telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide tablets of different strengths are comparable 
in their stability properties. There appears to be no significant ‘interference’ of one layer with the next. 
Humidity and light appear to be the most important stability-limiting parameters, and this necessitates 
a blister package for maximum protection. In general the results support the shelf life of the product as 
defined in the summary of product characteristics. 
3/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Manufacture  of  telmisartan  takes  place  under  well-  defined  conditions,  which  have  already  been 
approved for the product Micardis. Description of the analytical procedures are adequate, validation is 
plausible and detailed. The quality of hydrochlorothiazide is defined in the EDMF. 
The  development  of  this  combination  product  has  presented  a  number  of  difficulties,  particularly 
concerning incompatibility of the two active substances. This has been solved by the formulation of 
separate  ‘matrices’  for  each  active  substance,  then  compressing  into  a  bilayer  tablet  of  two  separate 
layers. 
In general, the applicant has demonstrated that a product of acceptable quality can be manufactured. 
However,  at  the  time  of  the  CPMP  opinion  there  were  a  number  of  remaining  minor  quality  issues 
concerning  hydrochlorothiazide,  which  had  no  impact  on  the  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  of  the 
product as a whole. Therefore the CPMP required a letter of commitment from the applicant to resolve 
these issues as post-opinion follow-up measure. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Telmisartan 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  telmisartan  has  been  investigated  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  in  rodents,  guinea 
pigs, rabbits and dogs. 
Data from in vitro studies support that telmisartan is a potent specific antagonist of the angiotensin II 
subtype 1 (AT1) receptor (Ki = 3.7 nM). Up to micromolar concentrations, telmisartan had no affinity 
to  the  angiotensin II  subtype  2  receptor  (AT2)  or  to  other  receptors  tested  in  particular.  Telmisartan 
does  not  bind  to  or  block  other  hormone  receptors  or  ion  channel  known  to  be  important  in 
cardiovascular regulation. .  
Repeated  administration  of  3  mg/kg/day  of  telmisartan  for  5  days  to  conscious,  chronically 
instrumented  spontaneously  hypertensive  rats  (SHR)  reduced  mean  arterial  blood  pressure  (MAP) 
significantly and persistently with a maximum decrease in MAP of about –36 mmHg. 
induces  an 
Telmisartan 
increase  of  both  plasma  renin  activity  and  plasma  angiotensin II 
concentrations.  Elevated  plasma  angiotensin II  concentrations  could  induce  a  stimulation  of  other 
subtypes  of  angiotensin II  receptors  (e.g.  subtypes  2  [AT2  receptors)  leading  possibly  to  additional 
effects since these receptors are not blocked by telmisartan.  
E.g  the following effects have  been ascribed to stimulation  of AT2 receptors  by angiotensin II: anti-
angiogenic  and  antiproliferative  effects,  activation  of  the  kinin/NO/cGMP-system,  leading  to 
vasodilatation and pressure natriuresis, stimulation of K+ channels and inhibition of Ca2+ channels. 
Some studies suggest that in patients with infarction or heart failure, the increase in AT2 receptors may 
be  salutary  at  first,  opposing  hypertrophy  and  fibrosis,  but,  conversely,  chronic  stimulation  of  AT2 
receptors  in  the  myocardium  might  have  cumulative  deleterious  effects,  including  stimulation  of 
apoptosis.  In  addition,  in  human  heart  failure,  AT2  receptors  are  up  regulated  in  the  diseased 
myocardium.  However,  in  clinical  trials  in  patients  with  heart  failure  comparing  the  AT1  receptor 
antagonist  losartan  versus  the  angiotensin  converting  enzyme  ACE  inhibitor  captopril  (ELITE  I  and 
II), both drugs led to comparable reverse remodelling with reduced left ventricular diastolic volume, 
and  no exacerbation of mortality resulted from the AT1 receptor antagonist, i.e. from the unopposed 
action of angiotensin II on the AT2 receptor. However, while the ELITE I study showed an association 
between losartan and a survival benefit in elderly heart-failure patients compared with captopril, in the 
ELITE II study losartan was not superior to captopril in improving survival. 
Thus, the exact role of AT2 receptors is still not clearly defined. These uncertainties are reflected in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
4/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide reduces blood pressure in volume-dependent and in salt-induced hypertension, as 
well as in renin-dependent hypertensive rat models.  
Telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
On  the  SHR  model  of  hypertension,  10  mg/Kg/day  of  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  induced  a 
significantly  greater  antihypertensive  effect  compared  to  the  single  components  with  a  maximum 
reduction  of  MAP  of  about  –  53  mmHg.  A  slight,  significant  increase  in  heart  rate  (~ 20  bpm) was 
observed during the combination treatment, which recovered to control values in the washout period. 
The effects of telmisartan and of hydrochlorothiazide on diuresis were confirmed in SHR rats. On day 
5  of  the  administration  of  telmisartan,  hydrochlorothiazide  and  combination,  blood  pressure  was 
significantly reduced compared to untreated animals (average = 189 mmHg) by 34, 21 and 47 mmHg 
respectively. 
The  combination  of  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  showed  no  significant  effect  on  urinary 
excretory  function  with  the  exception  of  ameliorating  the  alteration  in  potassium  balance  when 
compared with hydrochlorothiazide alone. 
In addition, the effect of telmisartan with and without hydrochlorothiazide on action potential duration 
(APD) was investigated in dog Purkinje fibres under normal (1 Hz) and low (0.2 Hz) stimulation rates. 
Both  telmisartan  and  the  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination  had  no  effects  on  APD  up  to 
concentrations of 3 µM. At higher concentrations (> 10 µM), a dose-dependent increase of APD was 
observed, but no early after depolarisations occurred. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Telmisartan 
Pharmacokinetic studies of telmisartan were performed in mice, rats, rabbits and dogs. Telmisartan 
was rapidly absorbed after oral administration in all species (tmax values were 2 hours in mice, rats 
and  dogs and 7  hours  in rabbits). Bioavailability was 56-75% in mice, 66% in rats and 14-22% in 
dogs. 
Species  comparison  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  of  telmisartan  after  oral  administration  of  1 
mg/kg  to  mice,  rats,  rabbits  and  dogs  are  given  in  the  table  below  (pharmacokinetic  parameters  in 
man after oral administration of 40 mg of telmisartan are given for comparison): 
Cmax (ng/ml) 
Cl/f (ml/min/kg) 
t1/2 (h) 
AUC (ng*h/ml) 
Mouse 
162 
12 
7 
1365 
Rat 
44 
27 
11 
732 
Rabbit 
133 
5 
13 
3410 
Dog 
52 
50 
8 
334 
Man 
45 
19 
14 
491 
Binding  of  telmisartan  to  plasma  proteins  is  high  (99.0  -  99.6%).  The  extent  of  plasma  protein 
binding  was  similar  in  rats  and  humans  with  about  0.4%  of  telmisartan  remaining  unbound.  The 
volume of distribution of telmisartan was about 3-5 fold higher when compared to total body water 
(5.3  l/kg  in  rats,  1.7-3  l/kg  in  dogs),  indicating  a  preferential  distribution  of  the  product  into  the 
tissue.  Elimination  half-life  of  telmisartan  from  plasma  after  oral  administration  ranged  from  11 
hours (in mice) to 14 hours (in dogs).  
Tissue distribution was examined by whole body autoradiography in rats. Radioactivity was mainly 
located in the liver. Radioactivity in the central nervous system was only between 1/20th and 1/30th of 
those in blood. After 8 hours, most of the tissues were free of radioactivity except the liver and the 
intestine. 
5/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In pregnant rats, telmisartan and/or its metabolites crossed increasingly the placenta with increasing 
time of gestation, so that when applied at day 18 of pregnancy, the foetus had a higher concentration 
than  the  maternal  blood.  Radioactivity  from  the  foetus  decreased  slowly.  Therefore,  in  pregnant 
women, telmisartan can be expected to cross the placenta. Lactating rats readily excreted telmisartan 
and/or  its  metabolites  into  breast  milk,  and  the  concentration  of  the  radioactivity  was  about  2  fold 
when  compared  to  the  concentration  of  radioactivity  in  plasma.  The  radioactivity  levels  became 
below the quantitable level 72 hours after administration. 
The metabolism of telmisartan was similar in all species and consisted mainly of glucuronidation to a 
1-O-acylglucuronide.  Telmisartan  is  glucuronidated  by  a  member  of  the  UGT1-gene  family  of  the 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferases.  Telmisartan  circulated  preferentially  (80-90%)  as  parent  compound 
in the plasma of most species. In male rats treated orally with 25-mg/kg/day telmisartan for 3 days, 
no evidence for enzyme induction by telmisartan was observed.  
The major route of elimination of orally or intravenously administered telmisartan was via the faeces 
(> 98% of the dose) via biliary elimination of the 1-O-acylglucuronide telmisartan. Only very small 
amounts  (< 1%) of the dose underwent a  renal elimination. The  major portion of the compound is 
excreted within 24 hours after oral administration. 
Telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
A  possible  interaction  of  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  was  studied  in  rats  and  dogs  after 
single  oral  dosing.  The  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination  was  administered  in  rats  at  a 
respective  dose  of  3/10  mg/kg  and  in  dogs  at  a  dose  of  1/0.3  mg/kg.  The  pre-clinical 
pharmacokinetic  data  did  not  completely  support  the  lack  of  interaction  between  telmisartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide  in  rats  and  dogs.  In  fact,  hydrochlorothiazide  impaired  the  clearance  and 
prolonged the elimination t
1/2 (half-life) of 3 mg/kg telmisartan in the rat. The historical controls were 
given 1 mg/kg telmisartan. In this species the pharmacokinetics of telmisartan is not linear, clearance 
and volume of distribution changing with dose. In the dog the mean telmisartan clearance was lower 
and exposure was higher than in the historical group when hydrochlorothiazide was co-administered. 
In  the  rat  co-treatment  with  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  increases  the  AUC  of  telmisartan  and 
reduces  the  clearance.  In  the  dog  AUC  data  following  administration  of  telmisartan  alone  or  in 
combination  with  hydrochlorothiazide  do  not  clarify  whether  there  is  a  significant  effect  of 
hydrochlorothiazide on the pharmacokinetics of telmisartan. However, it is noteworthy that human 
data  following  single  administration  of  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  did  not  show  any 
significant interaction between the two chemicals. In the human study, the point estimates for both 
AUC  and  C
  of  the  combination.  Although  the 
90 %  confidence  interval  limits  were  outside  the  bioequivalence acceptance range of 0.8 –  1.25, it 
was  concluded  that  the  small  average  increase  of  7  %  in  AUC  and  C
  of  telmisartan  on  co-
administration with hydrochlorothiazide does not indicate a relevant effect of hydrochlorothiazide on 
the pharmacokinetics of telmisartan. 
  are  close  to  1.0,  with  7  %  higher  AUC  and  C
max
max
max
Toxicology 
Telmisartan 
The  toxicity  of  single  doses  of  telmisartan  has  been  investigated  in  rats  (after  oral  and  IV 
administration)  and  in  dogs  (after  oral  administration).  No  clinical  signs  of  toxicity  and  no  deaths 
occurred at doses of up to 2000 mg/kg/die. After intravenous administration of telmisartan to rats the 
minimum lethal IV dose was 200 mg/kg, and deaths occurred due to circulatory collapse. 
The  main  findings  observed  in  the  chronic  toxicity  studies  were  renal  toxicity  (increased  plasma 
urea, plasma creatinine and serum potassium at doses > 4 mg/kg/day in rats and > 5 mg/kg/day in 
dogs)  and  gastrointestinal  toxicity  (duodenal  mucosal  erosions  and  ulcers  in  rats).  Renal  tubular 
damage  was  observed  in  dogs  at  doses  >  5  mg/kg/day.  Telmisartan  induced  also  a  renal 
6/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
juxtaglomerular hyperplasia with hypertrophy of the afferent glomerular arterioles of the kidneys in 
rats and dogs. The renal effects were considered to be caused by a pharmacological action of high 
doses of telmisartan. 
In addition, telmisartan induced decreases in heart weights (this effect has also been observed with 
ACE inhibitors and with other AT1 antagonists) and a decrease in red blood cells parameters in rats, 
mice and dogs. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
In  the  National  Toxicology  Program  of  the  National  Institute  of  Environmental  Health  Science 
(1989), toxicity and carcinogenicity studies of hydrochlorothiazide have been performed in rats and 
in  mice  with  oral  administration  for  3  months  to  2  years.  Hydrochlorothiazide  induced  in  mice 
changes of the urinary bladder (inflammation, epithelial hyperplasia, calculi). In rats, nephrosis and 
mineralisation at the corticomedullary junction of the kidneys already at the lowest tested dose of 25 
mg/kg/day.  After  prolonged  oral  treatment  of  rats  for  periods  up  to  2  years,  hydrochlorothiazide 
induced  severe  chronic  renal  disease  (nephropathy  with  tubular  degeneration,  glomerulonephritis, 
interstitial  fibrosis  and  inflammation,  cysts  in  the  renal  cortex)  with  secondary  parathyroid 
hyperplasia and fibrous osteodystrophia of the bone marrow. Furthermore, calcification was evident 
in  the  media  of  blood  vessels  and  heart  muscle,  stomach  and  alveolar  walls.  In  dogs  after  oral 
administration  for  periods  of  up  to  9  months,  hydrochlorothiazide  induced  enlarged,  hyperactive 
parathyroid glands. 
Telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The  toxicological  profile  of  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  was  examined  in  oral  and 
intravenous  single-dose  toxicity  studies  in  rats  and  mice,  oral  range-finding toxicity studies in  rats 
and dogs, 26 weeks oral toxicity studies in rats and dogs, and a developmental toxicity study in rats. 
All 
the 
levels,  which  fully  explored 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination. 
these  studies  used  dose 
the  potential 
toxicity  of 
Acute oral toxicity of telmisartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide was low in rats and mice. 
In  both  species,  the  maximum  non-lethal  dose,  minimum  lethal  dose  and  approximate  lethal  dose 
(ALD)  exceeded  2000  mg/kg.  The  association  of  telmisartan  with  hydrochlorothiazide  was  only 
moderately toxic after single intravenous doses to rats and mice. The addition of hydrochlorothiazide 
did not change the toxicity of telmisartan observed after oral and intravenous administration.  
The  chronic  oral  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats  treated  for  9  or  26  weeks  with 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  The  main  target  organs  of  the  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
combination in repeated dose toxicity were the kidney and the gastrointestinal tract. Renal changes 
involved  alterations  of  the  juxtaglomerular  apparatus  (hypertrophy  and  hyperplasia  of  the 
juxtaglomerular  cells,  granularity,  vacuolation).  Proximal  tubular  atrophy  was  observed  at 
50 mg/kg/day telmisartan with and without hydrochlorothiazide. With low incidence, gastric lesions 
(erosion, ulceration, inflammation) were observed. Hydrochlorothiazide seemed to enhance slightly 
the gastric toxicity induced by telmisartan. 
The  animals  experienced  a  decrease  in  blood  pressure  and  there  seemed  to  be  a  dose-dependent 
potentiating effect of hydrochlorothiazide on the hypotensive effect of telmisartan. Effects on heart 
rate were not observed. There was a reduction of red blood cell count, haematocrit and haemoglobin. 
Serum  potassium  concentrations  were  decreased  in  the  presence  of  hydrochlorothiazide  alone,  but 
increased  at  doses  of  >  4/1.25  mg/kg/day  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  Increases  in  blood  urea 
nitrogen were observed after doses of > 4/1.25 mg/kg/day of the combination and seemed to be more 
pronounced after addition of hydrochlorothiazide. Increases in serum creatinine were observed after 
50  mg/kg/day  telmisartan  with  or  without  hydrochlorothiazide.  Both  effects  were  reversible  after 
cessation  of  treatment.  Heart  weights  were  decreased  after  doses  of  >  4/1.25  mg/kg/day 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  Overall,  clinical  laboratory  and  pathomorphological  changes  were 
7/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
similar to those observed in previous toxicity studies in rats with telmisartan alone; no new toxicity 
was observed with hydrochlorothiazide. 
the  kidneys  were  observed.  Hypertrophy  and  hyperplasia  of 
In chronic toxicity studies with the combination of telmisartan with hydrochlorothiazide in dogs the 
principal toxicological target organ was the kidney. Degenerative changes in cortical and medullary 
tubular  epithelium  of 
the 
juxtaglomerular  apparatus  accompanied  by  cortical  tubular  hypertrophy,  cortical  tubular  dilatation 
and  cortical  tubular  basophilia  was  observed  in  all  dose  groups.  In  the  chronic  oral  toxicity  study, 
two  dogs  experienced  a  life-threatening  secondary  uremia  (with  gastrointestinal  erosions  and 
ulcerations  and  foci  of  tissue  mineralisation).  In  addition,  the  animals  experienced  a  decrease  in 
blood pressure. Dogs given the telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination at doses of > 1.6/0.25 
mg/kg/day  and  dogs  given  telmisartan  alone  exhibited  decreases  in  red  blood  cell  counts, 
haemoglobin 
all 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combinations at doses of > 1.6/0.25 mg/kg/day. Elevations in serum 
creatinine and potassium were observed. Finally, plasma renin concentrations were increased in all 
groups given telmisartan. 
nitrogen  was 
haematocrit. 
elevated 
Blood 
urea 
and 
in 
It  has  been  suggested  that  renal  toxicity  after  administration  of  AT1  receptor  antagonists  to 
normotensive  animals  may  be  due  to  a  reduction  of  renal  perfusion  secondary  to  systemic 
hypotension,  leading  to  a  decrease  in  glomerular  filtration  rate  and  tubular  urinary  flow  rate  and 
subsequently  to  reduced  creatinine  clearance  and  increased  urea  nitrogen  reabsorption  in  renal 
tubules 
In  conclusion,  in  dogs  the  principal  target  organ  was  the  kidney.  Hydrochlorothiazide  potentiated 
both the hypotensive effect and the renal toxicity of telmisartan. 
Reproduction toxicity studies 
AT1 receptor antagonists are known to decrease placental perfusion and to cause renal damage to the 
rat foetus during late gestation and early lactation. In the rat, telmisartan-concentrations increased in 
the foetal compartment during late pregnancy from about 27% on day 12 of pregnancy to about 60% 
on  day  18.  Moreover  telmisartan  was  excreted  in  milk  (rats)  at  concentrations  of  1.5  -  2  fold  the 
maternal  plasma  concentration  4  -  8  hours  post  dosing  and  remained  detectable  for  more  than  48 
hours. 
effects  were 
A  slight  maternal  toxicity  was  observed  with  the  combination  of  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
of 
seen.  Therefore, 
embryo-/foetotoxic 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination  for  embryo-/foetotoxicity  resulted  in  an  average 
systemic  exposure  to  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  about    20/10  times  the  systemic  exposure  in 
humans  receiving  80/12.5  mg/kg/day  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  However,  reproduction 
toxicity studies were not performed in rabbits, which have a known higher sensitivity to compounds 
acting on the renin-angiotensin system. 
effect 
toxic 
level 
the 
no 
In humans this class of drugs is expected to be foetotoxic and is therefore contraindicated during the 
second and third trimester of pregnancy. 
Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity studies 
Mutagenicity or carcinogenicity studies were not conducted with the combination of telmisartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide, since these studies were previously conducted for both products separately and 
there is no evidence for relevant mutagenic and carcinogenic effect for these two products. 
Environmental risk assessment 
Tests  on  the  biodegradability  and  on  ecological  effects  of  telmisartan  suggest  that  there  is  no 
significant impact of its proposed introduction. 
8/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Telmisartan  increases  plasma  renin  activity  and  angiotensin II  concentrations.  Angiotensin  II  is  a 
mitogen, stimulating the growth, for example, of vascular smooth muscle cells and cardiomyocytes, 
the  release  of  growth  factors  and  the  expression  of  certain  proto-oncogenes.  Elevated  plasma 
angiotensin II  concentrations  could  stimulate  other  angiotensin  II  subtypes  receptors  than  to  the 
subtype 1 (e.g. AT2 or AT4 receptors), possibly leading to undesirable effects. Therefore, there is a 
theoretical  possibility  that  telmisartan  could  evoke  undesirable  -  especially  growth  stimulating  - 
effects by increasing plasma angiotensin II.  
The  pharmacokinetics  data  suggest  that  hydrochlorothiazide  impairs  the  clearance  and  prolongs 
telmisartan elimination  half-life in the rat. In the dog the mean clearance of telmisartan was clearly 
lower  and  exposure  in  terms  of  Cmax  and  AUC  higher  when  telmisartan  was  co-administered  with 
hydrochlorothiazide than in the historical group. 
Acute oral toxicity of telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide was studied in rats and mice. In both species, 
the  maximum  non-lethal  dose,  minimum  lethal  dose  and  approximate  lethal  dose  (ALD)  exceeded 
2000 mg/kg. The addition of  hydrochlorothiazide did not change the toxicity profile of telmisartan 
observed after oral and intravenous administration.  
Chronic oral toxicity study in rats. Clinical laboratory and histopathological changes were similar to 
those  observed  in  previous  toxicity  studies  in  rats  with  telmisartan  alone;  no  new  toxicity  was 
observed  with  hydrochlorothiazide,  except  for  a  slightly  increased  severity  of  gastric  mucosal 
damage.  The  No  Effect  Level  (NOEL)  in  the  26-week  chronic  toxicity  study  in  rats  was  0.1/0.03 
mg/kg/day telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  
Chronic oral 26-week toxicity study in dogs. No new manifestations of toxicity were seen after the 
addition  of  hydrochlorothiazide  in  dogs,  in  which  nephrotoxicity  was  and  remained  the  major 
adverse effect. The antagonists of subtype 1 of the angiotensin II receptor (AT1 antagonists) seem to 
reduce  -  via  a  reduced systemic blood pressure -  both glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and tubular 
urine  flow  rates,  thereby  leading  to  a  reduced  creatinine  clearance  and  an  increased  urea  nitrogen 
reabsorption in the renal tubules, respectively. These effects occur in the absence of renal damage. 
Histopathological  evidence  of  renal  injury  induced  by  AT1  receptor  antagonists  is  consistent  with 
reduced renal perfusion as a consequence of hypotension, leading to decreased renal perfusion and 
tubular  hypoxia  with 
the 
cellular  degeneration 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination induced juxtaglomerular cell hyperplasia. The NOTEL 
for  the  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  combination  in  dogs  was  0.25/0.08  mg/kg/day,  based  on 
clinical pathology as well as macroscopic and microscopic evaluation. 
and  necrosis.  Furthermore, 
tubular 
Peri- and post-natal toxicity in rats. Angiotensin receptor antagonists are known to decrease placental 
perfusion and to cause renal damage to the rat foetus during late gestation and early lactation. Slight 
maternal toxicity was seen at telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide doses of 15.0/4.7 and 50.0/15.6 mg/kg 
(weight gain, body weight and food consumption). The NOTEL for embryo-foetal toxicity is about 
6/12  times  the  maximum  human  recommended  dose  of  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide.  This  dose 
resulted  in  mean  exposure  to  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  about  20/10  times  the  systemic 
exposure  in  humans  receiving  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  (80/12.5  mg/day).  Since  maternal 
toxicity  is  easily  induced  in  rabbits  by  compounds  acting  on  the  renin-angiotensin  system,  the 
animals would tolerate only very low doses of the telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination. 
No  carcinogenicity,  mutagenicity,  or  fertility  studies  were  conducted  with  the  combination  of 
telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide,  since  these  studies  were  previously  separately  conducted  for 
telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide and the two products are reported not to interact in humans.Part 
IV: Clinical aspects 
9/20   
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Telmisartan 
The pharmacodynamic profile of telmisartan in humans has been established through a program of 
23  studies  involving  384  healthy  volunteers  and  patients.  These  studies  showed  that  telmisartan 
dose-dependently  inhibited  the  pressor  response  to  angiotensin II  infusion.  In  addition,  telmisartan 
induced  a  significant  increase  of  sodium  and  potassium  urine  excretion.  Finally  in  several  studies, 
plasma renin activity and plasma angiotensin II levels increased. 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide  is  a  diuretic,  widely  used  in  therapeutics  as  an  antihypertensive  agent  that 
increases  sodium,  chloride,  water  and  potassium  excretion,  and  produces  a  mild  but  progressive 
volume  contraction  and  secondary  activation  of  the  renin  angiotensin  system.  The  blood  pressure 
lowering effects require several weeks to reach a maximum. 
Telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide 
The  combination  of  telmisartan  with  hydrochlorothiazide  (40  mg/12.5  mg  and  80  mg/12.5  mg)  is 
expected  to  benefit  patients  with  hypertension  who  are  not  adequately  responsive  to  telmisartan 
alone. 
Pharmacokinetics 
telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  are  already 
The  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  both 
characterised. Three additional pharmacokinetic studies in healthy men and women volunteers aged 
between  18  and  55  years  have  been  performed.  These  studies  show  that  the  disposition  of 
hydrochlorothiazide  is  not  significantly  affected  by  the  co-administration  of  telmisartan.  The 
disposition of telmisartan is variable and possibly non-linear and it was not significantly affected by 
co-administration of hydrochlorothiazide. 
As  previously  stated  for  telmisartan,  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment 
showed an increase in absolute bioavailability up to nearly 100%. In patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic  impairment  the  posology  should  not  exceed  40 mg/day  of  telmisartan.  In  addition, 
telmisartan should not be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
• 
Interaction studies 
A  study  (U96-3069)  designed  according  to  a  three-way  crossover  protocol  studied  a  possible 
pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide.  The  study  U96-3069 
compared  the  steady  state  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan  (160  mg,  as  two  80  mg  tablets)  and 
hydrochlorothiazide  (25  mg)  once  daily  either  singly  or  concurrently.  Each  treatment  was 
administered for seven days with a 14 days washout period in between. 
Absorption of telmisartan after the last dose on day 7 was rapid after either monotherapy (tmax 0.88 h) 
or  in  combination  with  hydrochlorothiazide  (tmax  0.9  h).  Thereafter,  the  plasma  concentrations  of 
telmisartan declined according to a biexponential elimination with a terminal elimination half-life t1/2 
of about 22 h regardless of the treatment. Due to wide inter-subject variability, equivalence for the 
mean trough concentrations between days 6-8 was not demonstrated at the -20% to +25% acceptance 
limits, but only at -30% to 43%. This is considered acceptable since telmisartan due to wide inter-
subject variability and considering that telmisartan has a wide therapeutic window.  
Mean trough hydrochlorothiazide plasma concentrations at days 6, 7 and 8 were similar for mono- 
and combined therapy. The steady state was reached by day 7 in both cases. On day 7, after the last 
10/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose, mean plasma concentration of hydrochlorothiazide peaked at approximately 2 h, and thereafter 
declined  biexponentially  with  a  terminal  elimination  t1/2  of  about  10  h.  The  mean  bioavailability 
parameters  and  urinary  excretion  of  hydrochlorothiazide  did  not  change  when  telmisartan  was  co-
administered.  Inter-subject  variability  was  low  when  hydrochlorothiazide  was  administered  alone 
(20% for AUC24h and 25% for Cmax) and slightly higher when it was administered with telmisartan. 
Telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  AUC24h  and  Cmax  tended  to  be  higher  in  females  than  males 
with both treatments, suggesting no apparent drug interaction in either sex. 
A further analysis of the data from study U96-3069 showed that the point estimates (mean treatment 
ratios) for both AUC and Cmax were close to 1.0, with 7 % higher AUC and Cmax of the test treatment 
(telmisartan with hydrochlorothiazide). Due to the high intra-individual variability of 58 % of Cmax 
and the limited number of subjects (12 healthy volunteers completing all treatment periods) the 90 % 
confidence intervals limits were outside the bioequivalence acceptance range of 0.8 - 1.25. However, 
taking into account the wide therapeutic margin of telmisartan, the average increase of 7% in AUC 
and  Cmax  of  telmisartan  observed  during  the  co-administration  with  hydrochlorothiazide  was  not 
considered  has  having  clinically  relevant  consequences  and  did  not  indicate  an  important  effect  of 
hydrochlorothiazide on the pharmacokinetics of telmisartan.  
In conclusion, the study showed that at doses of 160 mg telmisartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide 
over seven days there was no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction between telmisartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide  when  co-administered.  There  was  a  gender  effect  in  terms  of  non-significant 
higher values for area under the curve (AUC) and Cmax in female subjects for both drugs, especially 
for telmisartan. 
• 
Bioequivalence studies: 
Two  studies  (U00-1275,  and  U99-1401)  addressing  the  bioequivalence  of  the  fixed  dose 
combination 
80 
mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg  and  of  the  compounds  given  separately  at  the  same  doses 
(telmisartan 40-mg or 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) have been performed. 
40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 
telmisartan 
telmisartan 
12.5 mg 
and 
of 
the 
relative 
investigated 
bioavailability 
study  U00-1275 
The 
telmisartan 
40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg  as  a  fixed  dose  combination  in  comparison  with  the  two 
components. This single dose open-label randomised four ways crossover study involved 32 subjects 
(16 males and 16 females). Cmax, AUC and the amount of hydrochlorothiazide excreted unchanged in 
urine over 48 hours (Ae48h) were the primary variables for evaluating the bioequivalence of the fixed 
dose  combination  tablets  (test  formulation)  and  the  separate  tablets  (reference  formulation).  The 
primary  criterion  for  the  assessment  of  hydrochlorothiazide  bioequivalence  was  conventional 
average bioequivalence. The primary criterion for the assessment of telmisartan bioequivalence was 
averaged  scaled  bioequivalence.  Secondary  criteria  were  conventional  average  bioequivalence  and 
individual bioequivalence.  
of 
the  bioequivalence  range.  Individual  equivalence  with  respect 
For  hydrochlorothiazide  the  assessment  of  standard  average  bioequivalence  showed  that  the 
confidence  intervals  of  standard  average  bioequivalence  fell  in  the  bioequivalence  range  of  80%  to 
125%.  For  telmisartan  the  confidence  intervals  for  AUC  also  fell  in  this  range  (standard  average 
bioequivalence  assessment)  while  the  confidence  interval  for  C
max  extended  slightly  over  the  upper 
bounds  of 
the  primary 
pharmacokinetic parameters (secondary  analysis) could also not be shown for telmisartan. However, 
average  scaled bioequivalence was shown with respect to both primary variables, and the secondary 
variable AUC
A  similar  study  (U99-1401)  investigated  the  relative  bioavailability  of  80  mg  telmisartan  and 
12.5 mg  hydrochlorothiazide  as  a  fixed  dose  combination  in  comparison  to  the  individual  80  mg 
telmisartan and 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide tablets, in 20 healthy subjects. As in the previous study 
the  primary  pharmacokinetic  variables  were  AUC  and  Cmax  (for  both 
telmisartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide)  and  Ae48h  (for  hydrochlorothiazide  only).  Again,  conventional  average 
bioequivalence  was  evaluated  with  respect  to  hydrochlorothiazide pharmacokinetic variables. With 
respect  to  telmisartan  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  conventional  average  bioequivalence,  average 
to 
.  
24h
11/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
scaled bioequivalence, and individual bioequivalence (as secondary analysis) were evaluated, using a 
moment-based  scaled  approach.  The  test  (fixed  dose  combination)  and  reference  formulations 
(individual  tablets)  were  considered  has  being  bioequivalent  with  respect  to  all  pharmacokinetic 
variables.  For  telmisartan,  bioequivalence  was  shown  for  AUC  and  Cmax,  using  the  average  scaled 
bioequivalence  approach.  Bioequivalence  could  also  be  shown  for  AUC  and  Cmax  using  the 
individual  equivalence  approach  and  for  AUC  (and  the  secondary  variable  AUC48h  but  not  Cmax) 
using  the  criterion  of  conventional  average  bioequivalence.  Hydrochlorothiazide  disposition  was 
similar to the pharmacokinetic profile in previous studies. 
In  summary,  all  three  studies  taken  together,  confirm  the  pharmacokinetic  findings  already  noted 
with  telmisartan,  namely  variable  telmisartan  plasma  concentrations,  non-linear  pharmacokinetic 
properties  and  a  long  mean  terminal  elimination  half-life.  No  relevant  pharmacokinetic  interaction 
between telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide was detected and two studies consistently demonstrated 
bioequivalence  of  both  fixed  combinations  with  the  single  tablets  of  the  respective  individual 
components. Thus, the interaction potential for the combination of both drugs in healthy subjects is 
thought not to differ from the interaction potential of the individual drugs. There remains a gender 
effect for telmisartan with AUC and Cmax higher in females than in males. Since this effect appears to 
be consistent between the fixed combination and the monotherapy tablets this finding does not seem 
to be related to the new formulation.  
Clinical efficacy  
The  rationale  for  the  doses  submitted  in  this  application  are  related  to  the  second-line  strategy 
proposed  for  the  combination.  The  dose  of  telmisartan  40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg  is 
proposed  in  patients  not  adequately  controlled  by  40  mg  telmisartan  alone.  Similarly,  the  dose  of 
telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg is proposed as an additional step for the subjects not 
adequately controlled by 80 mg telmisartan monotherapy. 
The  efficacy  of  the  fixed  dose  combinations  telmisartan  40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg  and 
telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg was investigated in 4 clinical trials: one dose-finding 
study  using  a  4x5 factorial  design, one titration study and two active-controlled studies in patients 
not adequately controlled with telmisartan monotherapy (non-responders studies). The dose response 
study  and  the  two  non-responder  studies  are  considered  to  be  pivotal  for  efficacy  in  respect  to 
telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  (40 mg/12.5 mg  and  80 mg/12.5 mg).  The  design  of  these 
studies fulfils the requirements  mentioned  in the CPMP  Guideline on hypertension for second line 
fixed  combinations.  Altogether  2272  patients  with mild to  moderate  hypertension  were enrolled  in 
these controlled trials. A total of 818 patients were included in non-responder clinical trial of which 
406  patients  received  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  (246  patients  the  association  of 
telmisartan 
telmisartan 
12.5 mg 
40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg). 
80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 
patients 
159 
and 
All efficacy studies were conducted in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension. In the 
main  efficacy  studies,  the  primary  endpoint  was  the  effect  on  supine  diastolic  blood  pressure  at 
trough,  measured  as  the  mean  change  from  baseline  at  study  endpoint.  The  results  were  analysed 
using the intent to treat population. 
The  long-term  safety  (and  efficacy)  of  the  fixed  combinations  was  investigated  in  two  open  label 
studies. 
Dose response study 
In order to be certain of finding the appropriate combinations of dose a dose-response study (U97-
3070) using a multi factorial design has been conducted on a double blind, randomised and placebo-
controlled basis. The multi factorial design is a 4 x 5 factorial design (20 different treatment groups), 
which  aimed  at  identifying  the  dose  combinations  of  telmisartan  (0,  20,  40,  80,  160  mg)  and 
hydrochlorothiazide (0, 6.25, 12.5, 25 mg), which were more effective than either of the individual 
components,  and  were  safe  in  patients  with  mild-moderate  essential  hypertension.  The  study  was 
12/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
planned to assign 75 patients to the doses considered most important, i.e. placebo, telmisartan 40 and 
80  mg,  hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg, 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  40/12.5  mg,  and 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  80/12.5,  and  only  20  or  30  patients  per  arm  were  assigned  to  the 
remaining 14 regimens. 
The  fixed  dose  combination  of  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  40 mg/12.5 mg  and  80 mg/12.5 mg 
are more effective than either individual component with respect to supine SBP and DBP (see table).  
Comparison of mean changes from baseline in trough supine blood pressure (mmHg) of intent-
to-treat patients in the six key treatment groups 
Treatment Comparison 
T40 vs. Placebo 
T80 vs. Placebo 
H12.5 vs. Placebo 
T40/H12.5 vs. T40 
T40/H12.5 vs. H12.5 
T80/H12.5 vs. T80 
T80/H12.5 vs. H12.5 
1 One-sided tests. 
Diastolic BP 
Difference              p-value1 
(mmHg) 
- 6.9                       < 0.01 
- 7.7                       < 0.01 
- 3.5                       < 0.01 
- 1.9                         0.08  
- 5.3                       < 0.01 
- 3.4                       < 0.01 
- 7.6                       < 0.01 
Systolic BP 
Difference                p-value1 
(mmHg) 
-  9.3                         < 0.01 
- 12.5                        < 0.01 
-  4.0                            0.04 
-  6.6                         < 0.01 
- 11.9                        < 0.01 
-  8.5                         < 0.01 
- 17.0                        < 0.01 
When comparing the reductions in supine trough DBP of the active monotherapies with that of the 
placebo treatment group, each was superior (p< 0.01) with incremental reductions of 6.9, 7.7 and 3.5 
mmHg for telmisartan 40 mg or 80 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg, respectively. Telmisartan 
80 mg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg was also superior (p < 0.01) to both of the 
component monotherapies for reduction in DBP. The mean increases in the reduction in DPB were 
3.4  and 7.6 mmHg over telmisartan 80  mg and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg, respectively. For the 
combination therapy of telmisartan 40 mg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg, there 
was  a  significant  increase  in  the  mean  reduction  in  supine  DBP over hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg 
but  not  over  telmisartan  40  mg  alone.  The  number  of  patients  enrolled  in  the  study  might  not  be 
sufficient  to  have  a  sufficient  power  to  demonstrate  a  significant  difference  compared  to  40  mg 
telmisartan. The combinations telmisartan 80 mg in combination with hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg 
and telmisartan 40 mg with hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg were superior to both of its monotherapies 
for supine SBP.  
The  same  effect  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  is  reported  on  standing  DBP  and  SBP.  However, 
these effects are observed also in a small number of patients exposed to the fixed dose combination 
telmisartan 20 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (see table below). Moreover, hydrochlorothiazide 25 
mg reduced trough supine SBP and DBP with the same effect as telmisartan. 
Adjusted mean changes from baseline in trough supine BP (mmHg) in each treatment group. 
13/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of intent-to-treat patients in the six key treatment groups with control of diastolic 
BP1, adequate systolic BP response2, and full diastolic blood pressure response3 
SBP 
Adequate 
Response1  
Telmisartan (mg)  
 0         40          80 
DBP Control2 
Full DBP Response3 
Telmisartan (mg) 
     0          40           80 
Telmisartan (mg) 
    0         40           80 
29%     60%      66% 
36%    81%**   85%** 
29%       67%        69% 
 21%        49%         55% 
HCTZ(mg)        
0      
HCTZ(mg)   
12.5 
1Control defined as a trough supine DBP<90 mmHg 
2Adequate response defined as ≥ 10 mmHg reduction from baseline in trough supine SBP 
3Full response defined as ≥ 10 mmHg reduction in trough supine DBP from baseline and/or trough 
supine DBP ≤ 90 mmHg 
**p ≤ 0.01 for combination vs. both monotherapies (Mantel-Haenszel Test)  
NS not significantly different from one or both monotherapies 
 38%      56%NS    64%NS 
47%    63%NS   79%NS 
The results in the table above show that blood pressure normalisation rate was slightly higher with the 
association of telmisartan 40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (47%) compared to telmisartan 40 mg 
(43%). In addition, there is no more probability of responding for patients in the telmisartan 80 mg or 
telmisartan  40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg  groups  than  in  the  telmisartan  40  mg  group.  The 
analysis of the blood pressure normalisation shows an addictive effect of the single components of the 
proposed  fixed  dose  combination  and  confirms  a  flat  dose-response  curve.  The  blood  pressure 
normalisation rate with the combination telmisartan 20 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (10/21, 48%) 
does not differ from that reported with telmisartan 40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (33/70, 47%) 
and telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (41/73, 56%). (It should be noted that this study 
was performed in de novo hypertensive patients or in patients already receiving monotherapy)  
Therapeutic confirmatory trials 
Pivotal studies 
Documentation of efficacy is based on two pivotal trials of the fixed dose combination telmisartan in 
combination  with  hydrochlorothiazide,  40/12.5  [study  502.323  (U00-3262)]  and  80/12.5  mg  [study 
502.261  (U00-3112)]  compared  with  the  relative  telmisartan  monotherapies.  An  additional  study 
(502.215,  U97-0052)  submitted  in  the  original  marketing  authorisation  applicaton  is  presented  as  a 
supportive study. 
The two main studies adopted the same design and outcome measures. They enrolled patients into an 
open-label  period  of  telmisartan  monotherapy  so  as  to  identify  non-responders  (defined  as  having  a 
DBP  >  90  mmHg  while receiving the  treatment with telmisartan). These patients  were subsequently 
randomised  to  continue  telmisartan  monotherapy  or  shift  to  fixed  dose  combination.  Primary  and 
secondary  outcome  measures  were  respectively  seated  trough  DBP  and  seated  trough  SBP  assessed 
after eight weeks. Demographic characteristics were similar in the two studies and were well balanced 
within studies. In study 502.323, 327 patients were randomised, and 321 constituted the intent to treat 
population.  In  study  502.261,  491  patients  were  randomised,  and  475  completed  the  eight-week 
observation.  
In study 502.323 treatment with fixed dose combination 40/12.5 was significantly more effective than 
telmisartan 40 mg in reducing the mean seated DBP (-3.5 mmHg, 95%CI = [-4.8, -2.1]) and SBP (-
7.4 mmHg,  95%CI  =  [-9.8,  -5.1])  in  non-responders  to  telmisartan  40  mg  alone.  The  percentage  of 
patients  achieving  a BP response was  consistently greater with fixed dose combination 40/12.5 than 
telmisartan  40  mg  alone:  patients  with  normalised  blood  pressure  (SBP  ≤140  mmHg,  and  DBP  ≤90 
14/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
mmHg)  were  51.6%  and  23.5%  in  the  respective  treatment  groups.  The  fixed  dose  combination 
40/12.5 or telmisartan 40 mg had no effect on the change from reference values for seated heart rate. 
In study 502.261 the fixed dose combination 80/12.5 was significantly more effective than telmisartan 
80 mg in reducing mean seated DBP (-3.1 mmHg, 95%CI [-4.2, -2.0]) and SBP (-5.7 mmHg, 95%CI = 
[-7.7, -3.6]) in non-responders to telmisartan 40 mg alone. The percentage of patients achieving a BP 
response was consistently greater with fixed dose combination 80/12.5 than telmisartan 80 mg alone: 
patients with normalised BP were 41.5% and 26.1% in the respective treatment groups. The fixed dose 
combination  40/12.5  or  telmisartan  40  mg  had  no  effect  on  the  change  from  reference  values  for 
seated heart rate. 
The results of this trial confirm that the fixed dose combination 40 mg/12.5 mg and 80 mg/12.5 mg are 
significantly  more  effective  in  reducing  seated  blood  pressure  than  the  relative  telmisartan 
monotherapy in patients who do not respond to telmisartan alone, regardless of age and sex. It remains 
to be established whether the fixed dose combination 40/12.5 or telmisartan 80 mg is the treatment of 
choice in non-responders to telmisartan 40 mg, and the fixed dose combination 80/12.5 or alternative 
antihypertensive strategies is the treatment of choice in non-responders to telmisartan 80 mg. 
In  these  trials,  it  is  noteworthy  that  the  response  rate  was  low  in  both  monotherapy  and  fixed  dose 
combination  groups,  although  normal  blood  pressure  was  achieved  in  one  fourth  of  patients  with 
telmisartan monotherapies and half with the relative fixed dose combination with hydrochlorothiazide. 
Study  502.215,  which  was  submitted  in  the  original  application  for  telmisartan,  is  considered 
supportive  in  respect  of  this  application.  This  was  a  parallel  group,  26 weeks  trial,  in  which  after  a 
placebo run-in phase 363 patients were randomised to one of the following four treatments: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Telmisartan  40  mg  once  daily  (response  based  titration  to  telmisartan  40  mg  and 
hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg per day - 114 patients enrolled in this arm of the study). 
Telmisartan  80  mg  once  daily  (response  based  titration  to  telmisartan  80  mg  and 
hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg per day 121 patients enrolled). 
Hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg  once  daily  (response  based  titration  to  hydrochlorothiazide  25 
mg - 62 patients enrolled). 
Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg once daily (response based titration to hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 
mg and telmisartan 80 mg - 66 patients enrolled). 
The primary outcome measure was the proportion of patients whose last available trough supine DBP 
was < 90 mmHg. The primary end-point analysis looked at the patients who failed to meet the goal on 
monotherapy and then sought the proportion of those patients achieving DBP control. 
The goal response (DBP <90 mmHg) was achieved in 30% of patients receiving initially telmisartan 
40  mg,  39%  of  those  receiving  telmisartan  80  mg,  17%  and  23%  respectively  of  those  receiving 
initially  hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg.  After  titration,  goal  response  was  achieved  by  57% 
(telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  40/12.5),  58%  (telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  80/12.5),  48% 
hydrochlorothiazide  25  mg  and  57%  (hydrochlorothiazide/telmisartan  12.5/80)  of  non-responders  to 
monotherapy.  
This study adds important information to the two pivotal studies. It provides the only data to support 
the possibility of shifting from hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy to the fixed dose combination. This 
was tested only for telmisartan 80 mg, while telmisartan 40 mg, and even telmisartan 20 mg, may well 
achieve similar effects. This is suggested (at least for telmisartan 40 mg) by the fact that there is little 
difference  between  the  BP  lowering  effect  of  the  sequence  hydrochlorothiazide  +  telmisartan  80 mg 
(14.6±0.7  [mean±SE]  mmHg)  and  that  of  the  sequence  telmisartan  80  mg  +  hydrochlorothiazide 
(13.2±1.0  mmHg).  It  also  shows  that  there  is  no  difference  between  telmisartan  40  mg  + 
hydrochlorothiazide  (15.1±0.7  mmHg)  and  telmisartan  80  mg  +  hydrochlorothiazide.  Therefore,  it 
could  be  assumed  that  the  sequence  hydrochlorothiazide  +  telmisartan  40  mg  is  as  effective  as 
hydrochlorothiazide + telmisartan 80 mg. However, this was not tested, and the finding regarding the 
shift from hydrochlorothiazide to hydrochlorothiazide+ telmisartan 80 mg is not adequately backed by 
15/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose-response  testing  to  be  adopted  per  se.  The  sample  size  in  each  group  is  too  small  to draw any 
conclusions. Therefore, the shift to the fixed dose combination telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 
in non-responders to hydrochlorothiazide cannot be recommended. It is noteworthy that in this study 
as  well,  responders  in  terms  of  DBP  (not  of  BP  normalisation)  to  telmisartan  monotherapies  were 
about  one  third  of  the  population.  This  figure  increased  to  half  to  two  thirds  after  adding 
hydrochlorothiazide. 
Finally  no  study 
telmisartan 
80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg  in  patients  who  failed  to  respond  adequately  to  the  fixed  dose 
combination telmisartan 40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg. 
fixed  dose  combination 
the  efficacy  of 
investigated 
the 
Supportive studies: trials conducted in the treatment of severe hypertension 
The  efficacy  of  telmisartan  in  the  treatment  of  severe  hypertension  has  not  been  established.  It  has 
been  assessed  in  the  study  U97-3210.  This  was  an  open-label  randomised  (2:1)  comparison  of 
telmisartan 80 mg (with up-titration to telmisartan 160 mg) and enalapril 20 mg (with up-titration to 
enalapril 40 mg) in 86 patients. The outcome measure was the response to treatment defined as DBP 
<90 mmHg. 
Of  57  patients  entering  the  telmisartan  arm,  25  were  controlled,  13  were  prematurely  discontinued, 
and  19  were  uncontrolled  at  the  end  of  the  study.  The  probability  of  control  on  telmisartan 
monotherapy  was  7.5%.  The  probability  of  control  on  monotherapy  or 
telmisartan  plus 
hydrochlorothiazide  was  33.9%.  The  addition  of  amlodipine  increased  the  probability  of  control  to 
55.2%.  
Both the telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide doses tested are higher than those used in pivotal trials 
of fixed dose combination. In addition, the maximum authorised posology of telmisartan (as stated in 
the Summary of Products Characterisitcs for the medicinal products containing telmisartan) is 80 mg 
once  daily.  In  contrast,  the  comparator  was  used at  the maximal recommended dose of 40 mg. This 
might  explain  why  25  of  the  57  patients  (43.8%)  started  with  telmisartan  had  DBP  controlled, 
compared  with  only  8  of  the  28  patients  (28.6%)  started  on  enalapril.  Treatment  discontinuations 
should be considered as failures: therefore uncontrolled patients are 32/57 (56.1%) in the telmisartan 
group  and  20/28  (71.4%)  in  the  enalapril  group.  The  BP  normalisation  rate  is  not  reported  but  this 
would have been a more suitable outcome measure.  
Clinical safety 
The  telmisartan  +  hydrochlorothiazide  clinical  trials  safety  database  includes  data  from  16 
initial/follow-up  clinical  trials  involving  4697  patients  allocated  initially  to  comparator  (872), 
hydrochlorothiazide  (249),  placebo  (157),  telmisartan  monotherapy  (2584)  and  the  combination  of 
telmisartan  with  hydrochlorothiazide  (835).  The  inclusion  of  open-label  treatment  (follow-up  or  de 
novo)  studies  means  the  telmisartan  safety  database  includes  data  from  27  trials  involving  7968 
patients  divided  by  randomisation  to  comparator  (2060),  placebo  (599),  or  telmisartan  monotherapy 
(5309) and telmisartan in combination with hydrochlorothiazide (2180).  
The incidence of adverse reactions occurring in at least 1% of the population enrolled in randomised 
hypertension  trials  by  general  treatment  groups  (see  details  in  Part  IV  of  this  report)  shows  no 
interaction  between  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide,  the  figures  often  being  lower  for  the  fixed 
dose combination than for the single components. 
Serious adverse reactions/deaths 
The serious adverse reactions considered related to telmisartan or telmisartan + hydrochlorothiazide is 
reported in the table below. 
16/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse reactions considered to be possibly related to the telmisartan or to the 
association of telmisartan with HCTZ 
Trial No. 
Patient No. 
Follow-up Study  Dose 
Reported Term 
502.204 
502.204 
502.207 
502.207 
502.207 
502.207 
502.207 
502.207 
502.210 
502.210 
502.214 
502.215 
502.215 
502.216 
502.209 
502.210 
502.210 
502.210 
502.214 
502.214 
502.216 
502.238 
6096 
6060 
1345 
1003 
1030 
1034 
1121 
1123 
4072 
4239 
2018 
3578 
3189 
3112 
2029 
4069 
4178 
4298 
1813 
1869 
3327 
8086 
502.219 
502.219 
502.220 
502.220 
502.220 
502.220 
502.220 
502.220 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
502.220 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
T80 
T80 + HCTZ12.5 
T40 
T80 + HCTZ12.5 
T80 + HCTZ25 
T80 + HCTZ25 
T80 + HCTZ12.5 
T80 + HCTZ12.5 
T40 
T20 
T40 
T80 
T80 + HCTZ12.5 
T40 
Enalapril (E) 20 
E20 
E5 
E10 
LI20 
LI10 
AT100 
E40 + HCTZ25 
Increased hypertension 
Syncope 
Dizzy 
Atrial fibrillation 
Haematemesis 
Chest pain (cardiac) 
Occasional palpitation 
Atrial flutter 
Angina 
Abducens palsy 
Glaucoma 
Cardiac arrest 
Chest pain (non-cardiac) 
Epistaxis 
Orthostatic circulatory 
dysfunction 
Oedema lips 
Stroke 
Chest pain 
Dizziness/ vertigo 
Constipation 
Chest pain 
Cellulitis right leg 
Right groin adenitis 
Apoplectic insult 
Angioedema facial 
AE day of 
Onset 
27 
273 
100 
101 
332 
174 
174 
137 
92 
38 
136 
13 
27 
37 
1004 
15 
98 
3 
3 
27 
169 
69 
69 
181 
32 
A  total  of  7  patients  treated  with  80  mg  Telmisartan  plus  hydrochlorothiazide  experienced  serious 
the  40 mg 
adverse 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide combination therapy, 7 serious adverse reactions were reported under 
telmisartan monotherapy. 
reactions.  No  drug-related  serious  adverse 
reactions  occurred  with 
Of  17  deaths  reported,  one  case  of cardiac arrest was  considered related  to the intake of telmisartan 
40 mg on day 13. All but three deaths occurred beyond 100 days of treatment. Of the 17 deaths, 13 
occurred in patients on telmisartan monotherapy, four while the patients were being treated with the 
combination of telmisartan with hydrochlorothiazide.  
Safety in special populations 
Patients with diabetes mellitus  
Hydrochlorothiazide is known to alter blood sugar concentrations and possibly affect diabetic control. 
According  to  the  Expert  a  total  of  123  diabetic  patients  were  treated  with  telmisartan  + 
hydrochlorothiazide  in  the  fixed  dose  combination  programme.  Diabetes  mellitus  and  aggravated 
diabetes mellitus were reported in 2 and 8 patients respectively and hyperglycaemia in 2 patients. The 
adverse reactions reported from the individual trial reports do not appear to have been severe, and one 
patient previously controlled on diet was started on an oral hypoglycaemic agent. The point appears 
adequately covered in the proposed labelling. 
Patients with history of renal disease/impairment   
Due to the hydrochlorothiazide component the fixed dose combination should not be used in patients 
with severe renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/mn).  
17/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  30  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hypertension,  renal  hemodynamics  were  studied  in  an  8-week 
randomised double-blind trial (U97-3064): 15 received telmisartan 80 mg and 15 telmisartan 80 mg+ 
hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg. Four patients had a history of calculus and one of renal impairment but 
all patients had normal renal function at baseline. No significant change from baseline was observed in 
all renal functions. Three patients and hyperuricaemia reported gout in four. There were two reports of 
abnormal renal function. 
reported 
Of  the  total  trial  population  treated  with  telmisartan/telmisartan  +  hydrochlorothiazide,  307  patients 
were reported to have a previous renal diagnosis, suggesting possible renal impairment in 51. Edema 
was 
on 
telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide, attacks of gout in one patient on telmisartan monotherapy and three 
on fixed dose combination and hyperuricaemia in none and four patients respectively. There were no 
reports  of  raised  BUN/creatinine  in  the  population.  "Abnormal  renal  function"  was  reported  in  two 
patients receiving telmisartan + hydrochlorothiazide.  
telmisartan  mono 
patients 
eight 
only 
one 
and 
on 
in 
in 
BUN  and  creatinine  measurements  in  the  'renal'  population  were  available  for  124  patients  (33 
females,  91  males)  treated  with  telmisartan  alone,  and  105  (18  females,  87  males)  receiving 
telmisartan  +  hydrochlorothiazide.  There  was  a  marked  increase  in  BUN  in  one  patient  receiving 
telmisartan and in seven patients receiving telmisartan + hydrochlorothiazide. Two marked increases 
in creatinine were observed with telmisartan + hydrochlorothiazide, none with telmisartan alone.  
In the post-marketing study (U00-1835) serum creatinine was available in 316 of 414 patients with a 
history of renal impairment and in 245 it was >1.2 mg/dL at baseline. Almost half the patients had a 
final  measurement  at  the  end  of  treatment,  while  84  and  154  had  first  and  second  follow-up 
measurements.  Of  the  316  patients  with  baseline  creatinine  measurements  140  were  receiving 
telmisartan alone and 176 telmisartan plus a diuretic.  
Incidence  of  adverse  effects  in  trials  of  hypertension  and  hypertensive  non-responders  was 
numerically  lower  in  telmisartan/hydrochlorothiazide  than  in  telmisartan  groups  for  patients  with 
chronic liver disease (37/64, 57.8% and 84/115, 73.0% respectively, in the two treatment groups), with 
gastro-intestinal  dysfunction  (139/215,  64.1%  and  241/343,  70.3%),  or  with  cardiovascular  disease 
(319/496, 64.3% and 533/781, 68.2%).  
Laboratory changes 
Hypokalaemia  as  an  adverse  reaction  occurred  with 
the  12.5  and  25  mg/day  doses  of 
hydrochlorothiazide,  as  expected.  These  are  relatively  low  doses  of  hydrochlorothiazide,  but  still 
result  in  clinically  relevant  changes  in  serum  potassium  in  some  patients.  Laboratory  evaluation  of 
serum potassium also confirmed a dose response in this parameter, as well as elevations in uric acid, 
cholesterol, BUN and possibly glucose.  
Post-marketing experience 
The fixed dose  combination  at both strengths has recently been approved and launched in the USA, 
but  to  date  it  is  too  early  to  have  any  information  on  post  marketing  experience  on  this  fixed  dose 
combination. Telmisartan (in monotherapy) is already marketed in many countries for the indication 
of  essential  hypertension  and  may  be  used  in  combination  with  other  agents  particularly 
hydrochlorothiazide.  There 
therefore,  a  significant  volume  of  combination  data  with 
is, 
hydrochlorothiazide already available with the free combination. 
In conclusion, the incidence of adverse events on active treatment was generally higher than that for 
placebo treatment No new safety signal possibly associated with the combinations other than those for 
telmisartan and hydrochlorothiazide alone has been identified. The overall numbers of serious adverse 
events  distributed  by  age  show  an  increasing  incidence  with  increasing  age.  Assessment  of  the 
individual case report shows no particular pattern relative to age. 
No new safety signal (inconsistent with the safety profile of telmisartan) has been identified from the 
long  term  uncontrolled  safety  data  and  no  data  indicates  that  the  addition  of  hydrochlorothiazide  to 
telmisartan increases noticeably the incidences of adverse reactions. 
18/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  submitted  individual  studies,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  fixed  combinations  of 
telmisartan  40  mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg  and  telmisartan  80  mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg 
do not raise any particular concern in relation to the safety profile. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  a  product  of  acceptable  quality  can  be  manufactured.  From  the 
view  of  pharmaceutical  and  technological  quality  authorisation  of  the  combination  product  can  be 
recommended. There are no unresolved quality issues that have an impact on the benefit/risk balance 
of the product. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
No  new  toxicity,  carcinogenicity,  mutagenicity,  or  fertility  concern  has  been  identified  with  the 
combination  of  telmisartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide.  The  two  products  are  already  widely  used  in 
humans.  The  only  issue  lies  in  the  fact  that  elevated  plasma  angiotensin II  concentrations  could 
stimulate  other  angiotensin  II  subtypes  receptors  than  to  the subtype  1 (e.g. AT2 receptors) possibly 
leading to undesirable effects. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  the  fixed  dose  combinations  telmisartan  40-mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg  and 
telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg was investigated in 4 clinical trials. The dose-response 
study showed a significant benefit for the telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg combination 
compared  to  each  component  treatments  in  mean  change  in  trough  supine  DBP  after  eight  weeks 
treatment. This group also had significant benefits over the component treatments for mean change in 
trough  SBP.  However,  a  significant  difference  in  supine  diastolic  blood  pressure  could  not  be 
demonstrated for the dose combination telmisartan 40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg compared with 
telmisartan  40 mg  monotherapy.  The  difference  became  apparent  after  post-hoc  adjustment  of  trial 
results by race and plasma renin activity.  
The  two  pivotal  non-responder  studies  showed  that  treatment  with  the  fixed  dose  combinations 
(telmisartan 40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg and telmisartan 80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg) 
was  found  to  be  significantly  more  effective  in  reducing  seated  and  standing  DBP  and  SBP.  The 
percentage of patients achieving BP response was consistently greater for patients receiving fixed dose 
combination 
telmisartan 
40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg  than  for  patients  continuing  on  telmisartan  80 mg  or  telmisartan 
40 mg alone, respectively. 
80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 
telmisartan 
12.5 mg 
or 
The response rates with the two fixed dose combinations confirmed the flat dose-response relationship 
observed  with  telmisartan  alone.  This  suggests  that  it  is  unlikely  that  non-responders  to  telmisartan 
40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg respond to the higher dose of the fixed dose combination. In any 
case  no  study  investigated  the  efficacy  of  the  higher  fixed  dose  combination  (telmisartan 
80 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg)  in  patients  who  failed  to  respond  adequately  to  fixed  dose 
combination  telmisartan  40 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg.  Moreover  the  results  in  patients  who 
failed to respond on hydrochlorothiazide can be considered only supportive because of limited number 
of  patients  who  received  additional  telmisartan  to  hydrochlorothiazide.  Therefore,  the  indication  is 
restricted to patients not adequately controlled on telmisartan. 
The  fixed  dose  combination  telmisartan  20 mg/hydrochlorothiazide  12.5 mg  may  be  as  effective  as 
fixed dose combinations including higher doses of telmisartan in reducing both supine, standing SBP 
and DBP. However, the efficacy of this combination has not been adequately tested. The efficacy of 
telmisartan in the treatment of severe hypertension has not been proven. 
19/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
No  new  safety  concern  has  been  identified  in  the  studies  included  in  the  application.  Three  deaths 
occurred after final treatment discontinuation. Their possible relation with the washout period, which 
hypertensive  patients  undergo  before  starting  randomised  treatment,  was  ruled  out.  However,  the 
Applicant has reported four serious adverse reactions during the washout phase of clinical trials.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
On the basis of the data submitted the fixed dose combination of telmisartan (40 mg and 80 mg) with 
hydrochlorothiazide (12.5 mg) has a positive benefit/risk balance in patients not adequately controlled 
on telmisartan alone. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Kinzalkomb in the treatment of essential hypertension was favourable. 
Kinzalkomb  fixed  dose  combination  (40mg  telmisartan/12.5mg  hydrochlorothiazide  and  80mg 
telmisartan/12.5mg  hydrochlorothiazide)  is  indicated  in  patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  not 
adequately  controlled  on  telmisartan  alone.  Therefore  the  CPMP  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
20/20  
           EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
