15 November 2012 
EMA/CHMP/549534/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP Type II variation assessment report  
Micardis, Pritor, Kinzalmono 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/xxxx/WS/0254 
Worksharing applicant (WSA): Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant  to  Article  16  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No1234/2008,  Boehringer  Ingelheim 
International GmbH submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 9 March 2012 an application for a 
variation, following a worksharing procedure according to Article 20 of  Commission Regulation (EC) No 
1234/2008. 
This application concerns the following medicinal products: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
nameCommon name: 
Micardis, EMEA/H/C/000209/WS/0254 
telmisartan 
Kinzalmono, 
telmisartan 
EMEA/H/C/000211/WS/0254 
Pritor, EMEA/H/C/000210/WS/0254 
telmisartan 
The following variation was requested: 
See Annex A 
See Annex A 
See Annex A 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.4 
Variations  related  to  significant  modifications  of  the  SPC 
II 
due  in  particular  to  new  quality,  pre-clinical,  clinical  or 
pharmacovigilance data 
In accordance with Article 46 of regulation EC No 1901/2006, the WSA proposed the update of sections 
4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC in order to include the results of study 0502-0403, a study conducted to 
evaluate  the  safety,  efficacy  and  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan  in  the  paediatric  population. 
Furthermore, the Product Information is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version and 
minor editorial corrections were implemented in section 4 of the Package Leaflet of Micardis, Pritor and 
Kinzalmono, in section 6.4 of the SmPC of Pritor and Kinzalmono, and in section 9 of the outer labelling 
of Kinzalmono and Pritor. 
The  requested  worksharing  procedure  proposed  amendments  to  the  SmPC,  Labelling  and  Package 
Leaflet.  
Rapporteur:   Daniela Melchiorri 
Page 2/18 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
Rapporteur’s  preliminary  assessment 
report 
circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s 
updated 
assessment 
report 
circulated on: 
Request 
for  supplementary 
information  and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteur’s  preliminary  assessment  report  on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s  updated  assessment  report  on  the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
2nd Request for supplementary information 
adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
9 March 2012  
22 April 2012 
25 May 2012 
15 June 2012 
21 June 2012 
15 August 2012 
05 September 2012 
20 September 2012 
20 September 2012 
03 October 2012 
29 October 2012 
9 November 2012 
CHMP opinion: 
15 November 2012 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Telmisartan is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist that lowers blood pressure. The antihypertensive 
effect  of  the  once-daily  dosing  in  patients  with  mild-to-moderate  hypertension  results  in  a  significant 
reduction of sitting, supine and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure, usually with a small or 
no orthostatic change. The usual starting dose of telmisartan is 40 mg once-daily. This dosage reduces 
the  SBP/DBP  by  an  average  of  11.3/7.3  mmHg,  with  80  mg  this  average  is  13.7/8.1  mmHg.  The 
antihypertensive activity occurs within two hours after single-dose administration and is maintained for 
the full 24-hour dosing interval.  
The  proposed  type  II  variation  was  submitted  in  compliance  with  Article  46  of  Regulation  EC  No 
1901/2006 and proposed updates for sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC to include information on 
paediatric use of the products. To support the proposed amendments to the SmPC with regard to use 
in  children  and  adolescents,  the  MAH  conducted  a  prospective,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled, four weeks of treatment trial (study 502.403) in order to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
telmisartan in children and adolescents (6 to <18 years of age) with hypertension. 
Page 3/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  further  aimed  to  characterise  the  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  telmisartan  in 
paediatric  patients  treated  over  four  weeks  with  single,  daily  doses  of  telmisartan  in  order  to  detect 
possible  differences  in  its  pharmacokinetics  between  children/adolescents  and  adults,  as  well  as 
between children (6 to <12) and adolescents (12 to <18). 
The proposed amendments of the Product Information are identical for all three telmisartan containing 
medicinal  products  (Micardis,  Pritor,  Kinzalmono)  and  therefore  are  submitted  through  a  worksharing 
procedure: 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Kinzalmono in children and adolescents aged below 18 years have not been 
established. 
Currently available data are described in section 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology 
can be made. 
The safety and efficacy of Kinzalmono in children and adolescents aged below 18 have not been 
established. No data are available.  
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
…. 
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Kinzalmono in children and adolescents aged below 18 years have not been 
established. 
The blood pressure lowering effects of two doses of telmisartan were assessed in hypertensive patients 
aged 6 to < 18 years (n = 76) after taking telmisartan 1 mg/kg (n = 30 treated) or 2 mg/kg (n = 31 
treated) over a four-week treatment period. After adjustment for age group effects and baseline SBP 
values an average placebo-corrected SBP change from baseline (primary objective) of 8.5 mm Hg was 
observed in the telmisartan 2 mg/kg group, and a -3.6 mm Hg SBP change was found in the 
telmisartan 1 mg/kg group. The adjusted and placebo-corrected DBP changes from baseline were 
4.5 mm Hg and -4.8 mm Hg in the telmisartan 1 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg groups, respectively. The change 
was dose dependent. The safety profile appeared generally comparable to that observed in adults. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
… 
Special Populations 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of two doses of telmisartan were assessed as a secondary objective in 
hypertensive patients (n = 57) aged 6 to < 18 years after taking telmisartan 1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg over 
a four-week treatment period. Pharmacokinetic objectives included the determination of the steady-
state of telmisartan in children and adolescents, and investigation of age-related differences. Although 
the study was too small for a meaningful assessment of the pharmacokinetics of children under 
12 years of age, the results are generally consistent with the findings in adults and confirm the non-
linearity of telmisartan, particularly for Cmax. 
2.2.  Clinical Pharmacology aspects  
2.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  two  doses  of  telmisartan  was  assessed  as  a  secondary  objective  in  a 
prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial study 502.403 in hypertensive patients 
Page 4/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aged 6 to <18 years after taking telmisartan 1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg over a four-week treatment period. 
The  aim  of  this  study  was  to  characterise  the  steady-state  PK  of  telmisartan  in  paediatric  patients 
treated over 4 weeks with single, daily doses of telmisartan to detect possible differences in the PK of 
telmisartan  between  children/adolescents  and  adults,  as  well  as  between  children  (6  to  <12)  and 
adolescents  (12  to  <18).  The  PK  set  comprised  a  total  of  60  patients;  in  57  of  these  PK  parameters 
could  be  derived.  The  following  table  describe  the  distribution  of  these  patients  within  each  dose 
group: 
Pharmacokinetic parameters: 
•  Cmax,ss (maximum concentration of the analyte in plasma at steady state over a uniform 
dosing interval); 
•  Cmin,ss (minimum measured concentration of the analyte in plasma at steady state over a 
uniform dosing interval); 
•  Cpre,ss (predose concentration of the analyte in plasma at steady state immediately before 
administration of the next dose); 
•  Cavg (Average concentration of the analyte in plasma at steady state); 
• 
tmax,ss (time from dosing to maximum concentration at steady state); 
•  AUCtau,ss (area under the concentration time curve of the analyte in plasma at steady state 
over a uniform dosing interval); 
t1/2,ss (terminal half-life of the analyte in plasma at steady state); 
• 
•  MRTpo,ss (mean residence time of the analyte in the body at steady state); 
•  CL/F,ss (apparent clearance of the analyte in the plasma after extravascular administration at 
steady state); 
•  Vz/F,ss (apparent volume of distribution during the terminal phase λz following an 
extravascular dose at steady state); 
PTF (peak trough fluctuation). 
• 
2.2.2.  Results 
The  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  both  dose  strengths  (1  and  2  mg/kg)  are  summarised  in  table 
below.  
Page 5/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High inter-individual variability and considerable overlap between the 1 and 2 mg/kg dose groups were 
seen  i  hypertensive  children  and  adolescents  for  the  two  main  exposure  parameters  AUCτ,ss  and 
Cmax,ss.  The  median  time  to  reach  peak  concentrations  was  short  for  both  dose  strengths.  Steady 
state  t1/2  was  on  average  28.1  h  for  1  mg/kg  and  27.2  h  for  2  mg/kg.  There  was  a  trend  to  non-
linearity with the increase in dose resulting in higher then dose proportional Cmax and AUC and at the 
same time a decrease in CL/F,ss from 745 to 608 mL/min. Comparison of PK parameters of telmisartan 
after  multiple  oral  administration  of  1  mg/kg  or  2  mg/kg  telmisartan  for  4  weeks  among  the  two 
different groups of patients with hypertension (children (6 to <12 years) and adolescents (12 to <18 
years))  was  also  performed.  Children  (6  to  <12  years)  could  not  be  distinguished  from  adolescent 
patients  (>12  to  <18  years)  regarding  dose  normalised  AUCτ,ss,norm  and  Cmax,ss,norm  at  the  low 
dose of 1 mg/kg. At the dose of 2 mg/kg, children had a higher AUCτ,ss,norm and Cmax,ss,norm than 
adolescent patients. At the 2 mg/kg dose CL/F,ss and Vz/F,ss was lower in  hypertensive children but 
there  was  no  difference  found  within  the  age  groups.  However,  in  general,  none  of  these  younger 
patients (age 6 - <12) had AUCτ,ss and Cmax,ss levels exceeding those of the adolescent group. 
The  non-linearity  in  PK  seemed  more  pronounced  for  the  younger  aged  group  (6  to  <12  years), 
especially for Cmax,ss, while for the adolescent hypertensive patients group, Cmax,ss increased nearly 
in  a  dose  proportional  manner.  There  is  a  trend  to  non-linearity  for  AUCt,ss  when  the  dose  was 
doubled from 1 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg, for both groups, but is more evident for adolescents. The CL/F,ss 
seemed  to  be  less  affected  by  the  increase  in  dose  in  the  adolescent  patient  group.  However,  in 
previous  reports  dosages  in  adults  were  not  weight  adjusted.  Looking  at  the  absolute  dosages,  four 
paediatric  patients  at  the  high  dose  strength  of  2  mg/kg  had  a  body  weight  of  ≥90  kg.  Since  the  2 
mg/kg dose was limited to an absolute dose of 120 and 160 mg for younger aged patients and patients 
aged between 12 and <18 years, respectively, patients, with a body weight of ≥90 kg did in some case 
not  receive  the  full  2  mg/kg  dose.  The  non-linearity  might  have  been,  therefore,  slightly 
underestimated.  This  could  also  explain  the  fact  that  for  adolescent  patients  the  non-linearity  almost 
diminished for the dose normalized AUCτ,ss (AUCτ,ss, norm).  No significant  correlation between age 
and  the  PK  parameters  AUCτ,ss  or  Cmax,ss  was  found.  The  conducted  study  502.403  confirmed  the 
non-linearity  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan,  especially  for  Cmax,ss.  This  observation  is 
consistent with findings in adults where the non-linearity in telmisartan PK was mainly related to Cmax 
and  thus  absorption/first-pass  processes.  The  difference  in  the  telmisartan  PK  between  the  two  age 
groups  in  this  pediatric  patient  population  was  modest,  mostly  limited  to  Cmax,ss  (referred  to  dose 
normalized Cmax,ss,norm) and the high dose of 2 mg/kg.  
Page 6/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison with historical data in the adult population: Results obtained from the study 502.403 were 
compared with historical adult PK data from trials 502.202 and 502.203. In trial 502.202, PK analysis 
was conducted in 114 male and female adult hypertensive patients who were treated with doses of 40 
mg/day,  80  mg/day,  or  120  mg/day  over  28  days.  A  dose  of  160  mg/day  was  administered  to  adult 
hypertensive patients in trial 502.203 and plasma concentrations (pre-dose (Cpre,ss) and one hour after 
drug administration (C1h,ss) were  assessed  after  several  treatment intervals.  The  C1h,ss  and  Cpre,ss  at 
Day  28  of  continuous  dosing  from  the  actual  trial  in  adolescents  receiving  2  mg/kg  were,  thus, 
comparable to the historical data in adults. The comparison of PK parameters among the two different 
dose  groups  (1mg/kg  or  2  mg/kg)  in  paediatric  patients  and  adults  is  summarised  in  the  following 
tables: 
On  the  basis  of  the  results  shown  above,  the  MAH  stated  that,  taken  into  account  the  known  high 
inter-individual  variability  in  PK  parameters,  the  exposure  in  the  paediatric  hypertensive  patient 
population  in  this  study  was  comparable  to  exposure  in  an  adult  patient  population.  The  MAH  also 
Page 7/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stated that, although the study was small for a meaningful assessment of the PK of children under 12 
years  of  age,  the  results  are  generally  consistent  with  the  findings  in  adults  and  confirm  the  non-
linearity of telmisartan, particularly for Cmax.  
2.2.3.  Discussion 
Although the MAH concluded that considering the high inter-individual variability in PK parameters, the 
exposure  in  the  paediatric  hypertensive  patient  population  was  comparable  with  that  in  adults,  the 
number of patients in the  younger age group (6 to <12 years) is smaller than that in the adolescent 
group, making the comparison between the two age group not completely reliable. In addition, due to 
this  difference  in  group  size,  the  pooling  of  data  in  the  6  to  <12  group  for  the  comparison  with  the 
adult  population  is  not  considered  adequate  for  a  correct  evaluation  of  the  differences  between  the 
paediatric  and  adult  populations.  Study  population  is  largely  overweight/obese.  The  influence  of 
overweight/obesity  on  PK  parameters  has  not  been  investigated.  Thus,  conclusion  on  the 
transferability  of  PK  data  obtained  in  this  patient  population  to  the  general  European  hypertensive 
paediatric patient population in the normal weight range is not considered possible. 
2.3.  Clinical Efficacy aspects  
2.3.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
The primary objective of study 502.403 was to assess the blood pressure lowering effects of two doses 
of  telmisartan  (1  mg/kg  and  2  mg/kg)  over  a  four-week  treatment  period,  to  assess  the  safety  and 
tolerability  of  the  two  doses  of  telmisartan  and  to  determine potentially  effective  doses  for  paediatric 
patients for future studies. The secondary objectives included determination of the steady state PK of 
telmisartan  in  children  aged  6  to  <18  years;  comparison  of  plasma  PK  parameters  for  telmisartan 
among children in two age groups (6 to <12 years, and 12 to <18 years); and determine if age-related 
differences.  The  main  inclusion  criteria  were:  Male  or  female,  ages  6  to  <18  years;  hypertensive 
patients:  systolic  blood  pressure  (SBP)  ≥   95th  percentile  for  age,  height,  and  gender  based  on  the 
Fourth  Report  on  the  Diagnosis,  Evaluation,  and  Treatment  of  High  Blood  Pressure  in  Children  and 
Adolescents; weight ≥ 20 kg and ≤ 120 kg. 
The study consisted of a two-week washout period followed by a four-week double-blind phase. Dosing 
was  determined  by  body  weight,  after  the  patient  was  stratified  by  age  and  randomised  to  a  specific 
dose  level  (1  mg/kg  or  2  mg/kg)  or  to  receive  placebo.  The  maximum  dose  in  the  telmisartan  “low 
dose” group was 60 mg for children (6 to <12 years old) and 120 mg for adolescents (12 to <18 years 
old).  In  the  telmisartan  high  dose  group  the  maximum  dose  was  120  mg  in  children  and  160  mg  in 
adolescents. 
The CHMP noted that study investigated two dosages of telmisartan (TEL) per kg of body weight: 1 
mg/kg and 2 mg/kg, defined as low and high, respectively. Considering that mean weight was above 
70 kg in all arms, both dosages were substantially higher than the usual dosage in adults (40 mg/day). 
Thus, the reasons underlying the choice of these dosages in the paediatric age are not clear. The MAH 
should justify the dose in the paediatric patients. Given that even the low dosage was actually high, 
the conclusions of the study could be reliable for the safety (AEs incidence should be lower with lower 
doses) but are of limited value for efficacy. This view shared by the MAH who concluded that data are 
not sufficient to recommend the treatment of hypertension with TEL in individuals with age <18 years 
and do not represent a reliable basis for dosage regimen. 
Page 8/18 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was change from baseline in seated systolic blood pressure (SBP) at the end of 
four  weeks  of  treatment.  Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included  change  from  baseline  in  seated 
diastolic  blood  pressure  (DBP)  at  the  end  of  four  weeks  of  treatment  and  blood  pressure  response 
defined as < 95th percentile at the patient’s final visit based on age, height, and gender. Safety was 
assessed  by  monitoring  adverse  events  (AEs),  ECG,  changes  from  baseline  in  pulse  rate,  changes  in 
laboratory  parameters.  However,  the  study  did  not  include  the  list  of  laboratory  parameters  which 
were  monitored.  This  is  an  important  point;  the  lack  of  information  preclude  a  complete  safety 
evaluation. The CHMP believes the calculation of power and sample size was adequate.  Furthermore, 
the  applied  statistical  analysis  appears  acceptable  because  the  report  includes  non-adjusted  result.  A 
total of 77 patients were randomized to one of three treatment groups (Placebo, telmisartan 1 mg/kg, 
or telmisartan 2 mg/kg). There were two protocol amendments. 
The CHMP noted that the rate of discontinuation was slightly higher in the Telm 2mg/kg group (22.6% 
of  patients),  compared  to patients in  the  placebo  group  (12.5%).  The  study  was  conducted  in  Brazil, 
Mexico and US. A large majority of the study population consists of overweight/obese patients enrolled 
in Brazil, Mexico and US. It is questionable if these patients represent the current European population 
of  hypertensive  children  and  adolescent.  No  information  is  given  about  the  selection  criteria  with 
regard  to  possible  causes  of  high  blood  pressure  and  possible  co-morbidities.  The  lack  of  this 
information precludes the possibility to assess if efficacy and safety differed by and/or were dependent 
on the clinical characteristics of the patients.  
2.3.2.  Results 
The  primary  finding  from  this  trial  is  the  effectiveness  of  telmisartan  “high  dose”  (i.e.  telmisartan  2 
mg/kg)  on  lowering  systolic  blood  pressure  (SBP)  at  the  end  of  four  week  treatment  period.  After 
adjusting the age group effect and baseline SBP values in the ANCOVA model, the average change of 
SBP  from  baseline  in  the  telmisartan  “high  dose”  group  was  -14  mmHg.  In  comparison  with  the 
placebo  group,  the  difference  was  -8.5  mmHg  with  the  confidence  interval  of  (-14,  -3)  mmHg.  It  is 
statistically significant at alpha=0.05 with p-value of 0.0027. The average change of SBP from baseline 
in  the  telmisartan  “low  dose”  group  was  -9.7  mmHg.  The  difference  between  telmisartan  “low  dose” 
group  and  placebo  group  was  -3.6  mmHg,  which  is  statistically  insignificant  with  the  confidence 
interval  of  (-9.2,  1.9)  mmHg  and  p-value  of  0.193,  but  clinically  significant.  With  the  hierarchical 
testing  procedure,  statistical  significance  was  achieved  for  the  telmisartan  “high  dose”  group  only  for 
SBP.  
Page 9/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both age by treatment and gender by treatment interaction effects were insignificant in the analyses of 
covariance models. However, relatively significant reduction in SBP among the age 12 to 18 years old 
patients was observed in the telmisartan “high dose” group. In this age group, the average difference 
of  the  change  from  baseline  in  SBP  between  telmisartan  “high  dose”  group  and  placebo  group  was  -
10.28 mmHg in contrast to the younger age group of -1.99 mmHg.  
Secondary efficacy endpoints included: change from baseline in seated diastolic blood pressure (DBP) 
at the end of week 4, and blood pressure response defined as both SBP and DBP <95th percentile at 
the patient’s final visit based on age, height and gender. There was no statistical significance in either 
the telmisartan “high dose” or “low dose” groups at the alpha level of 0.05 (p value= 0.0511, 0.0725) 
for the change from baseline in DBP at the end of Week 4.  
The reduction in the telmisartan “high dose” group was -8.4 mmHg and -8.1 mmHg in the “low dose” 
group  (p-values  less  than  0.1),  after  adjusting  the  age  group  effect  and  the  baseline  DBP  value. 
However, for both the 1 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg doses, both effects were clinically highly significant. This 
tendency  was  confirmed  by  the  longitudinal  analyses  using  all  available  DBP  data.  It  is  of  note  that 
contrary  to  SBP,  there  was  no  dose  related  difference  in  DBP  effect  which  can  be  explained  by  the 
pathophysiology of hypertension in children. 
2.3.3.  Discussion 
The 4-week treatment with TEL induced a blood pressure reduction of 9-13 mmHg in msSBP and of 8-
8  mmHg  in  msDBP  (1  and  2  mg/kg,  respectively).  A  statistical  significant  and  clinically  relevant 
decrease  in  msSBP  (-  14  mmHG)  in  the  Telm2  mg/kg  dose  group  at  4w  was  observed  vs  placebo; 
whereas  no  statistical  significant  difference  was  observed  for  the  1mg/kg  dose,  albeit  there  was  an 
average  reduction  of  9.7  mmHg  vs  placebo.  No  statistical  significant  effects  were  recorded  for 
longitudinal analyses and clinical secondary endpoints. No treatment interaction effect for age, gender 
or weight resulted from analyses of covariance models. However, relatively significant reduction in SBP 
among the age 12 to 18 years old patients was observed in the telmisartan “high dose” group: -10.28 
mmHg compared to placebo vs -1.99 mmHg compared to placebo in the younger age group.   
Overall, the effect of both dosages on blood pressure levels is substantially similar. These results are 
weakly significant due to limited sample size and large variability of blood pressure in paediatric age. 
The lack of a dose-response curve in blood pressure reduction precludes any reliable conclusion about 
Page 10/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the appropriate dosage of TEL in the paediatric age. In summary, no definite findings on efficacy and 
posology in the studied population are available. 
2.4.  Clinical Safety aspects  
2.4.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
All randomised patients who took at least one dose of randomised trial medication were included in the 
safety  analysis  evaluating  primarily  adverse  events,  vital  signs  and  laboratory  tests.  Overall  61 
patients were randomized to active treatment; 16 to placebo. The mean duration of overall treatment 
exposure  was  comparable  for  all  three  groups  (20.6  days  for  telmisartan  1  mg/kg;  20.9  days  for 
telmisartan 2 mg/kg; and 18.4 days for placebo). The overall treatment exposure ranged from one to 
25 days. 
2.4.2.  Results 
The mean duration of treatment was comparable across treatment groups (18.4, 20.6 and 20.9 days 
for placebo, telmisartan 1 mg/kg and telmisartan 2 mg/kg, respectively). 
According to the MAH, the overall occurrence of AEs during the four-week treatment phase was similar 
for the two active treatment groups and consistent with the prescribing information for telmisartan in 
adults. Adverse events were reported in 37 (48.7%) of the 76 patients who received at least one dose 
of  study  medication;  25  (41.7%)  patients  during  telmisartan  1  mg/kg  treatment  (initial  and  target 
doses),  13  (41.9%)  patients  during  telmisartan  2  mg/kg  treatment  (target  dose),  and  five  (31.3%) 
patients  during  placebo  treatment  (initial  and  target  doses).  The  below  table  shows  the  frequency  of 
adverse events by treatment, primary system organ class and preferred terms.  
Page 11/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table on Frequency [N (%)] of subjects with AEs by treatment, primary SOC and PTtreated set 
Adverse events (AEs) experienced during the trial were primarily mild or moderate across all treatment 
groups. There were a total of five (8.3%) patients who experienced AEs of severe intensity, all during 
Page 12/18 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
the telmisartan 1 mg/kg treatment. The AE pattern was similar between both active treatment groups. 
Events  of  headache  and  dizziness  were  reported  at  a  frequency  greater  than  5%  in  both  the 
telmisartan  1  mg/kg  and  telmisartan  2  mg/kg  treatment  groups.  Events  of  cough  were  seen  only  in 
greater  then  5%  of  patients  while  on  telmisartan  1mg/kg  and  only  odynophagia  was  seen  in  greater 
than 5% of patients while in the telmisartan 2 mg/kg group. Drug related events were similar between 
the  two  active  treatments,  with  events  of  headache  and  dizziness  reported  as  related  in  both  active 
treatments,  and  asthenia,  increased  blood  creatinine  and  increased  blood  urea  reported  only  in  the 
telmisartan 2 mg/kg treatment. 
With respect to serious adverse events and deaths, primarily, the AEs in each treatment group were of 
mild or  moderate intensity.  No  fatal  AEs  were  reported  during  study  502.403.  Discontinuation  due to 
AEs was noted only in two (6.5%) patients; both in the telmisartan 2 mg/kg treatment group, but the 
subjects  recovered  from  all  events.  Possible  clinically  significant  abnormalities  were  infrequent.  Four 
(16.7%)  patients  in  the  telmisartan  2  mg/kg  treatment  experienced  an  increase  in  eosinophils in  the 
differential.  One  (6.3%)  patient  experienced  a  decrease  in  glucose  while  on  telmisartan  1  mg/kg 
treatment  and  one  (4.5%)  patient  experienced  an  increase  while  on  telmisartan  2  mg/kg  in  glucose 
values. One (4.5%) patient experienced an increase in blood urea nitrogen. 
A physical exam and ECG were performed at screening and at conclusion of patient participation. Any 
vital signs, physical or ECG findings constituting a worsening from baseline were reported as adverse 
events. No significant changes in pulse rate were observed over the course of the trial. However, the 
study  does  not  include  the  list  of  laboratory  parameters  which  were  monitored.  The  lack  of  this 
information precludes a complete safety evaluation and the CHMP requested this to be provided. 
2.4.3.  Discussion 
High  percentage  of  patients  treated  with  telmisartan  experience  AEs.  The  small  number  of  patients 
(n=57)  and  the  short  period  of  follow-up  (4  weeks)  preclude  any  sound  evaluation  on  the  safety  of 
telmisartan in the paediatric population. Overall, the proportions of patients complaining of at least one 
AE  were  high:  31.3%,  41.7%  and  41.9%  in  the  placebo,  telmisartan  1  mg/kg  and  telmisartan    2 
mg/kg, groups, respectively. Due to the relatively small sample size, particularly in the placebo group, 
any  event  experienced  in  at  least  one  patient  in  placebo,  three  patients  in  telmisartan  1  mg/kg  and 
two patients in telmisartan 2 mg/kg resulted in a frequency greater than or equal to 5%.  
Of  particular  concern  is  the  observation  that  the  already  high  frequency  of  the  AEs  of  the  Nervous 
system  disorders  SOC  in  the  1  mg/kg  dose  telmisartan  group  rised  exponentially.  The  most  common 
adverse  events  observed  in  the  telmisartan  groups  were  headache  and  dizziness.  The  lack  of 
information  on  important  characteristics  of  the  patients  included  in  the  study  (primary  hypertension, 
secondary hypertension) affects the evaluation of the safety profile.   
2.5.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the changes to the Product Information (PI), as described in section below.  
During the procedure, the CHMP requested further amendments to the PI and the following changes to 
the Product Information of Micardis, Kinzalmono and Pritor have been agreed: 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Kinzalmono in children and adolescents aged below 18 years have not been 
established. 
Page 13/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Currently  available  data  are  described  in  section  5.1  and  5.2  but  no  recommendation  on  a  posology 
can be made. 
The safety and efficacy of Kinzalmono in children and adolescents aged below 18 have not been 
established. No data are available.  
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Paediatric population  
The safety and efficacy of Kinzalmono in children and adolescents aged below 18 years have not been 
established. 
The  blood  pressure  lowering  effects  of  two  doses  of  telmisartan  were  assessed  in  76  hypertensive, 
largely overweight patients aged 6 to < 18 years (body weight ≥ 20 kg and ≤ 120 kg, mean 74.6 kg), 
after  taking  telmisartan  1 mg/kg  (n = 29  treated)  or  2 mg/kg  (n = 31  treated)  over  a  four-week 
treatment period. By inclusion the presence of secondary hypertension was not investigated. In some 
of the investigated patients the doses used were higher than those recommended in the treatment of 
hypertension in the adult population, reaching a daily dose comparable to160 mg, which was tested in 
adults.  After  adjustment  for  age  group  effects  mean  SBP  changes  from  baseline  (primary  objective) 
were  -14.5 (1.7)  mm Hg  in  the  telmisartan  2 mg/kg  group,  -9.7 (1.7) mm Hg  in  the  telmisartan 
1 mg/kg  group,  and  -6.0 (2.4)  in  the  placebo  group.  The  adjusted  DBP  changes  from  baseline 
were  -8.4 (1.5) mm Hg,  -4.5 (1.6)  mm Hg  and -3.5  (2.1) mm Hg  respectively.  The  change  was  dose 
dependent. The safety data from this study in patients aged 6 to < 18 years appeared generally similar 
to that observed in adults. The safety of long term treatment of telmisartan in children and adolescents 
was not evaluated. 
An increase in eosinophils reported in this patient population has not been recorded in adults. Its 
clinical significance and relevance is unknown. These clinical data do not allow to make conclusions on 
the efficacy and safety of telmisartan in hypertensive paediatric population. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Paediatric population 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  two  doses  of  telmisartan  were  assessed  as  a  secondary  objective  in 
hypertensive patients (n = 57) aged 6 to < 18 years after taking telmisartan 1 mg/kg or 2 mg/kg over 
a  four-week  treatment  period.  Pharmacokinetic  objectives  included  the  determination  of  the  steady-
state of telmisartan in children and adolescents, and investigation of age-related differences. Although 
the  study  was  too  small  for  a  meaningful  assessment  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  children  under 
12 years  of  age,  the  results  are  generally  consistent  with  the  findings  in  adults  and  confirm  the  non-
linearity of telmisartan, particularly for Cmax. 
Changes  were  also  made  to  the  PI  to  bring  it  in  line  with  the  current  Agency/QRD  template,  which 
were reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The proposed type II variation was submitted to comply with Article 46 of Regulation EC No 1901/2006 
and  to  provide  text  updates  for  sections  4.2,  5.1  and  5.2  of  the  SmPC  to  include  information  on 
paediatric use of the products. To support the proposed amendments to the SmPC with regards to the 
use  of  the  medicinal  product  in  children  and  adolescents,  the  MAH  conducted  the  study  502.403,  a 
prospective,  randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled  trial  with  a  total  duration  of  up  to  6  weeks 
(4 weeks of active treatment) in male and female hypertensive patients aged 6 to <18 years of age. 
The study investigated two dosages of telmisartan (TEL) per kg of body weight: 1 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg, 
defined  as  low  and  high,  respectively.  The  reasons  underlying  the  choice  of  these  dosages  in  the 
paediatric age are not clear and need to be justified. Furthermore, the CHMP noted that no information 
was  given  about  the  selection  criteria  with  regard  to  possible  causes  of  high  blood  pressure  and 
Page 14/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
possible co-morbidities. Thus, based on the initially submitted data it was difficult to assess if efficacy 
and safety differed by the clinical characteristics of the patients.  
The  4-week  treatment  with  telmisartan  induced  a  blood  pressure  reduction  of  9-13  mmHg  in  msSBP 
and of 8-8 mmHg in msDBP (1 and 2 mg/kg, respectively), however, a statistically significant decrease 
in msSBP (- 14 mmHG) was observed only in the telmisartan 2 mg/kg dose group vs placebo; whereas 
no  statistical  significant  difference  was  observed  for  the  1mg/kg  dose,  albeit  an  average  reduction of 
9.7 mmHg vs placebo. No statistical significant effects were recorded for clinical secondary endpoints.  
Furthermore, no statistically significant difference from placebo was observed in either the telmisartan 
“high dose” or “low dose” groups for the secondary endpoint. Similar gains over placebo were achieved 
by  both  TEL  doses.  No  relevant  differences  in  the  effects  of  the  two  doses  on  blood  pressure  levels 
were  observed.  This  observation  further  supports  the  CHMP’s  concerns  that  too  high  dosages  were 
used  in  this  study.  The  lack  of  a  dose-response  curve  in  blood  pressure  reduction  precludes  any 
reliable  conclusion  about  the  appropriate  dosage  of  telmisartan  in  the  paediatric  population.  In 
summary,  the  information  on  the  blood  pressure  lowering  effect  of  doses  of  telmisartan  highly 
exceeding both the recommended and the highest dose of the drug in adult patients is not considered 
relevant to be included in the SmPC section 5.1 as proposed by the MAH.  
The exposure in the paediatric hypertensive patient population was comparable to the exposure in an 
adult patient population receiving approximately the same per kilogram doses, 80 and 160 mg/day. It 
is  noted  that  the  recommended  dose  of  telmisartan  in  the  adult  population  is  40  mg/kg  and  that 
further  increases  up  to  80  mg/kg  are  possible.  Thus,  the  doses  administered  to  the  paediatric  study 
population largely exceed both the recommended as well as the maximal dose in the adult patient.  
The  number  of  children  included  in  the  group  6-<18  years  is  smaller  than  that  included  in  the 
adolescent group and the CHMP concluded that the two age groups cannot be directly compared. The 
study population is also largely obese. The influence of overweight/obesity on PK parameters has not 
been  investigated.  Thus,  a  conclusion  on  the  transferability  of  PK  data  obtained  in  this  population  to 
the  European  hypertensive  paediatric  population  in  the  normal  weight  range  cannot  be  made.  The 
study  also  confirmed  that  the  non-linearity  in  the  pharmacokinetics  of  telmisartan  observed  in  the 
adult population occurs in the paediatric population. The non-linearity for Cmax is more evident for the 
younger group (6 to <12 years) while, the non-linearity for AUCtau,ss, seems to be more moderate. A 
significant decrease in the CL/F ratio is observed with dose escalation in the 6-<12 years old age group 
(727  ml/min  vs  338  ml/min),  whereas  no  limited  and  clinically  insignificant  decreases  in  CL/F  are 
observed in the 12 to <18 years old age group, confirming that non-linearity PK profile is particularly 
evident in the younger age group.  
The  safety  profile  of  telmisartan  in  the  paediatric  population  cannot  be  completely  elucidated  by  the 
CHMP on the basis of  the submitted data, due to the small number of patients (n=57) and to the short 
period  of  follow-up  (4  weeks).  From  the  data  submitted  it  appears  that the  frequency  of  most  of  the 
AEs  in  the  both  telmisartan  treatment  groups  is  higher  than  placebo.  Of  particular  concern  is  the 
observation of the high frequency of AEs of Nervous system disorders.   
Thus, the proposed changes of the SmPC (sections 4.2, 5.1, and 5.2) based on the initial submission 
were not acceptable and requests for supplementary information were agreed by the CHMP. The MAH 
was requested to address the choice of dosage in study 502.403, transferability of the data from study 
population  to  general  European  paediatric  patients  with  normal  weight,  lack  of  information  on 
important  characteristics  of  the  patients  included  in  the  study.  Appropriate  proposal  for  amended 
wording of the Product Information was also needed.  
In  their  response,  the  MAH  provided  responses  to  all  CHMP  objections  especially  with  respect  to  the 
description  of  the  results  from  the  clinical  study  502.403.  The  CHMP  noted  that  no  scientific 
Page 15/18 
 
 
 
 
 
justification for the use of high doses in diabetic nephropathy has been submitted and discussed by the 
MAH.  The  high  doses  were  intended  for  a  different  indication  from  that  currently  approved  for 
telmisartan  and  the  reported  effect  on  BP  values  is  limited  to  the  high  doses  used  and  has  limited 
relevance  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension  in  the  general  paediatric  population.  There  is  also  a 
limitation  on  the  choice  of  patients  with  certain  body  weight.  The  question  of  long-term  effects  of 
telmisartan  on  children  is  unresolved.  On  the  basis  of  these  considerations  the  relevance  of  the 
findings  of  Study  502.403  for  the  treatment  of  paediatric  patients  with  hypertension  is  questionable, 
and the CHMP requested that this should be evident in the wording included in the SmPC section 5.1 
where the indication of the use of supra-therapeutic doses (1 mg and 2mg/kg BW) not recommended 
in  the  treatment of  hypertension  in  the  adult  population  should  be included.  In  addition,  the  wording 
should include the information that the safety of supra-therapeutic doses of telmisartan (1 mg and 2 
mg/kg BW) during long-term treatment has not been evaluated. The mean weight of the patients who 
are overweight should be included and the placebo-uncorrected BP reductions should be mentioned in 
section 5.1 of the SmPC. The MAH complied with this request and proposed an updated wording that is 
considered acceptable by the CHMP (see section 2.5). 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore  recommends  the  variation  to  the  terms  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation,  concerning  the 
following changes: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
C.I.4 
Variations  related  to  significant  modifications  of  the  SPC 
II 
due  in  particular  to  new  quality,  pre-clinical,  clinical  or 
pharmacovigilance data 
In  accordance  with  Article  46  of  regulation  EC  No  1901/2006,  update  of  sections  4.2,  5.1  and  5.2  of 
the SmPC in order to include the results of study 0502-0403, a study conducted to evaluate the safety, 
efficacy and pharmacokinetics of telmisartan in the paediatric population.  
Furthermore, the Product Information is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version and 
minor editorial corrections were implemented in section 4 of the Package Leaflet of Micardis, Pritor and 
Kinzalmono, in section 6.4 of the SmPC of Pritor and Kinzalmono, and in section 9 of the outer labelling 
of Kinzalmono and Pritor. 
The  requested  worksharing  procedure  proposed  amendments  to  the  SmPC,  Labelling  and  Package 
Leaflet.  
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
The  marketing  authorisation  holder  shall  submit  periodic  safety  update  reports  for  this  product  in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided for 
under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
Page 16/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed  in  the  RMP  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  and  any  subsequent 
updates of the RMP agreed by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). 
When  the  submission  of  a  PSUR  and  the  update  of  a  RMP  coincide,  they  should  be  submitted  at  the 
same time. 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received  that  may  lead  to  a  significant  change  to  the  benefit/risk  profile  or  as  the  result  of  an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
In  accordance  with  Article  46  of  regulation  EC  No  1901/2006,  update  of  sections  4.2,  5.1  and  5.2  of 
the SmPC in order to include the results of study 0502-0403, a study conducted to evaluate the safety, 
efficacy and pharmacokinetics of telmisartan in the paediatric population.  
Furthermore, the Product Information is being brought in line with the latest QRD template version and 
minor editorial corrections were implemented in section 4 of the Package Leaflet of Micardis, Pritor and 
Kinzalmono, in section 6.4 of the SmPC of Pritor and Kinzalmono, and in section 9 of the outer labelling 
of Kinzalmono and Pritor. 
The  requested  worksharing  procedure  proposed  amendments  to  the  SmPC,  Labelling  and  Package 
Leaflet.  
Summary 
Please refer to the published CHMP assessment report.
Page 17/18 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Attachments 
1.  SPC,  Labelling  and  Package  Leaflet  (changes  highlighted)  as  adopted  by  the  CHMP  on  15 
November 2012.  
2.  Rapporteur’s preliminary variation assessment report circulated on 25 May 2012. 
3.  Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated on 15 June 2012. 
4.  Request  for  supplementary  information  and  extension  of  timetable  adopted  by  the  CHMP  on  21 
June 2012. 
5.  Rapporteur’s  preliminary  assessment  report  on  the  MAH’s  responses  circulated  on  05  September 
2012. 
6.  Rapporteur’s  updated  assessment  report  on  the  MAH’s  responses  circulated  on  20  September 
2012. 
7.  2nd Request for supplementary information adopted by the CHMP on 20 September 2012. 
8.  Rapporteur’s  preliminary  assessment  report  on  the  MAH’s  responses  circulated  on  29  October 
2012. 
9.  Rapporteur’s updated assessment report on the MAH’s responses circulated on 9 November 2012. 
Page 18/18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
