1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Since the early 1980s, highly purified preparations of IgG for intravenous administration (IVIG) were 
developed  by  a  number  of  manufacturers  whereas  the  first  products  consisted  of  so-called  modified 
products (modification of the Fc-part of the IgG to allow intravenous administration). Nowadays non-
modified, so-called native IVIGs are the standard of care for the replacement therapy of patients with 
primary immunodeficiency and they are part of the therapy regimen of the other indications mentioned 
before.  
Primary Immuno Deficiency (PID) disorders result in increased susceptibility to recurrent infections, 
secondary  to  the  underlying  defects  in  humoral  and/or  cell-mediated  immunity.  To  date,  more  than 
100 different PID syndromes have been reported in the literature. The best described of these include 
X-linked  agammaglobulinemia,  common  variable 
immune  deficiency  disease,  selective  IgA 
deficiency,  severe  combined  immune  deficiency,  chronic  granulomatous  disease,  Wiskott  Aldrich 
syndrome,  X-linked  hyper  IgM  syndrome,  DiGeorge  syndrome,  IgG  subclass  deficiency,  ataxia 
telangiectasia, leukocyte adhesion deficiency, and complement deficiencies. 
Therapeutic  options  for  the  treatment  of  infections  in  PID  include  standard  antibiotic  treatment  and 
intravenous  administration  of  IgG.  Therapeutic  options  for  treatment  of  PID  are  transplantation  of 
bone marrow-derived stem cells, and recently, gene therapy. 
IGIV also has been used in the treatment of secondary immunodeficiencies such as those occurring in 
patients with multiple myeloma and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia, acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) or in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation. 
IGIV also has been used in the treatment of ITP. Therapeutic options for the treatment of ITP mainly 
include intravenous immunoglobulins, oral corticosteroids, anti D-immunoglobulins and splenectomy. 
In addition to its use in therapy for PID and ITP.  IGIV products are also effective in the management 
of immune mediated disorders such as Kawasaki syndrome, and Guillain Barré syndrome. 
The main mechanism of action of immunoglobulin in the case of immunodeficiency is replacement of 
functionally  deficient  immunoglobulins.  In  the  case  of  immune-mediated  diseases  like  ITP,  the 
mechanism  of  action  is  less  well  understood.  Several  mechanisms  have  been  postulated,  such  as 
reticuloendothelial blockade, an increase in T suppressor cells or natural killer cells, and a decrease in 
antibody synthesis. 
About the product 
KIOVIG is a plasma-derived product consisting of a highly purified preparation of human IgG. It is 
supplied  as  a  ready-to-use  liquid  formulation  with  a  pH  of  4.6  to  5.1. 98% of the protein is gamma 
globulin with a normal subclass distribution. The new manufacturing process results in an intact IgG 
molecule with complete functional activity. The final product contains only trace amounts of IgA and 
IgM. Glycine is used as a stabiliser. KIOVIG is supplied in single-dose vials that nominally contain 1 
g, 2.5 g, 5 g, 10 g and 20 g protein per vial.  
The applicant currently has two human normal intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) products on the 
market, both in the USA and in Europe (Gammagard S/D and Endobulin S/D [EU]/Iveegam EN IVIG 
[US]). 
The  submitted  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  (MAA)  concerns  a  so-called  next  generation 
product (KIOVIG) that is a 10% triple virally reduced immunoglobulin (TVR).  
The three dedicated virus inactivation/removal steps consist of: 
• 
• 
• 
solvent/detergent treatment (S/D) 
nanofiltration (35 nm) 
low pH incubation (pH of final product 4.6 to 5.1) at an elevated temperature 
1/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these dedicated steps, the cold ethanol fractionation process also contributes to the virus 
clearance capacity of the process. 
The following indications are applied for: 
Replacement therapy in 
Primary immunodeficiency syndromes such as:  
- Congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia  
- Common variable immunodeficiency 
- Severe combined immunodeficiency 
- Wiskott Aldrich syndrome  
Myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  (CLL)  with  severe  secondary  hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections  
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections  
Immunomodulation - Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in children or adults at high risk of 
bleeding  or  prior  to  surgery  to  correct  the  platelet  count.  -  Guillain  Barré  syndrome    -  Kawasaki 
disease  
Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
The posology is applied for as described in the core SPC for IVIG and is individualised according to 
the clinical condition to be treated. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Drug Substance  
KIOVIG  (IGIV,  10%)  is  manufactured  from  human  plasma  for  fractionation  and  full  details  of  this 
starting material are provided in Baxter’s Plasma Master File which has been submitted to the EMEA 
under the certification procedure. 
Due  to  the  continuous  manufacturing  process  of  KIOVIG  prior  to  the  final  formulation  steps,  no 
distinct intermediate Drug Substance stage is available. For formal reasons a fictitious Drug Substance 
is  defined.  This  is  the  Ultrafiltrate  Concentrate,  a  purified  S/D  treated  and  nanofiltrated  IgG 
concentrate, isolated from human plasma. 
• 
Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  based  on  the  processes  used  to  manufacture  two  intravenous 
immunoglobulin  products,  Gammagard  S/D  and  Endobulin  S/D  for  which  Baxter  holds  Marketing 
Authorisations within the EU. 
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  Ultrafiltrate  Concentrate  is  divided  into  the  production  of  the 
intermediate Precipitate G, which takes place in the three Baxter fractionation sites Los Angeles, Rieti 
(IT)  and  Vienna  (AT),  and  into  its  subsequent  continuous  processing  beyond  the  Ultrafiltrate 
Concentrate  stage  (the  “drug  substance”)  to  the  Drug  Product  at  the  Baxter  facility  Lessines.  The 
production of the intermediate Precipitate G, a raw IgG fraction, starts with controlled thawing of the 
pooled plasma and the separation of the cryoprecipitate. Then, seven different adsorption options can 
be applied to the cryo-poor plasma at each of three Baxter facilities (Los Angeles, Vienna and Rieti) in 
order to remove coagulation factors and antithrombin. These options comprise either no adsorption or 
one adsorption step or diverse combinations of these adsorption steps.  
Usage  of  such  optional  adsorption  is  an  already  approved  practice  for  other  immunoglobulin 
preparations of the applicant which have been on the market for a long time. Factors not adsorbed by 
practising the diverse adsorption options are eliminated from the protein solution by the downstream 
fractionation and purification steps afterwards as shown by the process validation. 
2/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subsequently,  modified  COHN-ONCLEY  cold  ethanol  fractionation  steps  yield  the  Precipitate  G. 
This  is  shipped  to  Lessines  (BE)  where  it  is  further  purified  by  use  of  cation  exchange 
chromatography and anion exchange chromatography.  
Two (of the total of three) virus inactivation/elimination steps, a S/D treatment (using Polysorbate 80, 
TNBP  and  Octoxynol  9)  and  a  nanofiltration,  which  were  validated  according  to  Guideline 
CPMP/BWP/268/95, are included in this downstream purification. 
The manufacture of the fictitious Drug Substance is then finished by ultrafiltration and diafiltration to 
meet  the  final  product  release  criteria  of  osmolality  (240  -  300  mOsmol/kg),  pH  (4.6  -  5.1),  and 
concentration of human IgG (9.0 - 11.0%). 
Control of Materials 
The  KIOVIG  starting  material  human  plasma,  classified  as  source  plasma  or  recovered  plasma, 
originates  from  the  USA,  Germany,  Austria,  Czech  Republic,  Sweden  and  Switzerland.  It  complies 
with the requirements of the Ph. Eur. Monograph Human Plasma for Fractionation, and with the Note 
for  Guidance  on  Plasma-Derived  Medicinal  Products (CPMP/BWP/269/95 rev. 3). It is described  in 
the Plasma Master File of Baxter AG, Vienna. This PMF is certified by EMEA. 
The  applicant’s  plasma  safety  program  is  based  on  an  applicant  donor  acceptance  program  which 
includes routine donor screening and donation testing for the required infectious agents markers. Each 
single  plasma  unit  used  for  the  manufacture  of  the  product  is  tested  for  ALT  (SGPT),  HBs-antigen, 
HIV-1/-2  antibody  and  HCV-antibody.  Only  plasma  found  non-reactive  for  HBs-antigen,  HIV-1/-2-
antibody and HCV-antibody, with SGPT (ALT)-values not exceeding twice the upper limit of normal 
is used in the manufacture of the product.  
An  inventory  hold  program  and  a  System  to  Trace  the  Path  of  Any  Donation  are  established.  In 
addition, each plasma pool is tested for HBs-antigen, HIV-1/-2-antibody, HCV-antibody by ELISA, as 
well as for viral nucleic acids of HAV, HBV, HCV, HIV-1/-2 and Parvovirus B19 by HIQ-PCR. Only 
plasma  pools  non-reactive  for  HBs-antigen,  HIV-1/-2-antibody,  HCV-antibody,  HAV  RNA,  HBV 
DNA, HCV RNA, HIV-1/-2 RNA, and containing not more than 105 I.U. of PVB19 DNA/ml are used 
for manufacture of the product. 
In  the  manufacturing  process  of  KIOVIG,  no  other  material  of  human  origin  is  used.  Heparin  of 
porcine  origin  is  used  in  the  adsorption  steps  of  coagulations  factors  and  antithrombin  III.  This 
substance is already approved for the manufacture of other immunoglobulins of the applicant. Control 
of  other  incoming  raw  materials  utilising  a  supplier  qualification  program  and  performing  adequate 
tests guarantees their continuous quality. 
Control of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
Critical steps in the manufacturing process are identified. Tests and acceptance criteria are established 
to ensure that the process is controlled.  
It  is  shown  by  stability  studies  that  the  fractionation  intermediates  “Fraction  II+III  Precipitate”  and 
Precipitate G can be stored for 12 months at ≤ -20°C prior to further processing.  
Process Validation and Evaluation 
To  prove  the  consistency  and  comparability  of  the  manufacturing  process  and  the  quality  of  the 
Precipitate G originating from the three fractionation sites, Precipitate G conformance lots originating 
from the three fractionation sites are manufactured. To prove the consistency and comparability of the 
manufacturing  process  and  the  quality  of  the  Drug  Product,  Drug  Product  conformance  lots 
manufactured  utilising  these  different  Precipitate  Gs  are  produced,  as  well.  For  the  overview  and 
results, see below (Drug Product, section Process Validation and Product Characterisation). 
Shipping Control and Monitoring 
For further processing, Precipitate G is shipped from the fractionation sites Los Angeles and Vienna to 
the  facility  Lessines.  Precipitate  G  from  the  Rieti  facility  is  either  shipped  directly  to  Lessines  or 
through  Baxter  Vienna.  The  temperature  required  for  shipment  of  Precipitate  G  must  be  ≤  -  20  ºC. 
Temperature is monitored during shipment. The ability of the outer package and container to maintain 
the  required  temperature  of  ≤  -20  ºC  during  the  shipping  has  been  ensured.  The  ability  of  the 
transportation conditions to maintain the thermal stability is shown. 
Manufacturing Process Development 
3/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For manufacturing process development including the final step of low pH incubation, the following 
procedural steps were pre-defined and characterised: 
- 
the  use  of  optional  adsorption  steps  to  remove  coagulation  factors  and  antithrombin  from  the 
cryo-poor plasma prior to alcohol fractionation,  
the use of 8% alcohol to separate the fibrinogen enriched Fraction I to obtain the supernatant for 
Fraction II+III precipitation, 
the precipitation of Fractions II+III, 
the clarification of the dissolved Fractions II+III using depth filters, 
the production of an IgG enriched intermediate, Precipitate G, for downstream production, 
the cation and anion exchange chromatography as the main IgG purification steps, 
the liquid formulation of the final product at a low pH and  
the  implementation  of  three  dedicated  virus  reduction  steps,  S/D  treatment,  nanofiltration  and 
low pH incubation at elevated temperature in the final container. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Characterisation 
Structural and functional integrity has been characterised based on the requirements of the relevant Ph 
Eur  monograph  and  on  the  Note  for  guidance  on  clinical  development  of  IVIG.  As  part  of  this 
characterisation  studies,  comparison  of  pre-clinical,  clinical  and  conformance  lots  manufactured  at 
different manufacturing sites and scales were performed. 
Control of Drug Substance 
There is no quality testing of the Drug Substance, as no distinct intermediate Drug Substance stage can 
be defined. Quality control tests are performed at the Drug Product stage only. 
Reference Materials 
Reference Standards used are described sufficiently. 
Container Closure System 
The Container closure system is sufficiently described and qualified 
• 
Stability 
There is no storage of the Drug Substance. The Ultrafiltrate Concentrate (Step 15 of the manufacture), 
which  corresponds  to  the  Drug  Substance,  is  immediately  further  processed  and  filled  into  final 
containers.  
Drug Product  
Description and Composition 
KIOVIG is an isotonic solution for infusion with approximately 100 mg of protein per ml, of which at 
least  98%  is  gammaglobulin  (pH  4.6  -  5.1).  It  contains  0.25M  Glycine  as  stabiliser.  KIOVIG  is 
supplied in single-dose vials that nominally contain 1 g, 2.5 g, 5 g, 10 g and 20 g protein per vial. The 
vials  consists  of  neutral  Type  I  borosilicate  glass  vials  which  meet  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.  Eur. 
These  containers  have  filling  capacities  of  10  ml,  30  ml,  50  ml,  100  ml  and  200  ml.  The  vials  are 
closed  with  bromobutyl  rubber  stoppers,  coated  with  either  silicone  or  with  omniflex  (an  inert  and 
flexible fluorinated polymer) treatment. Both stoppers meet the chemical requirements of the current 
Ph. Eur. 
Overfilling  of  each  size  ensures  that  the  nominal  amount  of  product  can  be  drawn  from  the  vial. 
Overfill does not influence the strength of KIOVIG, and is, therefore, acceptable. 
The applicant wishes  to license the possibility to dilute the product for use in patients who may not 
tolerate the high protein concentration. Therefore, tests were performed which show that KIOVIG can 
be diluted with 5% glucose to a 5% protein solution without impairment of its physicochemical and 
aseptic attributes.  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
4/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formulation  experiments  performed  lead  to  a  medicinal  product  in  which  quality  and  convenience 
features for clinical use were combined, and which meets the pharmaceutical and analytical criteria of 
the relevant Ph. Eur monograph.  
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process of the final product KIOVIG is performed at Baxter´s facility Lessines. It 
represents  the  continuation  of  the  processing  of  Precipitate  G.  Beginning  at  the  Ultrafiltrate 
Concentrate stage the manufacturing process comprises the following steps without any holding step: 
-  
the final formulation where the protein content is adjusted to 10.2 ± 0.2% and the pH is adjusted 
to 4.4 to 4.9, 
the 0.2µm filtration, 
the filling, the stoppering and the sealing under aseptic conditions, and, finally, 
the final Incubation at low pH and elevated temperature. 
-  
-  
- 
Two different batch sizes of the final product KIOVIG can be manufactured based on either 6000 or 
14000 litres of human plasma. The resulting bulk solution can be divided into several sub-lots before 
filling into vials of different sizes.  
Control of Critical Steps and Intermediates 
Critical steps of the manufacturing process are identified. Tests and acceptance criteria are established 
to ensure that the process is controlled.  
Manufacturing Process Development (Process Validation and Product Characterisation) 
Three fractionation sites working with some differences in their manufacturing procedures (see above) 
are used to produce Precipitate G which is then utilised for the production of the commercial KIOVIG 
Drug  Product  in  the  Lessines  facility.  In  addition,  Rochester as a further  fractionation site  produced 
the  Precipitate  G  for  the  production  of  the  KIOVIG  clinical  lots.  Therefore,  comprehensive 
comparability and consistency studies were performed. Data comparing the manufacturing processes 
and  quality  parameters  of  the  Precipitate  G  and  the  resulting  Drug  Product  are  presented.  In  total, 
twenty conformance lots of Precipitate G produced at commercial scale in Los Angeles, Vienna and 
Rieti were investigated. A bracketing approach was used narrowing all various options and variations. 
The chosen options were justified and are considered acceptable. 
The  scope  of  the  program  was  primarily  the  investigation  of  the  manufacturing  process  control 
parameters  and  of  the  release  parameters  of  precipitate  G  (purity)  as  well  as  additional  product 
characteristics  (gammaglobulin  purification,  IgG  purification,  enrichment  of  bacterial  and  viral 
antibodies, reduction of IgA and fibrinogen, IgG subclass distribution). The presented data show that 
the manufacturing process of Precipitate G is controlled and is capable to consistently meet the pre-
determined  acceptance  criteria  of  process  control  parameters.  They  show  that  the  product  complies 
with  its  predetermined  specifications  and  that  the  IgG  is  purified  in  a  comparable  manner  with 
comparable subclass distribution, antibody contents and reduction of impurities. 
Precipitate  G  lots  produced  for  conformance  purposes  in  Los  Angeles,  Vienna  and  Rieti  were 
processed  without  blending  into  ten  final  bulk  lots  at  the  Lessines  facility.  Investigation  of  the 
manufacturing  process  control  parameters  was  performed  and  it  was  demonstrated  that  the  found 
values were within the pre-determined limits.  
Out  of  the  ten  final  bulk  lots,  twenty-one  Drug  Product  sub-lots  were  produced.  These  were 
investigated  for  pre-determined  tentative  product  specification  parameters  (for  final  product  control, 
these  have  been  adapted  slightly  based  on  the  validation  results).  Furthermore,  these  sub-lots  were 
investigated  for  additional  quality  characteristics  (IgG  purification,  spectrum  and  enrichment  of 
viral/bacterial  antibodies,  Fc  function,  IgG  subclass  distribution,  removal  of  impurities  –  product 
related:  IgM,  IgA,  albumin,  fibrinogen,  factor  XII,  “amidolytic  activities”,  plasminogen,  -  process 
related: Heparin, Aluminium, S/D components, ethanol).  
The data  show that the manufacturing process results in a consistent Drug Product independently of 
the origin of Precipitate G. The IgG is consistently purified throughout the manufacturing process to 
approximately  100%  of  the  protein.  The  Drug  Product  maintains  a  broad  spectrum  of  relevant 
bacterial and viral antibodies. The enrichment fulfils the Ph Eur requirements. The results indicate that 
5/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all lots show a comparable intact Fc-function of the antibodies and have an IgG subclass distribution 
comparable with the normal range found in normal  human serum. Finally, the data show acceptable 
removal of product-related and process-related impurities. 
The downstream purification process of the intermediate Precipitate G also has the ability to eliminate 
still  existing  small  negligible  differences  in  quality  of  Precipitate  G  occasionally  observed  in  the 
Precipitate G product characterisation. 
A  characterization  study  was  provided  to  demonstrate  the  structural  and  functional  integrity  of  the 
Precipitate G and of the Drug Product using data acquired by testing of the pre-clinical, clinical and 
conformance lots, and to demonstrate that this integrity were not influenced by the different upstream 
fractionation facilities and by the different adsorption options. The preclinical lots were produced in a 
small scale starting from 200 l of plasma. The clinical lots and conformance lots were produced in full 
commercial  scale  (3  000  /  45  000  l  plasma).  Seven  clinical  lots  are  derived  from  Precipitate  G 
produced in Vienna practising two of the diverse adsorption options and three clinical lots are derived 
from Precipitate G produced in Rochester practising no adsorption.  
The  IgG  subclass distribution and  the antibody  spectrum were compared, functional properties were 
characterised  based  on  a  mouse  protection 
three  Fc-function  assays  and  on 
Opsonophagocytosis tests. The results demonstrate that the subclass distribution is comparable to that 
found  in  the  normal  serum,  and  that  a  broad  spectrum  of  clinically  relevant  antibody specificities is 
present,  and  that  the  IgG  holds  intact  Fc  and  Fab  segments  exerting  their  biological  functions  - 
regardless of the manufacturing facility or option used.  
tests,  on 
Development of Container Closure System and Microbiological Attributes 
The container closure system was tested according to Ph. Eur. to show its suitability for storage and 
shipping  of  the  medicinal  product.  Its  mechanical  and  thermal  stability  has  been  shown.  Its 
compatibility  is  demonstrated,  no  measurable  leach  out  is  observed.  It  has  been  shown  that  the 
KIOVIG container/closure system is able to maintain the sterility of the biologic product.  
Control of Excipients 
No excipients of animal or human origin or no novel excipient are used in the manufacturing process 
of KIOVIG. 
The major excipient is glycine which is formulated at a target concentration of 0.25 M to maintain the 
product at isotonic condition. Its specification is provided. The specification meets the requirements of 
Ph. Eur.  
Reference Standards or Materials 
The reference standards for the methods used to test the Drug Product at the Baxter Lessines facility 
are purchased as part of a kit or as stand-alone materials, and as primary standards or as international 
standards such as BRP.  
Container Closure System 
The description of the primary packaging material is given in sufficient detail. 
Secondary Packaging Components 
There are no secondary packaging requirements for the KIOVIG except for the labeling of the outer 
packaging. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  final  product  specifications  are  in  compliance  with  the  relevant  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  0918  on 
IVIG.  The  specifications  for  some  of  the  parameters  are  even  tighter  than  those  required.  The 
justification  of  the  chosen  tests  is  provided.  When  alternative  methods  are  used,  they  have  been 
validated against the respective Ph.Eur. method. Thus, the Drug Product specification is acceptable.  
Results of the analysis for 18 manufacturing scale lots (including sub-lots of different filling size) of 
the  KIOVIG  product  finished  at  the  Baxter  Lessines  facility  are  provided.  Data  for  eight  KIOVIG 
6/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical  lots  and  for  the  10  conformance  lots  (21  sub-lots)  are  provided.  It  is  indicated,  which  lots 
derived form Precipitate G manufactured in Los Angeles, Vienna or Rieti. The analytical procedures 
and specifications used to test KIOVIG Drug Product are described. All commercial scale lots passed 
the final release specification for KIOVIG. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
The formulated KIOVIG bulk solution may be stored in some cases for a maximum of 11 days prior to 
final filling. This storage has been validated in a hold time study with KIOVIG bulk solution. In this 
study  total  protein  content  was  determined  at  three  levels  of  the  containers  used  (top,  middle  and 
bottom)  for  a  period  of  11  days.  Protein  data  show  no  significant  differences  and  in  this  way, 
homogeneity of the solution has been demonstrated. 
Regarding the final container lots, the presented stability program, taking into account material from 
different sites and the bracketing approach for different fill sizes, is acceptable. 
Selected test-parameters and acceptance criteria are suitable to demonstrate product stability. Although 
only one clinical lot has been tested for 30 months and the real-time data to accept a 36 month shelf 
life  are  limited,  the  overall  available  data  base  is  considered  sufficient  to  support  a  shelf-life  of  24 
months (2-80C). Based on the results of the ongoing stability study, this shelf life might be extended to 
the applied shelf life of 36 months. 
The applicant proposes storage at 250C for a maximum of 9 months within the first 24 months of shelf 
life. Data from stability studies provided support very well the storage time of 24 months and a one 
time period of up to 9 months at room temperature within the shelf life. This can be accepted since in 
the SPC the precautions of the storage are appropriate described under point 6.3 and 6.4. 
Appendix 
Facilities and Equipment 
A description of all the facilities for the commercial manufacture, the product flow, material flow and 
personnel  flow  is  provided.  The  preparation,  cleaning  and  sterilisation  of  the  equipments  are 
described.  The  prevention  of  cross  contamination  is  illustrated.  Floor  plans  for  all  facilities  are 
provided. The information is detailed.  
Adventitious agent safety 
Risk on contamination with animal TSE 
No  materials  of  bovine  or  other  TSE-susceptible  animal  species  are  used  during  production.  The 
composition  of  media  fills  and  compliance  with  TSE-Guideline  EMEA/BWP/401/rev.  02  has  been 
shown. The prion removal capacity of the KIOVIG production process was investigated in the study 
submitted  to  EMEA  30th  September  2005  in  accordance  with  the  position  statement  on  vCJD  and 
plasma-derived medicinal products, EMEA/CPMP/BWP/2879/02 rev 1.  
The Applicant submitted TSE-spiking results from studies on extraction of the Fr II+III precipitate to 
investigate the prion removal capacity. 
The study was performed using an adequately down-scaled laboratory process and performance of the 
down scaled model was checked by biochemical analysis of product intermediates. PrPSc-spiked runs 
were performed at the upper pH-limit during extraction of precipitate II+III which is assumed ‘worst 
case limit’ in respect to co-extraction of Prions with IgG. 
Two different spike  preparations from hamster brain were studied. Prions were detected by Western 
Blot.  Appropriate  controls  for  interference  of  test  matrix  with  PrPSc  detection  have  been  performed. 
Both  spike  preparations  were  removed  down  to  the  detection  limit.  Due  to  the  limited  input  of 
solubilized  PrPSc
  preparation  only  >2.1  log  removal  could  be  demonstrated.  However,  ≥3.6  log 
removal  could  be  demonstrated  using  clarified  brain  homogenate.  Partitioning  of  PrPSc  to  the 
discarded side fraction (i. e. insoluble fraction after extraction of Paste II+III) could be demonstrated. 
7/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tab  2.  Loads  of  TSE  agents  (log)  during  Fractionation  II+III  plus  subsequent  extraction,  fumed  silica  treatment  and 
Filtration. (Study reg652e) 
Agent 
Spike 
Hamster adapted Scrapie 263K 
Crude hamster brain 
homogenate (10% w/v) 
suspension clarified by low speed 
centrifugation 
Detergent solubilized (0.1% 
lysolecitin) and sonicated brain 
homogenate 
Western Blot 
Detection Method 
Spiked Staring Material (Supernatant I) 
After addition of EtOH 
After 10h in EtOH 
Supernatant after centrifugation 
Re-suspended Precipitate II+III 
Combined Filtrate and Post wash  Fraction 
Filter cake 
Rfa 
a
: reduction factor calculated from “Spiked Starting Material” and “Combined Filtrate and Post wash Fraction”. 
3.5 
3.5 
3.0 
<1.5 
3.1 
<1.4 
2.2 
≥2.1 
5.0 
4.5 
4.5 
2.5 
4.6 
<1.4 
4.2 
≥3.6 
In summary, a significant capacity of the KIOVIG production process to remove spiked PrPSc has been 
demonstrated. The results are comparable to that described for other immunoglobulins. 
It should be noted that the confidence which can be placed on a figure for the ability of a process step 
to  remove  the  agent  of  TSE  is  lower  than  for  its  ability  to  remove  model  viruses  for  the  reasons 
described in the CHMP Guideline on the Investigation of manufacturing processes for plasma-derived 
medicinal  products  with  regard  to  vCJD  risk  (CPMP/BWP/5136/03),  Section  3.6,  Interpretation  and 
limitations of data. 
Adventitious viruses 
The  potential  contamination  of  plasma  pools  with  HIV,  HBV,  HCV,  HAV,  and  B19V  is  limited  by 
testing of individual donors according to the requirements, by testing of mini pools and plasma pools 
for  fractionation  for  viral  nucleic  acids.  Three  steps  (SD-Treatment,  Planova  35N  Filtration,  and  21 
days  incubation  at  low  pH,  30°C)  have  been  implemented  in  order  to  inactivate/remove  viruses. 
Validation studies were performed according to Guideline CPMP/BWP/268/95. 
Enveloped viruses are effectively inactivated and removed by these steps which results in a high safety 
margin of the product towards enveloped viruses. The safety with regard to the non-enveloped viruses 
HAV  and  B19V,  mainly  depends  on  the  presence  of  antibodies.  Virus-antibody  complexes  are 
efficiently removed by nanofiltration and neutralisation of HAV and B19V further contributes to HAV 
and  B19V  safety.  Therefore,  the  following  specifications  for  the  antibody  content  against  HAV  and 
B19V in the final product (≥ 3.5 IU/ml anti-HAV and ≥ 35 IU/ml anti-B19V antibodies) have been set 
in order to ensure additional factors contributing to safety against HAV and B19V. Safety with respect 
to non-enveloped viruses for which no specific antibodies are present is more difficult to assess. Large 
non-enveloped  viruses  or  pH  labile  viruses  are  effectively  removed/inactivated  while  the  reduction 
capacity  with  regard  to  small,  pH  stable  model  viruses  such  as  MMV  is  limited.  However,  such 
viruses  (and  hypothetical  TSE  agents)  are  normally  removed  to  a  significant  extent  by  the  ethanol-
fractionation steps (i.e. mainly the separation of fraction III from fraction II). These studies have been 
provided and a significant removing capacity of this step for small non-enveloped viruses, where no 
specific neutralizing antibodies are present in the product intermediate (e.g. MMV, EMCV), has been 
demonstrated.  Nevertheless,  according  to  filter  clogging  occurring  at  the  post  wash  during  depth 
filtration,  reduction  factors  achieved  with  HAV  and  EMCV  at  high  pH  limit  have  to  be  interpreted 
with caution. Therefore, to complete robustness data it is suggested to repeat this step with HAV and 
EMCV at high pH limit in an on-going procedure (follow-up measure). 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The issues primarily identified, which were related to  
• 
• 
the lack of detailed comparative description of the manufacturing processes, 
the  need  to  clarify  the  comparative  testing  strategy  of  products  originating  from  the  different 
fractionation sites, 
the process strategy and batch definition,  
the reprocessing and further processing of batches failing critical manufacturing steps, 
• 
• 
8/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
the description of the strategy to control the process, 
• 
the validation of the fractionation process with regard to the removal of non-enveloped viruses,  
had  been  largely  resolved  by  the  applicant  –  except  for  some  remaining  minor  points  listed  in  the 
section 2.7 to be addressed as follow-up measures. 
The marketing authorisation application for KIOVIG  is  recommended  for approval based on quality 
grounds.  
The  term  “triple  inactivated  IVIG”  used  by  the  applicant  with  reference  to  the  three  virus 
inactivation/removal steps of the manufacturing procedure should not be used because it is misleading 
for all viruses since these steps are primarily applied to the inactivation/removal of enveloped viruses. 
Inactivation/removal  of  non-enveloped  viruses  is  restricted  to  large  and  pH-sensitive  non-enveloped 
viruses while small or pH stable non-enveloped viruses are expected to be removed during the Cohn-
fractionation as known for other approved IVIG products. In summary, a high safety margin has been 
demonstrated  for  HIV,  HBV,  HCV,  HAV,  and  B19V.  The  proposed  wording  in  SPC  section  4.4  is 
accepted: 
“KIOVIG is made from human plasma. Standard measures to prevent infections resulting from the use 
of medicinal products prepared from human blood or plasma include selection of donors, screening of 
individual donations and plasma pools for specific markers of infection and the inclusion of effective 
manufacturing  steps  for  the  inactivation/removal  of  viruses.  Despite  this,  when  medicinal  products 
prepared  from  human  blood  or  plasma  are  administered,  the  possibility  of  transmitting  infectious 
agents  cannot  be  totally  excluded.  This  also  applies  to  unknown  or  emerging  viruses  and  other 
pathogens. 
The measures taken are considered effective for enveloped viruses such as HIV, HBV and HCV, and 
for the non-enveloped viruses HAV and parvovirus B19. 
There  is  reassuring  clinical  experience  regarding  the  lack  of  hepatitis  A  or  Parvovirus  B19 
transmission  with  immunoglobulins  and  it  is  also  assumed  that  the  antibody  content  makes  an 
important contribution to the viral safety. 
It  is  strongly recommended that every time that KIOVIG is administered to  a patient, the  name and 
batch  number  of  the  product  are  recorded  in  order  to  maintain  a  link  between  the  patient  and  the 
batch of the product.” 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The active ingredient of KIOVIG (IGIV, 10% TVR) is human polyvalent immunoglobulin G (IgG). 
The structural and functional integrity of the IgG molecules are maintained during the manufacturing 
process.  The  subclass  distribution  and  broad  spectrum  of  antibody  specificities  present  in  human 
plasma are retained and the product exerts all the critical biological activities of polyvalent antibody 
molecules. The exact mechanism of action other than replacement therapy is not fully elucidated but 
includes immunomodulatory effects. 
The non-clinical studies have addressed the efficacy (in vitro and in vivo), safety pharmacology, acute 
toxicity  and  local  tolerance  of  the  three  lots  of  KIOVIG  in  comparison  with  that  of  a  authorised 
immunoglobulin. The range of studies is appropriate for this product. 
Three lots were used in the non-clinical studies. One lot was manufactured from cryo-poor plasma that 
was subjected to no adsorption (Option 1), one lot from cryo-poor plasma subjected to the FEIBA and 
Antithrombin-III adsorption steps (Option 3), and one lot from cryo-poor plasma subjected to Factor 
IX, Factor  VII and Antithrombin  adsorption steps (Option 6). These three options bracket the seven 
possible options that can be used to manufacture the product. This is a common approach for blood 
products and thus acceptable. 
9/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety  pharmacology  and  toxicological  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  GLP  and  in 
accordance with the relevant guidelines. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Two  in  vitro  studies  (antibody  spectrum  and  evaluation  of  opsonic  activity)  and  one  in  vivo  study 
(protection of mice against infection) are presented. 
The antibody spectrum for three lots of IGIV, 10 % TVR (01C21AN11, 01C21AN21, and 01D05AN11) 
were  compared.  These  were  obtained  from  three  preclinical  using  adsorption  options  1,  3  and  6, 
respectively.  
Antibodies against cytomegalovirus, Haemophilus influenzae Type B, Hepatitis A virus, Hepatitis B virus, 
Measles  virus,  Parvovirus  B19,  Poliomyelitis  virus  type  I,  Streptococcus  pneumoniae,  Streptococcus 
pyogenes and Varicella-zoster virus were measured. Comparable values were seen in each of the three 
lots.  
The opsonic activity of the same three lots was evaluated in an opsonophagocytosis assay in human 
neutrophils  (polymorphonuclear  leukocytes,  PMNs),  in  comparison  to  an  IGIV  reference  product, 
(Study 13437). The test system included PMNs prepared from fresh heparinised human blood, gram 
negative (Escherichia coli O55:K59) and gram-positive (Streptococcus agalactiae, Group B) bacteria 
and a complement source (normal human serum adsorbed against the appropriate bacteria, NHS-Abs). 
The assay assesses the function of the entire IgG molecule by binding the Fab portion of the antibody 
to a bacterial organism, leaving the Fc portion available to bind with a PMN. The opsonic activity of 
the three lots of KIOVIG was similar to that of the reference product against both the gram negative 
and gram-positive bacteria. 
In  an  in  vivo  study,  the  same  three  lots  of  IGIV,  10  %  TVR  were  evaluated  for  activity  against 
virulent,  mouse-lethal,  human  pathogens,  in  comparison  with  two  lots  of  the  reference  product  and 
with human albumin. The test article was administered IV to female mice about 18 to 20 hours before 
IP  challenge  with  one  of  five  10-fold  dilutions  of  Streptococcus  pneumoniae  (9.7  x  101  –  9.7  x  105 
cfu/ml)  or  Klebsiella  pneumoniae  (1.17  x  101  –  1.17  x  105  cfu/ml).  The  immunoglobulin  dose  was 
about 500mg/kg (0.3 ml of a 3.3 % solution to mice of approximately 20g). 
For each test article, the estimated median lethal dose (LD50) of each challenge organism and the log10 
dilution inverse that yields 50 % survival (log10LD50) is tabulated below. 
LD50 
(cfu/mouse) 
1.1 x 104 
1.25 x 104 
S. pneumoniae 
log10LD50  
4.04 
4.10 
standard 
error 
0.170 
0.155 
LD50 
(cfu/mouse) 
3.9 x 104  
2.7 x 104 
K. pneumoniae 
log10LD50  
4.60 
4.44 
standard 
error 
0.163 
0.172 
KIOVIG 
Gammagard 
S/D 
7.74 x 100 
Human 
albumin 
No  statistical  comparison  performed  against  albumin  control  as  most  mice  are  not  expected  to  survive  in  the 
albumin control group 
0.927 
1.463 
- 
- 
5.55 x 100 
The results suggest that KIOVIG was as effective as or better than the reference product at protecting 
against S. pneumoniae or K. pneumoniae-induced infection. 
10/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Three  lots  of  KIOVIG  and  2  lots  of  the  authorised  immunoglobulin  were  compared.  The  positive 
control  was  one  lot  of  an  immunoglobulin  preparation  for  i.m.  administration  with  the  exception  of 
study 3, where an activated FVIII was used: Throughout the experiment the blood pressure lowering 
activity  after  intra-arterial  injection  (as  a  result  of  an  anaphylactoid  reaction)  was  compared  in 
anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats, bronchospastic activity after intra-arterial injection in 
anesthetized guinea pigs, thrombogenicity in anesthetized rabbits after i.v. injection.  
In a safety pharmacological study in anesthetized beagle dogs three lots of KIOVIG and one lot of the 
comparator were tested. The effects on the cardiovascular, the respiratory and the coagulation system 
were assessed during a 3-hour observation period. 
The  results  of  the  studies  did  not  indicate  significant  and  relevant  occurrence  of  anaphylactiod 
reactions,  no  major  influences  on  the  respiratory,  or  development  of  disseminated  intravascular 
coagulation for the compared preparations. 
Pharmacokinetics 
A  comparison  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  KIOVIG  and  a  reference  product  in  rats  shows  their 
elimination  half-lives  is  similar.  In  vivo  recovery  varied  between  70  and  80  %,  and  the  half-life 
between 136 and 166 hours. However, this is not predictive for the values in man, where the half-life 
of  a  human  protein  will  be  longer.  In  patients  with  hypo-  or  agammaglobulinaemia,  the  median 
terminal half-life of IgG was 30.1 days. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Two  studies  are  provided.  One  acute  toxicity  study was  done  in mice  with  three lots  of KIOVIG  in 
comparison with  2 lots of the comparator product, and formulation buffer after i.v administration of 
high volumes (25-100ml/kg). After the fast administration of the high volumes of the test substances a 
animals in both groups died showing symptoms of volume overload  
An additional study in rats with doses of 2000 mg/kg and volumes of 20ml/kg gave no indications of 
toxicity.  
The NOAEL was 2000 mg/kg for KIOVIG and < 2000 mg/kg for the reference product 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  were  not  conducted,  given  the  potential  for  antigenicity  following 
administration  of  a  human  protein  to  an  animal  species.  This  is  acceptable  for  intravenous 
immunoglobulins. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
Although not needed for plasma-derived products as immunoglobulins, an in vitro mutagenicity test is 
presented  to  cover  possible  effects  of  the  residual  solvent/detergent  reagents.  A  classical  Ames  test 
using  Salmonella  strains  with  and  without  metabolic  activation  was  performed.  There  was  no 
statistically significant increase of the mutation frequency up to a concentration of 100 µl of KIOVIG 
per plate. 
• 
Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) / Reproductive and developmental studies 
11/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity  studies  and  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  were  not  performed, 
which  is  considered  as  acceptable  due  the  proteinous  nature  of  the  test  article;  this  is  in  accordance 
with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Preclinical  Safety  Evaluation  of  Biotechnology  –  Derived 
Pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
• 
Local tolerance 
One study was performed to evaluate the local tolerance of KIOVIG in comparison with two reference 
products. The study was performed in rabbits with intra arterial, i.v. and paravenous injection and an 
observation period of 72h. Slight irritations were observed in the intra-arterial and paravenous route, 
but not after the i.v. administration, which is the route of administration in humans. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Literature on the solvents/detergents used in the manufacture of KIOVIG has been presented reviewed 
by  the  applicant.  Tri-n-butyl  phosphate,  Triton  X-100  and  polysorbate  80  were  discussed.  Based  on 
the maximum doses for KIOVIG of 2000mg/kg (single dose in Kawasaki disease) or up to 800mg/kg 
every 2 to 4 weeks (for replacement therapy in primary immunodeficiency) and the measured levels of 
the detergents in the lots (<0.2ppm for TNBP and Triton X-100 and <20ppm for polysorbate 80), the 
amount of TNBP and Triton-X administered would be 0.4µg/kg as a single dose or 0.16µg/kg every 2 
to  4  weeks,  and  of  polysorbate  80  would  be  40µg/kg  (single  dose)  or  16µg/kg  every  2  to  4  weeks. 
These  levels  are  far  below  those  that  have  shown  toxic  effects  in  animals  (and  in  humans)  and  are 
considered to have negligible impact on the safety of the product. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
KIOVIG  is  manufactured  from  pooled  human  plasma,  which  is  screened  for  markers  of  virus 
contamination.  The  manufacturing  process  includes  three  dedicated  virus  reduction  steps  (solvent 
detergent treatment, nanofiltration and incubation at low pH in the final container), which have been 
shown  to  provide  a  high  margin  of  safety  against  enveloped  as  well  as  non-enveloped  viruses.  As 
naturally  occurring  proteins,  the  immunoglobulins  in  KIOVIG  are  metabolised  and  degraded  in  the 
human  body  by  the  same  pathways  as  endogenous  antibodies.  The  only  excipient  (glycine)  is  a 
naturally occurring amino acid in humans and the environment. The product is not considered to be a 
risk to the environment. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The studies performed to support the requested indications: 
• 
Replacement therapy in 
Primary Immunodeficiency Syndromes such as: 
− 
− 
− 
−  Wiskott Aldrich syndrome 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
Myeloma or chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) with severe secondary hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections. 
12/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections. 
• 
Immunomodulation 
− 
− 
− 
Idiopathic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (ITP),  in  children  or  adults  at  high  risk  of  bleeding  or 
prior to surgery to correct the platelet count. 
Guillain Barré syndrome  
Kawasaki disease 
Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation 
are  in  line  with  the  requirements  laid  down  in  the  note  for  guidance  on  the  clinical  investigation  of 
human  normal  immunoglobulin  for  intravenous  administration  (CPMP/BPWG/388/95  rev.  1)  and 
encompass the following trials: 
• 
• 
• 
PK, efficacy and safety study 160001; prospective, open-label, uncontrolled, multi-centre in 22 
primary immunodeficient (PID) patients  
PK, efficacy and safety Study 160101; randomised, open-label, multi-centre in 61 PID patients  
Efficacy  and  safety  study  160002;  prospective,  open-label,  uncontrolled,  multi-centre;  in  23 
ITP patients 
The indications follow the wording of the so-called “established” indications listed in the core SPC for 
normal immunoglobulin (IVIg) for intravenous administration (CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev. 1). 
The European Clinical Studies 16001 (PID) and 160002 (ITP) were both conducted in according note 
for guidance on good clinical practice (CHMP/ICH/135/95) and the ethical principles conveyed by the 
“Declaration of Helsinki”. The US Clinical Study 160101 was conducted per the principles set forth in 
the  United  States  (US)  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  Code  of  Federal  Regulations  (21  CR, 
parts 50, 54, 56, 3`12 and 314), ICH Guidelines for GCP and the Declaration of Helsinki. Hence, the 
EU  as  well  as  US  clinical  studies  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  principles  and  ethical 
requirements equivalent to the provisions of Directive 2001/20/EC as stated by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The company performed three open-label studies, 2 in PID (PID 1600001 EU, PID 160101 US) and 1 
in  ITP  patients,  (ITP  1600002  EU)  to  evaluate  pharmacokinetics  (PK),  efficacy  and  safety.  In  each 
study  the  correct  patient  population  was  included,  CPMP/BPWG/388/95  rev.  1)  and  the  US  study 
complied  with  the  FDA  requirements  and  the  posology  as  recommended  by  the  core  SPC 
(CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev 1) was adhered to. 
 In  study  160001  performed  in  22  PID  patients,  the  primary  pharmacokinetic  endpoints  were  the 
trough levels, half-life, of total IgG and in vivo recovery. 
The median steady state trough level of total IgG achieved after the administration of KIOVIG and a 
authorised IVIg are similar (817 mg/dL and 851 mg/dL, respectively) and clinically adequate. These 
levels are above those required in the SPC CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.2 of 4-6 g/L and fulfil the current 
clinical requirements. The median trough levels observed with different lots of KIOVIG manufactured 
at different sites (Rochester and Vienna) were comparable.  
The median terminal half-life of KIOVIG for total IgG was 30.1 days (95% CI: 27.1; 43.3 days). The 
median terminal half-lives for IgG subclasses was 28.3, 31.3, 20.9 and 24.2 days for subclasses IgG1, 
IgG2, IgG3and IgG4, respectively.  
The  median  in  vivo  recovery  rate  of  total  IgG  was  89%  (95%  CI:  84%;  101%)  with  a  median 
incremental recovery of 1.85 (mg/dL)/(mg/kg).  
13/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The median AUC, Cmax and Cmin levels for the total IgG, after administration of a median dose of 
0.41 g/kg were 545 g.h/dL, 1630 mg/dl and 848 mg/dl respectively. These values also correspond to 
those of other IVIG products and literature data.  
The US study 160101 interim report showed similar PK results to the EU study, however for each of 
the PK parameters examined the values were consistently higher. This was explained by higher dosing 
regimens  used in the  US study  (455 mg/kg vs. 410 mg/kg in EU Study).  Median values for AUC0-
21d,  Cmax,  Cmin,  elimination  half-life,  K,  and  IVR  and  median  values  for  total  IgG  trough  levels 
indicated  no  significant  differences  for  KIOVIG  produced  from  pathway  options  1,  3,  and  6  at 
Rochester and Vienna. 
• 
Special populations 
Study 160001 was performed in 22 patients. No subgroup analysis was planned for race or age group 
(Caucasian  (100%)  adults  (100%  above  21  years)).  As  with  other  similar  studies  of  IVIG  in  PID 
populations, impaired renal function and impaired liver function were not specifically examined.  
Study 160101 also included children (n= 7) and adolescents (n=10). The number of patients in each 
group is too small to draw any precise conclusions; therefore comparison to adult PK data is only of 
limited value. 
For  children,  adolescents  and  adults  the  trough  levels  and  other  PK  parameters  are  consistent  with 
those described in the literature. The median total IgG levels are reliably above the level recommended 
in the core SPC for CPMP/BPWG/859/95 rev.1 of at least 6 g/L. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
A  study  to  evaluate  the  interaction  of  IVIgs  with  other  drugs  is  not  requested  by  the  Guideline 
(CPMP/BPWG/388/95  rev.  1).  Given  the  underlying  nature  of  PID  a  variety  of  other  drugs  are 
necessary  (e.g.  antibiotics,  analgesics)  and  were  administered  as  judged  necessary.  No  products  that 
compromise  the  effects  of  the  study  product  were  used  during  the  course  of  the  study.  For  use  of 
antibiotics see “efficacy” 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
The mode of action of human normal immunoglobulin in primary and secondary immunodeficiency is 
as replacement of deficient immunoglobulins. In immune regulatory disorders, several mechanisms are 
postulated,  including  reticuloendothelial  cell  blockade,  an  increase  in  t-suppressor  cells  or  natural 
killer cells, and a decrease in antibody synthesis. The latter may be through anti-idiotype antibodies in 
the  IVIg  preparations.  This  mechanism  might  operate  in  diseases  such  as  ITP.  It  is  also  considered 
possible  that  infused  antibodies  block  recognition  of  infected  cells  by  cytotoxic  T  lymphocytes, 
preventing  immune  mediated  damage.  No  study  has  been  carried  out  to  elucidate  the  mechanism  of 
action. 
Functional  integrity  of  the  antibody  molecules  was  determined  by  Fc  receptor  functions  tests  and 
opsonophagocytosis assay. Neutralising capacity was tested in mouse protection assays with three lots. 
The above is reflected under section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties of the SPC.  
• 
Primary pharmacology 
The dosing regimen proposed is in accordance with CHMP requirements. No dose finding studies 
were undertaken. 
14/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmacodynamic interactions  
Pharmacodynamic  interaction  is  described  with  concomitant  administration  of  live  attenuated  virus 
vaccines. Concomitant administration of live attenuated virus vaccines is not advised. This is covered 
in Section 4.5 Interactions, of the SPC. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response study(ies) 
No  dose-response  study  conducted.  Only  clinical  confirmatory  studies  in  target  indications  were 
carried  out.  The  dose  and  dosage  regimen  varies  with  different  indications.  The  standard 
recommendation is to obtain trough levels of 4-6 gm/l (400-600 mg/dl). The CHMP core SPC includes 
recommendation on starting dose and frequency of injection to maintain this level. 
• 
Main studyies  
Study 160001 
Study  160001  (European  PID  study),  a  prospective  open-label  study  to  compare  pharmacokinetics, 
efficacy and safety of KIOVIG and an immune globulin intravenous (human), in patients with hypo- 
or agammaglobulinemia 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Twenty-two patients between 26 and 70 years of age meeting the inclusion criteria were included in 
the study. 
Inclusion criteria  
• 
• 
• 
Primary Immunodeficiency Disease requiring immunoglobulin replacement therapy 
Has had regular treatment with immunoglobulin (IV or SC) 
Serum IgG level of ≥ 5 g/L 
Treatments 
Lead-in  phase:  Three  intravenous  infusions  of  the  reference  product  300-450  mg/kG  b.w.  every  3 
weeks. This was to standardise IgG replacement therapy with an authorised licensed IVIg. 
Active phase: Nine intravenous infusions of KIOVIG, 300-450 mg/kG b.w. every 3 weeks. 
Infusion rate: Initial rate of 0.5 ml/kg/hour gradually increased, if no adverse event is observed, half-
hourly up to a maximum rate of 8 ml/kg/hour. 
Objectives 
To  investigate  the  pharmacokinetics,  efficacy  and  safety  of  KIOVIG,  after  standardisation  with  an 
authorised product. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoints were: 
• 
Rate of infections (number of infections per subject per month) and  
15/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency of antibiotic use (number of courses of antibiotics, oral/i.v.). 
• 
In addition, data on days off work/school was collected. 
To  assess  efficacy  (and  safety),  blood  samples  were  obtained  prior  to  each  of  the  3  infusions  of 
reference product and each of the 9 infusions of KIOVIG, i.e. before all 12 infusions. Patients were to 
return to the clinic for an End-of-Study Visit 21 days after the 12th infusion. 
Sample size 
Twenty-two patients enrolled to obtain a minimum of 15 evaluable patients. This was to fulfil CHMP 
requirements  of  15  patients  with  immunodeficiency  of  which  at  least  10  should  have  primary 
immunodeficiency. 
Statistical methods 
Median and non-parametric 95% confidence interval was calculated to summarise efficacy end-points. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
All except one patient completed the study.  
Outcomes and estimation 
Infection rate was a secondary efficacy endpoint. Infection rate and frequency of antibiotic use were 
calculated  and  data  on  days  off  work/school  were  collected.  Infections  were  not  categorized  into 
validated and other infections 
Infection rate 
There  were  29  non-serious  infections  and  1  serious  infection  during  treatment  with  the  reference 
product and 59 non-serious infections with KIOVIG. No serious infections were reported for subjects 
during treatment with KIOVIG.  
Antibiotic use: 
A  total  of  36  courses  of  oral  antibiotics  were  administered  to  17  patients  while  on  KIOVIG  and  21 
courses  while  on  the  reference  product.  Two  patients  in  KIOVIG  group  received  1  course  each  of 
intravenous antibiotics.  
Days off work/school: 
Among the 22 patients treated with KIOVIG, 13 missed between 0.5 and 10 days of work/school due 
to infection. The rate of days off work/school per month ranged from 0 to 1.58 in the observational 
period (approx. 6.3 months). The median monthly frequency of days off work/school was 0.40 with a 
95% CI from 0.00 to 0.83. 
Study 160002 
Study 160002 (European ITP study) was a prospective open-label non-controlled study to evaluate the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  Immune  Globulin  Intravenous  (Human),  10%  TVR  solution  in  adult  Subjects 
with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Twenty-three patients meeting the inclusion criteria were included in the study. 
16/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inclusion criteria  
• 
• 
• 
• 
≥18 and ≤65 years of age  
ITP was diagnosed at least 6 months prior to study entry by history, physical exam, blood count 
and blood smear 
Platelet counts ≤ 20 x 109/L 
Excluded if unresponsive to the last IVIg treatment course prior to study entry 
Treatments 
After screening, subjects eligible for treatment were to receive a total dose of 2 g of KIOVIG per kg 
body weight equally divided over 2 to 5 days. If platelet counts fell to < 20 x 109/L, a booster dose of 
up to 1 gm/kg was allowed. 
Objectives 
The  objectives  of  the  study  were  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  KIOVIG  in  adult  subjects 
with chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  endpoints  were  determination  of  the  number  of  subjects  who  were  treatment 
responders, response being defined as achievement of a platelet increase to ≥50 x 109/L at least once 
prior to Day 15 after initiation of treatment without receiving a booster dose during that period. 
Secondary endpoints were 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Time to platelet response 
Duration of response 
Maximum platelet level 
Regression of Haemorrhage 
Platelet counts were determined at screening and on Days 1 (initiation of treatment course), 2, 5, 8, 11, 
15, 22, and 29. Blood samples for platelet determination taken on treatment days were drawn prior to 
study drug administration 
A Full Analysis Data Set (FADS) and a Per Protocol Analysis Data Set (PADS) were to be analysed. 
There was no plan to have an independent efficacy assessment 
Sample size 
Enrolment  of  up  to  20  subjects  was  planned  to  obtain  a  minimum  of  15  evaluable  subjects  was 
planned. Twenty-eight subjects were enrolled, 23 were treated and analysed as FADS. Of these 2 were 
ineligible for inclusion. 21 fulfilled PADS 
Statistical methods 
The  proportion  of  treatment  responders  as  defined  (see  outcome/endpoints)  above  and  a  95% 
confidence  interval  for  the  proportion  was  given  using  the  Wilson  score  method  without  continuity 
correction. For descriptive purposes, separate responder rates were calculated for subjects who did and 
who did not receive systemic corticosteroids at the time of study drug treatment.  
Calculation  of  the  secondary  endpoints  included:  Determination  of  the  median  and  95%  confidence 
interval  for  time  to  platelet  response  by  the  Kaplan-Meier  technique;  determination  (in  treatment 
responders)  of  the  median  and  95%  non-parametric  confidence  interval  for  the  duration  of  platelet 
response in days from the day the platelet count reached or exceeded 50 x 109/L to either the first day 
the  platelet  count  fell  to  20  x  109/L  or  less,  or  the  last  day  with  available  platelet  count  data; 
17/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
description  of  the  maximum  platelet  count  by  medians,  quartiles  and  their  non-parametric  95% 
confidence  intervals;  estimation  of  the  median  and  90%  confidence  interval  for  time  to  cessation  of 
any haemorrhage by the Kaplan-Meier method. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
The  number  of  treatment  responders  was  17  of  23  patients  (73.9%;  95%  CI  for  proportion  53.5  to 
87.5) in the ITT population, for the per protocol population 15 of the 21 PP patients (71.4%; 95% CI 
for proportion 50.0 to 86.2) were treatment responders.  
The  median  platelet  count  for  the  ITT  and  PP  population  (including  treatment  responders  and  non-
responders) was >50 x 109/L by study Day 5 (median: 85 x 109/L, range 4 to 271, mean 117 x 109/L). 
The  median  and  mean  platelet  count  was  highest  on  Day  8,  (99  x  109/L,  range  4  to 435, and 151  x 
109/L respectively). 
In  the  ITT  population  52%  (123/23)  presented  with  a  platelet  increase  to  >100  x  109/L,  and  43% 
(10/23) with an increase above 150 x 109/L. Thirty-nine percent (9/23) reached a platelet count >200 x 
109/L. 
Eight patients received systemic corticosteroids (<20mg/d, allowed per protocol) during the treatment 
and  follow-up  period.  Among  these,  7  (87.5%)  were  treatment  responders  according  to  the  study 
protocol.  Thirteen  patients  (PP)  and  15  patients  (ITT)  did  not  receive  systemic  corticosteroids.  One 
patient (300001) started with 500 mg of methylprednisolone during the study after a non-response. 
Secondary endpoints: 
Time to response: 
After  the  first  infusion,  platelet  response  (>50  x  109/L)  was  achieved  by  Day  5  in  >50%  of  the 
patients, irrespective of the administration of booster doses. The proportion of platelet responders by 
Day  5  was  71.4%  (95%  CI  52.1  to  90.8)  in  the  PP  and  69.6%  (95%  CI  50.8  to  88.4)  in  the  ITT 
population. By Day 15 85.7% (95% CI 70.7 to 100) and 87.0% (95% CI 73.2 to 100) in both analysis 
sets had achieved a platelet response. 
Duration of platelet response: 
The median duration of platelet response was 25 days for the treatment responders in both the PADS 
and the FADS (95% CI 21 to 28 and 22 to 28, respectively;). It was defined as the duration from the 
day the platelet count reached or exceeded 50 x 109/L to either the first day when the platelet count fell 
to <20 x 109/L or the last day with available platelet count data.). 
Maximum platelet count 
The highest median platelet count in treatment responders was 182 x 109/L (range 17 to 435 x 109/L) 
in  the  PADS  and  the  FADS.  It  was  observed  on  Day  8.  The  median  maximum  platelet  count  on  or 
after Day 5 prior to administration of a booster dose of study drug was 122 x 109/L (1st quartile 59 x 
109/L, 3rd quartile 268 x 109/L) in both the Per-Protocol and the Full Analysis Data Sets. 
The median of the maximum platelet counts achieved after a booster given before Day 15 from onset 
of  the  initial  study  drug  treatment  course  was  30  x  109/L.  The  median  maximum  platelet  counts 
achieved after a booster given on or after Day 15 from onset of the initial study drug treatment course 
was 81 x 109/L  
Regression of haemorrhage 
In  the  PADS,  5  subjects  presented  with  a  haemorrhage  on  Day  1,  i.e.  the  day of onset of  the initial 
study drug treatment course. The median time to regression of haemorrhage was 4 days (90% CI 0 to 4 
days). 
18/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Supportive study(ies) 
Study 160101 
Study 160101 (US PID study), double-blind (patient and investigator were blinded to the sequence of 
administration  for  KIOVIG  preparations  produced  by  3  different  pathways),  a  multi-centre, 
uncontrolled study to evaluate efficacy and safety. This ongoing study is being conducted to fulfil the 
requirements  of  US  FDA  IND  (Investigational  New  Drug).  The  minimum  treatment  period  of  12 
months has been completed.  
All  subjects  were  to  receive  4  consecutive  infusions  of  study  product  manufactured  by  each  of  the 
three pathways (1,3 and 6) for a minimum of 12 infusions.  
Of the 61 subjects with PID enrolled and treated, none reported  an acute serious bacterial infection. 
This was significantly less than the hypothesized rate of 1 infection per subject per year, in accordance 
with  FDA  blood  product  advisory  committee  recommendations.  The  95%  CIs  for  these  mean  rates 
were  provided.  The  observed  rate  of  acute  serious  bacterial  infections  was  significantly  less  (p  << 
0.0001)  than  the  hypothesized  rate  (i.e.  1  per  year)  for  both  the  intent-to-treat  and  per-protocol 
analysis populations. 
A rate of zero (0) hospitalizations secondary to infectious complications was reported.  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
A total of 106 patients were exposed to the product, varying from a single administration to multiple 
courses over 12 months. The exposure is sufficient to make a proper safety evaluation of the product.  
As  the  studies  were  open  and  uncontrolled  it  is  not  possible  to  completely  eliminate  bias  of 
investigator, in particular, and also the sponsor and the patient from influencing interpretation of the 
results and analysis. No independent (blinded) safety or data monitoring was carried out as part of the 
clinical trials. As mentioned above 3 studies were performed for the evaluation of clinical safety (PID 
1600001 EU, PID 160101 US, ITP 1600002 EU). 
• 
Adverse events  
Headache  was  one  of  the  most  frequently  reported  drug-related  AEs  in  all  three  studies.  The  other 
related  AEs  that  were  reported  in  all  three  studies  were  pyrexia,  urticaria,  and  infusion  site  pain. 
Related  AEs  reported  in  two  of  the  three  studies  were  rash,  pruritus,  pain  in  extremity,  back  pain, 
flushing and nausea. Fatigue, migraine, and rigors occurred relatively frequently in study 160101, and 
vomiting, dizziness, flu-like illness, diarrhea, and cough occurred in a few cases in that study. 
In the PID Study 160101 the majority of all AEs were mild or moderate non-serious events. Sixty-one 
patients were treated with KIOVIG from 7 lots (3 lots pathway 1 and 2 lots each from pathways 3 and 
6) and received a total of 826 infusions. The 3 pathway options revealed no significant differences in 
temporally and/or causally associated AEs. 
In the ITP Study 160002 a total of 84 AEs were reported in 18 subjects (78.3%). Headache was the 
most frequent related AE (11 cases in 8 patients, 34.8% of patients), followed by pyrexia (7 cases in 7 
subjects, 30.4%) and increase in body temperature (2 cases in 2 subjects, 8.7%). Hemorrhages starting 
after the first infusion occurred in 6/23 patients (26.1%). 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In PID Study 160001 no product-related SAEs and deaths were reported. 
19/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  PID  Study  160101,  sixteen  SAEs  in  8  subjects  were  reported.  Two  episodes  of  aseptic 
meningitis  in  one  patient  were  judged  to  be  possibly  related  to  KIOVIG;  aseptic  meningitis  was 
known to be present in this patient’s community and is also known to occur infrequently in association 
with IGIV treatment. No deaths occurred during the study period. One subject withdrew due to an AE 
(pruritic papular rash).  
In ITP Study 160002 one SAE was reported (a prolongation of hospitalization due to the observation 
of a haematoma in the right thigh). 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Plasma  samples  from  the  two  studies  conducted  in  Europe  (study  160001  and  160002)  were  stored 
centrally for central testing for viral genome by PCR, should any concerns regarding viral safety arise. 
In  study  160101,  viral  safety  was  assessed  by  serological  screening  serologically  for  HBsAg  and 
antibodies  to  HCV  and  HIV-1  and  HIV-2  at  baseline  and  prior  to  each  infusion  (including  end-of-
efficacy),  and  by  PCR  tests  for  HBV,  HCV,  and  HIV-1  genomic  sequences  at  baseline  and  end-of-
efficacy.  
None  of  the  61  enrolled  subjects  were  positive  at  screening  and  none  converted  from  negative  to 
positive during the first 12 months of the study. 
In six patients liver enzymes (AST, ALT and AP) increase was reported. One patient had a  history of 
intermittent elevated liver enzymes. The other cases of liver enzyme evaluation could be attribute to 
concomitant  disease  or  concomitant  medications.  The  elevation  of  liver  enzymes  is  a  frequent 
observation  in  clinical  studies  with  IVIG  treatment,  mainly  due  to  the  reasons  outlined  above.  This 
finding is reflected in the SPC.   
Intermittent  occurrence  of  decreased  lymphocyte  count  was  observed  in  the  some  patients.  Low 
lymphocyte counts are frequently described phenomena in patients with CVID and XLA. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
The  exposure  has  predominantly  been  in  Caucasians  with  equal  representation  of  genders  in  the 
combined  results.  The  safety  evaluation  would  be  applicable  directly  to  adult  Caucasians  of  both 
genders  with  PID  and/or  ITP,  but  indirectly  to  all  patients  with  other  applicable  immune-deficiency 
diseases such as chronic lymphocytic leukaemia or immune-mediated diseases such as Guillain-Barre 
syndrome and Kawasaki disease, including children, as separate evaluation in these sub-groups is not 
currently required according to CHMP guidance notes. 
Only 7 children under 12 were studied, making it difficult to evaluate the safety in the paediatric age 
group on the basis of evidence. However the experience gained IVIG treatment during several decades 
did not reveal any safety signal in this population. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Coombs’ Test 
In study 160001, a Coombs’ test was performed at the baseline visit, before the first infusion of IVIG, 
10%  TVR  Solution  and  at  the  last  visit.  Six  results  for  direct  Coombs’  tests  were  positive  in  four 
subjects.  In  study  160002,  a  Coombs’  test  was  performed  prior  to  initiation  of  the  treatment  course 
(day 1) and on day 8. Three of 23 subjects were positive in the direct Coombs’ test after initiation of 
the treatment course with the study drug. None of the patients in either study presented with signs of 
haemolysis. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
20/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One patient in the US study developed a pruritic papular rash on his neck, which did not resolve even 
with  prophylactic  use  of  hydroxyzine.  This  AE  was  considered  possibly  related.  The  patient 
completed 12 months of treatment but elected to withdraw from the optional post-efficacy period. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The applicant provided a description of the pharmacovigilance system. The information provided did 
not  address  all  points  required  in  ICH  guideline  E2E  (i.e.  a  detailed  description  of  the  information 
flow, including feed back, as well as detailed description of actions, is required).  
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system has deficiencies that should be addressed as 
part of the follow up measures> 
Risk Management Plan 
for  Human  Use’, 
for  Medicinal  Products 
As requested by Directive 2001/83/EC as amended and the above indicated draft ‘Guideline on Risk 
risk 
Management  Systems 
assessments/evaluations for the potential of KIOVIG to transmit viruses or TSE agents was evaluated 
The  risk  evaluations  demonstrate  that  Baxter’s  plasma  control  measures  and  the  KIOVIG 
manufacturing  process  provide  for  a  very  high  margin  of  safety  with  respect  to  the  transmission  of 
infectious agents. The risk evaluation with regard to TSE agents has recently been revised to included 
the  results  of  the  TSE  safety  study  provided  in  the  response  to  Quality  Question  4  above  (‘Prion 
Clearance  during  the  Fractionation  II  +  III  part  of  the  Manufacturing  process  of  Immune  Globulin 
Intravenous  (Human)  [IGIV],  10%  Triple  Virally  Reduced  (TVR)  Solution  (Reg652e)’),  and  is  also 
provided below. 
respective 
the 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  KIOVIG  is  considered  satisfactory  on  the  basis  of  the  submitted  data  and  the agreed 
follow-up measures. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
A standard package of pharmacokinetic studies is inappropriate for this product (Note for Guidance on 
Preclinical Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology-derived Pharmaceuticals ,CPMP/ICH/302/95). 
Data  on  the  distribution,  metabolism,  excretion,  and  pharmacokinetic  drug  interactions  in  animals 
were not performed, which is acceptable for proteinous products like human immunoglobulins 
A  comparison  of  the  pharmacokinetics  of  KIOVIG  and  the  comparartor  product  in  rats  shows  their 
elimination half-lives are similar.  
The  toxicological  studies  gave  no  indications  for  other  negative  effects  as  expected  for  the 
administration  of  foreign  proteins  to  animals  in  high  volumes.  The  questions  of  residual  solvents 
resulting from the introduction of the virus inactivation step were sufficiently addressed and gave no 
reasons for concern from the preclinical experience. Due to the vast experience with immunoglobulin 
products,  the  proteinous  nature  of  the  product  and  the  results  of  the  submitted  data,  the  limited 
programme to characterise KIOVIG is considered as acceptable.  
Comparability exercise 
21/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three lots were used in the non-clinical studies. One lot was manufactured from cryo-poor plasma that 
was subjected to no adsorption (Option 1), one lot from cryo-poor plasma subjected to the FEIBA and 
Antithrombin-III adsorption steps (Option 3), and one lot from cryo-poor plasma subjected to Factor 
IX, Factor  VII and Antithrombin  adsorption steps (Option 6). These  three options bracket the seven 
possible options that can be used to manufacture the product. 
KIOVIG  manufactured  from  cryo-poor  plasma  subjected  to  the  three  different  options  (1,  3  and  6) 
demonstrated comparable safety profiles with the reference product.  
Efficacy 
Median  values  pharmacokinetic  parameter  (AUC0-21d,  Cmax,  Cmin,  elimination  half-life, 
incremental recovery (K), and In-vivo recovery (IVR)) were similar and the 95% CIs showed no larger 
deviations  among  the  KIOVIG  produced  from  pathway  options  1,  3,  and  6.  Thus  KIOVIG 
manufactured from cryo-poor plasma subjected to the three different options (1, 3 and 6) demonstrated 
comparable pharmacokinetic profiles with the reference product.   
The  correct  patient  population  (primary  immunodeficiency  syndromes  (PID),  and  patients  with 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP),) was included in the studies; the doses administered to the 
PID  and  ITP  patients  were  adequate  to  maintain  protective  IgG  trough  levels  and  platelet  counts 
respectively.  
The  results  and  analysis  of  the  studies  demonstrate  that  KIOVIG  achieves  the  required  minimum 
trough levels and pharmacokinetics parameters in PID patients. The clinical end-points of incidence of 
infections,  antibiotic  use  and  days  off  school/work  are  comparable  to  approved  IVIg.  The  US  study 
provides supportive evidence of efficacy as shown by the absence of serious bacterial infections.  
The primary endpoint of the pivotal study for ITP defined as the number of treatment responders, (a 
platelet increase to ≥50 x 109/L before Day 15 and not requiring a booster dose prior to Day 15) was 
74%  in  the  ITT  population  and  thus  corresponds  to  relevant  clinical  treatment  recommendations, 
where a response can be expected in ~75% of patients.  
These results are comparable to that reported in  literature and consistent with acceptable efficacy of 
the product in this indication. 
Demonstration of efficacy in these two indications investigated in the clinical efficacy trials supports 
the claim for the other requested indications. This approach is in accordance with note for guidance on 
the  clinical  investigation  of  human  normal  immunoglobulin  for  intravenous  administration  (CHMP 
CPMP/BPWG/388/95 rev. 1. 
Safety 
No safety signals other than expected for intravenous immunoglobulins could be discerned from the 
submitted data; the adverse reactions to intravenous immunoglobulins are well known and have been 
described in the SPC. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of KIOVIG in the treatment of: 
Replacement Therapy in 
Primary Immunodeficiency Syndromes such as: 
− 
− 
− 
congenital agammaglobulinaemia and hypogammaglobulinaemia 
common variable immunodeficiency 
severe combined immunodeficiency 
22/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Wiskott Aldrich syndrome 
Myeloma  or  chronic  lymphocytic  leukaemia  (CLL)  with  severe  secondary  hypogammaglobulinemia 
and recurrent infections. 
Children with congenital AIDS and recurrent infections. 
Immunomodulation 
− 
Idiopathic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  (ITP),  in  children  or  adults  at  high  risk  of  bleeding  or 
prior to surgery to correct the platelet count. 
Guillain Barré syndrome  
Kawasaki disease 
− 
− 
Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
23/23 
EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
