EMA/138579/2019  
EMEA/H/C/000628 
Kiovig (human normal immunoglobulin) 
An overview of Kiovig and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kiovig and what is it used for? 
Kiovig is a medicine used to support the immune system (the body’s natural defences) in two main 
groups of patients: 
• 
Patients at risk of infection because they do not have enough antibodies (also called 
immunoglobulins, proteins in the blood that help the body to fight disease). These can be people 
who are born with a lack of antibodies (primary immunodeficiency syndrome, PID). These also 
include people who have developed a lack of antibodies after birth (secondary immunodeficiency 
syndrome, SID), who have low levels of certain antibodies (called IgG) and who suffer from 
infections that are severe, keep coming back, and are not cured by medicines used to treat 
infections; 
• 
Patients with certain immune disorders. These comprise patients with primary immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP), who do not have enough platelets (components in the blood that help it to 
clot) and who are at high risk of bleeding; patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome or chronic 
inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), inflammatory disorders of the nerves that 
result in muscle weakness and numbness; patients with Kawasaki disease, a disease mainly seen 
in children which causes inflammation of blood vessels; and patients with multifocal motor 
neuropathy (MMN), nerve damage which causes weakness of the arms and legs.   
The medicine contains the active substance human normal immunoglobulin. 
How is Kiovig used? 
Kiovig can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment for patients with a lack of antibodies 
should be started and monitored by a doctor experienced in treating such conditions.  
The medicine is given by infusion (drip) into a vein. The dose and frequency of infusions depend on the 
disease being treated and how well the disease is being controlled.  
For more information about using Kiovig, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Kiovig work? 
The active substance in Kiovig, human normal immunoglobulin, is a highly purified protein extracted 
from human plasma (part of the blood). It contains immunoglobulin G (IgG), which is a type of 
antibody. IgG has been used as a medicine since the 1980s and has a wide range of activity against 
organisms that can cause infection. Kiovig works by restoring abnormally low IgG levels to their 
normal range in the blood. At higher doses, it can help to adjust an abnormal immune system and 
modulate the immune response. 
What benefits of Kiovig have been shown in studies? 
As human normal immunoglobulin has been used to treat these diseases for a long time, and in 
accordance with current guidelines, 4 small studies were needed to establish the effectiveness and 
safety of Kiovig in patients. 
In the first study, Kiovig was used to replace antibodies in 22 patients with PID who had very low or no 
levels of immunoglobulin. Kiovig was as effective as the standard treatment in preventing infections 
and reducing antibiotic use. 
The second study looked at using Kiovig to adjust the immune system in 23 patients with ITP. Kiovig 
was shown to be effective in increasing the platelet count. 
The third and fourth studies were in a total of 28 patients with MMN. Kiovig was effective in 
maintaining muscle strength and reducing disability. 
What are the risks associated with Kiovig? 
The most common side effects with Kiovig (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are headache, 
hypertension (high blood pressure), nausea (feeling sick), rash, tiredness, local reactions such as pain, 
swelling or itching at the site of injection, and fever. Some side effects are more likely when using a 
high rate of infusion, in patients with low immunoglobulin levels, or in patients who have not received 
Kiovig before or for a long time.  
Kiovig must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to human normal immunoglobulin 
or any of the other ingredients, or in patients who are allergic to other types of human 
immunoglobulin, especially where they have very low levels of immunoglobulin A (IgA) and they have 
antibodies against IgA. For the full list of side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kiovig authorised in the EU? 
Kiovig was shown to be effective in PID, ITP and MMN. Based on its effectiveness in these diseases, 
Kiovig can be approved for use in the treatment of other types of immunodeficiency, as well as low 
antibody levels due to Guillain-Barré syndrome, Kawasaki disease or CIPD, without the need for 
specific studies in these diseases. Therefore, the European Medicines Agency concluded that Kiovig’s 
benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kiovig? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kiovig have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Kiovig (human normal immunoglobulin)  
EMA/138579/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kiovig are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Kiovig are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kiovig 
Kiovig received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 January 2006.  
Further information can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/medicines/EPAR/kiovig.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2019.  
Kiovig (human normal immunoglobulin)  
EMA/138579/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
