EMA/473286/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004965 
Kirsty1 (insulin aspart) 
An overview of Kirsty and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kirsty and what is it used for? 
Kirsty is a medicine used to  control blood glucose (sugar) levels in  patients from one year of age who 
have diabetes. 
Kirsty is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Kirsty is highly similar to  another biological medicine 
(the ‘reference medicine’) that  is already authorised in the  EU. The reference medicine for Kirsty is 
NovoRapid. For  more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Kirsty contains the active substance insulin aspart. 
How is Kirsty used? 
Kirsty can only be obtained with  a prescription. It is given as an injection  under the  skin in the  upper 
arm, thigh, buttock  or belly. Because Kirsty is a fast-acting insulin,  it is usually given shortly before a 
meal or if more appropriate, soon after a meal. Kirsty is normally used in combination with  a longer-
acting insulin.  The dose is worked out for each patient  and depends on the patient’s weight  and blood 
glucose levels. 
Kirsty can also be used in a pump system for continuous insulin  infusion under the skin or 
alternatively, it  can be given into a vein but  only by a doctor or  a nurse. 
A healthcare professional should explain to the  patient how to use the medicine properly.  
For more information about using Kirsty, see the  package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Kirsty work? 
In diabetes, patients  have high levels of blood glucose either because the body does not produce 
enough insulin or the body is unable to use insulin effectively.  
The active substance in Kirsty is a form of insulin  which is absorbed more quickly by the  body than 
regular insulin,  and can therefore act faster. It helps control blood glucose levels, thereby alleviating 
symptoms of diabetes and reducing the risk of complications. 
1 Previously known as Kixelle. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Kirsty have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Kirsty with  NovoRapid have shown  that the active substance in Kirsty is 
highly similar to that  in NovoRapid in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have 
also shown  that giving Kirsty produces similar levels of the  active substance in the body to  giving 
NovoRapid. 
In addition, Kirsty was shown to be comparable with another licensed insulin  aspart medicine in 
maintaining a stable HbA1c (a measure of blood glucose control) when used as part of diabetes 
treatment in a study involving 478 patients  with diabetes. Average HbA1c was 7.85%  at the start of 
treatment, and 7.93%  after 24  weeks among those given Kirsty; this compared with  values of 7.80% 
at start of treatment and 7.82%  after 24  weeks in those given the  licensed insulin aspart. 
Because Kirsty is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of  insulin aspart carried 
out with  NovoRapid do not  all need to be repeated for Kirsty. 
What are the risks associated with Kirsty? 
The safety of Kirsty has been evaluated, and on the basis of all the studies carried out the  side effects 
of the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine NovoRapid. 
The most common side effect with  Kirsty (which may affect more than  1 in 10 people) is 
hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose levels) and the medicine must  not be given to people whose blood 
glucose level is already low.  
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions with  Kirsty, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kirsty authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that,  in accordance with  EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Kirsty has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to  NovoRapid and is 
distributed  in the body in the  same way. In addition,  studies in patients with  diabetes have shown that 
the safety and effectiveness of Kirsty is equivalent to that  of NovoRapid. 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Kirsty will behave in the  same way as 
NovoRapid in  terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view 
was that,  as for NovoRapid, the benefits of Kirsty outweigh the identified risks and it  can be authorised 
for use in the  EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kirsty? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Kirsty have been included in  the summary of product char acteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kirsty are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Kirsty are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Kirsty 
Kixelle received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU  on 5 February 2021. 
The name of the medicine was changed to Kirsty on 16 July 2021. 
Kirsty (insulin aspart)  
EMA/473286/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Kirsty can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kirsty.  
This overview was last updated in  08-2021.   
Kirsty (insulin aspart)  
EMA/473286/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
