17 September 2020 
EMA/630499/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): lenvatinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010380/202002 
Period covered by the PSUR: From 11/02/2019 To: 11/02/2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for lenvatinib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Osteonecrosis of jaw has been followed and assessed in previous PSURs. During the reporting period 
additional four cases of ONJ have been reported to the MAH. One case was from clinical trials and 
three spontaneous. Despite concomitant medications (such as bisphosphonate, everolimus) that can 
cause the ONJ, the causal relationship with lenvatinib was assessed as possible, probable and related 
by the reporter. 
The MAH provided discussion on possible mechanism of the ONJ related to lenvatinib therapy and 
concluded that causal association between lenvatinib and ONJ is biologically plausible. Based on the 
assessment of the available data the update of the CCDS is ongoing.  
In view of available data on osteonecrosis of the jaw from clinical trials, the literature, spontaneous 
reports, recognised class effect and in view of a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a 
causal relationship between lenvatinib and osteonecrosis of jaw is at least a reasonable possibility. The 
PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing lenvatinib should be amended 
accordingly. 
Update of section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC to add the adverse reaction osteonecrosis of the jaw with a 
frequency uncommon and a warning on the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw.  The Package leaflet is 
updated accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for lenvatinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing lenvatinib is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/630499/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
