EMA/311092/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004213 
Kisqali (ribociclib) 
An overview of Kisqali and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kisqali and what is it used for? 
Kisqali is a cancer medicine used to treat breast cancer that is locally advanced (has spread nearby) or 
metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body). It can only be used when the cancer cells have 
receptors (targets) for certain sex hormones on their surface (HR-positive) and do not have large 
quantities of another receptor called HER2 (HER2-negative).  
Kisqali should always be used in combination with hormonal treatment that reduces the effect of 
oestrogen: either fulvestrant (which blocks oestrogen receptors) or an aromatase inhibitor (which 
reduces oestrogen levels). 
If Kisqali is used in women before the menopause or around the time of menopause (pre-menopausal 
or peri-menopausal), it should also be given in combination with an LHRH inhibitor (a medicine that 
blocks the effects of luteinising hormone-releasing hormone). 
Kisqali contains the active substance ribociclib.  
How is Kisqali used? 
Kisqali can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the use of cancer treatments. 
Kisqali is available as tablets to take by mouth. The usual recommended dose is 600 mg once daily for 
21 days followed by a 7-day break to complete a 28-day treatment course. Treatment courses are 
continued for as long as the medicine continues to work and the patient does not get unacceptable side 
effects. If the patient gets severe side effects the doctor may reduce the dose of Kisqali, or interrupt or 
stop treatment with the medicine. 
For more information about using Kisqali, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Kisqali work? 
The active substance in Kisqali, ribociclib, blocks the activity of enzymes known as cyclin-dependent 
kinases (CDK) 4 and 6, which are important for regulating the way cells grow and divide. By blocking 
CDK4 and CDK6, Kisqali slows the growth of HR-positive breast cancer cells. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Kisqali have been shown in studies? 
Kisqali was found effective in 3 main studies in women with HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced 
breast cancer. 
In one main study involving 668 post-menopausal women with advanced breast cancer that had not 
been treated previously, patients received either Kisqali with letrozole (an aromatase inhibitor) or 
placebo (a dummy treatment) with letrozole. Women taking Kisqali with letrozole lived on average 
25.3 months without the disease getting worse compared with 16.0 months in those taking placebo 
with letrozole. 
Another main study involved 495 pre-menopausal women with advanced breast cancer that had not 
been treated previously and who received goserelin (an LHRH inhibitor) plus letrozole or anastrozole 
(aromatase inhibitors) combined with either Kisqali or placebo. Women taking Kisqali lived on average 
for 27.5 months without their disease getting worse compared with 13.8 months in those taking 
placebo. 
A further study involved 726 post-menopausal women who had either not been treated previously or 
had received only hormonal treatment (to reduce the effects of oestrogen). Patients received 
fulvestrant either with Kisqali or with placebo. Patients taking Kisqali with fulvestrant lived on average 
for 20.6 months without their disease getting worse compared with 12.8 months for those receiving 
placebo with fulvestrant. 
What are the risks associated with Kisqali? 
The most common side effects with Kisqali (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are infections, 
low levels of white blood cells, headache, cough, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, diarrhoea, 
constipation, tiredness, hair loss and rash. 
The most common severe side effects with Kisqali (which may affect more than 1 in 50 people) are 
infections, low levels of red and white blood cells, vomiting, abnormal blood tests for liver function and 
low levels of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphataemia). 
Kisqali must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to any of the ingredients or to 
peanuts or soya. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Kisqali, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kisqali authorised in the EU? 
Kisqali used with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant increased the time it took for the disease to get 
worse in women with HR-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer that was locally advanced or 
metastatic. Pre-menopausal and peri-menopausal women with advanced breast cancer also lived 
longer without their cancer getting worse when Kisqali was combined with an aromatase inhibitor plus 
a medicine to block LHRH. The European Medicines Agency considered that Kisqali’s pattern of side 
effects has been well established and the side effects are manageable.  
The Agency therefore decided that Kisqali’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised 
for use in the EU. 
Kisqali (ribociclib)  
EMA/311092/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kisqali? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kisqali have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kisqali are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Kisqali are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kisqali 
Kisqali received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 August 2017. 
Further information on Kisqali can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kisqali.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2020. 
Kisqali (ribociclib)  
EMA/311092/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
