Summary of the risk management plan for KISQALI® (ribociclib)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  KISQALI®. The  RMP  details 
important risks of KISQALI®, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about KISQALI® risks and uncertainties (missing information).
KISQALI® summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how KISQALI® should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for KISQALI® should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  to  the 
KISQALI® RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
KISQALI® is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  HR+/HER2- locally  advanced  or 
metastatic breast cancer in combination with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant (see SmPC
for the full indication). It contains ribociclib as the active substance, it is given by oral route and 
is used in combination with letrozole to treat postmenopausal women with HR-positive, HER2-
negative breast cancer when the disease is locally advanced or spread to other parts/organs of 
the body as initial hormone-based therapy. Additional details on the approved indication are 
available in the SmPC.
Route of administration, pharmaceutical forms and strengths:
KISQALI® is available as 200 mg film-coated tablets for oral administration. Additional details 
on the approved information on route of administration are available in the SmPC.
Further information about the evaluation of KISQALI® benefits can be found in KISQALI®
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage: link to product’s EPAR summary landing page on the EMA webpage.
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or
further characterize the risks
Important risks of KISQALI® together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about KISQALI®'s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging

 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In the case of KISQALI®, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of KISQALI® is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of KISQALI® are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of KISQALI®. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Myelosuppression
Hepatobiliary toxicity
QT interval prolongation
Reproductive Toxicity
Important potential risks
Renal toxicity
Missing information
Safety in Japanese patients
II B: Summary of important risks
Table 2
Important identified risk - Myelosuppression
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization
measures
Bone marrow hypocellularity was predicted by preclinical studies and 
is  considered  to  be  related  to  the  pharmacological  inhibition  of  cell 
replication due to CDK4/6 inhibition. Neutropenia has been the most 
common toxicity observed in clinical practice. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia 
including  febrile  neutropenia  has  been  reported  as  dose-limiting 
toxicities in single-agent ribociclib trials.
Patients with low baseline neutrophil and/or leukocyte counts.
Routine risk minimization measures:
Addressed in Section 4.2, Section 4.4 and Section 4.8 of the SmPC
and Section 2 of PL.
Additional risk minimization measures: None
Table 3
Important identified risk - Hepatobiliary toxicity
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
fully 
Hepatobiliary toxicity has been reported during treatment with ribociclib
and  therefore,  should  be  closely  monitored.  Preclinical  data  have 
reported 
reversible  proliferative  changes  consistent  with 
hepatobiliary toxicity. Specifically in dogs: the liver, the biliary system 
and the gallbladder showed proliferative changes, cholestasis, sand-
like gallbladder calculi and thickening bile. These changes are not likely 
related  to  the  primary  pharmacology  of  ribociclib.  The  changes 
observed in the liver were mainly driven by the biliary duct system with, 
most  likely,  “bystander”  effects  on  the  surrounding  hepatocytes  and 
vasculature (i.e., locally irritating with additional cholestasis).
There are no identified risk factors for the occurrence of 
hepatotoxicity (including liver laboratory abnormalities and DILI) in 
ribociclib-treated patients.
Common causative/risk factors for hepatotoxicity include:

Elderly patients are at increased risk of hepatic injury due to 
reduced blood flow to the liver, drug-drug interactions (DDIs), 
and decreased drug clearance.
Alcohol abuse in patients with cirrhotic liver changes

 Concomitant use of hepatotoxic medications.
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Addressed in Section 4.2, Section 4.4, Section 4.8, and Section 5.3 of 
the SmPC and Section 2 of PL.
Additional risk minimization measures: None
Table 4
Important identified risk - QT interval prolongation
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization
measures
In  vivo  cardiac  safety  studies  in  dogs  demonstrated  a  signal  for  QT 
prolongation  at  an  exposure  expected  to  be  achieved  in  patients 
following the recommended dose of 600 mg with the potential to induce 
incidences of PVCs at higher exposure levels (approximately 5-fold the 
achieved  clinical  Cmax).  There  were  no  effects  on  heart  rate,  blood 
pressure, core body temperature, or other ECG findings.
Patients  with  history  of  cardiac  disease,  electrolyte  imbalances
(hypokalemia,  hyperkalemia,  hypocalcemia,  hypomagnesemia),  and 
concomitant intake of QT-prolonging drugs.
The co-administration of medications that may increase the risk of QTc 
prolongation such as strong CYP3A4 inhibitors; and medications that 
have a known risk for QT prolongation.
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Addressed in Section 4.2, Section 4.4, Section 4.5, Section 4.8, 
Section 5.1 and Section 5.3 of the SmPC and Section 2 of PL.
Additional risk minimization measures: None
Table 5
Important identified risk – Reproductive Toxicity
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization
measures
Based on findings in animals and mechanism of action, ribociclib can 
cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Ribociclib 
caused  embryo-fetal  toxicities  in  rats  and  rabbits  at  maternal 
exposures that were below and 1.5 times the human clinical exposure 
based  on  area  under  the  curve  (AUC).  Based  on  animal  studies, 
ribociclib may impair fertility in males of reproductive potential.
Women of childbearing age becoming pregnant and/or requiring 
treatment with ribociclib through pregnancy.
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Addressed in Section 4.4, Section 4.6 and Section 5.3 of the SmPC
and Section 2 of PL.
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None
Table 6
Important Potential risk - Renal toxicity
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Reversible degeneration of the kidney tubular epithelial cells has been 
observed in the 15-week rat toxicity study. Cases of creatinine increase 
have been reported in clinical studies. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization
measures
Patients with severe renal dysfunction
Patients with severe dehydration.
Routine risk minimization measures
Addressed in Section 4.2, Section 4.8 and Section 5.2 of the SmPC
Additional risk minimization measures: None
Table 7
Missing information - Safety in Japanese patients
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures: None
Additional risk minimization measures: None
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no conditions to the marketing authorization of ribociclib.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
None
