EMA/194712/2020 
EMEA/H/C/000581 
Kivexa (abacavir / lamivudine) 
An overview of Kivexa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Kivexa and what is it used for? 
Kivexa is used with at least one other antiviral medicine to treat adults and children weighing at least 
25 kg who are infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that causes acquired 
immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). 
Kivexa contains two active substances, abacavir and lamivudine. 
How is Kivexa used? 
Kivexa can only be obtained with a prescription and should be prescribed by a doctor who has 
experience in managing HIV infection. It is available as tablets, each containing abacavir 600 mg and 
lamivudine 300 mg. 
Before starting treatment with abacavir, all patients should have a test to find out if they have a gene 
called ‘HLA-B (type 5701)’. Patients with this gene are at an increased risk of having an allergic 
reaction to abacavir, so they should not take Kivexa.  
The dose of Kivexa is one tablet once a day. Patients who need to adjust the dose of abacavir or 
lamivudine should take the medicines separately. 
For more information about using Kivexa, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Kivexa work? 
Both active substances in Kivexa, abacavir and lamivudine, are nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors (NRTIs). They work in similar ways by blocking the activity of reverse transcriptase, an 
enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to make more copies of itself in the cells it has infected and so 
spread in the body. Kivexa, taken with at least one other HIV medicine, reduces the amount of HIV in 
the blood and keeps it at a low level. Kivexa does not cure HIV infection, but it holds off damage to the 
immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
Both active substances have been available in the European Union (EU) since the late 1990s: abacavir 
has been authorised as Ziagen since 1999, and lamivudine has been authorised as Epivir since 1996. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of  Kivexa have been shown in studies? 
Kivexa was shown to be effective against HIV in three main studies involving a total of 1,230 patients. 
At the time of Kivexa’s authorisation, abacavir was authorised at a dose of 300 mg twice a day. 
Therefore, the studies compared abacavir taken at a dose of 600 mg once a day and at a dose of 
300 mg twice a day, in combination with lamivudine and one or two other antiviral medicines. The 
main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of HIV in the blood (viral load) after 24 or 
48 weeks of treatment. 
Two studies used the active substances, abacavir and lamivudine, taken as separate medicines. Both 
doses of abacavir, taken in combination with lamivudine and other antiviral medicines, were equally 
effective in reducing viral loads. In the first study, 66% (253 out of 384) of the patients taking 
abacavir once a day had undetectable viral loads (below 50 copies/ml) after 48 weeks of treatment, 
compared with 68% (261 out of 386) of the patients taking it twice a day.  
The third study used a combination tablet for the once-daily dose. The combination tablet taken once a 
day was as effective as the medicines taken separately twice a day in reducing viral loads over 24 
weeks of treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Kivexa? 
The most common side effects with Kivexa (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are hypersensitivity 
(allergic reactions), rash, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal (belly) pain, headache, 
joint pain, muscle disorders, cough, nasal symptoms (nose problems, such as irritation and runny 
nose), fever, lethargy (lack of energy), tiredness, insomnia (difficulty sleeping), feeling unwell, loss of 
appetite and hair loss. For the full list of side effects of Kivexa, see the package leaflet. 
Hypersensitivity reactions occur in patients taking Kivexa, usually within the first 6 weeks of treatment, 
and can be life-threatening. The risk of hypersensitivity is higher in patients who have the HLA-B (type 
5701) gene. Symptoms almost always include fever or rash, but also very commonly include nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), cough, lethargy, feeling unwell, 
headache, blood tests showing signs of liver damage and muscle pain. Treatment with Kivexa should 
be stopped promptly if the patient has a hypersensitivity reaction. For more information and the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Kivexa authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Kivexa’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Kivexa? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Kivexa have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Kivexa are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Kivexa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Kivexa 
Kivexa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 December 2004.  
Kivexa (abacavir / lamivudine)  
EMA/194712/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Kivexa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/kivexa 
This overview was last updated in 04-2020.  
Kivexa (abacavir / lamivudine)  
EMA/194712/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
