PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for Kixelle® (insulin aspart) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Kixelle®.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of insulin aspart, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about insulin aspart's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Kixelle®'s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and  its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Kixelle® should be read in the context of all the information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Kixelle®'s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Kixelle®  is  authorised  for  treatment  of  diabetes  mellitus  in  adults,  adolescents  and  children 
aged  1  year  and  above.  It  contains  insulin  aspart  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by 
subcutaneous route of administration. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Kixelle®’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Kixelle®’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
There are no important risks or missing information considered as relevant for Kixelle®'s RMP. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks  None 
Missing information 
None 
 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks  
Not applicable. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Kixelle®. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Kixelle®. 
 
