Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Klisyri (tirbanibulin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Klisyri. The RMP details important 
risks of Klisyri, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Klisyri’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Klisyri’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Klisyri should be used.  
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Klisyri  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Klisyri’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Klisyri is authorised for topical field treatment of non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic 
keratosis (AK) of the face or scalp in adults (SmPC). Klisyri contains tirbanibulin (10 mg/g) as 
the active substance and should be applied once daily to the affected field for 5 consecutive 
days. A thin layer of ointment should be applied to cover the treatment field. 
Further information about the evaluation of Klisyri’s benefits can be found in Klisyri’s EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  European  Medicines  Agency 
website, under the medicine’s webpage <Klisyri EPAR>.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks
Important  risks  of  Klisyri,  together  with measures  to minimise  such  risks and the  proposed 
studies for learning more about Klisyri’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  will  be  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment so 
that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  Klisyri  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Klisyri. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Skin tumours in treatment area 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk – Skin tumours in treatment area 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Skin tumours in the treatment area are considered a 
potential risk based on the known risk of AK progression 
to skin cancer, in particular squamous cell carcinoma. 
However, non-clinical data do not indicate a risk of 
development of skin tumours after Klisyri treatment. 
Furthermore, based on the low incidence observed 
across clinical studies, it is unlikely for treatment with 
Klisyri to cause skin cancers in treatment area.  
Advanced age, male gender, cumulative sun exposure, 
fair skin type, history of AK or skin cancer, and 
concomitant immunosuppression. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC section 4. 2, section 4.4 and section 5.1.  
•  PL. section 2 and section 3 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  Study M-14789-41  
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Study short name: Study M-14789-41  
Purpose of the study: 
This study will investigate the effect of tirbanibulin ointment on the inhibition of the potential 
progression  of  AK  lesions  to  squamous  cell  carcinoma  (SCC)  and  will  evaluate  long-term 
safety  over  3  years  in  patients  treated  with  tirbanibulin;  it  will  also  assess  the  efficacy  of 
tirbanibulin versus an active comparator.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Not applicable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
