ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Klisyri 10 mg/g ointment 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gram of ointment contains 10 mg of tirbanibulin. 
Each sachet contains 2.5 mg of tirbanibulin in 250 mg ointment. 
Excipients with known effects:  
Propylene glycol 890 mg/g ointment 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Ointment. 
White to off-white ointment.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Klisyri is indicated for the field treatment of non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic keratosis 
(Olsen grade 1) of the face or scalp in adults. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Tirbanibulin ointment should be applied to the affected field on the face or scalp once daily for one 
treatment cycle of 5 consecutive days. A thin layer of ointment should be applied to cover the 
treatment field of up to 25cm2. 
If a dose is missed, the patient should apply the ointment as soon as he/she remembers and then he/she 
should continue with the regular schedule. However, the ointment should not be applied more than 
once a day. 
Tirbanibulin ointment should not be applied until the skin is healed from treatment with any previous 
medicinal product, procedure or surgical treatment and should not be applied to open wounds or 
broken skin (see section 4.4). 
Therapeutic effect can be assessed approximately 8 weeks after treatment starts. If the treated area 
does not show complete clearance at the follow-up examination, about 8 weeks after the treatment 
cycle started or thereafter, the treatment should be re-evaluated and management re-considered.  
No clinical data on treatment for more than 1 treatment course of 5 consecutive days are available (see 
section 4.4). If recurrence occurs, or new lesions develop within the treatment area, other treatment 
options should be considered. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Hepatic or renal impairment  
Tirbanibulin has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Based on clinical 
pharmacology and in vitro studies, no dose adjustments are needed (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Klisyri in the paediatric population for the indication of actinic keratosis. 
Method of administration  
Tirbanibulin ointment is for external use only. Contact with eyes, lips, and the inside of nostrils or ears 
should be avoided.  
Each sachet is for single use only and should be discarded after use (see section 6.6).  
Treatment should be initiated and monitored by a physician. 
Before applying tirbanibulin, patients should wash the treatment field with mild soap and water and 
dry it. Some ointment from 1 single-use sachet should be squeezed onto a fingertip and a thin layer 
applied evenly over the entire treatment field of up to a maximal treatment area of 25 cm2.  
The ointment should be applied at approximately the same time each day. The treated area should not 
be bandaged or otherwise occluded. Washing and touching of the treated area should be avoided for 
approximately 8 hours after application of tirbanibulin. After this period, the treated area may be 
washed with mild soap and water. 
Hands should be washed with soap and water before and immediately after application of the 
ointment. 
Tirbanibulin ointment is for application on the face or scalp. For information on incorrect route of 
administration, see section 4.4.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Incorrect route of administration  
Contact with the eyes should be avoided. Tirbanibulin ointment may cause eye irritation. In the event 
of accidental contact with the eyes, the eyes should be rinsed immediately with large amounts of 
water, and the patient should seek medical care as soon as possible. 
Tirbanibulin ointment must not be ingested. If accidental ingestion occurs, the patient should drink 
plenty of water and seek medical care. 
Tirbanibulin ointment should not be used on the inside of the nostrils, on the inside of the ears, or on 
the lips. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application of tirbanibulin ointment is not recommended until the skin is healed from treatment with 
any previous medicinal product, procedure or surgical treatment and should not be applied to open 
wounds or broken skin where the skin barrier is compromised (see section 4.2). 
Local skin reactions 
Local skin reactions in the treated area, including erythema, flaking/scaling, crusting, swelling, 
erosion/ulceration, and vesiculation/pustulation, may occur after topical application of tirbanibulin 
ointment (see section 4.8). Treatment effect may not be adequately assessed until resolution of local 
skin reactions. 
Sun exposure  
Due to the nature of the disease, excessive exposure to sunlight (including sunlamps and tanning beds) 
should be avoided or minimised. 
Immunocompromised patients  
Tirbanibulin ointment should be used with caution in immunocompromised patients.  
Risk of progression to skin cancer 
Changes in the appearance of actinic keratosis could suggest progression to invasive squamous cell 
carcinoma. Clinically atypical lesions for actinic keratosis or suspicious for malignancy should be 
appropriately managed. 
Propylene glycol 
Propylene glycol may cause skin irritation. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed.  
Given the route of administration (topical), the short duration of dosing (5 days), the low systemic 
exposure (subnanomolar mean Cmax), and the in vitro data, there is low potential for interaction with 
tirbanibulin ointment at maximum clinical exposure. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of tirbanibulin in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).  
Tirbanibulin ointment is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential 
not using contraception.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether tirbanibulin/metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
tirbanibulin ointment therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the 
benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of tirbanibulin ointment on fertility are available. In a non-clinical 
fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, changes considered indicative of male fertility 
toxicity occurred (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Tirbanibulin ointment has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions are local skin reactions. Local skin reactions included 
erythema (91%), flaking/scaling (82%), crusting (46%), swelling (39%), erosion/ulceration (12%), and 
vesiculation/pustulation (8%) at the application site. Furthermore, application site pruritus (9.1%) and 
pain (9.9%) have been reported in the treatment area.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 lists the adverse reactions that were reported in clinical studies. Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 
to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available 
data). 
Table 1:  Adverse reactions  
MedDRA System Organ 
Class 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Preferred term 
Application site erythema 
Application site exfoliation (flaking and 
scaling) 
Application site scab (crusting) 
Application site swelling 
Application site erosion (includes ulcer) 
Application site paina  
Application site pruritus 
Application site vesicles (includes pustules) 
Frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
a)  Application site pain includes pain, tenderness, stinging, and burning sensation at the 
application site. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Local skin reactions  
Most local skin reactions were transient and mild to moderate in severity. Following the application of 
tirbanibulin ointment, the incidences of local skin reactions with a severity grade greater than baseline 
were erythema (91%), flaking/scaling (82%), crusting (46%), swelling (39%), erosion/ulceration 
(12%), and vesiculation/pustulation (8%). Severe local skin reactions occurred at an overall incidence 
of 13%. Severe local skin reactions that occurred at an incidence >1% were: flaking/scaling (9%), 
erythema (6%), and crusting (2%). None of the local skin reactions required treatment. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, local skin reactions peaked 8 days after starting the treatment and typically resolved within 2 
to 3 weeks after completion of treatment with tirbanibulin ointment. 
Site pruritus and pain  
Events of application site pruritus and pain were mild to moderate in severity, transient in nature 
(mostly occuring during the first 10 days since the start of treatment), and the majority did not require 
treatment. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Overdose following topical application with tirbanibulin ointment may cause an increase in incidence 
and severity of local skin reactions. No systemic signs of overdose are expected following topical 
application of tirbanibulin ointment due to the low systemic absorption of tirbanibulin. Management of 
overdose should consist of treatment of clinical symptoms. 
For information on incorrect routes of administration, see section 4.4. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibiotics and chemotherapeutics for dermatological use, other 
chemotherapeutics, ATC code: D06BX03 
Mechanism of action 
Tirbanibulin disrupts microtubules by direct binding to tubulin, which induces cell cycle arrest and 
apoptotic death of proliferating cells, and is associated with disruption of Src tyrosine kinase 
signalling.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy and safety of tirbanibulin applied on the face or scalp for 5 consecutive days was studied 
in 2 pivotal randomised, double-blind, vehicle-controlled Phase III studies (KX01-AK-003 and KX01-
AK-004) including 702 adult patients (353 patients treated with tirbanibulin and 349 patients treated 
with vehicle).  
Patients had 4 to 8 clinically typical, visible, discrete, non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic, actinic 
keratosis lesions within a contiguous 25 cm2 treatment field on the face or scalp. On each scheduled 
dosing day, the ointment was applied to the entire treatment field. In the tirbanibulin group, the mean 
age was 69 years (range 46 to 90 years) and 96% of patients had Fitzpatrick skin type I, II, or III. 
Efficacy, measured as complete (primary endpoint) and partial clearance rate, was assessed at day 57. 
At day 57, patients treated with tirbanibulin had statistically significantly higher complete and partial 
clearance rates than patients treated with vehicle (p<0.0001)(see Table 2). Efficacy was less in scalp 
lesions compared to facial lesions, though still statistically significant (see Table 3).  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2:  Complete and partial clearance rates at day 57, ITT population (pooled data 
KX01-AK-003 and KX01-AK-004) 
Complete (100%) clearance ratea 
Partial (≥75%) clearance rateb 
Overall (face and scalp) 
Tirbanibulin  
10 mg/g ointment 
(N=353) 
49%c 
72%c 
Vehicle 
(N=349) 
9% 
18% 
ITT=Intent-to-Treat 
a)  Complete clearance rate was defined as the proportion of patients with no (zero) clinically 
visible actinic keratosis lesions in the treatment field.  
b)  Partial clearance rate was defined as the percentage of patients in whom 75% or more of the 
number of baseline actinic keratosis lesions in the treatment field were cleared.  
c)  p<0.0001; compared to vehicle by Cochran-Mantel-Hansel stratified by anatomical location and 
study. 
Table 3:  Complete and partial clearance rates at day 57 by anatomical location, ITT 
population (pooled data KX01-AK-003 and KX01-AK-004) 
Location 
Complete (100%) Clearance Rate 
Partial (≥75%) Clearance Rate 
Tirbanibulin 
10 mg/g ointment 
(N=353) 
133/238 
56%  
(49% - 62%)a 
41/115 
Vehicle 
(N=349) 
23/239 
10%  
(6% - 14%) 
7/110  
Tirbanibulin 
10 mg/g ointment 
(N=353) 
185/238  
78%  
(72% - 83%)a 
70/115 
Face 
n/N 
%  
(95% CI) 
Scalp   n/N 
%  
             (95% CI) 
CI=confidence interval; ITT=Intent-to-Treat 
a)  p<0.0001; compared to vehicle by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel stratified by study. 
61%  
(51% - 70%)a 
36%  
(27% - 45%)a 
6%  
(3% - 13%) 
Vehicle 
(N=349) 
49/239  
21%  
(16% - 26%) 
14/110 
13%  
(7% - 20%) 
In the individual studies, total and partial clearance rates at day 57 (the primary and key secondary 
endpoints in these studies) were statistically significantly higher in the group treated with tirbanibulin 
compared with the vehicle group (p≤0.0003), both overall and by treatment location (face or scalp).  
Long-term efficacy 
A total of 204 patients achieved complete clearance of actinic keratosis lesions in the treatment field at 
day 57 (174 treated with tirbanibulin and 30 treated with vehicle) and were eligible for a 1-year 
follow-up period for safety monitoring and to evaluate sustained efficacy by assessing actinic keratosis 
lesions in the treatment field.  
After one year, the recurrence rate in patients treated with tirbanibulin was 73%. There was a higher 
recurrence rate for scalp lesions compared to facial lesions. Of the patients who developed 
recurrences, 86% had either 1 or 2 lesions. Furthermore, 48% of patients developing recurrences 
reported at least 1 lesion that was not identified at the time of the initial treatment (i.e., newly 
occurring lesions counted as recurrences).  
Risk of progression to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) 
By day 57, there were no reports of SCC in the treatment field in patients treated with tirbanibulin (0 
of 353 patients) or vehicle (0 of 349 patients). One isolated SCC in the treatment field was reported in 
1 patient following the day 57 assessment; this event was considered by the investigator not to be 
related to treatment with tirbanibulin.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly population  
Of the 353 patients treated with tirbanibulin in the 2 randomised, double-blind, vehicle-controlled 
Phase III studies conducted, 246 patients (70%) were 65 years of age or older. No overall differences 
in safety or efficacy were observed between younger and older patients. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Klisyri in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of actinic keratosis (see section 4.2 
for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Tirbanibulin ointment was minimally absorbed in 18 patients with actinic keratosis after topical 
application once daily for 5 consecutive days over an area of 25 cm2. Tirbanibulin plasma 
concentrations were low at steady state (mean maximum concentration [Cmax] of 0.258 ng/mL or 
0.598 nM and AUC0-24h of 4.09 ng∙h/mL).  
Distribution 
The protein binding of tirbanibulin to human plasma proteins is approximately 88%. 
Biotransformation 
In vitro, tirbanibulin is mainly metabolised by CYP3A4, and to a lesser degree by CYP2C8. The main 
metabolic pathways are N-debenzylation and hydrolysis reactions. The most relevant metabolites were 
characterised in patients with actinic keratosis in a maximal use pharmacokinetic study and showed 
minimal systemic exposure.  
In vitro studies show that tirbanibulin does not inhibit or induce cytochrome P450 enzymes and it is 
not an inhibitor of efflux and uptake transporters at maximum clinical exposures.  
Elimination 
Elimination of tirbanibulin has not been fully characterized in humans.  
Hepatic and renal impairment 
No formal studies of tirbanibulin ointment in patients with hepatic or renal impairment have been 
conducted. Due to the low systemic exposure to tirbanibulin after topical application of tirbanibulin 
ointment once daily for 5 days, changes in hepatic or renal function are unlikely to have any effect on 
the elimination of tirbanibulin. Therefore, no dose adjustments are considered needed (see section 4.2). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology and repeated dose toxicity. Tirbanibulin was a moderate contact sensitiser in animals 
but this was not confirmed in humans.  
Tirbanibulin was not mutagenic but induced chromosomal damage and micronuclei in genotoxicity 
studies. Detailed testing suggested that tirbanibulin is clastogenic/aneugenic and associated with a 
threshold, below which there is no induction of genotoxic events. In vivo, genotoxicity occurred at 
plasma levels >20 times higher than the human exposure in the maximal use pharmacokinetic study. 
In embryo-foetal development studies in rats and rabbits, embryonic and foetal toxicity, including 
foetal malformations, occurred at multiples of 22 times and 65 times greater than human exposure in 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the maximal use pharmacokinetic human study. In a pre- and postnatal development study in rats, 
reductions in fertility and increased embryo-foetal lethality were seen in the offspring of treated 
females.  
In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, decrease in testes weight which correlated 
with decreased sperm count, decreased sperm motility, increased incidences of abnormal sperm, and 
increased incidence of degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium, considered indicative of male 
fertility toxicity, occurred at multiples of 58 times greater than human exposure in the maximal use 
pharmacokinetic human study. However, there were no changes in male mating or fertility indices.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Propylene glycol 
Glycerol monostearate 40-55 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Sachets with an inner layer of linear low-density polyethylene. Each sachet contains 250 mg of 
ointment. 
Packs of 5 sachets. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Sachets should be discarded after first use. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Almirall, S.A. 
Ronda General Mitre, 151  
08022 Barcelona  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1558/001 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 16 July 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Almirall Hermal GmbH 
Scholtzstrasse 3 
21465 Reinbek 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measure: 
Description 
Post-authorisation safety study (PASS): In order to further investigate the risk 
of progression of actinic keratosis (AK) to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) in 
adult patients with non-hyperkeratotic, non-hypertrophic actinic keratosis 
(AK) treated with tirbanibulin, the MAH should conduct and submit the 
results of the phase 4, multi-centre, randomized, investigator-blinded, active-
controlled, parallel-group study M-14789-41 conducted according to an 
agreed protocol. 
Due date 
Q2 2026 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON OF 10 mg/g OINTMENT 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Klisyri 10 mg/g ointment  
tirbanibulin 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sachet contains 2.5 mg of tirbanibulin in 250 mg ointment. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Propylene glycol 
Glycerol monostearate 40-55 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Ointment 
5 sachets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Cutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. Discard the sachet after use. 
To be printed on the inside of the carton lid:  
Open the sachet 
Squeeze some ointment onto your fingertip 
Apply the ointment to the affected area 
Wash your hands 
See package leaflet for further information. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Almirall, S.A. 
Ronda General Mitre, 151  
08022 Barcelona  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1558/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Klisyri  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SACHET 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Klisyri 10 mg/g ointment 
tirbanibulin 
Cutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
250 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Klisyri 10 mg/g ointment 
tirbanibulin 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Klisyri is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Klisyri 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Klisyri 
Possible side effects  
How to store Klisyri 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Klisyri is and what it is used for 
Klisyri contains the active substance tirbanibulin. It is used for the treatment of mild actinic keratosis 
in adults. Actinic keratosis is a rough area of skin that has developed in people who have been exposed 
to too much sunshine over a long time. Klisyri should only be used for flat actinic keratosis on the face 
and scalp.  
2.  What you need to know before you use Klisyri 
Do not use Klisyri 
• 
if you are allergic to tirbanibulin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Klisyri  
• 
Do not use Klisyri until the area to be treated has healed from any previous medicine, procedure 
or surgical treatment. Do not apply Klisyri on open wounds or broken skin. 
•  Wash your hands if you happen to touch the area where you applied the ointment.  
• 
Do not get Klisyri in your eyes. If it accidentally gets in your eye, rinse the eye thoroughly with 
plenty of water, seek medical assistance as soon as possible and take this leaflet with you. 
Do not apply the ointment internally, to the inside of the nostrils, the inside of the ear or on the 
lips. If the ointment accidentally touches any of these areas, wash it off by rinsing with water. 
Do not swallow this medicine. Drink plenty of water if you accidentally swallow this medicine, 
seek medical assistance and take this leaflet with you. 
Tell your doctor if you have problems with your immune system. 
• 
•  Watch for any new scaly red patches, open sores, and raised or warty growths around the 
• 
• 
treatment area. If you see any, talk to your doctor immediately. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
After using Klisyri, avoid activities that might cause excessive sweating, and avoid exposure to 
sunlight as much as possible (including sunlamps and tanning beds). When outdoors, wear 
protective clothing and a hat. 
Do not cover the treated area with bandages after using Klisyri. 
Do not apply more ointment than your doctor has advised. 
Do not apply the ointment more than once a day. 
Do not allow other people or pets to touch the treated area for around 8 hours after applying the 
ointment. If the treated area is touched, the area of contact on the other person or pet should be 
washed. 
Contact your doctor if you get skin reactions to this medicine in the treated area that get severe 
(see section 4).  
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents under 18 years of age because they do not get 
actinic keratosis. 
Other medicines and Klisyri 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines.  
If you have previously used Klisyri or similar medicines, tell your doctor before starting the treatment. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding, and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine.  
Klisyri should not be used during pregnancy.  
Driving and using machines 
This medicine is not expected to have any effect on your ability to drive or to use machines. 
Klisyri contains propylene glycol  
Propylene glycol may cause skin irritation  
3. 
How to use Klisyri  
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
This medicine is intended to treat an area of up to 25 cm2 for only one treatment course of five days. If 
the treated area does not show complete clearance at about 8 weeks after the treatment cycle started, or 
new lesions develop within the treatment area, the treatment should be reconsidered by your doctor 
and other treatment options should be considered. 
Apply a thin layer of Klisyri to the affected area on the face or scalp once daily for 5 days in a row. 
One sachet contains enough ointment to cover the treatment area. Do not save the opened sachet for 
use on another day, even if there is still ointment left. 
Open a new sachet each time you apply this medicine.  
Open the sachet along the perforations (Figure 1). 
Squeeze some ointment onto your fingertip (Figure 2).  
Apply a thin layer of ointment evenly over the entire affected area (Figure 3).  
Application instructions: 
1.  Wash your hands with soap and water before applying the ointment. 
2.  Wash the affected area with mild soap and water and dry it gently.  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7.  Wash your hands with soap and water immediately after applying the ointment (Figure 4). 
8. 
Do not wash or touch the treated area for about 8 hours. After this time, you may wash the 
treated area with mild soap and water. 
Do not cover the treated area with bandages after you have applied Klisyri. 
9. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Repeat the above steps for each day of treatment at around the same time of the day. 
If you use more Klisyri than you should 
Wash the treated area with mild soap and water. Please contact your doctor or pharmacist if you get 
severe skin reactions. 
If you forget to use Klisyri  
If you miss a dose, apply the ointment as soon as you remember and then continue with your regular 
schedule. Do not apply the ointment more than once a day.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
After using this medicine, you may get side effects on the skin where you apply the ointment. These 
side effects may get worse for up to 8 days after you start the treatment, and they typically go away 
within 2 to 3 weeks after completing the treatment. Contact your doctor if these side effects get severe. 
The most frequently occurring side effects in the treated area: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
redness (erythema)  
skin scaling (flaking) 
scabs (crusting) 
swelling 
loss of the top layer of skin (erosion, ulcer) 
Other possible side effects in the treated area: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
pain (tender, stinging, or burning feeling)  
itching (pruritus) 
blisters (vesicles, pustules)  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Klisyri 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
22 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not refrigerate or freeze. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the outer carton and the label after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
For single use only. Do not re-use the sachets once opened.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Klisyri contains  
- 
The active substance is tirbanibulin. Each sachet contains 2.5 mg of tirbanibulin in 250 mg 
ointment. Each gram of ointment contains 10 mg of tirbanibulin. 
The other ingredients are propylene glycol and glycerol monostearate 40-55. 
- 
What Klisyri looks like and contents of the pack 
Each Klisyri sachet contains 250 mg of white to off-white ointment. 
Each box contains 5 polyethylene/aluminium foil sachets.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Almirall, S.A. 
Ronda General Mitre, 151  
08022 Barcelona  
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Almirall Hermal GmbH 
Scholtzstrasse 3 
21465 Reinbek 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien/ 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Almirall N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 771 86 37  
България/ Česká republika/ Eesti/ Ελλάδα/ 
España/ Hrvatska/ Κύπρος/ Latvija/ Lietuva/ 
Magyarország/ Malta/ România/ Slovenija/ 
Slovenská republika  
Almirall, S.A. 
Teл./ Tel/ Τηλ: +34 93 291 30 00  
Tel (Česká republika / Slovenská republika): 
+420 220 990 139  
Ísland  
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 70 00  
Italia  
Almirall SpA 
Tel.: +39 02 346181  
Danmark/ Norge/ Suomi/Finland/ Sverige  
Almirall ApS 
Tlf/ Puh/Tel: +45 70 25 75 75  
Nederland  
Almirall B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0)307991155  
Deutschland  
Österreich  
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Almirall Hermal GmbH 
Tel.: +49 (0)40 72704-0  
France  
Almirall SAS, 1 
Tél.: +33(0)1 46 46 19 20  
Almirall GmbH 
Tel.: +43 (0)1/595 39 60  
Polska  
Almirall Sp.z o. o. 
Tel.: +48 22 330 02 57  
Ireland/ United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Almirall, S. A. 
Tel: +353 (0) 1431 9836  
Portugal  
Almirall - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda.  
Tel.: +351 21 415 57 50 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
