SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN  
 
I: 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
ONGLYZA™ (SAXAGLIPTIN) AND KOMBOGLYZE™ 
(SAXAGLIPTIN+METFORMIN FDC) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ONGLYZA (saxagliptin) and 
KOMBOGLYZE (saxagliptin+metformin FDC). The RMP details important risks of 
ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about ONGLYZA's and KOMBOGLYZE's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
ONGLYZA's and KOMBOGLYZE's Summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its 
Package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE should be read in the context of 
all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ONGLYZA's and KOMBOGLYZE 's combined RMP. 
I: 1 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
ONGLYZA is authorised for type 2 diabetes mellitus (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains saxagliptin as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of ONGLYZA’s benefits can be found in ONGLYZA’s 
European public assessment report (EPAR), including in its plain-language summary, available 
on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/onglyza 
KOMBOGLYZE:  
KOMBOGLYZE is authorised for type 2 diabetes mellitus (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains saxagliptin and metformin as the active substances and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of KOMBOGLYZE’s benefits can be found in 
KOMBOGLYZE’s European public assessment report (EPAR), including in its plain-language 
summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/komboglyze 
I: 2 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS 
Important risks of ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE together with measures to minimise such 
risks and the proposed studies for learning more about ONGLYZA's and KOMBOGLYZE's 
risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
I: 2.1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table I-1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Type of safety concern 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Safety concern 
Lactic acidosis (metformin component, saxagliptin + 
metformin FDC only) 
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (saxagliptin 
component) 
Pancreatic cancer (saxagliptin component) 
Use in pregnancy and breastfeeding (saxagliptin 
component) 
 
I: 2.2 
Summary of important risks 
Table I-2 
Important identified risk: Lactic acidosis (metformin component, 
saxagliptin+metformin FDC only) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Post-marketing experience with use of metformin, as 
well as literature data. 
Reported cases of lactic acidosis in patients on 
metformin have occurred primarily in diabetic 
patients with significant renal failure. Risk factors 
include poorly controlled diabetes, ketosis, prolonged 
fasting, excessive alcohol intake, hepatic 
insufficiency, dehydration, any acute conditions 
associated with hypoxia or impacting renal function. 
High overdose of metformin or concomitant risks 
may lead to lactic acidosis. 
Elderly patients may be at high risk as this population 
is likely to have decreased renal function. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:   
SmPC section 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8 and 4.9. 
PL section 2 and 4. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending 
specific clinical measures to address the risk: 
SmPC section 4.2, 4.3,4.4, 4.5, 4.9 and PL section 2 
and 4). 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Table I-3 
Important potential risk: Severe cutaneous adverse reactions 
(saxagliptin component) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Post-marketing experience from DPP-4 inhibitors. The incidence of 
severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCAR) was low and infrequent 
across the clinical programme and was generally similar between 
placebo and comparator. Isolated spontaneous reports of SCAR 
have been received from postmarketing use. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Not known 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures:   
SmPC section 4.4, PL section 2.  
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None 
 
Table I-4 
Important potential risk: Pancreatic cancer (saxagliptin component) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
The potential risk of pancreatic cancer has been discussed in 
published literature and evaluated by health authorities for the class 
as well as for other incretin-based antidiabetics (GLP- 1 analogues).  
There is an increase in risk of pancreatic cancer among patients with 
T2DM. Age, gender, race, cigarette smoking, obesity, chronic 
pancreatitis, cirrhosis of the liver, occupational exposure, family 
history, and infection of the stomach with the ulcer causing bacteria 
Helicobacter pylori are other known risk factors. 
Risk minimisation measures 
No risk minimisation measures. 
Table I-5 
Missing information: Use in Pregnancy and Breastfeeding (saxagliptin 
component) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6, PL Section 2. 
Saxagliptin+metformin: 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.3 and 4.6, PL Section 2. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
I: 2.3 
Post-authorization development plan 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE. 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for ONGLYZA and KOMBOGLYZE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
